Terrorist acts are always vile and in this instance the attack also was clearly targeted.
In assassinating Marco Biagi, the terrorists had in their sights a man who was highly regarded both professionally and personally, and a creator of the indispensable policy of labour market reform to promote employment in Italy and in Europe.
He was also a strong advocate of social dialogue and solidarity, as well as progress and modernisation in his own country and was strongly committed to the European ideal.
For all these reasons, this murder not only has an impact on Italy, but strikes at the very heart of our common European ideal.
Colleagues will recall that only a few months ago, on 12 December 2001, the European Parliament gave its assent to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is an excellent basis for our future cooperation.
We all particularly appreciate your presence with us, Mr Skrabalo, at this important time for the development of stability and peace in South East Europe, and we thank you for joining us in Parliament this afternoon.
Before we begin the debate, I should like to communicate a number of important items in respect of our timetable and procedure.
Before introducing the debate, I would like to say that last week in Barcelona, for the first occasion during my Presidency of this House, I had the honour to address a European Summit meeting on your behalf.
I hope and believe that we have begun the process which will make this possible in the near future.
The next item is the statement by the Council and the Commission on the outcome of the European Council meeting held in Barcelona on 15 and 16 March 2002.
The fight against terrorism is a fundamental priority in the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to appear before this House, as I had the opportunity to announce in January, when I presented the priorities of the Spanish Presidency of the European Union, to inform you today about the results of the Barcelona European Council.
We then established a strategic goal for the European Union for the coming decade: to transform Europe into the most competitive and most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth, with more and better jobs, and greater social cohesion.
Two years later, and after the Barcelona European Council, I am pleased to say that the Lisbon process of social and economic modernisation has not only been consolidated, but has actually been strengthened.
I would like to highlight and thank the honourable Members for the great contribution of the European Parliament to the progress of the Lisbon Process and to the good results obtained in Barcelona.
This recognition was unanimously expressed to President Cox during his first appearance before the European Council.
You have accomplished a great deal of work and taken numerous decisions regarding the Lisbon Process.
Your decision to press ahead on this subject has not only helped significantly to create competitive financial markets, but has also contributed to the future adoption of a series of measures that may lead to the additional yearly growth of 0.5% of the European Union's Gross Domestic Product.
I would also like to highlight your resolutions on the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol and on sustainable development, and the reports adopted last week regarding the internal market for electricity and gas, and for cross-border trade in electricity.
The substantial contribution of the European Parliament to the Barcelona Council has therefore not been limited to the specific sphere of economic reform, but has instead covered a wide range of different fields.
This is clearly stressed in the first of the Conclusions of the Barcelona European Council.
Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the contents of the discussions and the decisions taken at the Barcelona European Council, I would like to emphasize in particular the participation of the candidate countries in an ordinary working session in the framework of the Council.
We can state that the candidate countries have become, even before they join the Union, decisive supporters of the reforms.
The European Council has stressed the importance of complying with the requirements of the Stability Pact.
In this regard, the Conclusions include the commitment by Member States to reduce levels of public subsidies as a percentage of GDP, and that such subsidies be used more transparently.
Therefore, the Council has decided that before the Spring European Council of 2003, fully 100% of directives whose inclusion in legal codes takes two years must have been transposed.
It is in this field, perhaps, where the progress made by the European Council has been most relevant.
On the subject of financial markets, and after the agreement between the Commission, the Council, and Parliament, it will be possible to comply with the deadlines to achieve an integrated stock market in 2003, and the complete integration of the financial markets in 2005.
As regards energy, we have made progress both in opening the markets and in European integration through interconnections.
As you know, it has been decided to open the gas and electricity markets in the year 2004 for all European businesses, which means that approximately 70% of the European energy market will be open to competition.
The European Council has agreed on the entry into force of the Directive regarding energy taxation in December 2004, coinciding with the opening of the energy markets.
As the honourable Members know, the European Community and its Member States have decided to ratify the Kyoto Protocol.
Finally, and as regards the Monterrey Summit, the fifteen Member States have reached agreement on increasing the European Union's average Official Development Aid to 0.39% in the year 2006, as an intermediate step towards reaching the commitment of 0.7%.
Ladies and gentlemen, the third grouping of issues addressed at the Barcelona European Council covers employment and social matters.
The specific result of that Social Summit was the commitment of the social partners to the Lisbon strategy and goals.
Finally, the Council also focused its attention on matters involving education and technological research, development, and innovation, factors which should be a major part of Europe's competitive advantage.
In the field of technological research, development, and innovation, I would like to underscore the very important commitment we gave in Barcelona, which you are undoubtedly aware of: to increase investment earmarked for these categories until it reaches 3% of GDP in the year 2010, two-thirds of which will come from the private sector.
In line with this mandate, the Barcelona European Council devoted the bulk of its work to the Lisbon Strategy.
Nonetheless, this did not prevent the Council from dealing with other matters, regarding the European Union's foreign policy, and other institutional matters.
The European Council gave a warm welcome to the approach proposed by the Irish Prime Minister, has reiterated its desire to support the Irish Government in the ratification process for the Treaty of Nice, and has agreed to raise the matter again in Seville.
The European Council will also be the first to devote a working session to study the progress of the discussions regarding Europe's future.
We also studied the agreement that has been concluded between Serbia and Montenegro, relations between the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance, and the future role of the European Union in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
In this regard, the European Council has called for all restrictions on the freedom of movement of the President of the National Palestinian Authority, Yasser Arafat to be lifted immediately.
The European Council has reiterated, with this declaration, the Union's traditional dual objective in the region: the creation of a democratic, viable, and independent Palestinian State, which would put an end to the 1967 occupation, and Israel's right to live in peace, with secure and recognised borders, guaranteed by the commitment of the international community, and in particular, of the Arab countries.
The agreement reached on 14 March by the leaders of Serbia and Montenegro is a good step in that direction, because it ratifies the maintenance of their constitutional unity and their territorial integrity.
This agreement will be a good test of European aspirations for the Union of Serbia and Montenegro, and the European Union will determine its degree of commitment according to its success.
Ladies and gentlemen, Sub-Saharan Africa was also included in the discussions of the European Council, which expressed, on one hand, its satisfaction the ceasefire announced in Angola, after more than twenty-five years of conflict that have had disastrous consequences for the population, and, on the other hand, condemned the lack of political guarantees provided in the recent elections in Zimbabwe.
The European Union also expressed its concern at the changes in the situation in the Republic of Congo, and at the news of a possible stoning of a woman in Nigeria.
Seville will have to pay attention, among other matters, to the approval of the Sixth R&amp;D Framework Programme, the EU's common strategy for Johannesburg, the new e-Europe 2005 programme, and the reform of the Council in addition to the discussions regarding enlargement.
In 2004, the gas and electricity markets will be opened for all European businesses, the Member States will have a surplus budgetary balance, the directive on taxation of energy products will come into force, and the Single European Sky will be implemented.
I sincerely believe that the goal of launching the calendar of reforms that we agreed in Lisbon has been substantially and reasonably achieved.
The Member States, showing the required ambition and flexibility, have made a decisive contribution to reaching these balanced and positive agreements.
Naturally, the European Parliament, with its extraordinarily important proposals and activities, has played a dynamic role as a full participant in all the fields of the Lisbon Strategy.
Thank you very much, Mr President. (Applause) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss the outcome of the recent European Council in Barcelona.
He had worked all his life to encourage the dialogue between the social partners in his and my country, Italy, and in Europe.
To pay tribute to Marco Biagi, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we must strive to preserve the unity between our societies and combat terrorism together; we must strive to defeat terrorism, the unrelenting enemy of democracy.
As we know, social development and justice and mutual solidarity must go hand in hand in our society.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I am here today, then, to report to you the outcome of the European Council held at the end of last week in Barcelona.
The spirit of partnership between the institutions and our commitment to a more effective reform process has thus been indissolubly cemented.
President Cox, I therefore wish to express my sincerest thanks to you too.
I would also draw your attention to the great milestone achieved in the opening up of the financial markets.
Lastly, agreement was reached on a new e-Europe 2005 action plan consolidating our strategy for the dissemination of new technologies in areas such as commerce, health care and public administration.
The Barcelona results are therefore a major achievement and must not be played down.
The Spring Councils have already become important political occasions for reviewing and giving new impetus to the process we are pursuing.
The coordination of economic policies is a crucial part of this process.
In particular, we need to work on the basis of a set of agreed principles and rules for Member States' budgetary policies.
This shows that the Spring Councils have taken on the responsibility of providing political guidance for this process of shaping the governance of Europe's economy.
The economic base underpinning the euro is thus strengthened and a virtuous circle created between monetary policy and the actual economy.
Mr President, at Barcelona, we gave strong impetus to the economic reforms that were lagging behind schedule, but we did not give those objectives precedence over the social issues.
We would have been grateful if the European Council had also called upon us to open the European energy market for consumers, because we would have been very happy to do that.
We are also delighted to see you declaring your belief in stability and calling for a near-balanced budget for all the Member States of the European Union by 2004.
But we would have been a great deal happier if the Barcelona European Council could have said that it welcomed the Commission's approach in wishing to send two Member States of the European Union a warning letter, which, as we all know, was ultimately blocked by the finance ministers because of the specific attitude of one Member State.
We hope that this positive statement about a near-balanced budget will also be implemented in practice in future, with the Commission receiving support for its efforts to achieve stability in its relations with the Member States of the European Union.
If we can achieve good results in Seville, that will be to the credit of the Spanish Presidency and also to your personal credit.
A conference on the Mediterranean dialogue is to be held in Valencia on 21 and 22 April, to be chaired by your Minister of Foreign Affairs, but I am sure you will also be present.
With regard to the Barcelona Summit, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am going to begin where you left off.
As for the content of the Summit, I believe that the Barcelona Council has managed to put the Lisbon process back on track and, since you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are currently the driver of the Council train, I must point out that my group was enormously concerned about the clear risk of the whole train derailing as a result of the statement you yourself made saying that you were in confrontation with the Socialist majority in the Council in terms of the Barcelona Summit.
I believe that to organise the process in a balanced fashion helps all of us within a process which must maintain the balance between growth and social protection in order to guarantee full employment and sustainable development.
It requires that public monopolies are not replaced with private monopolies and above all it requires -and I address this to the Commission - the realisation of the proposed framework directive safeguarding services of general interest. (Applause) We believe that this is absolutely fundamental.
Mr President, I will conclude by saying two things: the first is that we fully support the Declaration on the Middle East, and the second is that my Group does not understand why Ecofin can do more than the European Council in terms of creating a Euro-Mediterranean Bank.
The increase in overseas development aid to an EU average of 0.39% of gross national income is a positive step.
British Prime Minister Tony Blair described the Barcelona Summit as a "make-or-break" occasion.
The EU's credibility is also at stake in financial services.
The pension funds directive has remained blocked in Council since it was adopted by Parliament at our first reading in July of last year.
This is a prime example of a delivery gap which Parliament has closed but which requires more than warm words from the Council.
If we are to close the gap, President-in-Office, between the European Union and its citizens, this will not be achieved by suspending people's rights to free movement, especially if those people wish to exercise their democratic rights to express their views in protest.
Moreover, bringing the EU closer to its citizens requires progress on transparency.
Paragraph 51 of the conclusions calls for ensuring greater transparency of the legislative process.
Finally, in paragraph 20, the Council conclusions envisage the creation of a group of wise men.
I wonder whether, at a time when you recognise the importance of women's participation in the labour force and when you express concern for the welfare of women in Nigeria, you might not, at least in this third millennium, talk about of a group of wise persons.
Mr President, before I start, I and my group would like to join our fellow Members in paying tribute to Marco Biagi; after Ezio Tarantelli and Massimo D'Antona, he is the third senior law expert to have been killed in recent years.
It is my conviction that, despite the constructive atmosphere and spirit of Barcelona, there was no overall vision of the direction the economic reforms should take if we are to achieve the Lisbon and Gothenburg objectives.
Indeed, we are quite aware that public companies such as EDF, EON and RVE are distorting the market by using the funds set aside for nuclear waste management and the dismantling of nuclear power stations to acquire other European companies.
Moreover, the increase of interconnections between Spain and France to 10% will do nothing at all to change the dominant positions of Endesa and Iberdrola, and so hardly anything will change for consumers.
I would like to end by putting two specific questions to Prime Minister Aznar, if he is listening, on the issue of the Middle East.
I would like to know why the motion for a resolution on the Middle East contained a reference to the protocol to the Fourth Geneva Convention on the protection of civilians in wartime and why this reference was not present in the final version of these conclusions.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, in some ways, the conclusions of the Barcelona European Council tell us more about the state of the European Union than any speech on the subject.
My second comment relates to the issue of services of general interest.
We particularly note the call on the Commission to draw up a proposal for a framework directive on this subject.
Turning to the electricity sector, do you not have any lessons to learn from the fiasco in California or from the collapse of Enron?
What is more, there are five countries operating in your own country, Spain, and all of them are private.
The company that is most important in the Barcelona area, in particular, is incapable of guaranteeing supplies for its customers, and Catalonia was plunged into darkness last December.
Finally, before, during and after the Barcelona Summit there was what "El País" in its headlines rightly called a major demonstration in favour of a different kind of globalisation.
See you in Seville!
The murder of Professor Marco Biagi focuses the debate on terrorism once again.
Indeed, there can be no cooperation with those who do not control their own borders or those who violate every kind of human and civil rights.
We feel that a limited financial instrument such as a Euro-Mediterranean investment fund would be inadequate and that it is now essential to create a genuine Euro-Mediterranean development bank with its own autonomy and resources.
At present 70% of all legislation in the EU is adopted by officials in the Council's working parties, 15% is adopted by the ambassadorial musketeers in COREPER, while 15% reaches the Council of Ministers.
If a law appears not to be a good law, it can only be amended if we get the Commission to table a proposal and have it adopted on the strength, as a rule, of 62 out of 87 votes, cast behind the closed doors of the Council.
The European Parliament is able, with an absolute majority, to submit amendments and reject a law during the conciliation procedure, but the European Parliament has not been given the legislative power of which the electorate and our elected representatives in the Member States have been deprived.
Small countries must also be able to represent the common foreign and security policy to the outside world.
If the large countries want to act jointly, they must merge to form a common state.
Mr President, in his last editorial published yesterday in the Sole 24 Ore, Professor Marco Biagi listed the results of the Barcelona Summit and called for the Member States, particularly Italy, to pay more heed to the Council's demands for labour market reforms.
However, we cannot fail to condemn the way, in recent days, people in positions of great responsibility in Italy with wide media coverage have adopted a cynical, populist approach to the reforms called for by the European institutions and strongly advocated by Marco Biagi, labelling them barbarous, cruel and a violation of fundamental rights.
I would like to thank the various spokespersons for their comments and contributions to the debate on the conclusions of the Barcelona European Council.
I think it is important to refer first of all to an issue that you have all mentioned; the fight against terrorism, which, as you know, is the fundamental priority at the moment, as the Spanish Presidency has pointed out; let us make it our priority of priorities.
In relation to the Barcelona European Council, I would like to refer to the issue of the Summit and its location.
The Barcelona European Council, as an international meeting, had certain precedents which had to be taken into account: the meeting in Seattle, the European Council in Nice, the one in Gothenburg and the meeting in Genoa.
I would like to say sincerely, and with total respect for demonstrations of all types, that majorities and minorities in a democracy are decided on in elections, by the citizens who vote, and the hundreds of thousands of citizens who took to the streets in Barcelona are as worthy of respect as the millions and millions of European citizens represented by their legitimate representatives in the European Council, who have not taken to the streets anywhere and who have attentively followed the debates in Barcelona and peacefully wish Europe to prosper and continue to make progress with the process of reform which has been evident in Barcelona. (Applause) Therefore, the citizens will determine through the ballot box whether or not there will be new majorities, which is something I would hope everybody knows and accepts.
I believe that one of the fundamental characteristics of Barcelona, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have moved closer to the spirit of the citizens and when we talk about political elements, about the decisions of the Barcelona Council, we must take account of the fact that all of them affect the citizen directly.
When we talk about transport, energy or employment, or when we talk about savings and investments or research, or when we talk about education, we are always talking about the citizens.
There are issues which are clearly fundamental: one is maintaining the correct approach decided on at the Lisbon European Council, which is the strategy of reforms, of openness, of liberalisation, and we are clearly adding the objective of sustainable development.
Finally, I would like to say that from the point of view of the significance of the process of balance, the commitment to balance between the three pillars of the Lisbon strategy, economic growth and reforms, employment and sustainable development, I believe we can be reasonably satisfied.
Some issues have been raised in relation to Galileo and the Middle East.
Draft declarations are being presented for debate by the Heads of State and Government, and those drafts are subject to corrections on one, two or seven points, about which I clearly cannot go into more detail.
I would like to point out that there is already a meeting scheduled for 5 April to deal with the European Parliament's access to confidential documents, on a temporary basis, and the objectives of interinstitutional cooperation for better regulation which will be attended by Spanish Secretaries of State, the Secretary-General of Parliament, the Secretary-General of the Commission and the Secretaries-General of the political groups in the European Parliament.
It is scheduled for 5 April and therefore, in accordance with what was established with the President of the European Parliament and the President of the Commission, I believe that we can also make progress with the improvement of the institutional relationship that will clearly come to fruition when this work has been concluded.
I would like once again to thank the Commission for the work and initiative it has carried out, and the European Parliament for its encouragement and understanding.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
I know that you must leave to travel to Monterrey.
Amongst the agreements concluded in Barcelona, I should like to mention the three following: Firstly, the delegates were able to open the process of liberalising the energy sector by establishing the freedom for the business sector to choose their suppliers by the year 2004.
To sum up, in little more than two months after the introduction of the euro, we are being given a clear opportunity to boost the economic and social reform that the European internal market needs.
We must now prove our commitment to the process of modernisation and economic liberalisation, and in this regard the PPE-DE Group can be counted on to provide unwavering support and I welcome the fact that others have accepted the ideas that will guarantee progress for our Community, albeit at the expense of saying the opposite here of what they say in their home countries.
The one element that we would have liked to have seen further developed in the overall mix at Barcelona is that of sustainable development.
The first is that, alongside the liberalisation debates, we very much welcome the key decisions reached in Barcelona to guarantee high-quality public services in the European Union as a fundamental guarantee for citizens, and in the interests of territorial and social cohesion.
The second is that, for us, liberalisation in sectors such as energy is not an end itself.
From what I hear, however, liberalisation in Spain has led to a number of broken connections, with blackouts occurring in Madrid and in other areas.
The EPP and ourselves have tabled a compromise text which I hope will win support in this House.
The proposal adopted by the Commission today concerning temporary agency workers is an important contribution in this respect.
The Lisbon 2002 objective requires constant hard slog and a consistently-applied approach across many policy fields, not an endless diet of symbolic and tokenistic rhetoric.
My final point: competitiveness is not just about how you launch initiatives and how many targets you set.
I welcome Paragraph 19 of the Barcelona summit conclusions and look forward to the new interinstitutional approach, which we hope will install regulatory impact assessments applicable to the work of all European Union institutions.
Mr President, when I look at the stars that make up our flag, I see a different kind of Europe, a fraternal Europe based on culture, solidarity, mutual exchange and giving.
The Spanish Presidency attempted to bring about further liberalisation of the energy and transport markets.
The Barcelona Council should have assessed the present state of public services and general interest services before adopting new measures.
It is important for us to revive the sense of public service as we build Europe, and also to foster debate on the features and objectives of general interest services.
Mr President, I have taken the floor in this debate as representative of a far-off region in the middle of the Mediterranean, Sardinia, to speak about issues which concern a wider area, the whole of southern Italy, but my comments will, I think, serve the genuine interests of the Community as well as the legitimate interests of certain communities and, indeed, some of the communities which are having the greatest difficulties in the 15-Member State Europe.
We are asking this on behalf of regions and communities which have always contributed greatly to the European Union, which believe in the Union, which want to continue to be part of it and which are simply asking to be given the opportunity to share in balanced development on a level with the other areas of the Union.
In this major Euro-Mediterranean policy, it is a project which, believe me, ladies and gentlemen - you will agree with me, Commissioner and Spanish representatives from the Council, for you are also familiar with such issues - is of appreciable importance.
This is to be welcomed, but something is missing: there is little trace of the integration of the environment in the conclusions.
The taxation of energy can contribute towards energy being used in a responsible manner and towards a reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases.
Mr President, the concluding report by the President-in-Office on the Barcelona European Council makes pretty depressing hearing.
Finally, Mr President, I should like to express my sympathy to the family of Professor Marco Biagi, with whom I was personally acquainted.
The same is true of social dialogue.
I note, Mr Gorostiaga, that you wish to make a point of order.
If you want to make a personal statement you are entitled to do so under Rule 122 at the end of this debate.
The European Parliament had already opened up the way with its resolution in February, as did the United Nations Security Council with its Resolution 13/97.
In view of the spiral of unparalleled and ruthless violence in recent weeks, it was certainly time for more specific language, and to point the finger of blame not only at the acts of Palestinian suicide terrorists, which we condemn, but also the provocation, destructive acts, extra judicial executions, excessive use of force and the isolationist measures used by the Sharon government in relation to the Palestinians.
There is mention of carrying out a quick review by December 2002, and then it is said there is a need to improve transport conditions throughout the European Union and to reduce the bottlenecks in regions like the Alps, the Pyrenees and the Baltic Sea.
The social platforms mentioned aspects related to the liberalisation and its implications for the service industry.
We recently held a debate here on the liberalisation of services that are of general interest.
The evaluation of this liberalisation was very mediocre.
And there is the same contentedness, every four months, after each summit, the same satisfaction with all this.
Mr President, the Barcelona Council reiterated the Member States' commitment to reach a budgetary objective that would be close to balance or in surplus by 2004 at the latest.
This explains why the Barcelona European Council came to the logical decision, in the light of previous events, to strengthen the existing mechanisms of budgetary coordination and called on the Commission to present proposals on this issue after the general elections have been held in France and Germany.
The Lisbon Process that was launched with such high hopes two years ago stalled in Stockholm last spring.
Instead of full energy liberalisation, refused by France last year in defiance of its Treaty obligations, we now read "partial" liberalisation, sometime in the future.
It envisages greater harmonisation of energy taxes as the reward for what is a limited and uncertain energy liberalisation conceded by France.
The return of the centre-right to power in Portugal after Italy, Austria and Denmark is a hopeful sign.
Unless there is real change the hopes for Europe's economic future will be dashed.
Could I remind my colleague, Jonathan Evans, that the decision in Lisbon was for the most competitive European economy in the world based on social inclusion, social cohesion and territorial cohesion.
We know that despite the ideology purveyed by the Tories in the United Kingdom who have lost two elections in a row based on their approach to the economy and the people of the United Kingdom.
My response to Barcelona is one of relief that the hype about liberalisation and privatisation was in fact just hype, that the balance of political power on the Council still remains with the centre-left, with the common sense to know that the people of Europe want a social Europe as well as a market Europe, and that the balance between social policy and economic policy, of employment policy and sustainability needs to be maintained.
I wanted to specifically welcome one particular aspect, namely the commitment to a directive for a framework for public services.
The companies who operate universal public services and the Member States have a responsibility to ensure that they are delivered and that the workers in these companies have legal certainty.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to join with other honourable Members in expressing my grief at the murder of Professor Biagi, and unequivocally condemning terrorism.
The European Council had adopted the so-called Barcelona Declaration on the Middle East in the hope of pressing for a solution to the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians through dialogue.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the wording adopted in Lisbon was courageous, ambitious and high-flown - the EU was to become the most competitive and dynamic economic area in the world by 2010.
A properly functioning internal market is the key to growth and employment.
It was with these words that Marco Biagi yesterday ended a speech of his on the Barcelona Summit.
These are new messages in favour of flexibility in the labour market which, if implemented, will allow the youth of Europe to escape from social deprivation.
The decision to encourage enterprise and competitiveness together with the expected global recovery gives us hope for the future.
I have high hopes for the Lisbon process.
The lesson we must learn is to realise, as this martyr to employment often pointed out, that only through truly reformist political action on employment legislation will it be possible to open up real areas for employment and hence for our children's future in Italy and Europe.
The Barcelona Council, however, leaves open and unresolved the great question of the future direction Europe will take in the economic and social field.
Yes, we need to give more support to small and medium-sized enterprises.
Yes, we need more rapid implementation once directives have been adopted.
Yes, we need the action plan for financial services and stability.
Let us hope that the Convention, that great landmark in the history of European democracy, will serve to establish a positive synergy between the democratic institutions and civil society, which made its presence felt in Barcelona during the European Council.
A joint effort at Community, intergovernmental, regional and local level is, therefore, crucial to create infrastructures for childcare and to support the elderly, specifically by making available and implementing appropriations from the European Social Fund, in addition to adopting tax and social measures.
We feel that there is a clear need for coordination and synchronisation between the social and economic dimensions.
In fact, only through the greater creation of wealth, which is distributed fairly and equitably, can there be greater social justice.
Mr President, this Summit was announced as the Summit of liberalisation and ended up addressing longer working hours.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in contrast to the previous speaker, who thinks that too few measures have been taken, I have to say that, as a Member and as vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the measures proposed by national governments give me great cause for concern.
In the areas mentioned, the European Council is formulating objectives that in some cases are clearly cutting across the competence of Member States.
However, it is also an affront to the objective formulated by the governments in Laeken in December 2001 for the next intergovernmental conference and the most important theme of the convention, that is to say the dividing line in competence as between the EU and Member States.
Mr President, I would like to start by thanking the presidency and the European heads of State and government for their support and positive contribution to the process of revisiting the Treaty of Nice by Ireland.
In conclusion, Mr President, for the record, Ireland has never been neutral nor could we afford to be.
It is not in our constitution nor our statute law.
I believe we need to spell out clearly our present security and defence policy to the people of Ireland.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, at this time in the afternoon, after all the previous speeches, one feels that the vast majority of the points that can be covered have already been made.
As we can now see the end of the economic slowdown, there is a clear and determined commitment to get back to the Lisbon Strategy and to achieve the crucial objective that it set: full employment.
Thank you, Mr President.
We need coordinated progress, and I think that there has been coordinated progress, because in all the areas that we have dealt with there has been positive and substantial progress that can be measured, and this is reflected in the conclusions.
We will discuss Johannesburg in detail in Seville, which is where the mandate will clearly be given in order for the Union to have a common position.
Also, I would like to remind those who expressed their opinions on the demonstrators, attaching more importance to the demonstrators in the street than to the remainder of the European Council, and saying that they represent civil society, that, although those demonstrators are indeed European citizens, behind the European Council there are also many millions of silent citizens who voted for the parties represented by the governments that are there, sitting on the European Council, and that they are the true civil society.
I therefore think that we need to learn a great deal from this about what people on the street think, and not think that it is only those who demonstrate, in what is a more than festive atmosphere, on the occasion of a European Council, who have democratic legitimacy in the Union, because that is not the case.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
To a large extent the results were positive due to the work of three institutions: Parliament, the Commission and the Council, in other words, simply due to the correct functioning of the Community method, and I think that this is the first reason why we have to congratulate everyone here.
The same should be said of specific policies when, for example, in the transport chapter, in answer to one of the specific comments that has been made, we talk about promoting more environmentally friendly transport, such as the railways and maritime transport.
Considerable progress has also been made on energy, with a directive on the taxation of energy, something that is without doubt a key issue within the development model that we are advocating in Europe, which is in no way based on cheap energy, but quite the contrary.
Finally, Mr President, very briefly, I must say that as a politician and a Member of Parliament for more than thirteen years - and I hope that one day the confidence of the Spanish people will mean that I can take on those tasks again - I want to make something very clear: political legitimacy lies in parliaments and democratically-elected governments, full stop.
However, Mr President, we repeat that legitimacy lies in this Parliament and in the national parliaments, and there was clearly legitimacy in the European Council with the Heads of State and Government of 15 democratic countries along with the Commission, which was taking part.
Thank you Mr Salafranca.
As we said then, this year, for the first time, the three main institutions will conduct an in-depth dialogue on policy priorities and on the legislative and working programme for the coming year.
The dialogue will be conducted on the basis of the new understanding presented to the Conference of Presidents on 31 January and a new Council consultation procedure.
What we want to do is to base programming on a political dialogue with Member State representatives and citizens, thus using as a foundation the exercise of the Commission's exclusive right of initiative under the Treaty, in a process in which the different positions participate, and are listened to, as much as possible.
The fight against crime, in all its forms, including terrorism, and today more than ever it is once again appropriate to repeat that terrorism is included, is, and will remain, at the top of our agenda.
We should continue to pay particular attention to immigration and all the complex effects that it brings with it.
To achieve this, it is once again essential that we strengthen our partnerships with all neighbouring countries.
Our third priority for 2003, Mr President, is a sustainable and socially inclusive economy.
There are signs of recovery in the not too distant future.
So, after a rigorous screening exercise, the Commission has included in the Annual Policy Strategy a request for 500 non-permanent staff.
Mr President, this shows how seriously and rigorously the Commission is committed to its priorities, without ignoring budgetary discipline.
I think it is particularly satisfactory that the priorities identified by the Commission, such as enlargement, stability and security, and a sustainable and socially inclusive economy, are very much in line with those that the Presidency itself and the European Union as a whole have defined and which have been confirmed by the European Council in Barcelona, about which the President-in-Office of the Council, the President of the Spanish Government, has just informed this House.
There will therefore have to be careful preparation in order to link the debate on the strategic priorities with the budgetary procedure for 2003.
The Council has already had some exchanges of opinion and considers that the General Affairs Council in May could include on its agenda an initial political debate on the Commission's strategic priorities for 2003.
Mr President, my group welcomes the fact that this debate is taking place this evening because this is the first time that we have been able to have an annual policy strategy debate this early in the process of the budget for 2003.
My first point is that we are looking at a significant change in the process of doing things where, firstly, we have a definition of Commission policy priorities, secondly we are trying to ensure the right match between tasks and measures for 2003 and, thirdly, that we welcome this idea of having a strengthened institutional dialogue so that we can ensure that the budget is actually collectively decided.
Of course, that debate starts here and now in March 2002.
It is very difficult to find a subject which does not fall under those three but, in the light of the way in which this has been prepared, we in this House and our committees will find the right way in debates to put forward where we think the priorities lie.
Clearly, in the sustainable inclusive economy there are a whole range of different issues in terms of having the human and financial resources available.
This raises the point of your 500 non-permanent posts, which we are going to have to examine in detail.
To conclude, this debate is something which is to be welcomed.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, the Commission defines the broadening of its point of focus as one of its priorities for the year 2003.
It would also promote the ratification process and the assent procedure in this House if we had some initiatives from the Commission, particularly if they were scheduled for the year 2003.
This particular cooperation will also be very important as a means of fostering stability and security, the second defined priority.
One part of this is certainly the need to resist the hegemonic aspirations of the United States, but we in Europe must also learn to assume a more prominent role ourselves, at least in our immediate sphere of interest.
The fact is that the suggestion put forward by the Commission and the speech delivered by Mr Cox, Parliament's President, in Barcelona made it clear that we need a political agreement between the Commission, Parliament and the Council.
This is a welcome change in our working methods and should allow us to plan and prepare our legislative work much better.
Added to these developments, the Legal Affairs Committee had an historic joint meeting with national parliamentarians, this morning, to discuss the EU legislative process and how Community law is implemented.
The annual policy strategy for 2003 contains some key initiatives on the development of a sustainable and inclusive economy.
Indeed, in mid-April, the European Commission will publish its legislative proposals for the reform of the common fisheries policy.
In Mauritania, catches of octopus have halved in the past four years.
Mr President, on the subject of the area of freedom, security and justice, the Commission reminds us first of all how the fight against terrorism must always be in the foreground.
The barbaric assassination of Professor Marco Biagi in Bologna yesterday tragically confirms the need for this commitment.
Besides, all the European institutions have demonstrated great sensitivity and a sense of urgency in adopting the measures demanded by the sudden exacerbation of this kind of political crime.
It is a political problem to recover the will and the ability to use the instruments of civilisation to address this complex problem, which involves international relations, joint regulations and instruments for border control, and taking joint responsibility for the costs we have to meet and also for the objectives of cultural and economic enrichment that the challenge of integration poses for us.
Including Europol in the Union's institutional framework is just one example of this need.
As far as the single market is concerned, I can say on the basis of my experience of past years in this House that we are still far from having a single market which works truly effectively in every area.
In January, Parliament adopted a report on further steps towards convergence in the realm of civil and commercial law.
It is gratifying that we have finally managed to engage in a very early and timely debate on a strategic plan and that this dialogue between the Commission and Parliament and the specialised committee within Parliament has been launched in sufficiently good time.
On enlargement, the plan is to conclude the accession negotiations with the applicant countries in 2003, and then enlargement could begin in 2004.
We are all well aware of the monumental tasks that await the Commission, Parliament and the Council in the areas of agriculture and rural development in 2003.
You yourselves refer on page 14 of your crazy paper to a decisive phase in these negotiations.
It is gratifying that all the institutions are now highlighting enlargement, which is of course the most important task for our time.
As far as we are concerned, we have seen the real situation and we say that a Europe, which is not a social Europe, is not our own.
I did not vote against the Barcelona European Council resolution, Mr President, because I am a staunch pro-European: I am in favour of Europe.
Mr President, the reason I and many Conservative, or European Democrat, colleagues abstained on the vote overall is that there is an unacceptable reference in Paragraph 37 to the UK/Spanish talks on the future of Gibraltar which in no way takes into consideration the views of the 30,000 Gibraltarians who clearly wish to retain their sovereign link with Britain.
We are being asked to agree to the full liberalisation of the energy sector by 2004, regardless of public service obligations based on the principles of continuity of service, equal access and treatment of all users, land planning and protection of the environment.
We are being asked to give a free hand in the deregulation of air transport through the single sky project and in the continued liberalisation of the railways.
The Barcelona Council, despite the big talk by Tony Blair before it, was disappointing and timid.
In relation to Gibraltar, no one can fail to welcome progress between Spain and the United Kingdom.
This is why I reject the outcome. - (SV) I have abstained from voting in the final vote on the resolution, which was adopted by 211 votes to 58, with 34 abstentions.
According to paragraph 25, the European Parliament wishes to have a review of 'the open method of coordination between Member States in areas such as pensions, healthcare and education, to ensure that the European Parliament is fully involved in the work of the Council and Commission in these areas'.
Parliament thus brings open coordination into question as a method and wishes to introduce a process that abandons intergovernmental decision-making within these fundamental national areas of legislation in favour of the Community method and supranationalism, with the European Parliament as co-decision-maker.
I have taken note of your point, Mr Gorostiaga.
