Common standards and procedures in Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Weber, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on common standards and procedures in Member States for returning illegally staying third-country nationals - C6-0266/2005 -.
Just ten countries out of 27 Member States have a period of less than six months, and all the other countries will have to adjust their legislation to the period of six months, which we propose in this directive, which signifies major progress in our available options and of course in the area of restricting movement.
In practical terms the hardest thing of all in our talks was the issue of offering legal assistance to persons.
The negotiations, in which I personally, along with other ministers, was involved up until the final day, were extremely difficult and arduous, and there is now an unequivocal, firm view in the Council that this is a text that is acceptable for the Council.
I think the path that we have mapped out is the right one and that in this way we will be able to function.
Mr President, I in turn would like to thank Dragutin Mate, our President-in-Office of the Council.
I would first like to say that this dossier is genuine proof that the codecision procedure works, even in the case of complex and difficult dossiers.
The directive therefore also has the advantage of offering the Commission the possibility of monitoring its implementation and I can assure you that the Commission and I myself, as the person responsible for this dossier, will ensure compliance with the fundamental principles as regards respecting migrants' rights.
As a parliament, we are capable of reaching consensus.
This can be done by legalisation, by issuing a legal residency permit, but it can also be done by returning the person to their own country.
The European Parliament has enforced the principle of voluntary departure, so that what does not currently exist in all Member States will, in future, be a principle.
We have discussed this for two and a half years now, and I thank you for the exchange of views, but today I say bluntly: if you vote against this Directive, if you vote against this trialogue result, you are preventing the European Union from making any progress in improving the standards of these human rights.
Particularly in the light of the fact that the citizens of Ireland have rejected the further expansion of Europe, we have the opportunity with this dossier, in this topical area, to show for the first time, thanks to codecision, that we are capable of acting, and that we want a strong, humanitarian Europe. (Applause) Mr President, I would like to start by offering my sincere congratulations to my colleague Mr Weber.
The proposal establishes the voluntary return of immigrants who are staying illegally in the Member States as a priority preferred objective, providing them with the necessary resources to ensure that they are returned to their countries in an appropriate way and at no cost to them.
The alternative of forced return is considered as a last resort, and always with strict respect for fundamental rights.
My group does not accept the compromise that the Presidency and the rapporteur laboriously arrived at, not because we are opposed to a European return policy but because we feel that the result is very inadequate as regards protecting fundamental rights.
In fact, we have always said we are in favour of a return directive because we have witnessed too many horrors on our visits to detention camps.
However, we do not want a directive at any cost.
Furthermore, the directive will not bring about improvements as regards detention in the European Union.
For example, bringing the detention period to eighteen months appears to be an improvement in nine of the twenty-seven Member States.
That is our duty as MEPs.
To everybody, and to the PSE Group in particular, it should by now be crystal clear that the compromise package puts in rules where none exist at present.
Member States with more favourable conditions in place should maintain these, or introduce them if they wish to do so.
Indeed, in my view, after almost three years of debate and negotiations, it is high time to take up our responsibility. (Applause) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I would like to start by expressing thanks to the rapporteur on this issue for the integrity and openness with which he has approached the questions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this directive is a disgrace and an insult to Europe's legal culture.
Mr Mate, we are talking about 18 months - the maximum detention period - not 6 months, as you said.
Furthermore, this directive is an inhumane directive because it makes provision for return to a country of transit.
The truth is that governments want to activate immediately the EUR 700 million allocated by the Return Fund.
Yesterday 150 died, and over the last ten years there have been 12 000 such deaths.
Today's debate is about those who have succeeded in getting in, whom we are now want to throw out.
No European added value is created when we decide that persons who have not committed any crime can be detained for up to 18 months.
The human rights organisations have warned us.
We want to show that we are capable of giving an answer on this compromise. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address the Council, because it is not our directive or the Commission proposal that we are debating, but the way in which the Council has emptied it of all meaning.
It is a message that speaks to us of a Europe built on the principle of mistrust.
The day after the death of 150 illegal immigrants who drowned in the Mediterranean, you are asking us to tell the survivors that from tomorrow those who, like them, are already in our countries will be faced with a provision stipulating up to 18 months of detention.
We are approving a devastating legal principle that provides for the possibility of depriving an individual of liberty for up to 18 months through an administrative measure and without any crime having been committed.
The 18 amendments that restore signs of political civilisation to this measure, tabled by our group, are an attempt to restore dignity in legislative terms to a provision that we believe to be humiliating not only for the European Union but also for our Member States.
Here you are not asking us to move swiftly, you are asking us to make the wrong move: wrong for immigrants, wrong for Europe, wrong for our Member States, and it is a responsibility that we do not wish to share with you. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that today we are debating a very delicate issue - one on which Parliament is divided - and at the same time a very sensitive, if not tragic issue, since it can potentially have fundamental consequences for the conditions of existence and even the lives of those seeking to come to Europe, even if illegally, in search of a future that their country cannot offer them.
Article 14 of the directive provides for the possibility of detention in specific cases and it also puts extremely tight legal controls on them.
I do not think we can accept that unaccompanied minors may be locked up and expelled to countries where they have no family, no ties and no legal representative.
Nor do I believe we can accept migrants having to suffer the traumatic and destructive conditions of 18 months' detention when they have not committed any crime.
Nor can we accept migrants being returned at the whim of re-entry agreements to countries where they have no ties and where, Mr Weber and Mr Deprez, we have no means of guaranteeing their physical or psychological safety.
I therefore call upon all Members to reject tomorrow what is actually only an extension of the repressive, near-sighted policies of the Member States.
In any event, the Member States can do so, but after three years it would be awful to block it for further months or years, in order to find another, infinitesimal compromise that in any case would always be considered a step backwards.
To approve Mr Weber's report would be a cynical step in the wrong direction, which is why the GUE/NGL Group will vote against the report.
Neither the citizens of third countries nor those of Member States should be subjected to infringements of personal freedom or be given custodial sentences for administrative offences.
We are fully aware that many illegal immigrants are victims twice over.
In Europe, it should be a non-negotiable requirement that nobody can be detained for 18 months, especially when it is not because of something they have or have not done, but because authorities in their country of origin, through no fault of their own, are refusing to cooperate with the procedure for their deportation.
It should be a non-negotiable requirement that when the ultimate repressive measure of imprisonment is decreed for any of our wretched fellow human beings, they must, without any exceptions or loopholes in the law, at least have the right to legal aid and to a judge's decision on their imprisonment.
However, despite the serious efforts of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs in Parliament, none other than these self-evident requirements have become bargaining points in the Council.
It sets minimum standards for 27 Member States, and for one third of the Member States, which have no standards at all, this is better than the current situation.
It is the first step towards an urgently needed common asylum policy and Europe-wide respect for human dignity.
I believe that everyone who wants to take that step with us should take that responsibility seriously and vote in favour of this report. (FR) Madam President, echoing the previous speaker, I remain personally attached to the old European idea of harmonisation while improvement is being made: that is to say, harmonisation upwards.
Read the amendments and vote for Amendments 79 and 98, which specify the conditions under which unaccompanied minors can be expelled from European Union territory.
If these amendments by the left were to be adopted, the European policy on the return of immigrants would be finished before it even started. (EL) Madam President, the proposal for a directive is unacceptable and cynically conceals the real inhumanity of the EU and its policy.
You are legislating on the 18-month detention of wretched immigrants, including under-age children, in concentration camps where the living conditions cast shame on human civilisation.
You also prohibit any further entry, even legal entry, into EU territory for a further five years.
You tell them that they must either leave voluntarily, or go to prison and then get deported after 18 months.
You can be sure that workers, third-country and European nationals alike, will not accept these measures. (PT) Madam President, Vice-President Barrot, ladies and gentlemen, do we need a European approach in these areas or not?
My answer is: I believe that it is better to have these minimum standards, and I would like to congratulate my colleague Mr Weber on his work and the negotiations he has conducted.
Others would prefer different time limits, I am sure, but there are currently Member States with no restrictions, as is the case with Austria, Denmark or France.
One of these six is Portugal, my country, which sets a two-month period and has already stated that it will stick to this.
In the same way, we need to block illegal immigration and illegal work and help to dismantle the mafia-style networks that traffic human beings.
Its aim is to bring together 27 different legislations in order to ensure efficient return procedures as well as dignity and respect for the fundamental rights of immigrants.
But while intending to support this imperfect but necessary directive in order to raise standards, I must stress that it is only one part of the picture.
We must have a fair refugee acceptance system and a proper legal immigration policy. (ES) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a disgrace, an absolute disgrace to seek to deport more than 8 million people, on the basis of the concept of administrative detention.
Many of us Europeans suffered administrative detention under dictatorships, and this is the concept that is going to prevail for the deportation of 8 million people.
The deportation of 8 million people with no sort of guarantee: a disgrace!
I believe in and call on the mobilisation of Europe, on those citizens who reject this type of legislation. (RO) Dear colleagues, the European Commission has found that, in 2006, there were approximately 8 million illegal immigrants in the European Union.
I am in two minds: one that wants to have the best and one that, here at European level, must make a decision, including about minimum standards that should apply in countries that have no standards at all.
As the European Parliament, we can set only minimum standards.
However, I want to see this compromise used as the basis, so that in future, the European Union can do it better.
We have a re-entry ban that is much longer, and in many federal states there have been decisions that are not acceptable.
Just to oppose it all the time - heavens above, that has never provided any help at all to the people who have to work in this area and those who are stuck in the countries that do not have any guidelines. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, Mr Weber, wondered why this Parliament did not see some of the positive measures introduced by this proposal for a directive.
This - as Mr Jonckheer said - is an abnegation of our powers as co-legislator; this means - and I say this with all due respect for the work that has been done over three years of negotiations - that we find ourselves at the point of not exercising our power to improve the directive.
The governments of Europe need this Parliament precisely in order to make Europe not a place of fear and more effective instruments to protect against immigration, but a place of integration of immigration. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many organisations and political parties are fuelling an absurd ideological campaign against this text, which they are exploiting and misrepresenting for political ends.
With this directive, we are offering people in situations of vulnerability safeguards to ensure that return takes place in full respect for their rights and their dignity.
All texts can be improved, but this directive constitutes progress in comparison to what exists today, where each Member State does what it wants, sometimes unacceptably - is this not so, Mrs Roure and Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert?
To begin with: to keep people locked up for 18 months is not acceptable.
Thirdly: after adopting the strategy on the rights of the child in January, Parliament cannot now take a step backwards and lock up children or treat them as proposed.
Many organisations which monitor human rights have presented views, and they have concerns and think that the compromise is inadequate and the human approach insensitive.
The amendments of the Socialist Group are to be applauded.
I congratulate Mr Weber on the work he has done and the result he has achieved, but it is not a result I am entirely satisfied with.
Organised societies exist, and come what may, we have to protect human rights, while at the same time protecting the interests and rights of organised societies and organised states. - (PL) Madam President, millions of people are staying in Europe illegally, and they are tolerated because they are a source of cheap labour, they do not acquire rights to a pension or to health care, and they cannot voluntarily pursue their rights through the courts.
I think not. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, along with many fellow Members who this morning have participated and are now participating in the debate in this House, I experienced this phenomenon at first hand at the beginning of this parliamentary term, visiting many parts of Europe and many preliminary reception centres.
We must, however, take into account overall, and I think that this is absolutely vital, the fact that here we are not talking about a few emigrants, as was the case 100 years ago.
We are talking about millions and millions of individuals who move, prompted by varying motivations, very few relating to asylum-seeking, very few to needs of a political kind, but very many in search of better living conditions and better working conditions.
I cannot, although time is unfortunately a tyrant, omit to thank Mr Weber.
I cannot omit to thank Mr Deprez, the current chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, the former chairman, Mr Cavada, and all the Members with whom we have spent much time involved in working on this phenomenon.
I am convinced that Europe is right to look after all but, above all, on this complex and serious phenomenon that we are experiencing, it is right to look after its own citizens. (NL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by expressing particular thanks to our rapporteur for his tremendously hard work, and also for his perseverance in this extremely crucial dossier.
At the end of the debate it is very difficult to contribute any new aspects, of course, but I very much agree with those Members who have said that this Directive is only an initial, yet essential, step towards a broad migration policy.
We all face the same problems and challenges, and it is clear that our citizens will only accept and also understand legal migration if politicians state very clearly that illegal migration is not acceptable under any circumstances.
I should just like to say to opponents of this Directive that there will indeed be little or no change in countries already offering sufficient protection and that, in addition, the Council has given clear assurances that the Directive will not be used to the detriment of protection going further than that of the Directive, which is the case in some countries.
Finally, it must also be made clear that Member States are at liberty to go further than the Directive.
Finally, Madam President, I hope that the majority of the Members of this House will look beyond political dogma and manoeuvring and will be prepared to contribute to a realistic, resolute, clear, humane solution, not only in the interests of the EU but even more so in the interests of the illegal migrants themselves. (EL) Madam President, let me first congratulate my colleague Mr Weber on his excellent work and its results, and also Mrs Carlotti on the constructive cooperation we have had in the Committee on Development.
For example, 112 000 illegal immigrants entered my country, Greece, last year, and 58 000 return decisions were issued.
Lastly, the appeal by the Committee on Development against the detention of minors has been accepted, and I am sure that all my fellow Members will accept it. (EL) Madam President, as Mr Mavrommatis has said, 112 000 illegal immigrants entered Greece last year.
This is why Greece is in favour of a common immigration policy.
We shall therefore definitely support the proposal and recommendation. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, negotiations to reach an agreement at first reading have knocked back many of the advances achieved through the work of Parliament.
Taking into account how topical this problem is - at present approximately 8 million illegal immigrants are living in the EU - and how complicated it is, I think that creating a common legal framework is unavoidable.
Ultimately, we have to apply a wider political dimension in terms of cutting down the incentives for illegal immigration to the European Union. (FR) Madam President, Evo Morales wrote to us about the directive on immigration that in France is known as 'sans-papiers'.
Obviously, we are States with rules that must be respected; otherwise disorder ensues and in the end everyone suffers.
That is known as 'regulating' the shared areas of global co-ownership. (RO) The existence of uniform standards and procedures applicable in the Member States represents a requirement at the level of the entire European administrative system and not only regarding the return of third-country immigrants.
More efficient rules regarding illegal immigration will make possible more liberal rules for legal migration.
Legal immigration into the European Union can be regulated sensibly only if we do not continue to accommodate millions of illegal immigrants and put this situation on a par with legal immigration.
Firstly it needs to be stated very clearly that here today we are talking about a return directive, we are talking about illegal migration, we are not talking about asylum, or talking about asylum procedures.
The directive concerning asylum has been in force since 2003 and is working.
This does is not an automatic process, as we have heard several times today from the floor, of 18 months.
Furthermore, in the political declaration the Council made a clear commitment, if I may quote: 'The Council states that the implementation of this Directive should not be used in itself as a reason to justify the adoption of provisions less favourable to persons to whom it applies.' This means no country, and there are six such countries - I have spoken about this with all six ministers.
Yet sadly there is a majority of Member States that have much longer periods, even unlimited, and quite a few Member States now have in practice and in theory the possibility of holding illegal immigrants for an unlimited period.
I can tell you here today in all responsibility that if the directive is not adopted at first reading, a large number of Member States will fall back on their original negotiating positions, which are extremely rigid and extremely firm.
It is not just that someone's word prevails, and of course I respect the opinion of all the non-governmental organisations, and all other institutions that have provided opinions and that are fighting to improve the situation.
It is right that they are fighting for this, but we must be aware that in the final analysis all of us, we in Council and you in Parliament, are answerable to our electorates and we know what kinds of difficulties arise in these areas.
As I have stated several times now in this concluding speech, this is the first step, a very important step, which we must take together on this path towards improving the rights of illegal immigrants and generally in terms of formulating migration policies.
If they are ever detained the added value of the directive lies in the fact that it forces Member States who have decided to do this to respect the minimum safeguards defined in Article 15a, which you have just mentioned, Mr Mate.
We have a Return Fund of around EUR 700 million, which should enable us to provide help with legal assistance, healthcare and a number of problems of reintegration into certain countries of origin.
I want to stress that it is not just this report that will place an obligation on us, but everything that underpins this text: the desire to give the European Union procedures subject to judicial review, procedures that try to balance the need for legality, without which we would not get public opinion to accept legal immigration, against the need to ensure respect for the principles of the Convention on Human Rights.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank you for the reasoned debate.
We have withdrawn our amendments.
The question is simply 'does it take the European Union forward?' Tomorrow we can answer this question with a good, clear 'yes'.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - The proposed directive on the return of illegal migrants should be welcomed for its effort to adopt common standards and is a step in the right direction.
Once again, I wish to stress and reiterate the point that this matter deserves a common European policy that addresses fundamental 'issues', such as a) the adoption of 'burden-sharing' policies amongst all the Member States b) the revision of Dublin II c) adequate financial support d) an assessment of the viability, or otherwise, of developing centres such as job centres in countries of origin and transit e) the development of a realistic return policy f) the implementation of timely integration policy and g) the fight against organised crime (involving trafficking in people), xenophobia and racism.
The setting up of an agency specifically created to address all legal and illegal immigration would be highly instrumental in tackling these issues in a comprehensive and integrated manner.
in writing. - (FI) Madam President, the first challenge in this proposed legislation before us lies in the fact that it is our first attempt to establish Community-wide norms in immigration policy.
Immigration policy, if nothing else, is something that is sensitive in terms of fundamental rights and human rights.
For these reasons, many Member States would prefer to see the proposals for a compromise and, indeed, the entire legislative initiative fail in our vote.
In this way we will be able to guarantee that certain minimum standards will soon apply to all Member States.
We socialists are in favour of introducing minimum rules concerning the return of illegally staying nationals because we support a responsible, humane approach to illegal immigration and realise that some EU Member States are pursuing unacceptable policies in this area from the point of view of respect for fundamental rights.
Accordingly, the detention period could be extended to as much as 18 months.
Let us not waste this opportunity: by adopting the directive as it is, we would be allowing the Council to unpick all the progress made right here on human rights during 3 years of negotiations.
According to the compromise text produced by the Council and Mr Weber, a Member of the European Parliament and of the Christian-Social Union of Bavaria, detention of up to 18 months can be arranged, children can be separated from their families and those deported can be banned from re-entering the European Union for five years.
In a joint appeal to Members, 44 regions of Africa and Latin America demanded that the draft legislation be rejected.
President Evo Morales of Bolivia had already reminded Members, in a powerful and emotional letter, that refugees from Europe had found sanctuary from poverty and repression, as well as friendship, in other continents for the last two centuries.
