Explanations of vote Explanations of vote (FI) Madam President, first of all let me say that I am pleased that the budget package was voted on and got through.
Of course, as Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Culture and Education, I followed matters relating to this area in particular, and I am glad that one important project, the European Youth Olympic Festival in Tampere, was voted through.
It is important to ensure that we use the budget to press ahead with projects that are close to the public.
The budget is a strong one, but it has to be said that under one Heading, which mentions the European Union as a global partner, that is, point 134, I suspect that I voted wrongly, because I was following the group list and I do not agree with it in all respects.
The amendment is being portrayed as, I quote: 'an attempt to exclude such projects from receiving EU funds in the 2009 EU budget'.
As EU funds have never been used in such a way, but always according to the Cairo ICPD, and as there is no such proposal in this year's budget to do so, the political mischief of the movers has to be acknowledged by all fair-minded and intellectually honest commentators. (BG) I supported the 2009 budget as well as the proposal to increase it compared to what had been proposed by the Commission.
It is particularly important for the new Member States, which really do need the financial resources of the Community.
I do not believe that these resources should be subject to conditions which are any stricter than the approved rules and procedures of the European Union.
The vote against the proposal to put Cohesion Fund resources into a reserve is a good decision.
However, we feel it important to question Mrs Sinnott's justification for proposing such an amendment.
In her press statement this week, she cited such countries as China and Vietnam, where she claims that EU funding, channelled through the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), is presently being used for coercive abortions, involuntary sterilisation and infanticide.
I regret that Amendment 133 did not succeed, as it would have given more focus to the needs of children with disabilities who are in institutional care.
I hope that the President of the Commission responds to my letter in this regard. - (FR) Madam President, I voted against the resolution on the draft general budget of the European Union because of a last-minute attempt once again, via an amendment tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, which the majority of my fellow Members have not even seen and of which they have not assessed the scope, to interpret the famous Cox package concerning the future status of MEPs in a manner that would render their voluntary pension fund meaningless.
As vice-chairman of the pension fund, I will make sure it is redressed. (NL) Madam President, in the final vote, I voted against the draft general budget for 2009 for the different European institutions, including Parliament obviously.
Most of all, however, I welcome the limit which unifies airport fees for the main national and larger airports, allowing the smaller airports to offer lower prices and thereby to compete in a market which is currently very much lacking in transparency.
This creates an opportunity for regional airports to develop and for the range of air travel services on offer to the public to expand. - (FR) Madam President, I should like to say that, in view of the growing threat of sea piracy off the Horn of Africa, the draft motion for a resolution on piracy supports the will of the Member States to undertake a coordinated naval campaign.
Madam President, as one of the co-authors of the motion for a resolution of the European Parliament on the commemoration of the Holodor, theartificial famine of 1932-1933 in Ukraine, allow me, as a member of the PPE-DE Group, to begin by expressing my thanks to all of my parliamentary colleagues who voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
Worse, their lawyers, who are also presenting the same conclusions, are being hunted down in the same way.
With our strong support for the European university, this will not only represent major progress for people in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but may also allow Bosnia and Herzegovina to send a signal to the whole European continent. (NL) Madam President, the report that is before us by the Committee on Petitions on the European Ombudsman's report for 2007 was very positive on the whole, and I can certainly support this view for once.
Nevertheless, I should like to note once again in this explanation of vote that it is remarkable that Parliament should congratulate the European Ombudsman on his conduct to ensure the correct and full application of rules and regulations, while law infringements and violations of the rules are occurring before our very eyes in this Parliament, so to speak, without Parliament intervening or even with Parliament's cooperation on a daily basis and on a very large scale.
We have therefore chosen to vote against all the increases proposed by the European Parliament, at the same time as the June List has welcomed the few savings proposed in the form of amendments by either the Committee on Budgets or individual Members.
The June List also believes that something needs to be done about the European Parliament's constant shuttling between Strasbourg and Brussels and that the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions should be disbanded.
By this I mean a European loan, of an amount equivalent to EUR 1 700 billion, raised by the banking sector.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats regret that the EU should be funding tobacco producers, at the same time as investing large amounts of money in public health campaigns and anti-smoking measures in the EU.
We voted against all these proposals.
We also wish to clarify why we voted against the proposal for a pilot project in favour of children and children's rights.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Haug on the draft general budget of the European Union for 2009 and amending letter 1/2009 to the preliminary draft general budget (PDB) of the European Union.
in writing. - (NL) The Haug report cannot count on my support, because the European Parliament is asking to spend more.
The issue of the Palestinian Authority requires our continued attention.
in writing. - (SV) We support the basic principles behind the EU budget for 2009 and wish to emphasise that it needs to give people good value for money.
The budget's framework should be respected, and we therefore welcome the fact that the budget will be kept well within this framework.
On Thursday 23 October, the European Parliament adopted at first reading the European Union's budget for 2009.
in writing. - I voted against amendment 134 because to vote for or to abstain would be to lend credibility to false allegations by Kathy Sinnott to the effect that the EU funds coercive abortion, involuntary sterilization, and, infanticide.
At the precise moment when the structural crisis in the European Union is getting worse, the Council has reduced payments to an 'unprecedentedly low level', by nearly EUR 9 billion compared to the forecast in the Multiannual Financial Framework.
in writing. - (SV) I abstained from voting because large parts of the outcome are a disappointment.
For example, it is mad for the EU to be funding tobacco producers, at the same time as investing large amounts of money in public health campaigns and anti-smoking measures in the EU.
While we are voting in favour of Amendments 612, 131, 132 and 133 because of the importance of the issue, we feel it would be more appropriate to create a separate budget line on children's rights, which would include the issues dealt with in these amendments.
There are proposals in the pipeline which, from 2010, could increase the budget for 'market regulation' by EUR 90 million or more per annum.
It is the Council that makes the decisions, and the subsidiarity test does not apply, because this power has, pursuant to Articles 36 and 37 of the Treaty, been with the EU for a long time.
The question is why the EU should get involved in this, rather than the municipalities that run education.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have voted in favour of the draft general budget of the European Union for 2009, drawn up by Mrs Haug.
I am pleased to note the increase in resources for overall spending on transport in the preliminary draft budget for the next financial year, and the creation of a new budget line on Support Activities to European Transport Policy and Passenger Rights.
My vote needs therefore to be interpreted in the light of the fact that the annual draft budget involves something of a shift forward, not that I uncritically support the total content.
in writing. - (EL) The vote in favour of the EU budget for 2009 by the centre right and centre left forces of the European Parliament, with the participation of the Greek MEPs from the New Democracy, PASOK and LAOS parties, signals the intensity of the anti-grassroots policy against the workers.
in writing. - (RO) As part of the vote on the report approving the 2009 Budget Section III - Commission, I voted for paragraphs 14 and 38 of the report, which support the development of institutional skills for the Nabucco project.
I also voted for amendment 542, which provides for an increase of EUR 5 million in budget item 06 03 04 (Financial support for projects of common interest in the Trans-European energy network).
In this sense, the Nabucco project is a strategic project for the European Union.
The majority with which these amendments were passed is recognition of the importance attached by the European Parliament to the Nabucco project.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the resolution on the sections of the EU budget, excluding the European Commission's budget, on the basis of the report by Mr Lewandowski.
in writing. - (SV) The report's starting point is increased interinstitutional cooperation by means of a general increase in services within the EU's institutions.
The rapporteur believes that efficiency will be increased in this way.
For example, it is proposed that personnel resources for the political groups should increase by 53 services.
Moreover, a further two higher services are to be set up, in addition to the new services included in the draft budget.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the 2009 draft general budget presented in Mr Lewandowski's report.
Indeed, I believe that the European Union should adhere strictly to the financial regime in order to send out a strong message in this time of great uncertainty on the markets.
in writing. - (DE) With regard to amendment 4 to the Lewandowski report, I would like to state that the PSE Group has not signed this amendment due to an error, but has fully supported it and continues to do so.
in writing. - (PT) As we have highlighted throughout this process, the aim is to amalgamate and deliberately confuse 'competition' with 'transparency'.
We would reiterate that previous privatisation in this sector has not resulted in added value in the services provided, but has helped to destroy jobs and reduce workers' rights and, in some cases, caused technical and operational problems.
in writing. - (DE) I have not voted in favour of the directive on airport charges at the second reading, just as at the first reading, because what is being proposed here will lead to unacceptable discrimination against Luxembourg airport.
Applying the directive to Luxembourg airport, which has 1.6 million passengers per year, and the failure to apply it to direct competitors Frankfurt-Hahn or Brussels-Charleroi, which transport more than 3 million passengers, represents unacceptable discrimination in the internal market, simply because there is a national border in between.
in writing. - (GA) The rapporteur and the Committee on Transport and Tourism have done Trojan work on this report.
I am happy with the adoption at first reading of the provision of the Directive changing airport capacity from 1 million to 5 million passengers per year.
in writing. - (PL) The directive on airport charges will put an end to the long-standing conflict and debate between airports and airlines concerning the cost and quality of services.
The directive in question will apply to the 67 largest European airports, handling over five million passengers per year.
I voted in favour of Mrs Pack's report on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, of the other part, because I am convinced that this step will help to establish a contractual relationship between the two parties that will facilitate Bosnia and Herzegovina's transition to a fully functioning state.
in writing. - (PT) The European Parliament 'gives its assent to the conclusion of the agreement' ...
Behind these nine words are 65 pages of an 'agreement' which, among many other negative aspects, is ruled by the euphemistically termed 'principles of free market economy'.
Acts of piracy in the Gulf of Aden have cost ship-owners between USD 18 million and USD 30 million, in the form of ransom fees paid to recover the ships and their crews.
These weapons could have very well ended up with Islamic militants in Somalia or in other conflict zones on the African continent.
It is difficult to explain how, in the year 2008, we still have piracy just like in the Middle Ages.
The international community in general and the European Union in particular have a duty to examine this historical anomaly and to develop mechanisms which will put an end to this for the benefit of the entire region.
I support these recommendations.
in writing. - (PT) One of the most significant aspects of the EU NAVCO mission is the fact that this is the EU's first naval mission.
That is why the role played by NATO, among others, in the fight against piracy is vital and must be noted and included in our analysis of this changing situation.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on piracy at sea.
The unhindered passage of vessels is an absolute precondition for the development of international commerce: the European Union cannot tolerate acts of piracy taking place against Community fishing boats off the coast of Somalia, a rich hunting ground for thieves operating at sea.
in writing. - (EL) The motion for a resolution, which was passed by the large coalition of centre right and centre left political forces in the European Parliament, uses piracy as a pretext to promote new imperialist interventions by the EU in the area of Somalia and the Horn of Africa.
The people can repel these new imperialist plans and impose their inalienable right to determine their own future and fate on the basis of their own interests against these imperialist plans and ambitions.
in writing. - The British Conservative Delegation supports strong international naval action against piracy, but we do not believe this is an area where the EU can, or indeed should, be involved.
The Australian Government has calculated that the real number of acts of piracy is two thousand per cent higher.
The European Union should make every effort to counter this threat.
I voted in favour of the European Parliament motion for a resolution on the impact of aviation security measures and body scanners, that is, machines producing scanned images of persons as if they were naked, equivalent to a virtual strip search, on human rights, privacy, personal dignity and data protection, because I agree with the rapporteurs that this control measure, far from being merely technical, has a serious impact on the right to privacy, the right to data protection and the right to personal dignity.
For this reason, I believe that it should be accompanied by strong and adequate safeguards.
in writing. - (PT) I support the European Parliament motion for a resolution on the impact of aviation security measures and body scanners on human rights, privacy, personal dignity and data protection.
I consider that the conditions for a decision have not yet been met, that the European Parliament is still missing essential information and that the European Commission must carry out a fundamental rights impact assessment, consult the independent data protection authorities and carry out a scientific and medical assessment of the possible health impact of such technologies.
in writing. - (RO) I abstained from the vote on this motion for a resolution because the European Union needs to have a much more mature reflection on the balance between security and freedom.
I therefore voted against the amendment which aimed to remove these conditions.
in writing. - (SV) I am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, demanding that the problems associated with body scanning be investigated before a decision is taken.
The demagogic references, reservations and objections to the lack of guarantees relating to body scanners contained in the joint motion for a resolution in question by the European Parliament pave the way for the application of this unacceptable and highly dangerous system.
in writing. - (NL) The large majority of all nations in the former Yugoslavia wish to join the EU.
The war in Bosnia between 1992 and 1995 came about because the majority of residents did not want a central government, but a loose partnership at most.
This motion for a resolution also forms part of the attempts to hide the fact that it is capitalism which is sowing the seeds of misery and hunger in the world.
Indeed, the famine, which killed millions of Ukrainians between 1932 and 1933, did not result exclusively from the economic and social absurdity of communism; it was the fruit of an extermination plan fitting the definition of a genocide, that is to say: 'the intention to destroy, in whole or in part, a national, ethnical, racial or religious group, as such', and also 'deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part'.
At a time when, in France, in particular, a certain middle-class communist left extreme is benefiting from media support, recognition of a genocide such as this would make it possible to remember the horrors of Marxism-Leninism, which has been responsible for the deaths of 200 million human beings since the Bolshevik Revolution of 1917 and which is today still oppressing over one and a half billion people, in Cuba, in North Korea, in Vietnam and, above all, in China, where the most uncontrolled form of capitalism combines very well with communist totalitarianism.
in writing. - (NL) My group has not signed this motion for a resolution and the majority have voted against, the reason being that they believe that the emergence of the Soviet Union in what was then a backward Russia was a step forward and enabled many badly trained, badly paid and rightless people to have a better life.
The original ideal of democracy and equal rights for all people was placed second to this.
in writing. - (PT) In this report, the Committee on Petitions encourages the Ombudsman to continue the dual aim that he announced in his 2006 Annual Report, namely working with the institutions to promote good administration and increasing communication efforts so that all citizens who might need to make use of his services are properly informed of how to do so.
It should be remembered that the Ombudsman now has more powers, following changes adopted by the European Parliament at his request.
The European Ombudsman also mentioned errors on the part of the European institutions.
