Reform of EU trade policy instruments (debate) The next item is the oral question to the Commission by Mr Barón Crespo, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the Commission Green Paper and public consultation on a possible reform of EU trade policy instruments B6-0009/2007).
deputising for the author. - Mr President, we have asked for this debate to examine the background and the purpose of the Green Paper adopted by the Commission on 6 December 2006.
With the Green Paper, the Commission intends to stimulate a debate over the use of trade defence instruments in Europe: countervailing, anti-dumping and safeguard measures.
And, when these legitimate concerns are raised, the importance of the role of a united EU in the globalised world and the importance of having a single voice to represent and defend the interests of 500 million citizens in any negotiation with other trade partners in the world market are vital factors to be considered.
Practices such as so-called social or environmental dumping need also to be confronted and, when necessary, new means of tackling them should be seriously considered as a matter of Community interest.
On 29 May last year, I informed the European Parliament of the necessity to review our trade defence instruments.
The last review of our trade defence instruments was in 1996, and a lot has changed in the ways EU companies operate and as regards the role of global supply chains in our economy.
There was a question asked of me about the intentions behind the six categories of question in the consultation paper.
Somebody asked how this review fits with our attempts to reform anti-dumping rules in the WTO.
The question about the effectiveness of our measures is a good one.
Parliament has a very important role in the TDI reflection process.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I welcome the Green Paper as it is clear that our trade defence instruments are in need of reform.
on behalf of the UEN Group.- (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, I welcome the launch of the debate on the reform of trade policy instruments.
The European Union must require that products from third countries sold on its market also meet these standards.
It is unacceptable that we should punish those companies that have remained in Europe, that have retained European jobs, and reward those which moved their production offshore.
Commissioner, there is not much point for us to support China's military build-up by cutting European jobs. (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Barón Crespo and Mr Guardans Cambó for having taken the initiative in putting this oral question to the Commission.
I thank other Members for engaging in the debate on this issue. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the EU must think carefully about how to better defend its own interests.
On the other hand, however, it would be an illusion to believe that the European Union can remain unarmed in the face of the challenges and the negative consequences of globalisation, that it can remain unarmed in the face of unfair international trading practices, in the face of social and environmental dumping by certain emergent economies in the developing world.
The European economic and social model must be defended, but it must never overstep the boundary into protectionism.
I want to know from Commissioner Mandelson just how he thinks the European Union's trading interests can be effectively defended when the euro stands as it does against the dollar, the yuan and the yen?
It is my responsibility to do what is necessary, if anything can be done, to repair that solidarity and make sure that we have consensus rebuilt.
I am very grateful to those who have spoken and raised very important points.
Written statement (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) The Commission has adopted a Green Paper and launched a public consultation on the use of the EU's trade defence instruments (TDIs) in a changing global economy.
