rapporteur. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are discussing two parliamentary initiative reports, but I feel both of them are extremely important for a number of reasons.
This is a truly remarkable document, much better than the previous versions, and it constitutes a firm basis for all manner of reflections on the future of cohesion within Europe.
As we know, new and formidable challenges are now looming together with those we are already aware of, and cohesion policy must make a major worthwhile contribution to their consideration, to allow us to move forward to the Europe we want to see: that is, an effective, solidarity-conscious Europe.
Our report firmly states that convergence on different levels is a prior condition for long-term competitiveness in the regions, and that in years to come complementarity of the two policies will be necessary to reconcile effectiveness and solidarity.
Questions must also be asked as to the dissociation implemented over the current scheduling period between rural development and regional policy.
Its relevance does not appear to be well established on the ground, and we feel that maintaining this separation after 2013 may pose a problem.
We feel that necessary and urgent convergence and an appropriate territorial approach for these challenges call for enhanced political and financial cohesion policies after 2013.
I wish to finish, Madam President, by thanking the shadow rapporteurs, who were of great assistance to me in this task, for the large number of compromises we were able to achieve.
Cohesion policy is the hardware, as it were, with the Leipzig Charter and the Territorial Agenda being the software.
There can be no single solution, but there can be common principles such as the integrated approach, the partnership principle, horizontal and vertical, between the cities and the periphery, but also with the various actors who are directly concerned.
With today's debate, we wanted to deliver a statement from Parliament in advance of the Council's Spring Summit so that territorial and urban issues can be included as clear components in the Lisbon and Göteborg strategies.
The Commission fully shares your views that European cohesion policy has played a major role in narrowing disparities across the European Union and thus fostering European integration, and also getting the Union closer to its people.
We also share your view that adequate financial resources for cohesion policy must be guaranteed in the future in order to deal with the anticipated new challenges which will affect all European territories.
What is also shared is that European cohesion policy is much more than just a distributive mechanism of resources between Member States and regions; this policy is first and foremost a development policy whose objective is to foster the endogenous development of all European regions.
I would add here that the need for coherence between the different development policies also applies to the coordination between European cohesion policy and national polices.
I am convinced that this is a key issue for the future of European cohesion, also in its territorial dimension.
On the other hand, the integrated approach means also the need for integrating different sectoral policies both at the EU and Member State level, which affect the development of all our territories.
That is why the Commission included the Green Paper on territorial cohesion in our legislative and work programme for 2008.
We are all aware today that there are a number of aspects of territorial balance in the Union which threaten the harmonious development of the Union economy and society in the years to come.
They are at EU, national and regional level and also in some specific areas and with regard to outermost regions.
I am pleased to confirm that the key recommendations made in Ms Kallenbach's report, as regards the definition of the concept of territorial cohesion and the implementation of an integrated approach to territorial development, and also the improvement of the synergies between Community policies, are all taken on board in the preparation of our Green Paper that will be adopted by the college next September.
Let me also use this opportunity to inform you that we are progressing with the Member States in our common understanding of territorial cohesion and its key components.
We are currently working on the responses to the questionnaire which we have sent to 25 Member States on territorial cohesion, thus clearly making progress possible.
We have also established in the Commission an inter-service group which is giving us a framework to work in-house on territorial cohesion, and we have already completed the first part of this exercise: the identification of the territorial dimension of key EU policies.
We must also proceed with a clear distribution of responsibilities between the EU and the Member States to ensure better shared management, and I welcome the Commissioner's words in relation to Tuesday's decision to adopt an action plan on audit strategy for structural funds.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries. - (PT) I must start by expressing my regret that the Committee on Regional Development has not included any of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Fisheries on the Fourth Cohesion Report.
I also regret that the financing for the European Fisheries Fund (EFF), in a Union with 27 members, does not differ significantly from the budget of the FIFG (Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance) in a Union with 15 members.
The EFF must therefore be financially reinforced.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (CS) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the reports we are debating today are significant not only in the way they deal with the present situation of our cohesion policy and its territorial dimension, but also in turning our attention to the future beyond 2013.
Territorial cohesion, by virtue of its inclusion in the Lisbon Treaty, has become as important a concept as economic and social cohesion.
Territorial cohesion, in my view, also includes cohesion of towns and country.
It is indisputable that towns are the engines generating growth in the individual countries and therefore it is right to include the question of urban development in our motion for a resolution and at the same time call for strengthening of the integrated approach.
In fact, we have drawn together everything that we think is important in this context.
I would like to remind you, however, that we should be mindful of the strategic objectives of European cohesion policy, namely narrowing disparities in living conditions between the European Union's regions and supporting the Lisbon and Göteborg strategies.
We must face up to the new challenges arising in the context of cohesion policy.
From my perspective, the 'equal opportunities for people and regions' approach is essential for solutions in this area.
At the same time, however, they confirm the marked failure of this policy as regards approximating the level of development between regions.
The differences within and between regions of the European Union are significantly greater than in the United States or in Japan.
Cohesion policy aims at sustainable and harmonious development, and is an important end in itself.
There is an urgent need to clarify this concept, however, and establish an unambiguous definition of what the territorial dimension involves.
I think it is unfortunate that the debate on the Green Paper on the territorial cohesion is planned for the autumn, after the report on cohesion policy.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, I should like to thank both rapporteurs very much for their work.
Demographic issues are important too, as certain areas are threatened with depopulation.
Cohesion should be understood as ensuring that, regardless of where they reside, Union citizens enjoy equal opportunities for access to health services, education, culture, the Internet and transport, for example.
The question as to how to choose between cohesion or competitiveness, equality or efficiency has recently arisen.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the late 1990s the philosophy which prevailed in the European Union was that the integration capacity of the Union was to be measured according to the success of the internal market.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) In this brief speech on such an important issue as the future of the cohesion policy in the European Union, we can only underline some of the fundamental principles that we believe should guide this debate.
In other words, we believe that competitiveness must not be a substitute for convergence in the Member States and regions which are lagging behind in their socioeconomic development.
The cohesion of European countries remains a fascinating theme.
Cohesion between the Member States has increased.
No-one knows the national and regional situation better than the individual Member States.
Commissioner, either we build Europe or we build the world.
Either we focus on social tasks, or we focus on the world. - (NL) Madam President, Ms Hübner, the unique and peculiar nature of this Fourth Report lies in the fact that not only has the current policy been well thought out but it looks ahead to the new challenges which Europe must tackle.
This week we have also looked at the Lisbon Strategy, and what strikes me is that we should continue strongly and make an express contribution, earmarking 60 - 65% of the cohesion budget to be committed to this end.
What is stated in the Kallenbach report is also important, that we consider territorial cohesion as a core function of the European Union.
We must deal with the remaining challenges in order to reduce regional and interregional disparities and secure economic and technological growth, and this means that our focus on compliance with the Lisbon Strategy must be a priority issue, while not neglecting other matters such as demographic change.
I have already told you, Commissioner, we must make a huge effort, and I know you are endeavouring to do so, in terms of communication, so that all our speeches, all our comments, all our hopes with regard to cohesion, emerge in words and phrases that will encourage governments to act and persuade and motivate our fellow citizens.
These are the two main points, Commissioner, that I expect to see in the Green Paper.
These differences have become more marked in recent years, because significantly less developed countries have joined the Union in the latest enlargements.
It is estimated that these countries are more than 15 years behind the others.
It is unlikely that the success achieved in Spain, Portugal, Greece and Ireland will be repeated, certainly not quickly.
Ireland has benefited a great deal from cohesion money and in order for other countries to benefit in the same way we must ensure that increased resources are directed at promoting regional development and tackling social exclusion.
Not only must the gap between Member States be decreased but we must also decrease these gaps within Member States as well as the gaps between regions.
Mr Guellec reports on Ireland, Spain, Portugal and Greece's impressive growth rates between 2000 and 2006.
I would like to thank Mrs Kallenbach as well for her report and I especially welcome the emphasis placed on strengthening the role of local urban authorities in order to make access to public services available to every citizen.
Sustainable development is a huge challenge within urban areas in the 21st Century and the framework presented to us today by Mrs Kallenbach can help us to face this challenge.
Madam President, these reports comment on the disparity between the rural and urban economies, between rich and poor, especially in eastern Europe, and between the disadvantaged and the rest of society.
If you really want to help, listen to Professor Buchanan of the London School of Economics.
A different view exists, however, regarding the choice of wording in the report on the demand for financial resources for cohesion policy post-2013.
Like many of my colleagues, I do not feel it is right that at this early stage, in 2008, the report should contain anticipatory demands for more financial resources for the future, not least in view of the fact that we are quite rightly facing criticism that we do not always draw down, on time, all the funding which is already available.
Jean-Jacques Rousseau must certainly have favoured the integrated approach.
I therefore wish to thank all those responsible, especially Mrs Kallenbach, for their excellent cooperation on this task.
Paying closer attention to the territorial and urban dimensions of EU policies, especially through integrated development plans and better cooperation between urban and periurban areas, will draw all the benefits out of this integrated approach.
Cooperation, however, must not end there.
If the main points in this report had to be specified, my first mention would be the urgent need to create integrated multimodal transport networks supported by Europe to improve infrastructures, especially environment-friendly transport such as bicycles and walking.
It is for this reason that I call on all my colleagues to vote en masse in favour of this report, which demonstrates the EP's wish to support the sturdiest form of territorial cohesion and a comprehensive integrated approach that will finally allow us to build the city.
It lost eligibility for European support when funding for the current period was relocated to parts of the country where deprivation is more widespread.
The debate on the future of cohesion policy must take account of the new conditions and challenges.
In the debate on the future of cohesion policy we refer to the debate on the future of the European Union.
At the same time, we are aware that so-called reformers are promoting new solutions, such as, for example, renationalising cohesion policy.
We must bear in mind that the Member States are implementing their own internal policies to narrow disparities and that they are doing so independently of European funding, drawing on their own resources.
The richer countries are therefore proving most successful.
Accordingly, if we want to create a so-called Union of results or Union of action, we must strengthen cohesion policy.
Therefore, I strongly support the future implementation of cohesion policy in its three dimensions - economic, social and territorial - which could stand as a successful example of the European Union's solidarity principle.
Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate both rapporteurs.
It is extremely important that this gap does not continue to widen, and one of the ways of ensuring this is to increase investment in innovation, research and development in those regions that are lagging behind.
We are all aware of the role played by physical capital, natural capital and human capital as the basis for economic growth and development.
That is the best of both worlds. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the scope of this report is so broad that I shall limit myself to commenting on a couple of issues.
I would also like to draw attention to the importance of cooperation between urban and rural areas in order to promote the development of the territory as a whole.
I welcome the integrated approach advocated by the rapporteur, also as regards the challenges arising in relation to rural development.
Whether in relation to cohesion, innovation or transnational funding, Europe should only be providing support where we can genuinely make a sustainable European contribution.
I therefore ask you to support our amendment in the vote. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, I must firstly congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur of my Group, Mr Guellec and Mrs García, on the quality of the report and their openness to dialogue on cohesion.
This is why it is essential to adapt the Community policies to take account of this constraint resulting from insularity and remoteness. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to bring the northern viewpoint to this debate.
Finally, I want to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent reports and thank Commissioner Hübner for her interest in the northernmost corner of the Union. - (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, I should also like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on their very important reports.
Cohesion policy is important because it has helped in the economic and social development of many regions.
New Member States have joined, with regions that are very far removed from the norm.
For these reasons, the terms in the cohesion policy report are correct: funding will need to be secured and increased, even for the period after 2013.
We await with interest the Green Paper and the conclusions that it will contain. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, reducing the social and economic disparities between European regions is a fundamental aim of the European Union.
This is because, according to certain estimates, at the present rate of economic growth, countries such as Poland, Bulgaria and Romania will take more than 15 years to reach a level of GDP equal to 75% of the average for the Union.
For example, Polish local authorities have recently had to cope with difficulties caused by the continuous fall in the value of the euro in relation to the Polish currency, thus reducing the actual value of Union funds allocated to the implementation of regional projects that had already been confirmed.
In addition, the cost of labour and production in Europe is constantly rising, which leads to an increase in the cost of investments funded from Union resources and to a reduction in the value of those funds in real terms.
Consequently, implementation of many Union projects is threatened. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I must firstly highlight the excellent work carried out by Mr Guellec and the intelligent and determined manner in which he emphasised and defended the optimisation and reinforcement after 2013 of a policy of solidarity towards the European regions.
In truth, with this report, more than with the assessment of the cohesion policy's impact in 2000-2006, we have opened the debate on what type of cohesion policy we want for post-2013.
My first comment is that, as shown by the Fourth Report, the cohesion policy continues to be essential for reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and for encouraging the least-favoured regions that are lagging behind or, in other words, for creating a European Union that is more harmonious and viable and has a greater sense of solidarity.
The report by Mrs Kallenbach, who I also congratulate, offers us some good guidelines in this respect.
In order to be coherent, we must therefore consider increased resources for a reinforced regional policy.
There are significant differences in the development of our regions, but if we look into it more deeply there are even greater chasms between individual areas within the regions.
There is a need for much greater effort in this area, within the framework of a renewed, integrated cohesion policy that is capable of turning round the negative processes in the areas that are growing poor.
Thank you for your attention. (SK) Ladies and gentlemen, the well-planned and responsible development of urban areas is becoming extremely important, in particular in the face of challenges such as congestion of urban transport networks, environmental damage and land development.
Cities have a unique responsibility for climate protection: this protection should be a priority at all political levels.
I would like to stress that not only metropolitan regions but also suburban areas and rural areas are successful in meeting cohesion goals.
To conclude I would like to stress that urban development must follow an integrated and well-coordinated strategy, supported at all levels by both the government and the private sector. (SK) Thank you, Mr President.
Although governments of the Member States play an important role in this matter, it is becoming more and more clear that it will not be possible to solve the problem without the participation of regional and local authorities.
I would also like to say that I understand the passion of Members from the new Member States.
I have to say to those who are merely playing on words that the difference between increased resources and sufficient resources is very small indeed.
I personally support the use at this time of the word 'sufficient', especially when many of the funds in those areas have not been spent.
We are now even as far behind as some of the countries were that we are talking about. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, I should also like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work on these two reports.
Once again, the European Parliament is confirming its very clear position on the importance and role of the cohesion policy, which brings Europe closer to its citizens.
Let us remember that there are a lot of differences within the European Union and, at the same time, financial resources tend to dwindle.
I also believe that it is worthwhile to ensure its optimal implementation.
The enlargement to 27 brought about changes in the nature of Europe.
The challenges to which we must now respond, such as globalisation, population falls, desertification of certain regions or climate change, combined with the increased frequency and scale of natural disasters, are much more demanding and require a greater effort on our part.
It is therefore imperative that the disparities are reduced through access to an adequate budget, without having to abandon certain regions in this vast Union to their fate.
The adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon reinforced this need and firmly enshrined in law the territorial cohesion which is the most important aspect of the cohesion policy.
It is essential that this policy tackles not only economic and social cohesion, but also solidarity between regions ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I welcome the opportunity to speak briefly on the future of cohesion policy, which is of crucial importance to old and new Member States alike.
In the context of reduced EU structural monies and funds, regional development monies must be better targeted - as many speakers have said - at local areas and local authorities, which must be the key deliverers of those funds.
All these things, together with climate changes, and depopulation of rural areas, are challenges we are forced to take into consideration, both at a European level and at the level of local administrations managing these policies.
From its inception, cohesion policy has played an important role in strengthening the ability of all the Member States to promote harmonious development and create new and permanent jobs.
It is rather too early to assess the results of cohesion policy in the new Member States of the Union, but there is cause for concern regarding the obvious delays in use of current structural funding in those countries.
Convergence between countries often masks deepening differences between regions and within them.
Regional and local disparities are arising in many areas, affecting employment and also productivity, income, level of education and potential for innovation.
I would like to draw your attention to this measurement and, in future, to the fact that effectiveness is the basis for strengthening cohesion policy.
That is why I find it incomprehensible that a decision adopted by Parliament in 2006 to adapt the Solidarity Fund - as set out in paragraph 45 of the Cohesion Report - has still not been implemented.
This is why the Member States should decentralise administration, increase administrative capacities at a regional level and cut down on excessive bureaucracy in cohesion policy management.
I appeal to the Member States to provide a non-discriminatory system for all their regions so that everyone can actively participate in the application of cohesion policy. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I am the rapporteur for urban mobility.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity at the end of the debate to thank Members for all their contributions.
The direct impact on growth and development is pointed to, as is the fact that this is a policy that triggers new ways of thinking and also performs a very effective leverage role by attracting additional financial resources.
There is strong interest in the delivery mechanism and broad support for all the principles we have jointly developed with the European Parliament in recent years.
There is also strong support for the need for this policy to respond to the challenges that you have been discussing today, and which are linked not only to globalisation, but also to demography, climate and energy, and restructuring in general, with strong support for the integrated approach.
One of the issues of importance you have raised today is how we will proceed with the Green Paper, which will be adopted by the Commission in September.
Through our analytical institution, ESPON, which we have strengthened very substantially, including financially, for the years to come, and which now has a significantly higher budget, we will endeavour to measure some of the new dimensions and some of the existing dimensions of territorial cohesion.
I would especially like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributing to the debate - not just in the past, but also in the future.
The Commissioner said earlier that we are dealing with a report, but obviously it is the future that interests us.
I wish to add that the fact that regional policy as a whole will now be a matter for codecision by the Council and Parliament will help us move forward together, to make this clearer for our fellow citizens, also a point I feel was solidly made this morning, and also to implement genuine solidarity to the benefit of regions which need it most.
I would particularly like to thank Commissioner Hübner.
Commissioner, you have made it clear that, together with this House, you are interested in the practical steps: the integrated approach, indicators which produce measurable outcomes, the definition of the territorial dimension, the Green Paper.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) The economic and social cohesion policy is the foundation of European solidarity.
Plans for enlargement of the Union are often assessed in terms of the potential to conduct effective action in order to increase cohesion.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, cohesion policy is not one of the key policies that have been present in the European Union since it was first established.
Irregularities must be detected and eliminated, but it is precisely regional policy that makes the Union's presence felt in all 27 Member States.
in writing. - (RO) The Commission's Report refers to the depopulation of rural areas, against the background of the absence of workplaces except for agriculture or due to poor living conditions.
The Rural Development Fund contributes, together with the other funds, to the economic and social cohesion.
The efficient use of the rural development funds represents a timely solution to these problems.
The access to information is even more important in the new Member States, which are not yet familiar with using the Community financing instruments.
in writing. - (DE) The EU's enlargement on 1 May 2004 has increased the economic and social disparities within the EU.
With its further enlargement, EU funding now has to be divided among 27 Member States.
