Amendment of the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement (debate) The next item is the recommendation by Mr Ribeiro e Castro on behalf of the Committee on Development on the proposal for a Council decision concerning the conclusion of the Agreement amending the Partnership Agreement between the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Cotonou on 23 June 2000 (6987/2006 - C6-0124/2006 -.
rapporteur. - (PT) Madam President, firstly, I wish to congratulate you on your election.
The 2005 revision, on the other hand, strengthened the aspect of political dialogue, which became more systematic, structured and formalised, with a view to helping prevent and resolve crises.
As I proposed at the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, which adopted this suggestion in November 2005 at the Edinburgh summit, this process of inculcating a sense of responsibility and of raising awareness at national level could take the form of an annual parliamentary debate in each national parliament of the recipient countries specifically focusing on external aid.
Madam President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Ribeiro e Castro and the Committee on Development for their positive assessment of the amendment of the Cotonou agreement, which is the cornerstone of the partnership between the ACP countries and the European Union.
Furthermore, the revised agreement maintains a volume of aid identical to that provided for in the ninth European Development Fund with the addition of inflation, the impact of European Union GDP growth and the accession of ten new Member States in 2004.
As you know, that decision in principle was translated, at the meeting of the ACP-EU Council of Ministers in Port-Moresby in June 2006, into a commitment of around EUR 22 billion.
That is the total sum of the 10th European Development fund for geographical cooperation with the ACP countries for the six-year period from 2008 to 2013.
On an annual basis, that represents a nominal increase of 35% compared to the 9th European Development Fund.
Otherwise, the operations of the 10th European Development Fund will be unable to begin on 1 January 2008.
The review of the Cotonou Agreement was a significant challenge.
Secondly, because our ACP partners themselves have accepted the revised agreement and are eager to implement its financial chapter, for which I believe we have obtained a more or less acceptable sum.
For example, by setting political objectives that would consist in allocating 20% of the sums to basic education or health in the ACP countries, or by attaching more importance than we currently do to the gender dimension in our development policy.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the revision of a complex agreement, the Cotonou Agreement, which contains 100 articles, 6 parts, 5 annexes and 5 protocols.
Metals, alcohol, oils, ammonia, which are exported from 24 major ACP countries, will be hit by REACH, representing a potential loss of income of EUR 6 billion for those countries.
From the Yaoundé agreement of 1963 up to the Cotonou Agreement of 2000, revised in 2005, and the Lomé I, II, III and IV agreements from 1975 onwards, it appears that Europe has been audacious, particularly with the Stabex mechanism, which has protected cocoa, tea, coffee and groundnuts.
According to the figures, the ACP countries' share in the Union market has dropped from 6.7% in 1976 to 3% in 1998, and while the GDP of a European increased by an average of 2.3% per year, that of an African from an ACP country, if I dare say it, increased by just 0.6%.
Ultra-liberal Europe has chosen to make a customs gift of around EUR 2 billion to the multinationals Chiquita, Del Monte and others, rather than to the ACP countries, which have to face the same competition conditions as these multinationals.
That would restore the spirit of Lomé, and we would finally begin to build the world, which is the challenge of the 21st century. (NL) Madam President, I am delighted that this week in Strasbourg, we are able to vote on the first five-yearly review of the Cotonou Agreement since we concluded it in 2000 for a 20-year period.
This agreement covers 78 countries in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific Ocean and involves no fewer than some 750 million people.
This is why it would be useful for Parliament to monitor spending in respect of the European Development Fund, but unfortunately, Commissioner, this EDF budget is not incorporated in the EU's own, which is something you in the Commission and we in this House would both have wanted.
As others have said, we are very proud of the fact that the Cotonou Partnership Agreement represents binding contractual agreements with 78 African, Caribbean and Pacific countries.
Commissioner, we regret the fact that the great flurry of activity that we saw in 2005 on development and funding for development did not, in fact, include a substantial increase in the contribution of Member States of the European Union to the European Development Fund for the ACP.
Further to that, I would like to ask you whether you are prepared to enter into structural dialogue with the European Parliament on the country strategy papers for ACP countries.
Having said that, I believe that the revised Cotonou Agreement represents considerable progress, particularly with regard to the role of local sectors in development policy: for the first time, their role has been clarified, and they are explicitly recognised as full partners in the political dialogue.
The revision of the Cotonou Agreement has above all made it possible to highlight the importance of political dialogue amongst partners.
I believe that I have thereby highlighted the progress that some of you have mentioned, while accepting that this policy will be subject to many further developments, since it is true that it is now part of the European Union's duty and purpose.
