I think this piece of legislation will make it appropriate that we have higher standards across the European Union.
I supported the new regulation because in my opinion it constitutes a tool for pursuing new and safer alternatives for protecting plants.
I consider the mutual recognition of approved pesticides according to geographical zones to be a positive achievement for our Parliament.
The preparation of a list of banned substances is also a step forward - these include carcinogens, genotoxic substances and also substances with neurotoxic and immunotoxic effects - and is based on scientific knowledge.
I agree with the aims of the legislation to promote the health of our environment, the health of us as individuals, but it really potentially threatens a huge agricultural industry in my region.
I felt that the report was, in general, very well-balanced and constructive, and it was certainly designed to ensure a high level of protection for human health, animal health and the environment.
I have met with a number of experts and farmers and NFU representatives in my West Midlands constituency who all have deep reservations about the effects that this report will have on crop yields.
While I recognise the concerns of the soft fruit industry, the potato industry and the cereal farmers in Ireland who have spoken to me about this, I supported the compromise.
We talk about helping citizens and farmers in poorer countries, yet there will now be, as a result of this vote, a call to ban imports from farmers who have used pesticides that are now banned in the European Union.
He said, 'I have personally been involved in the application of crop protection products for over 40 years.
Similarly, farmers have also been the basis of our health.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - We have just voted on an agreement for civil aviation safety.
Although travel by air is one of the safest means of travel, however, one can never take measures which are too safe.
In such an environment surely we are not expecting these countries to abstain from doing all that which is possible to protect the interests of its citizens.
I voted in favour of this report because the aviation industry in Romania will benefit directly too.
However, the means of achieving this objective, namely cooperation and mutual acceptance of each other's certification findings in the areas of airworthiness and maintenance, are set out in the annexes to the agreement, unlike in conventional agreements, where these measures are usually set out in separate non-binding agreements at civil aviation authority level.
However, we must safeguard two important aspects: (1) the objective and presumed basis of these processes must not be to create and facilitate the conditions for increasing the liberalisation of air transport, through the harmonisation of standards; (2) these processes must not promote harmonisation through a lowering of safety standards and rules, in particular where, when safety, minimisation of burdens and liberalisation are mixed together, it is profit and concentration that prevail.
We believe that air transport must be defended as a public service, provided by public companies in each country, which guarantee quality and safety in the services provided to citizens.
In these conditions, we can hope that the European Single Sky principles will be extended in the future to apply to transatlantic cooperation and that cooperation will be widened in the field of research, as well as the implementation of new technologies in this field, based on collaboration between SESAR and NextGen.
As a result, one of the fundamental points of this cooperation agreement on the regulation of civil aviation safety is mutual trust in each other's systems and the comparison of regulatory differences.
The objective of this agreement is to facilitate trade in goods and services in the aviation sector, by limiting as much as possible the duplication of assessments, tests and controls to significant regulatory differences between the two parties.
The European Union also needs to take the necessary measures to provide uniform, harmonised but effective regulation.
There is, in fact, no equivalent to Article 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice.
However, by its active engagement in the situation which existed, the EU confirmed that the Balkans are an important region for us and are an integral part of Europe.
I know the Belder report only deals with the economic and commercial relationships with the Western Balkans and the evident need for the European Union to assist in their reconstruction, in the economic, legal, political and social fields.
In order to tie these countries to the EU in the long term, the development of their market economies and regional cooperation must be fostered.
It is in the interests of the EU to champion the creation of political stability, legal security and hence good framework conditions in these countries for foreign investment.
I agree with my fellow Member in considering that the European Union has a vital part to play in the process of economic and political revival of countries in the Western Balkan area, with a view to their membership of the European Union, firstly in terms of stabilising the political situation and secondly in economic and trade terms.
I voted in favour of this report because economic stability may also lead to political stability in this area, which has been particularly troubled over the years.
The expansion of regional economic cooperation appears to be especially significant in this context, as also is the prospect of membership for states in the region.
A realistic perspective of membership can also prevent this.
It is true that the level of development and adoption of the acquis communautaire is not the same in all the countries of that region, and so, in defiance of having a single strategy, it is necessary to choose specific approaches, which must be tailored to the needs in question.
The European Union has played an immensely important role in the process of economic and political reconstruction of the countries of the former Yugoslavia.
In connection with this, the EU is currently faced with the difficult task of reconstruction of the entire region.
The EU has become the main trading partner of all the countries in the Western Balkans.
The three most important pillars of this cooperation are: stabilisation agreements, trade preferences, and technical and financial support.
The process of stabilisation should above all be directed at raising the living standard and ensuring permanent economic development in the Balkan states.
It is difficult not to agree with the rapporteur that a basic condition for development of the countries under discussion is membership of the World Trade Organization (Croatia, Albania and the former Yugoslavia are already members).
While appreciating the progress already made in terms of modernisation in the region, full integration of the Western Balkans with the EU economic system should be pursued.
in writing. - (SV) The report on the common agricultural policy and global food security discusses important issues such as the consequences of rising food prices in poor and rich countries and the importance of securing access to food for everyone.
The report is not in line with these views and we are therefore voting against it.
in writing. - Securing sustainable food supply is one of the greatest challenges that faces us.
This report is an acknowledgment of this and a recognition that the EU's high standards and wealth of agricultural experience can be of a wider value in addressing global food security, including by providing funding for fertilisers and high-yield seeds, as well as training and practical support for farmers and food producers.
However, we cannot support paragraphs 63 and 64, which raise doubts about free trade in agricultural products.
in writing. - (DA) The Danish Members of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have voted against the own-initiative report on the common agricultural policy and global food security, as the report opposes the liberalisation of agricultural policy and criticises EU rules on the restriction of pesticides.
The main cause of this situation is that the basic criterion for the production of agricultural produce and food is profit rather than global food requirements.
The trading of foodstuffs on international exchanges has resulted in spiralling price increases and, hence, spiralling profits for the food multinationals, a perceptible reduction in rural output and global food reserves and an increase in the number of malnourished people.
A freer world market for agricultural products would make it easier for people in poor countries to develop their agriculture.
We agree with various aspects highlighted by the report, in particular: the fact that the policy shift has resulted in a loss of potential market opportunities for EU producers and has led to increased reliance on imported food from outside the European Union, produced to very different production standards, thereby placing EU agricultural products at a disadvantage; the concern that dramatic increases in agricultural production costs may result in less usage and reduced output, which will exacerbate the food crisis in Europe and the world; the need for policy instruments aimed at averting such large and damaging price fluctuations; the concern about increasing market concentration in the food retail sector, which has led to the development of monopolies, and the need for alternative solutions in negotiations with retailers, in favour of small farmers.
However, there are also aspects with which we cannot agree: the increased orientation of the common agricultural policy towards the market and the devaluation of food sovereignty, with the emphasis solely being placed on food security, forgetting that this is difficult without food sovereignty.
Bearing in mind that developing countries will probably not be able to produce food in sufficient quantities to supply their increasing populations, the industrialised countries will continue to have the important task of producing and exporting food.
The common agricultural policy must therefore once again become a European priority and form the basis of the European food security policy, given that, in a time of financial and economic crisis, it is more important than ever.
In two years world food prices have increased by over 80% and cereal stocks have fallen to dangerously low levels.
Food security - access to a sufficient, safe and nutritious food supply - must now become a key political priority both here and elsewhere.
The food industry has a massive impact on employment, as it provides work for more than four million people in Europe.
The report complains that non-EU countries produce food to very different production standards, thereby exposing EU agricultural products to unequal terms of competition.
These two claims in the report are controversial, to say the least, and not something that all the political forces within the EU would agree with.
The report is also against reductions in aid payments within agriculture and is opposed to any reform of the common agricultural policy.
Moreover, it proposes a citizen information policy regarding the common agricultural policy, which I view as political propaganda for a system that is very controversial, particularly in my country.
I have therefore voted against this report.
The recent extraordinary surge in food prices rightly prompted a discussion on agricultural policies, food security and development.
The medium- and long-term profitability of European agriculture and rural development should be the criteria used in the common agricultural policy and its reform.
in writing. - The issue of the CAP and global food security is important.
It is a disgrace that there are people in this world starving to death due to our lack of political coordination.
The purpose of the common agricultural policy is not only to increase agricultural productivity and ensure rational development of farming production through optimal use of production factors, especially the workforce, but also to provide rural populations with a suitable standard of living, guarantee security of supplies and ensure reasonable prices for supplies to consumers.
Medium- and long-term action is needed to safeguard world food production and to support those people who are most seriously affected in terms of basic nutritional needs.
We do, however, feel that the report raises many very important points on the issue of global food security, such as recognising the importance of food security as a key political priority for the EU, urging for greater cooperation on a global level, calling for more investment in developing countries to build up their production capacities, and urging for agriculture to be placed at the heart of the EU's development agenda.
We also agree with the demands in the report for work in the Council to be more open in order to enable civil society to participate in the dialogue in a meaningful way.
However, we would like to make it clear that we believe it to be wrong for churches and religious communities to be given a special status among civil society organisations.
I endorsed the report because every step taken to bring citizens closer to the authorities which make decisions for them is a step towards a better and more transparent democracy.
in writing. - This report refers to the Lisbon treaty, which, let me remind you, is not in force.
I voted against this report.
in writing. - (NL) I may be living on a different planet, but I seem to remember that the Dutch and French people rejected the European Constitution in a democratic referendum in 2005.
in writing. - This report by Genowefa Grabowska provides for increased mechanisms of participation and for vehicles for civil dialogue within the European Union.
The recent rejection of the Lisbon Treaty in Ireland was in part due to differences between the perception of the Union and the reality of the Union.
This report is yet another one which goes against the majority of the European Parliament in its efforts to try and 'sell' the Treaty of Lisbon project at any cost, a task which has not proved easy, judging by the results of previous referendums.
I believe that it is important to strengthen the dialogue with civil society in order to create an EU that listens to and represents the views of its citizens.
I also agree with the demands in the report for work in the Council to be more open in order to enable civil society to participate in the dialogue in a meaningful way.
Churches and religious communities should take part in the dialogue with the Union's institutions in the same way as all the other organisations.
I consider civil dialogue to be very important, so that the citizens of the EU can gain an insight into the areas of activity of their elected representatives.
I should like to highlight the comment that dialogue between the EU and the Union citizens should be a two-way dialogue, because it is not enough to inform our home countries about the implementation of projects; we also have to listen to individual people and take their opinion seriously.
in writing. - (SV) The Treaty of Lisbon has not been adopted.
What was, essentially, the same draft treaty had already been rejected in referendums in France and the Netherlands.
However, the European Parliament's federalist majority is unwilling to listen, insisting, instead, on a Union that is governed to an even greater extent at the supranational level, despite the fact that its citizens have shown their scepticism in multiple referendums and that, given the chance, they would show this scepticism in even more countries, too.
Paragraph 9 of the report states that all EU institutions should maintain up-to-date registers of all relevant non-governmental organisations.
Furthermore, paragraph 11 of the report talks about promoting an 'actively European mindset' among EU citizens.
However, the worst aspect of the report is the call, in paragraph 22, to give European associations and European civil society organisations a shared legal basis at EU level.
I have therefore voted against this report.
As this initiative can only be yet another pure pro-EU-Constitution campaign, on which enough money has already been spent, I voted against the Grabowska report.
I voted in favour of this report as civil society plays an important role in Europe in the European integration process, by passing on the opinions and requests of EU citizens to Europe's institutions.
The low turnout in European elections is a logical consequence of the fact that European citizens do not know what positive contribution European legislation can make to them and they do not believe their vote can have any influence.
It should be admitted that the European Union has a lot of ground to make up in the area of communication, and indeed especially in the area of dialogue with citizens.
The citizens of the EU must be sure that no decisions at European level will be made without their involvement, and that by voting in elections they will have a real influence on the form of those decisions.
The treaty remains in limbo and is still subject to a possible second 'no' vote by Irish citizens in another referendum later this year.
I therefore voted against this report.
The Grabowska report is yet another example of the scandalous way in which this Parliament handles the principles it claims to serve. 'Dialogue with the citizen in the framework of the Treaty of Lisbon': what a joke!
However, particular interest groups, lobbies that do not represent the common good, should not be allowed to infiltrate the legislative process under the guise of a dialogue with civil society.
This dialogue is difficult but also a necessity.
in writing. - I abstained on this vote because, although I and the UK Independence Party fully support equality between men and women, the UK already has equality legislation which can be changed or improved when required by our own democratically elected and accountable Parliament.
I endorse the Weiler report and express support for measures aimed at transposing the directive concerning unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices in the internal market.
The idea of creating a blacklist of unfair commercial practices, not only for business-to-consumer relations but also for business-to-business relations, is laudable.
The first is that the European legislation on these issues is presented as a directive, in other words the Member States are relatively free in the resources they implement to achieve the objectives assigned to them.
The rapporteur's wish for uniformity, both in the substance and in the form of national legislation, will remain a wish unless there is unacceptable interference by the European Union in the legal and administrative systems of the Member States, with no real benefit to consumers.
The main objective of this legislation should not be to exist per se but to protect consumers and companies.
In 2007 the European Commission used for the first time the 'EU Sweep' as a tool to check and enforce the implementation of consumer protection legislation as regards airline websites.
in writing. - The EU has made significant progress in improving consumers' rights.
It is important for customers who have been ripped off to be able to file a compensation claim, otherwise we are just hanging them out to dry.
The most important thing now is whether the national supervisory authorities will actually force unfair businesses to put these rules into practice.
The extension of consumer rights through the Directive on unfair commercial practices must be backed by the measures required to facilitate the exercise of those rights.
Member States must therefore screen their legal systems and increase the clarity of the transposition process.
It will be particularly important to reaffirm and defend these objectives and principles (as the Portuguese Communist Party (PCP) has consistently done), many of which are not respected by the common fisheries policy (CFP) (even though some are included in it), when the European Commission announces the presentation, next April, of a green paper on the future of the common fisheries policy, indicating a possible reform of this policy by 2012.
Given the objectives and intentions which have been set out by the European Commission and other EU institutions on the future of the fishing industry, this sector in Portugal - which is in deep crisis, the causes of which lie in the onerous policies followed for decades at national and Community level - should be alert to and should mobilise against new and even more onerous measures.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Mr Guerreiro's report.
It is of fundamental importance not to confuse sea or ocean policy with fishing policy: I totally agree with the rapporteur on this score.
If we adopt this approach, we will take a further step towards achieving the goals laid down by the European Union.
We consider that this differentiation - in practice and in principle - between family-based holdings and intensive agro-industry should be present in all decisions.
That is why we voted in favour of the compromise.
The entry into force of this directive will be extremely important in terms of increasing pressure for the urgent amendment of the pesticide risk reduction policy, which in the EU has been characterised by a certain lack of information and inspection of practices and products.
This document is fundamental because it lays down rules on informing and training people who use pesticides and requires the inspection of equipment.
I abstained from voting on the 'pesticides package' to protest against this anti-democratic method of submitting compromises to the European Parliament negotiated in informal trialogues between the Council, the Commission and representatives of the European Parliament, which are based solely on compromises reached in a single parliamentary committee.
The debate was a heated one within our group too.
It is important that this draft gives farmers in the Union the means to protect their crops.
Entire agricultural sectors could be condemned in France and in Europe and the very role of agriculture, which is to feed our citizens with healthy and varied produce, would be threatened.
A linear reduction in the number of products would be insane.
The fact that we are also debating global food security this week is therefore richly ironic.
For these reasons I voted against this proposal.
in writing. - (SV) We have today voted in favour of Mrs Breyer's report on the placing of plant protection products on the market.
Since its first reading in the European Parliament, analyses have shown there to be a risk of the regulation being extremely far-reaching and inflexible, and it may make the commercial-scale cultivation of common crops (carrots and onions, for example) impossible in Sweden.
The compromise that has finally been reached in the European Parliament represents a climbdown from the maximalist proposals that were made on the elimination of active substances, particularly from the negative implications that these proposals would have had with regard to insecticides and pesticides.
This is not the position taken by farmers in other Member States.
The regulation has a triple legal basis (agriculture, internal market and public health) which, in my opinion, is very positive.
The planned regulations are a step in the right direction, which is why I voted for them, but far more is needed.
The European Union has always placed particular emphasis on topics relating to the environment and this regulation is another strategy designed to achieve this aim.
in writing. - I have decided to vote against this report for two reasons.
Derogation options were expressly created for 12 substances.
in writing. - I was disappointed to see the common position amended.
in writing. - The continued lack of a thorough impact assessment means that the EPLP is unable to support the compromise package negotiated between the Council and the European Parliament rapporteur, as there is no clear indication of its impact on food production.
It is a very difficult vote.
We cannot vote in favour of this legislation.
However, with these texts, the EU will have the most rigorous legislation in the fight against toxic pesticides.
These are formed of collective investment schemes, which, having obtained an authorisation in a Member State, are able to use this 'passport' across the Union without the need for further examination.
This proposal allows for the cross-border management of funds without the current requisite for fully functioning management companies being set up.
It is actually quite interesting that the report recognises that the analysis of the public financial situation in 2007 and the first part of 2008 'clearly shows a change in the economic trend and the looming prospect of a slowdown in the economy and growth, coupled with a continued lower rate of inflation and increasing income disparities'.
That is why we have voted against.
in writing. - We welcome some of the positive elements of this report, and in particular the recognition of the need to spread the tax burden more fairly, the importance of public expenditure and sound economic governance.
