Credit Rating Agencies - Reporting and documentation requirements in the case of merger and divisions - Insurance and reinsurance (Solvency II) (recast) (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mr Gauzès, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on Credit Rating Agencies - C6-0397/2008 -, the report by Mrs Weber, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directives 77/91/EEC, 78/855/EEC and 82/891/EEC and Directive 2005/56/EC as regards reporting and documentation requirements in the case of merger and divisions - C6-0330/2008 -, and the report by Mr Skinner, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the amended proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of Insurance and Reinsurance (recast) - C6-0231/2007 -.
The recent conclusions of the G20 have further strengthened this determination.
We knew that, given the current state of the law, there was not much more that could be done, but by acting in this way we have laid the foundations for this future European supervision.
I hope that, in the same spirit, we will be able to adopt the other provisions of this financial package, and in particular the recast of the Directive on the capital requirements of banks, also referred to as Basel II.
Firstly, the reporting obligations in the case of mergers and divisions must be reduced so as to offer Member States and companies greater flexibility in deciding which reports they really need on a case-by-case basis.
We must not forget either that the measures stipulated by the directives currently in force on providing information to shareholders were thought up 30 years ago and have never been adapted for the current technological options available.
On 7 April COREPER reached an agreement on the entire compromise package negotiated with Parliament with the aim of adopting a directive on mergers and divisions at first reading.
Member States will also have the opportunity to decide what the consequences will be in the event of temporary disruption to Internet access as a result of technical problems.
Based on applying these simplified procedures alone, it is estimated that savings of around EUR 154 million will be made every year, which makes it worth us adopting this directive at first reading.
rapporteur. - Madam President, you caught me slightly unawares as I had not seen the complete change of the timetable today, but I am very grateful for the chance to address the Chamber about a very important issue of the financial services industry, that is, the insurance and reinsurance industry, what we have done with the Solvency II report and how we have finally brought this now to Parliament in order to be able to establish what I think will be a very concrete basis for regulation across the European Union.
Unfortunately we will not have the kind of group support that we initially envisaged that we should, but because we are able to insert a review clause in this directive, we will be able to come back to group support and, three years after the introduction of this particular directive, I am hoping - and I expect the Commissioner to tell me that he will anticipate doing this as well - to be able to bring back group support in one way or another, specifically to match the economic side of this particular approach.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, today's debate takes place at a time when we are facing the greatest challenge to the European economy in modern times.
The Commission is ready to put concrete measures on the table in the autumn.
The EU initiative to agree a coordinated global response to the financial crisis has been very successful.
The situation in the EU financial sector is serious.
Let me now turn to Solvency II.
As confirmed recently by CEIOPS in their report on lessons learned from the financial crisis, we need Solvency II more than ever as a first response to the present financial crisis.
We need regulation that requires companies to properly manage their risks, that increases transparency and that ensures that supervisory authorities cooperate and coordinate their activities more effectively.
Thanks to the efficient work of the rapporteur, Ms Weber, it has been possible to identify a compromise on simplified reporting and documentation requirements, in the case of mergers and divisions of public limited liability companies which will maintain a very significant part of the savings potential of the original Commission proposal, which amounts to EUR 172 million per year.
At the same time, small businesses are the backbone of our European economy, and they are currently facing very difficult economic times.
In its resolution of 12 December 2007, the European Parliament welcomed the Commission's determination to reach the goal of a 25% reduction in administrative burdens on undertakings at EU and national level by 2012 and underlined that it would examine legislative proposals in this light.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - Madam President, I do not want to aim this at anybody in particular.
I think that Solvency II, regulation and CRAs are all very relevant and very important, but we need to build a fire station as well as douse the flames.
The Czech Presidency is a great disappointment, and the President of the Czech Republic in particular is a great disappointment.
I would say to you that if the Czech Presidency, or its successors, is not capable of doing the job, then it shows that we really do need Lisbon: we really do need somebody on a more permanent basis to give leadership to the European Union.
It is time for action and for leadership, and we are not getting that action or leadership, and that is an issue that needs to be raised here this morning.
The European Union and its institutions, together with countries like China, could do much more.
In both the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs I looked at what happens to the movement of capital at times of group stress, such as near-insolvency, and it is certainly not as straightforward as the Commission draft or insurance industry representatives portrayed.
Turning now to some of the things in the package, changes to Article 27 specified that supervisory authorities must have relevant expertise and capacity.
I made the original amendment in part with the report on Equitable Life in mind, but in the context of the financial crisis it has a wider resonance and I have achieved similar inclusions in the capital requirements and credit-rating proposals.
I believe we can say that it represents significant progress towards rendering the European insurance industry workable in future, even in times of crisis.
We have also discussed another issue that is crucial, since there are 500 million consumers in the European Union, who are also all insured persons, with 'equity risk'.
The important thing is that we can say that the European Union has sent out a signal in this regard that Europe is on the move, that it is capable of action.
Credit rating agencies from countries outside the European Union will have the opportunity to approach the European market and operate here by means of an equivalence regime involving certification - which is important for small agencies - or by means of the endorsement system - which can be used by large agencies.
The Committee of European Securities Regulators (CESR) will play a crucial role in the registration and supervision of credit rating agencies.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis is far from over, although membership of the euro zone has given Europe a certain stability.
That being said, it combines with the financial cycle, that is to say that, when the cycle is going well, we take risks, but when it is no longer going well, we tell ourselves that it might be wise to regulate things slightly.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like public security, justice or environmental protection, stability of the financial markets is a public asset and, as such, should be under public scrutiny.
Time will tell whether Member States' supervisory authorities have sufficient capacity to understand these models.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, I have spent 40 years in financial services, so I think perhaps I know a little bit about what I am talking about here.
Let me just say a little about the UK Financial Services Authority (FSA), which will guide us onto the target of how mistakes are made.
I have written to Commissioner McCreevy on this subject and it drives a coach and horses through Articles 6 and 7 of his own Human Rights Act.
We need to work hard to achieve a group system that will work for and in a truly European single market for insurance, which is also effective with third countries - we cannot have any more AIG fiascos.
I would also like to compliment rapporteur Gauzès and the Council on reaching a reasonable conclusion to the regulation of credit rating agencies.
In the end, the determination of the negotiators will have enabled us to reach a compromise which, I believe, has at least two virtues: firstly, it forces the insurance sector to assess its risks better, a process which, until now, still involved relatively old mechanisms that were without doubt unsuitable for the reality of what the insurance sector had become; and, secondly, it emphasises the need for supervision mechanisms to adapt to what insurance companies have become, in terms of both their multitude of consumer-focused products and offers, and their transnational set-up.
The first is obviously taking on board the conclusions of the de Larosière report and the need to ensure that equality and harmonious conditions exist among the various colleges of supervisors, and, to this end, the need to strengthen the European authority responsible for monitoring insurance companies.
Of course we would have preferred to have had group support, but what is unclear about the fact that it is difficult today for countries in which 80% or 100% of the insurance sector is in the hands of foreign companies, without any solid legal basis, to accept this mechanism?
The fifth point concerns the marketing of insurance products and the guarantee that the way in which insurance intermediaries offer products to the insured makes it possible to accommodate their interests and protection requirements.
On that basis, I hope that, in future, we will be able to learn from the lessons of this crisis in order to guarantee European citizens an insurance sector that represents for them a real guarantee of ... (The President cut off the speaker) (FR) Madam President, our rapporteurs are not to blame, but I do believe that the Commission's proposals have come rather late in the day and are no match for what has taken place.
Lastly, as regards tax havens, some very simple measures must be taken.
However, I do believe that we need to go further, and I should like here to suggest two courses of action.
This political gesture would probably be as powerful as the reunification of Germany was in its day, and it would show the solidarity that exists within Europe and would increase the influence of our Union.
Finally, the second is that we must progress towards economic, budgetary and monetary integration, and towards tax harmonisation, which is the only way to combat fiscal dumping in Europe.
They are still waiting for Europe to offer proper support to our SMEs, to genuinely plan investments for the future and, above all, to support all those in Europe who are affected by the crisis.
This, in my view, is where the urgency lies and this is what Europe's leaders will be judged on in the future. (PL) Madam President, the introduction of Solvency II and of the change to the system for conducting and supervision of insurance activities which had been in preparation for the last few years is a move of great importance, especially in a time of financial crisis.
When we encourage people to be mobile, we must ensure that those who change their country of employment and their pension system can be sure that their social insurance contributions are deducted in the right way and are credited to the right accounts, and that the security of their future pension will rise as a result of Community solutions in the area of principles of investment and supervision of pension funds.
Madam President, the Global Financial Stability Report of the IMF estimates that the financial crisis will cost USD 4 billion.
The fact is that the EU response to the financial crisis has been sluggish and minimalist.
Allow me to summarise the causes in 50 seconds.
People depositing money in banks know that there are deposit guarantees.
No, we are not! (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and financial crisis, the most severe since the Second World War, has a global impact.
The actions of the European Union have been a success, but we are still far from finished and far from achieving our objective.
The international financial crisis did not start on the islands.
Nevertheless the G20 found ideal culprits: tax havens, whether real or not.
As far back as in 2000, I recommended, in my report for Parliament on the reform of the international architecture, eliminating all the black holes in international finance, starting with hedge funds and the other purely speculative funds.
All pigs are equal, but some pigs are more equal than others. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is right to criticise and to point out delays, but it is also right and opportune to say that today we are taking a step forward, and that in the face of this dreadful crisis, which has rocked the world's economies, the European institutions are introducing specific legislative measures in key sectors such as rating agencies and insurance.
The principles of economic assessment and capital requirements, corresponding to the risks actually taken by companies, as well as risk management incentives, harmonisation, report supervision, public information and transparency are all essential aspects to making the insurance sector more competitive and strengthening protection for the insured.
However, the citizens will send a message to those who created the crisis and, with it, the inequalities. (NL) Now that the central banks of Europe and the United States have predicted the first signs of economic recovery, it is important not to waver in the implementation of guidelines to prevent a repeat scenario.
In addition, we must resolve the issue of capital - of securitisation, for example - by the end of May, and also find a speedy solution with regard to European supervisory structures and the de Larosière report in general.
The same scenario unfolded in the case of Solvency II.
The directives that are being discussed today are important and, in my opinion, balanced.
We must also combat protectionism and, in my view, support free trade.
However, we must take care not to over-regulate, which is a risk in the current mood.
Let us not forget that the market economy creates prosperity. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, at the beginning of the month we were told that all remedial measures against the financial crisis have been taken.
President Obama said that the recent G20 summit will be a turning point in the pursuit of global economic recovery.
The fundamental question is, therefore, where did that trillion come from?
Since there will now be a recovery - and here I direct my request to Mr Barroso and Mr Topolánek - perhaps the leaders will hold another meeting and add another trillion, so that we will have a kind of 'turbo-recovery'. (EL) Madam President, there can be no doubt that in Europe we are today suffering the consequences of an anarchic, eccentric American/Anglo-Saxon model of organising the financial markets, which learned how to function without rules, without supervision and without democratic accountability and which, of course, polluted the global and European economy.
With the texts which we are debating today and will vote on tomorrow, we are building a protective shield here in Europe for the citizens.
We need to examine and correct all this from the beginning: nothing will remain the same in the European Union after the current crisis. (ES) Madam President, I refer solely to the report by Mrs Weber on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directives 77/91/EEC, 78/855/EEC, 82/891/EEC and Directive 2005/56/EC as regards reporting and documentation requirements in the case of mergers and divisions.
Even though the G20 outcomes are steps in the right direction, they are still too modest and far from having a proper, global, convention-based regulation, both on funds and different financial instruments, and on regulation.
Secondly, when it comes to the de Larosière report and our own actions, I think that the outcome of de Larosière was rather good, especially when it comes to supervising and analysing the systematic risk at European level.
So, if we really want to be effective at this level globally, we will have to do our homework properly, and I would really like to see a better and more ambitious approach from the Commission in this field. (ES) Madam President, the package of measures on credit rating agencies, insurance and company mergers and divisions is a first step in boosting the confidence and efficiency of the financial markets.
These reports are in analytical tune with the Lamfalussy follow-up report of Parliament.
Nevertheless, I should also like to point out that the second package - which, of course, is still being prepared by the Commission at the moment - will unfortunately be too late for this parliamentary term.
The socialist UK Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, refused to acknowledge certain realities for a long time.
They have taken guarantees, they have debts, they have equity stakes, and that is why I wonder whether the European Union ought not to propose, as part of the new global regulation of capitalism, the creation of a global public state rating agency, an independent body that would come under the International Monetary Fund and would enable citizens to have an idea, via these ratings, of the quality of the finance of states, which, I repeat, have become key financial players. (DE) Madam President, three brief points are important in my eyes.
Ratings are not mandatory, so EU firms are not obliged to invest in rated products.
But let me stress that, for regulatory purposes - that is, calculation of capital requirements - the ratings that can be used are those either issued in the EU for both EU and third-country products, or endorsed or recognised as equivalent in the European Union.
Although I am disappointed with certain aspects of the agreement on Solvency II, as I outlined earlier, the EU will have a framework for the insurance industry which could serve as a model for similar reforms internationally.
Much work remains to be done: implementing measures will need to be in place some time before October 2012 in order to give Member States and the industry some time to prepare for the introduction of Solvency II.
I can assure you that the Commission will play its role in order to facilitate this process and put these long, overdue reforms into practice as soon as possible in the interests of all the parties involved.
Finally, with the simplified reporting and documentation requirements in the cases of mergers and divisions of public limited liability companies, the agenda on the administrative burden reduction is advancing, and this will contribute to the potential for growth and help Europe on the way to economic recovery.
rapporteur. - Madam President, it was quite interesting listening to all the speeches this morning in Parliament at a time not only when we are living through the toughest financial and economic crisis, but also when the European elections are approaching.
If we want to be more efficient, it is better to put our energy into being constructive, and I think it is fair to say that what happened with the package we discussed today is proof of this.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I would like to start by saying what I should perhaps have said first of all, which is a thank you to all the services of the Commission, the Council, and particularly the Parliament, for the work that they put into this.
Like many around the room, we are quite astounded by the level of technical detail that goes into many of these reports, but let us say about Solvency II that it was forged outside a crisis to face a crisis.
Just this weekend I met with Paul Kanjorski, Chair of the Subcommittee on Finance in the US Congress, and others, who are now talking about accelerating the prospects for a single regulator at a federal level in the United States.
It they do that before we do it in Europe, we could be severely embarrassed by not having the regulator we need at a European level.
This is a report which is at a global level and a global measure, a process about which we could all feel proud, but we also need to make sure that we continue to push for the changes on the issues thrown up by the de Larosière report and also on group support which will bring about economic efficiency.
The vote on the report (Α6-0191/2009) by Mr JeanPaul Gauzès will take place on Thursday, 23 April 2009.
During a period of deep economic crisis like the one we are just going through at the moment, rating agencies should remain, regardless of the economic conditions, transparent and credible instruments, providing support as Europe steers through these troubled times.
We must think about protection for the investors and their confidence in rating agencies.
