We have simply confirmed, in accordance with our rules, that Rule 19 of our Rules of Procedure already gives the President of Parliament the right to bring an end to successive uses of points of order, procedural motions etc., 'where the President is convinced that these are manifestly intended to cause and will result in a prolonged and serious obstruction of the procedures of the House or the rights of other Members'.
At the same time we are electronically registering a change in our vote to the counter-proposal. - (PL) Mr President, the same question: we here, in a group of several Members, voted against our own convictions; we should in fact have voted against this amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which is a distinctly non-democratic amendment; here in the heart of democratic Europe a rule is being introduced which hands absolute power to the President of Parliament.
This concerns Bogdan Pęk, Dariusz Grabowski and Andrzej Zapałowski. - (PL) Mr President, as the previous speaker said, I too am asking for my vote on the Rules of Procedure to be changed.
It is very difficult to get speaking time for those Members that might express a minority view in a big group.
Mr President, I am sorry.
We were discussing democracy: a very important concept that I am sure we all support in this House, even though we do not always act that way.
Furthermore, the Directive does not prevent the Member States from maintaining a number of exceptional measures, for example free postal services for partially sighted persons, although today Parliament rejected a specific article in this regard.
The advent of new electronic means of communications is having a fundamental influence on changes to the structure of the demand for postal services; liberalisation will thus lead to a better, and in particular more flexible, response to a wider range of services for postal items.
However, I believe that these people will hear the 321 voices of those Members who voted for this amended Directive with their hearts.
Since the Directive was adopted at second reading, I believe that the Member States will, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, solve this problem to the satisfaction of people who are blind or partially sighted.
Rural services will be decimated in places like Staverton, Hellidon, Brington and Harlestone, and Milton Malsor in my constituency.
That is why in our development policy we must strive to achieve more efficient tools and provide help to developing countries in such a way that will enable them to adjust to the impact of climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
That said, I very much regret that the European Commission as well as many governments of the Member States are guilty of neglecting energy-saving measures and continuously underestimating their strategic importance and the need to make them a political priority. (CS) Mr Chairman, I welcome the report on the Action Plan for Energy Efficiency.
If you are ever in London, you are most welcome to drop in for a cup of tea.
But what I would like to say is that, whatever one feels about climate change, I think we can all be in favour of the need for energy efficiency.
I think limiting their choice in this matter is a retrograde step.
We are not being wise enough or clever enough in this policy, and we should just get rid of it. (SK) Mr Chairman, the 12 million Roma people who are scattered all over Europe also have a place in our current multicultural society.
The amendments tabled by Mrs Angelilli were justified.
They must also be encouraged to face up to their own responsibilities. (CS) (The beginning of the speech was inaudible) Each Member State faces issues concerning the Roma community that cannot be solved quickly.
That is why I do not like the fact that the resolution, which is an articulate document but only general in nature, mentions only one concrete example: the Czech Republic, and more precisely the concentration camp in Lety.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - The way the Parliament conducts votes is sloppy, and this ruling will make it worse.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by my British fellow Member Michael Cashman at first reading according to the codecision procedure, on the simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on the unilateral recognition by Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Cyprus, Latvia, Hungary, Malta, Poland, Romania, Slovenia and Slovakia of certain documents as equivalent to their national visas for the purposes of transit through their territories.
I approve the amendments by the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs aimed at taking into account the new situation that exists in the Schengen area and the fact that, as of 21 December 2007, many of the countries at which the measure was directed are members of the Schengen area with no internal borders.
However, it is important that, beyond the physical and geographical sphere, we make more effort in the political and economic fields.
In many areas, the 27 Member States still have different set-ups today; in some cases, they are very far apart: in too many areas there is not even basic synergy and the picture that emerges from this is completely fragmented.
I would also like to point out that this report is a form of response to the enlargement of the Schengen area, which facilitates the transit of individuals from third countries within the EU.
In this respect I am categorically in favour of Michael Cashman's report.
The aim of this initiative is for Cyprus and the two countries that joined the EU in 2007 - Romania and Bulgaria - to be able to introduce a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders, based on the unilateral equivalence of visas and residence permits.
I firmly support this simplified regime since third country nationals holding a visa issued by another Member State who would benefit from this system, have already been subject to a strict screening process in that Member State and were not considered a threat to public order or a risk in terms of illegal immigration.
For the nine countries that joined the EU in 2004 and became fully integrated into the Schengen area from 21 December 2007, mutual recognition of these documents became mandatory at the end of the transitional period.
And many of our new Member States are regarded as transit countries, from which people can converge on Western Europe.
For this reason I too have voted in favour of the Cashman report.
I voted against this report.
I have already expressed my fundamental reservations about the Schengen system time and again in the past, and so cannot accept today the principle of mutual recognition contained in the report.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by my excellent Cypriot colleague Panayiotis Demetriou, at first reading under the codecision procedure, on amending the 2006 decision establishing a simplified regime for the control of persons at the external borders based on the unilateral recognition by the Member States of certain residence permits issued by Switzerland and Liechtenstein for the purpose of transit through their territory.
in writing. - (PT) As we have pointed out, the measures and agreements that facilitate the movement of citizens from different countries should be based on principles of balance and mutual advantages for the various parties concerned.
These agreements should help to resolve many limitations and problems facing Portuguese workers in Switzerland, for example, with regard to changes of job or profession, family reunification, relocation to another canton, or the social protection of workers and their families.
In this sense, and in general, these agreements should be part of a broader framework that also aims to promote the rights of immigrant workers and protect them against the appalling phenomenon of exploitation.
in writing. - (PT) This proposal by the European Commission aims to improve and simplify the relevant legislation which dates back 10 years.
Over the past decade, aquaculture has been the fastest growing sector of the agri-food industry and European aquaculture currently provides more than 80 000 jobs.
The growing importance of the sector, in both economic and social terms, warrants an improvement in the information made available.
in writing. - (PT) The rise, especially in the past decade, of terrorist threats and attacks, along with their devastating consequences, has led to a pressing need to introduce the necessary measures and instruments to face up to this scourge.
I therefore support this Decision that aims to establish the necessary legal framework, simplifying such cooperation and allowing Member States to respond more quickly in crisis situations or terrorist attacks, while ensuring that the affected Member State receives the highest possible level of help.
in writing. - (FR) This text, on the initiative of Austria, provides for the possibility of a Member State asking for the assistance of a special intervention unit of another Member State to control a crisis situation (hostage taking, hijacking, etc.).
in writing. - (SV) I voted against the report because I am uneasy over what it will mean for the future.
in writing. - (FR) The text before us is attempting to give a legal framework to operations carried out by special intervention units of one Member State sent to the territory of another, in the event of a terrorist attack.
in writing. - (SV) We voted for the report because it is based on voluntary action and cooperation such as can only be brought about by a reciprocal agreement between two Member States.
The perception of research as a sort of panacea to solve all economic and social problems therefore needs to be corrected, and more needs to be invested in research.
Some steps taken at the Lisbon European Council in 2000 were a reaction to the concerns about Europe's underinvestment in the knowledge economy, and this was further reinforced at the Barcelona European Council in 2002, where the EU set itself the objective of reaching an R&amp;D intensity of 3 per cent by 2010.
However, the growth in its R&amp;D spending since 2000 has been insufficient, averaging only 1.84%, partly borne by industry.
I fully support the report on the European Research Area, which outlines new prospects for research and development in the European Union.
A good and effective system of scientific research management at European level is therefore essential.
Moreover, if we want Europe to rise to the new challenges, especially those of economic competition and environmental protection, we must appeal to Member States; we must in fact orient them towards a regular increase in expenditure on scientific research.
in writing. - (SK) The Commission has presented us with the Green Paper on the European Research Area at a time when Europe faces an unending transatlantic drain of investment and qualified researchers.
The Member States should become more involved in the process of creating better working conditions for researchers and adopt measures that would allow them to reconcile their professional and family lives.
The regions are equally important in promoting and ensuring more efficient ways of funding research, in accordance with the commitments made in the Operational Programmes.
In the Green Paper 'The European Research Area: New Perspectives', the Commission offers an analysis and solutions and it also highlights the importance of creating a knowledge-based society.
The European Research Area gives the research institutes, universities and scientists of the 27 EU countries the opportunity to cooperate.
Opening up the European Union towards the East means significant enlargement of the European Research Area and offers approximately 150 000 researchers new opportunities to improve their scientific and technical potential.
in writing. - (PT) The idea that research, development and innovation are fundamental to competitiveness is not new and is still current.
Aside from differences of opinion over the need to direct efforts towards innovation or towards more academic research, it is clear that Europe needs to improve its investment in knowledge and the practical application of that knowledge.
And while it is true that time is against us, it is also true that it is better to spend time selecting the right options than to take hurried and ineffective decisions.
in writing. - (EL) We oppose the reactionary restructuring of the field of research that is being promoted in the EU's basic guidelines for the creation of a European Research Area (ERA) within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the adoption at second reading of the Council common position amending the Postal Directive of 1997 and aimed at full accomplishment of the internal market of postal services, and I congratulate my excellent German colleague Markus Ferber for the immense job he has done.
I am delighted that the Council has accepted all the major elements of the European Parliament's position, particularly the postponement of the deadline for market opening to 31 December 2010 with a two-year extension for Member States that joined the EU from 2004; the universal service with at least one delivery and collection five days a week for every EU citizen, with the maintenance of a sufficient number of access points in rural, remote or sparsely populated regions; and respect for subsidiarity in social considerations, on the subject of which I hope the social partners work at European level.
Finally, I hope that operators will quickly agree on the introduction of a European stamp for 50 gram letters and I will soon be taking a political initiative on this matter.
in writing. - (FR) Despite the improvements made to the Commission's original text and the compromise put forward by the European Parliament aimed notably at postponing the total liberalisation of the postal market to 31 December 2010, the text retabled at second reading by the Council is still not satisfactory.
in writing. - (SV) I take the view that the Member States should decide for themselves whether they want to deregulate their national postal monopolies.
I have therefore voted in favour of Amendment 10, which rejects the common position of the Council.
in writing. - (PT) We regret the non-adoption of our proposal to reject this Directive aimed at full liberalisation of postal services, thereby creating a 'market' at EU level.
I therefore believe that the European Commission has a major role to play here, its task being to monitor the proper introduction of the directive's provisions.
in writing. - I supported amendments which would have obliged Member States to guarantee the financing of universal postal services.
I also supported amendments tabled by my Group calling for the strengthening of obligations to finance the provision of free postal services to blind and partially-sighted persons.
The fact that the Ferber report was approved unamended in these respects may lead to concern that further erosion of postal service provision could occur.
in writing. - (SV) I support the Swedish deregulation of the postal market, but I oppose the notion that the EU institutions should decide whether the various postal monopolies are to be abolished or not.
I consider that the Member States should be left to decide for themselves whether they want to deregulate their national postal monopolies.
I have therefore voted in favour of Amendment 10, which rejects the common position of the Council.
With the effective abolition of the principle of 'universal service', public access to high-quality, inexpensive postal services will be limited.
Because the relevant amendments were not adopted, I can only lament this drift towards uncontrolled liberalisation that fails to respect the fundamental right of European citizens to a public postal service.
I would repeat that there is no reason to prevent such a service from continuing, as it is fundamental to territorial and social cohesion and for supporting populations living in deserted areas or more remote and inaccessible territories.
in writing. - (EL) The Council's common position on postal services, which is submitted by the European Parliament for approval, will result in the complete liberalisation of the 'market in postal services' with effect from 31 December 2010.
The postal services are being transformed from a public good into a commodity.
in writing. - (SV) The European Parliament has today voted for the compromise with the Council under which Europe's postal market is to be liberalised by the end of December 2010 at the latest (except for those countries with a particularly difficult topography, which are to be given a further two years).
in writing. - The proposal seeks to create a European single market in postal services.
The reluctance of the Council to include a clear commitment to providing a free postal service for the blind and visually impaired in the proposal led me to vote in favour of making such a commitment more robust.
In general, I am satisfied that the proposal sufficiently attends to the other issues and welcome the guarantee that letters will be regularly collected and delivered in remote areas and cities.
in writing. - (IT) The 'nuclear' issue in Iran should be marked by a diplomatic approach aimed at 'normalising' relations.
Nonetheless, it is right that we should commit ourselves to reaching a negotiation situation that persuades Iran to give up the option of military use, in a multilateral perspective of nuclear disarmament, to guarantee a state of calm and international peace.
On the other hand, I cannot fail to express a certain amount of concern about the current human rights situation in Iran, where we are witnessing a fresh upsurge in repression of freedom of opinion and of the rights of minorities and women, where order is kept through a harsh and inhuman judicial and prison system that all too often uses capital punishment, torture and stoning.
in writing. - (FR) The resolution voted on today concerning Iran has definite political importance.
This text deals both with the nuclear issue and with the human rights situation.
Meanwhile, I am much more worried about Islamist threats on our own continent, which, far from being hypothetical, have already demonstrated their murderous capacity in London and Madrid, without the involvement of Iran.
There is no such political initiative on the nuclear weapons programmes of some EU members or the United States - or even the nuclear programmes of Israel, Pakistan or India, countries that have not signed the NPT but do have nuclear weapons - the United States already having stated that it could use them offensively.
in writing. - I support the recommendations made in the resolution.
However, as regards the PMOI, I voted against the amendments referring to the group in the text.
in writing. - (EL) The opinions of Javier Solana and of EU representatives and supporting parties have put paid to any illusions about the EU's position with regard to Iran and the Middle East generally.
Furthermore, Javier Solana has clearly linked the situation in Lebanon and the wider area with the issue of nuclear weapons - without, however, making any reference to Israel's nuclear weapons.
Those who are in a position to decide on issues of human rights and their violation are the citizens of each country; they should not allow themselves to become an excuse for another Iraq.
The EU (and some Member States) have been treating the Iranian resistance in a way that benefits the Iranian regime and neither the Iranian people nor the democratisation objectives for that part of the world.
That strategy has to change - and it is beginning to change.
I hope that Copenhagen in 2009 signals the turning point in the fight against climate change with the acceptance of stringent targets for reduction by 2020 by all industrialised and developing countries.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the outcome of the Bali Conference on Climate Change (COP 13 and COP/MOP 3) because, in view of the urgency of reducing global warming, I believe that the agreement reached in Bali was an important step forward so that in 2009, in Copenhagen, a new protocol can be drawn up and approved, with new targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Hence our abstention.
We know that this measurement is very complex and can be manipulated, since fossil fuels, after extraction, are transported and processed, and their by-products distributed and used in many ways, at thousands of end points.
Finally, I believe that the major innovation at Bali was the inclusion, for the first time, of the issue of deforestation which, as part of the Bali Action Plan, will be discussed with a view to its inclusion in the future Protocol.
I am voting in favour of the resolution of the Temporary Committee on Climate Change since it supports the outcome achieved in Bali, makes a number of observations on the role of the EU in future negotiations, with which I agree, and specifies where the Bali Action Plan could have gone further.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report.
The Thirteenth Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, held in Bali from 3 to 15 December, was supposed to set out a schedule for the next two years and reach an agreement extending the Kyoto Protocol, which expires in 2012.
It is most regrettable that the international community was not able to agree on a target figure for the stabilisation then reduction in global greenhouse gas emissions of at least 20% from their 1990 level by 2020.
The European Union should strengthen the constructive and proactive role it was able to play in Bali so as not to provide the countries that reject all targets with an excuse to refuse to act.
Although the Bali agreement, which was signed by all the countries present, should be welcomed, we should not give way to a new set of environmental platitudes.
in writing. - (EL) The Bali Conference resolution on climate change is seeking to find positive signs where there are none.
The resolution calls for serious commitment from the emerging nations, in accordance with their development stage and the composition of their economies.
In a nutshell, climate change at the Bali conference was mere window-dressing.
in writing. - I fully support the resolution's assessment of the outcome of the Bali Summit negotiations.
I voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - (DE) It is important that the link between deforestation and climate change is explicitly highlighted in the resolution adopted.
In addition, production is also aggravating the social situation in the countries concerned owing to the massive increase in the price of staple foods.
I am therefore against the Commission's proposal as part of the climate and energy package to fix a binding target of 10% for biofuels by 2020, because this contributes nothing to climate protection and is a far cry from a sustainable policy.
in writing. - (SV) There must be a drastic reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases in the years ahead.
The targets being set can be summed up in the expression 20-20-20, which means that emissions must come down by 20%, that the use of renewable energy sources must increase by 20% and that these aims must be achieved by the year 2020.
However, I think that the emphasis should be on reducing emissions and that it must then be left to each Member State to decide how this aim is to be achieved.
In so far as it may be appropriate to issue any such specification, it is regrettable that nuclear energy is not included under the heading of renewable energy sources.
in writing. - (SV) We have voted for the resolution on the grounds of its general focus, but we do not support all the points of technical detail or the ambitions to regulate by political decisions what products may be manufactured or sold - such things as patio heaters, for example.
However, we have reservations about certain aspects of the proposal where the rapporteur seems to have lost a sense of proportion.
in writing. - I support the general principle of this report as an Action Plan for Energy Efficiency.
in writing. - (SV) Research results indicate that emissions of greenhouse gases caused by man are contributing to rapid climate change.
We therefore support the main conclusion that all countries must take comprehensive measures to reduce these emissions and that the EU countries must take the lead.
At the same time we object to the tendency of both the Commission and Parliament's rapporteurs always to exploit great challenges in order to centralise political power and create an EU without freedom and dynamism.
We have voted 'no' in order thereby to encourage a rethink of the EU's energy policy.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of this report, which falls in with the conclusions of the European Council in March 2007 on energy efficiency, which underlined the need to improve energy efficiency in the EU to achieve the objective of saving 20% of the EU's energy consumption compared to forecasts for 2020.
I welcome the measures aimed at improving the energy performance of products, buildings and services, improving the efficiency of energy production and distribution, reducing the impact of transport on energy consumption, facilitating finance and investment in the field, to encourage and reinforce sensible behaviour with respect to energy consumption.
The action plan will also have the effect of strengthening industrial competitiveness and developing exports of new technologies, and will have positive effects on employment.
in writing. - I have voted in support of the report, which is on the whole excellent.
However paragraph 16 which 'Urges the Commission to establish timetables for the withdrawal from the market of all the least energy-efficient items of equipment, appliances and other energy-using products, such as patio heaters', would have been better without singling out one particular piece of equipment for a 'ban', since it is only one among many that raise concerns over energy wastage and it is one that many people enjoy using, not least in an urban social context like my own London constituency.
I welcome this proposal by Mrs Hall, and the fact that the transition is being made at long last from abstract theories to concrete proposals in order to increase energy efficiency in the European Union.
I am pleased that this report retains the target of a 20% improvement in energy efficiency by 2020.
I do not endorse section 16 of the report, which calls for the withdrawal from the market of the least energy-efficient appliances.
The VVD Group in the European Parliament takes the view that, in the context of the fight against climate change, it would be strange if we did not also look at how to make patio heaters more efficient.
in writing. - The action plan delivers the most cost-effective tools to fight against climate change.
Indeed, I welcome the plan and feel that the target of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 is feasible both technically and economically.
The plan is a step in the right direction and I voted in favour of it, though this should be seen as a first step and more ambitious targets should follow.
in writing. - (DE) Energy-saving measures and greater energy efficiency are desirable for environmental and economic considerations.
I therefore voted in favour of the Hall report, but hope that we are more successful here than with the reduction in energy consumption that we are aiming for by 2020, or with the agreed increase in the proportion of renewable forms of energy - both noble intentions, which we shall probably not be able to sustain as things currently stand.
in writing. - (SV) Fiona Hall's report concerns an extremely important subject.
Paragraph 61 dispenses sound sense on this point: the fight must begin at home.
For the sake of our credibility the European Parliament should therefore set a good example in its own activity.
Altogether the trips to Strasbourg, where Parliament holds its votes, result in 18 901 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions per year.
in writing. - I support a ban on discards which is in line with my party's policy on sensible rules for commercial fishing.
in writing. - (PT) Discards (throwing dead or dying fish overboard) and by-catches are a serious problem to be solved in the context of the CFP.
in writing. - (PT) It is of course desirable and necessary to reduce unwanted by-catches and discards, but it should not be done by legislation.
in writing. - I support the call for a ban on discards, in line with my party's policy, but I am unable to vote for the resolution as a whole as it includes the establishment of instruments at EU level.
in writing. - (EL) It seems reasonable that measures should be taken to avoid discards so as to protect fish stocks.
If a fishing company estimates that it will not make a profit or, more likely, that the price of certain catches will drop because of plentiful supply, then we can explain why catches are discarded, although there are other reasons as well.
Today, the European Parliament voted on the report on a policy to reduce unwanted by-catches and eliminate discards.
The MEPs from the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) and the European People's Party (PPE) voted in favour of the final report, as it contains a number of positive points.
This is important in the case of juvenile sole, as this species has a very high survival rate.
in writing. - I support the call for a ban on discards, in line with my party's policy, but I am unable to vote for the resolution as a whole as it includes the establishment of instruments at EU level.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues completely and unreservedly condemn all forms of racism and xenophobia and fully support the Roma people in their fight against the discrimination which they face.
Nevertheless, this should occur within the mainstream of political policy within each Member State.
We are unable to support this resolution because it increases the possibility of isolating and marginalising the Roma by 'pigeon-holing' them into a separate category and it calls on the Commission to come up with various strategies and action plans which should remain the competence of Member States.
in writing. - (SV) Social exclusion, poverty and discrimination are problems which the Member States must do their utmost to combat.
The Roma minority has been particularly badly affected by these injustices.
in writing. - (SV) We voted in favour of this resolution in the final vote.
We have therefore chosen to vote against the amendments of the UEN Group.
in writing. - (PT) Citizens of Roma origin are often victims of discrimination in the various EU countries; since it can take many different forms - affecting their political, economic, social or cultural rights - it fosters poverty, social exclusion and disintegration.
Hence our abstention.
in writing. - (HU) In April 2005, the European Parliament adopted a resolution to improve the situation of the Roma, in which it called upon the European Commission to prepare a Roma action plan.
I therefore call on my fellow Members to face this European challenge and to initiate a European Roma Strategy together, with our vote.
in writing. - (EL) The Roma are almost invariably victims of racial discrimination.
The non-acceptance of their traditions and culture, and their marginalisation, force them into social exclusion.
Governments must take measures to ensure that the Roma participate as equals in society, and that their cultural traditions are respected.
Immediate measures must be taken to ensure that they have decent living conditions and inalienable rights to employment, a pension, health and medical care, as well as education.
in writing. - The implementation of a strategy on the Roma is something that I am in favour of.
The EU's concern with minorities, including disadvantaged social groups, is also an answer to enlargement including former communist countries with a significant Roma population.
I voted for this resolution because it brings to the attention of the Member States and European institutions the necessity of taking measures for creating an adequate social and political milieu for the social inclusion of the Roma.
