Establishing the European Globalisation adjustment Fund (debate) The next item is the report by Roselyne Bachelot-Narquin, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the European Globalisation adjustment Fund - C6 0082/2006 -.
I should also like to take this opportunity to thank the Finnish Presidency for its hard work in securing the adoption of the EGF proposal at first reading.
There were also significant job losses in the footwear industry, for example in the French region of Pas de Loire and the Hungarian region of Western Transdanubia.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs adopted the report on the draft regulation on Thursday 26 October by a very large majority, and this serves as a basis for the negotiations in trialogue, the aim of which is to obtain an agreement at first reading, such that, as you said, Commissioner, the fund might be operational as from 1 January.
The negotiation in trialogue ended positively on Thursday 30 November, with my agreement and with that of Mr Andersson and Mr Lewandowski, together with that of the draftsman of the opinion, Mr Seppänen, on the budgetary part, where he had access to enhanced cooperation.
I should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive spirit - this report belongs to you, Mr Cottigny, Mr Beaupuy and Mrs Schroedter - as well as the group coordinators.
Our responsibility is indeed to accept the positive aspects of globalisation, but also to take account of its potentially negative effects.
The EGF programme thus has a place in the Lisbon Strategy, in that it helps European competitiveness.
Our objective is well and truly to provide Europe, thanks to the EGF, with a similar instrument to the one that has already existed for 40 years in the United States in the form of the Trade Adjustment Act, which last year helped more than 170 000 US employees, over 70% of whom found a long-term job.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. - (FI) Mr President, we on the Committee on Budgets are particularly interested in how money that has been saved in other areas of expenditure is to be transferred to this fund.
We wanted first to use the known commitment appropriations for the year N minus 2 preceding the drafting of the budget and only then the margins for the year N minus 1.
The economic scourge of unemployment, caused by globalisation-related phenomena, is clearly one such emergency, and, with 19 million people unemployed, solutions must be found.
We could have also opted to convert the ESF, for example, but we did not.
We are now trying to cushion this with EUR 500 million annually, which will not be enough.
I would extend warm thanks to Mrs Bachelot, as well as the Committee on Budgets and my own Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for this.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Špidla, Mrs Bachelot-Narquin, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating our rapporteur, Mrs Bachelot-Narquin, not because it is customary to do so, but because she has been able to put her stamp on this report.
It is true that the delivery has been painful and that, sadly, the case of the Volkswagen-Forest employees, about whom I cannot help but think this evening, has hung in the balance.
It is quite clear that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament was unwilling to accept just any compromise when it came to reaching this agreement at first reading, but we are genuinely satisfied with the results of the trialogue.
Thanks to this agreement at first reading, this Fund will be operational as from 1 January.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Špidla, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being present and, above all, thank you to Mrs Bachelot-Narquin who, as my fellow Member, Mr Cottigny, did such an excellent job of saying just now, has succeeded in uniting the ideas of various parties within Parliament: it is most certainly not the case that she lacks ideas, but the fact of supplementing them with the ideas of various parties has actually enriched the debate.
I should like to thank you too, Mr Špidla, for the participation of the Commission which, acting on the Council's wishes, has proposed a text on which we have been able to work.
I would advise caution: we only have EUR 500 million and, even if we had more, is it up to the European Union to take the place of training bodies, of the State, of the regions, of the local councils and of all the contributors, of which there are many?
Yet we must be aware that globalisation also has some worrying aspects, for certain regions of Europe in particular.
It is about reintegrating workers who, through no fault of their own, have been affected by globalisation, so that they might re-enter the labour market as soon as possible.
I should like to thank everyone for their constructive cooperation. - (LT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate Mrs Bachelot for preparing this complex report.
The Globalisation Fund idea may make sense politically, but the proposed Regulation clearly lacks economic logic.
Therefore, without clear answers to these questions I think it will be hard to vote in favour of this document. (FR) Mr President, Mr Špidla, Mrs Bachelot-Narquin, as my colleague, Mrs Schroedter, has already pointed out, our group has indicated that it agrees with the outcome of the trialogue, and has done so in order to have the Fund implemented as quickly as possible.
As regards the first issue, we need to create the opportunity for improving and maintaining competitiveness within a European framework.
We have managed to improve the original proposal, thanks to Roselyn Bachelot, so that, in its present form, it is already acceptable, even if it is of mainly symbolic significance. (ES) Mr President, like other Members, I shall begin by expressing my satisfaction, though also a degree of caution.
Mr President, Parliament has done a good job and tomorrow I shall vote in favour, like the majority of my fellow Members. (LT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this Parliament, when we are discussing the effects of globalisation, we often hear certain countries expressing pride in having transferred manufacturing processes to third countries with cheap labour costs.
The Regulation suggests that aid be offered when job losses affect 1 000 employees; the EP suggests that in exceptional cases it could also be offered for 500 employees.
EGF aid is paid only once, but it should be tied to the creation of new employment opportunities in an endeavour to reintegrate workers into the employment market. (DE) Mr President, the approach taken by the Globalisation Fund is very much the right one, in that it is intended to act in solidarity with those workers who have lost their jobs as a result of international business relocations, making available temporary income support for the purpose of their further training and reintegration, in order to give them new opportunities for employment.
The people on the receiving end are bound to be bitterly disappointed when the money - which amounts to a maximum of EUR 500 million per annum - runs out; raising high hopes and then dashing them is a sure-fire route to long-term frustration.
However, to be frank, the fund is also about helping certain governments sell the idea of globalisation to their voters.
However, it is important for European workers to know that the Union has finally decided to take account of the job losses that badly managed globalisation can cause in each of our countries, particularly in traditional industrial regions.
I join with those who have congratulated Mrs Bachelot-Narquin and all the draftsmen on their thorough work, and I am delighted that the Fund will be operational as from 1 January 2007.
The Community's job is to provide workers with appropriate, effective support enabling them to access the labour market.
It is simply one weapon in our armoury that is useful and that we have assessed from various points of view.
I feel we can safely say that these criteria have been considered extremely carefully by all those with an interest in work and in the creation of this fund.
I sincerely hope that tomorrow's vote goes successfully and that the regulation can be up and running as of 1 January.
With tomorrow's vote the European Parliament can send out a positive signal to the citizens of Europe.
I thank all speakers in the debate and, in particular, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for its serious work in a difficult and challenging global environment.
The debate is closed.
The case of Volkswagen in Belgium is a perfect example of this.
