Mr President, it may be that President Fontaine was unfamiliar with the British rules of protocol which obtain in such matters, but Mr Miller has no such excuse.
Thirdly, we wished to congratulate President Zedillo on having enabled Mexican institutions to make this change to democracy.
Certainly, Mr Lehne.
Mr President, I am glad to have the opportunity to address the European Parliament concerning the results of my work as European Ombudsman in the year 1999.
The Annual Report for 1999 covers the last year of the first mandate of the European Ombudsman.
Last year the Ombudsman's office received 1,577 new complaints compared to 1,372 in 1998, an increase of nearly 15%.
The number of inquiries opened rose from 171 in 1998 to 206 in 1999, an increase of over 20%.
During the first six months of this year, the number of new inquiries rose by 32% over the same period in 1999.
I do hope that the European Parliament will support the Ombudsman in seeking the resources needed to carry out the work effectively.
The proportion of the complaints outside the mandate even increased slightly, probably because we received a growing number of complaints by e-mail.
However in all, more of the e-mail complaints are directed against authorities of Member States.
I am not sure whether they understood that this would mean the European Ombudsman carrying out tasks currently belonging to the European Commission as the guardian of the Treaty, and to the European Parliament as the democratic forum to which citizens may address petitions.
Of these, we transferred 71 cases to the European Parliament to be dealt with as petitions and advised a further 142 complainants of their rights to petition the European Parliament.
In many cases, complaints against national, regional or local authorities could be dealt with effectively by an Ombudsman in the Member States concerned.
In every Member State there should be a non-judicial body which can assist European citizens in conflicts with Member States' administration concerning their rights under European Union law.
A further seminar is planned to take place in Brussels under the Belgian presidency of the Council in the year 2001 in cooperation with the Commission and with Belgium federal and regional ombudsmen.
The regional Ombudsmen and similar bodies will also be invited to Brussels next year.
The Ombudsmen and similar bodies in the Member States have shown a positive attitude towards cooperation with the European Ombudsman.
These doubts were unjustified because the Community's institutions and bodies have responded properly to the Ombudsman's work.
Since the beginning, they have themselves settled the complaint to the satisfaction of the complainant in over 180 cases.
However, we did achieve one friendly solution in 1999 in a case where the Commission and the Council agreed that the complainant should be paid the amount due him for his work as a European Union regional coordinator monitoring the Palestinian elections.
If the institution or body concerned will not correct the maladministration itself, the Ombudsman's ultimate weapon is to draft a recommendation followed, if necessary, by a special report to European Parliament.
Five years ago, there were many people who said that the Community institutions and bodies did not pay much heed to European Parliament.
In two cases the Ombudsman has made a special report to the European Parliament.
I believe that the European Ombudsman's activities have reached the level that one has the right to expect of a body which is new and consists of 25 persons working in a fairly complex legal environment.
I would like to use this opportunity to thank all the Community institutions and bodies for another year of constructive cooperation.
The aim of the Committee on Petitions itself is to provide a good and effective service for individuals within the European Union and for civil society generally.
Any individual, citizen, resident or group may petition Parliament if they feel that Community law or principles are not being properly applied at whatever level.
Last year we received 958 petitions of which 492 were considered admissible.
We know we could provide a more rapid and effective service if Member States could provide an equally committed response in replying to requests for information and explanation.
I would draw the Council's attention to points 8 and 10 of the report - if it was here.
Some of our ideas are mentioned in this report.
We would also wish to use the experience of our committee members through their work on other committees of Parliament to institute a rapporteur-style system for specific topics.
We consider as a committee that petitions are a valuable and empowering tool for democracy in what can often feel like a remote and anonymous institution.
In the report, the committee stresses that this jointly approved definition of "maladministration" also involves the right to inspect how the institutions have interpreted Community law.
Irrespective of the legal form the Charter of Fundamental Rights will take, it will, in any case, be an expression of the Member States' common constitutional traditions which, in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty, shall be respected by the Union and therefore also by the institutions and public bodies.
The committee observes, therefore, that the Ombudsman ought to play an important part in implementing a future charter of citizens' rights.
The committee has also expressed its clear support for the fact that the Charter of Fundamental Rights ought to contain rules which give citizens the right to expect good administration within the EU. "Good administration" is the opposite of "maladministration" .
All these aspects have been central to the Ombudsman' s work.
These rights are prerequisites for the active citizenship that is necessary if the EU is to regain the confidence of its citizens.
The Ombudsman has become renowned for his work for the wider public.
It receives complaints from citizens, as the two previous speakers rightly said, who believe their rights as EU citizens have been restricted.
As draftsman of an opinion on the right of residence, I would like to make a few comments on the specific problems in this area.
Since the Maastricht Treaty there is a general right of residence, provided the individual concerned has adequate means of subsistence and adequate health insurance protection.
Freedom of movement and right of residence can be restricted only for reasons of law and order, security or health.
Experience has shown the Committee on Petitions that in practice the right to freedom of movement comes up against a great many problems because: (a) Member State authorities are slow to transpose the rules of Community law, (b) problems arise with the recognition of diplomas and qualifications in the case of specific professions, (c) the rules on social security have not been standardised, e.g.
Mr President, the right to petition and to complain is not some recent invention.
But this right was always in danger of being changed, restricted or abolished.
No administration or institution is infallible.
My group congratulates the Ombudsman on the work he accomplished in 1999.
The line the Ombudsman is pursuing has a lot of support amongst the citizens of all Member States.
It is an indisputable fact, and there are several international scientific reports to prove it, that there is a crystal-clear connection between a high level of openness and transparency in the administration and a low level of corruption.
To summarise, the Ombudsman fulfils a very important function.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Söderman, it may be well to remember that just a year and a half ago there was a debate in this Chamber over whether we needed a Committee on Petitions in general.
I am very pleased to be able to say that the Committee on Petitions has again shown its indispensability, especially at a time like this, when we wish to enhance the status of the ordinary citizen in the European Union.
Secondly, I wish to say that at this stage nobody doubts that the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman make an extremely important contribution to compliance with Community law.
It is the committee which makes the institutions most visible to the citizens.
In particular, on 7 December last, President Prodi undertook to find and propose legal and organisational solutions to give both internal and external candidates to Commission competitions access to their examination papers.
Would the Ombudsman please inform us, in the same way that he has informed us that Europol needs more time to comply with the recommendation, whether the commitment made by President Prodi on 7 December to making papers available by 1 July 2000 has already been implemented or not.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I gather from the Ombudsman' s Annual Report that, as we have now heard, the main complaint of the citizens is about lack of transparency.
It was very good to see the respect in which the European Ombudsman is held by his colleagues, the national ombudsmen.
With our chairman Mr Gemelli we are now looking at ways of making the Petitions Committee more effective and more efficient in the work it does on behalf of citizens.
It is important that citizens and the officials of the institutions know what is reasonable behaviour so that all have a standard to which they can refer.
Mr President, I should like to start by congratulating the two rapporteurs on their interesting comments.
The third way is to strengthen and improve the role of the ombudsman, mainly by giving him easier access to all the documents needed in order to conduct an efficient investigation.
At the same time, the wealth of material in his report should be closely studied and taken as the starting point for the changes which need to be made to the modus operandi of the Community institutions.
Finally, we would like to request that, in a similar way to Parliament in the codecision procedure, the Committee on Petitions may be permitted to present its own justification for certain decisions, and we call for amendment of the Treaties in order to streamline the entire legal system and existing legislation.
Mr President, Mr Söderman, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their hard, thorough and excellent work.
The more multi-cultural it is the greater the transparency, and the more democratic it is the more open it likewise is.
In order to respond to citizens' expectations, adequate coordination between the Committee on Petitions, the European institutions and national authorities is essential.
Greater account must also be taken by the other parliamentary committees of the work carried out by our committee.
Indeed, the national authorities are the first to apply Community law and it is indispensable for them to work in coordination with the European institutions, and in particular Parliament and the Commission.
First of all, it cannot be denied that this committee is not very well known, although its work is indispensable in strengthening the link between citizens and the European Union.
Finally, one of the strong points of the French Presidency' s programme is a Europe that is closer to the citizens.
The work of our committee falls within this sphere and it is up to us to make this expectation a reality.
The reality of our society is that if governments and administrations had their way they would never appoint Petitions Committees or Ombudsmen.
The Petitions Committee in particular is an important mechanism of access for the people of Europe.
It can be seen from the report that it is the Commission that is the subject of the majority of the investigations that have been undertaken, 77 percent to be precise.
I would like to highlight the fact that this report emphasises that all EU institutions and bodies must establish a Code of Good Administrative Behaviour.
The basic pillars of the work of the Ombudsman are independence and transparency.
The principle of good administration must also be included in the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights which is being drafted.
For that reason there has to be closer cooperation between the Ombudsman and national and regional ombudsmen.
In this respect, both the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman play a key role, on different levels and with different purposes, but they are both nevertheless essential to the improvement of the operation of the institutions.
Secondly, it proposes a review of the examination procedures of the Committee on Petitions.
It is true that we sometimes take a long time to reply.
The Commission is open to dialogue, both with Parliament, and with the Council itself, in order to reduce the time taken to produce replies and increase transparency and communication with Parliament and the Committee on Petitions.
I believe that it is very important, in the relations between the Commission, the Ombudsman and other institutions and bodies, to systematically respect the institutional balance laid down in the Treaties.
The Ombudsman, in his report, has indicated that the number of complaints, investigations and inquiries over the last year have increased considerably, and this is simply the result of greater awareness of the institution on the part of the citizens.
If we compare it with other administrations, I believe that it compares very favourably and that we score highly in these areas.
With regard to the amendments of the Statute of the Ombudsman, the competent parliamentary committee must issue an opinion in accordance with Article 195 of the Treaty, and when Parliament takes the initiative, we will analyse all the relevant issues.
Mr Raschhofer spoke about the draft regulation on public access to documents, which has been debated.
I should like to stress that this draft regulation is now before Parliament.
The committee work can start.
Members of Parliament are a very important source of information for many citizens.
Thank you kindly, Mr Söderman.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
Mr President, we meet at a time when congestion in our skies has never been greater.
According to the statistics, the incidence of a 15-minute delay has risen from 12.7% in 1991 to 30.3% in 1999 and is still rising.
It is a fact that there has been a lack of investment in air traffic control systems.
Whilst this pressure has been growing, we owe it to those working in the system to congratulate them and thank them for what they have done.
All this, then, has a detrimental effect upon the mobility of our citizens, and in terms of the economic and financial and social costs for our businesses and a wide variety of other people affected on a day-to-day basis by what is going on.
I would like to congratulate Commissioner Palacio for having the initiative to bring this to our committee in the terms that she did, and with the force and verve that she has shown, initially, in setting up the high level group, and also in the leadership that she has given to addressing this problem.
The Council of Transport Ministers needs to take a political decision to address this.
It is up to individual nation states to decide, but they must decide to address this problem of the division between regulation of their airspace on the one hand and the air service management provision that could be offered by others or other organisations.
But above all we wish Commissioner Palacio, with our support, to press the Council of Ministers and all those associated with this to take urgent decisions.
Mr President, I would like, if I may, to deliver very briefly a few comments on this report.
It seems obvious that we need to completely rethink the organisation of air traffic control in the European sky.
In this respect, the Commission' s initiative is commendable.
I have many doubts as to the conclusions of the report.
In this respect, the cellular, segmented organisation of the European territory must be retained and, in a way, improved.
Indeed in paragraphs 4 and 5 we note again that our Parliament has now decided on two occasions that the regulatory function is to be transferred to the European Union.
Nor is that in any way a problem.
We also note the lack of political will that exists within both the Commission and the Council, although it is worth perhaps reminding ourselves that this initiative started with the Council in June last year when it requested the Commissioner to bring forward this communication.
Between 1986 and 1996 air traffic in Europe doubled.
It will double again in the coming ten years.
What we want to hear perhaps from the Commissioner today is a clear timetable from her as to the speed at which she will be acting in the months to come.
I urge colleagues to back the rapporteur's proposal and I urge the Commissioner to bring forward a very clear timetable.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Sir Robert Atkins has, in my view, compiled a sound report.
Mr President, the report deals with the problem of increasing air traffic.
I want to focus on just one aspect of this report or, more specifically, on a major omission from it.
That causes major congestion problems but it also causes major environmental problems as well - not only the noise and pollution for people living around the airports but also the impact on global climate.
Unfortunately this report fails to make the vital link between congestion and air traffic reduction and therefore misses a vital opportunity to address these problems in a lasting manner.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think there is some ambiguity regarding the expression "single European sky" , because air traffic control is in fact, as you are well aware, already a European field of activity.
There is already a European system for controlling the air space with Eurocontrol and there is already a body, the Central Flow Management Unit, based in Brussels.
The great proposal that is put to us for improving traffic consists of separating regulatory and control functions.
The separation of functions would lead to the liberalisation of air traffic service provision, establishing, as indeed the Atkins report states, a liberalised internal market.
In France - and I am not trying to make France a model - there is a general directorate that governs everything and, in the past few years, investments have been made and air traffic controllers have been recruited.
There has been talk of the fact that there are too many aircraft in the sky, that one controller has too many aircraft to deal with, etc., but we need only look at the United States of America, which is the most advanced country in the world in terms of aeronautics, where these problems are dealt with and, although they may not be completely resolved, adequate solutions have been found.
Let us not disregard other air space users such as air-taxis, private companies and private users flying club aircraft.
Mr President, Commissioner, securing a place in the transport market is an uphill struggle.
Eurocontrol has proven to be inadequate as a mechanism for managing air traffic.
The Member States must overcome their perhaps justified anxiety as regards the management of their airspace and, at some point, must take a longer-term view of newly-emerging needs which goes beyond their borders and beyond the present situation.
I should like to close my intervention by reminding the House that, when the European Parliament voted on the report for the Intergovernmental Conference, it took view that the regulatory operation of air traffic in Europe, in our Member States, should be taken over by the European Union.
There is no doubt that air traffic control delays are a problem.
I hear that the average delay is said to be 20 minutes.
The report must consider all the issues involving air traffic and adopt a twofold approach as proposed by the Commission.
It is the greatest cop-out in the world for airlines to say to passengers that the delay is caused by air traffic.
Invariably they cause delays as much as air traffic.
We support the compromise that is made in point 8 with regard to Eurocontrol.
Finally, there are some TDI amendments with this.
I can only assume that the TDI group must... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like the rapporteur and the previous speaker I think we urgently need to take the appropriate measures to tackle and eventually put a stop to the constant increase in delays in European air traffic.
Sir Robert Atkins, for whose expertise I have enormous regard, and a majority in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism believe the prime way to achieve this objective is through liberalisation measures.
Liberalisation will without doubt increase the number of providers, but it will not resolve certain problems and will even create new ones.
In a peaceful and united Europe there is not one logical reason for reserving a large part of airspace for the military.
Fifthly, we do not need the Commission to use its influence on national governments in the event of domestic industrial disputes, as called for in paragraph 14 of the report; we need a smoothly running social dialogue between all the players involved in air traffic!
It is in the international negotiation of traffic rights that this concept of European air space... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, it has been noted that air transport is increasingly accessible to a greater number of our fellow citizens.
The desire to create optimum air traffic control in Europe is based on good intentions, but why should the Commission challenge the air policies of the Member States and their bilateral agreements through a single air space?
It is now for the Council to take the necessary and urgent political decisions which will allow the single aviation market to be supplemented with a single air traffic control system.
Another cause which makes the current system ineffective is the different organisation of the civil system and the military system, as well as the different standards of technical equipment on the ground.
There is a clear need to achieve more effective cooperation between the different users of the airspace, and I believe that that cooperation and a joint approach should be sought at European level.
Lastly, Madam Vice-President, please take note that we are aware of your efforts and we will support you in the line you have taken.
Mr President, I must express major reservations with regard to the Atkins report as it bears the stamp of commercial interests concealed behind the best of intentions.
In actual fact, the airlines would like the air traffic control sector to be completely liberalised, not so much for reasons of safety, interoperability or reducing delays as to be able to access a market of air traffic control services that would enable the more powerful among them to purchase more expensive, secure slots and leave the problem of delays to other airlines and private aviation.
We all know that the considerable increase in air traffic is the main underlying cause of overcrowded and saturated skies.
These are the fundamental causes of air delays.
Naturally, the single sky must be set up through a reformed Eurocontrol and harmonised control services at European level.
Commissioner, I hope that, in preparing the future directive on the single sky, the Commission will be able to handle this matter by taking a calmer and more impartial overall view.
But how would subjecting air traffic control to the requirements of private profit possibly put an end to delays?
It is in the interests of passengers and their safety, and in the interests of employees in this sector for air traffic control to remain a public service, dedicated exclusively to ensuring the smooth running of air traffic.
If it is necessary to put an end to national peculiarities with regard to air traffic management, and if it is legitimate to unify the European air space, this must be achieved by rejecting any idea of privatisation, competition, or quest for profitability, and we will vote against this report.
Mr President, I really must congratulate my colleague, Sir Robert Atkins of the British Conservative Party, on his most excellent report on the Single European Sky.
This proves beyond doubt that the overarching ambition of the European Union is a single nation with its single national flag, its single national anthem, its single legal space, its single national borders and now the citizens of Europe will soon be able to breath single European air.
However, after the failure of the single land policy, known as the CAP, the single sea policy, known as the CFP, we can now look forward to a similar failure of the single sky policy.
But you have struck a real blow for the Eurosceptic movement in the UK, Sir Robert, I congratulate you.
It is quite clear that the European Transport Council must take immediate action to ensure that the air traffic control decisions are applied by all Member States Europe-wide.
In addition, both airports and airlines need to look closely at their practices, as they too are responsible far too often for the high percentage of delays incurred.
The EU has spent a considerable amount of time and energy on tearing down borders and creating a single market.
Let us together ensure that the summer of 2000 is the last summer with chaos in the skies over Europe.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, there has hardly ever been such a topical report as this one.
Just in time before the summer break, when everyone goes on holiday and more and more people also travel by plane, today Parliament is considering questions of air traffic.
Eurocontrol must satisfy all these safety requirements, but that means we also have to create the necessary framework conditions.
We must make it very clear that not all delays are due to the management of air traffic; almost half of all delays are due to air companies, airports and sometimes weather conditions.
However, it is the case that 50%, or perhaps a little more, of delays are due to problems in the management of air traffic.
In any event, we must make the military and civil use of airspace more flexible, improve the efficiency of management and provide air traffic controllers, who are currently working in very complicated circumstances, with an easier environment which will allow them to do their work more effectively.
The 'Single European Sky' initiative in no way implies the removal of Eurocontrol.
On the contrary, Eurocontrol is absolutely essential; it is an essential element which must be strengthened and supplemented since, within the European Union, we can go much further than the scope of Eurocontrol.
Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, we must think in terms of a strong European common regulator and we must forget - because, of course, it is not going to appear in the Commission' s communication or proposals - the controversy, which in my view is artificial, between privatisation and non-privatisation.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
It is out of date because the 1952 ILO convention has just been revised and there is an expectation that most countries in the world will substantially improve their maternity protection.
But not everything is out of date, because in terms of organisation of work, there have been shortcomings in transposing the directive and even greater shortcomings in implementing it.
By way of example, I must tell you that in some countries, not even a minimum period of recuperation is allowed for the mother, which the experts say should be around 45 days for a normal birth for a woman working in a normal job.
Nevertheless, there are countries that are not complying with these rules at all, on the pretext that they are guaranteeing women a choice.
We think that women must be guaranteed the option of enjoying an appropriate period of maternity leave, which they can share with the father, but that the leave should be assessed and guaranteed according to the risk to her own health.
Furthermore, this directive does not provide for a link between its own risk assessment provisions and other directives, particularly the framework directive on risk assessment and information for workers.
The Commission' s report on the 1992 directive is only concerned with the technical transposition of the directive and does not look at the situation at the workplace, which has to some extent changed, or at the changed role of women in society.
The Commission must submit a proposal for revision of the directive that takes account of all these changes, and it must do so as quickly as possible, this very year.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the implementation of Council Directive 92/85/EEC of 19 October 1992, which is one of the most important directives in the field of the technical and health protection of workers.
Really it is very sad for a society to find we have to pay much greater attention to this area in particular.
With a view to eastward enlargement and protection in those countries, let me also point out that the single market must not lead to discrimination against pregnant women and new mothers.
Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for her thorough, responsible and unreserved report.
The 1992 directive, whose implementation in the Member States we are assessing today, is intended precisely to introduce minimum measures to encourage the improvement of the health and safety of pregnant women and women who have recently given birth and are breastfeeding.
The Commission's evaluation report shows that the directive has proved its utility in that it has been of some benefit in a number of Member States in certain areas of the issue, such as leave on grounds of health and safety, etc.
The delay in the production of an evaluation report - and I would remind you that, precisely because of the low minimum standards set, Italy was only persuaded to approve the directive on the condition that its implementation would be monitored very soon afterwards - should have led the Commission to put forward a proposal to revise the directive, particularly in relation to certain aspects referred to by the rapporteur: the length of maternity leave, the increase in the duration of maternity leave where risks are involved, a more precise definition of the concept of an adequate allowance, the prohibition of dismissal of women during pregnancy or maternity leave with effective penalties, the prohibition of any form of discrimination with regard to women's careers or the improvement of working conditions, the implementation of all the measures necessary to safeguard the health and safety of woman and unborn child, without prejudice to the woman's right to work or her career and encouraging breastfeeding through diverse measures.
We have a directive from 1992 which establishes minimum rights for maternity leave and women' s entitlements to financial compensation when they are absent from the labour market due to childbirth.
The existing rules make for great flexibility, and most countries guarantee women better conditions than the common regulations require.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission is required to submit a directive proposal on measures for workers during pregnancy, birth and breastfeeding by the end of 2000.
We are asking for the rights of pregnant and breastfeeding women to be extended.
Mr President, at a time when Europe, with the Beijing +5 Conference in New York, is emphasising its pioneering role in the implementation of the principle of equality between men and women, it seems equally important to guarantee their freedom.
This freedom is achieved through a right to specific protection for women, a right that is always related to their bodies, in particular to maternity and, more specifically, pregnancy.
We do not view pregnancy as a social resource and there is one other point on which we would like to see a separate vote in order to improve the report.
Lastly, I would urge all Christian-Democrat Members to endorse this report by my Socialist colleague.
Mr President, I wish at this point to express my disappointment at the Commission' s failure to adopt any position on the revision, assessment and notification of Directive 92/85 on maternity protection as yet.
The European Community must strive to gain the support of applicant countries to ensure that awareness is raised as rapidly as possible, so that the measures recommended in this report can be adopted, since there may be greater resistance in those countries, which could be difficult to overcome.
Lastly, I wish to sound a warning about point 9 of this report, because measures for protecting new mothers, such as very long maternity leave, may have unwanted effects, as it may become disadvantageous for employers to employ women, and they may consequently prefer to take on men.
According to the Commission' s assessment, the situation regarding the health and safety of pregnant women looks fine, but that is certainly only on paper, for is that also the way it looks in reality?
The Commission must go back to the drawing board, set to work again and table the necessary proposals.
The Damião report contains many good proposals, but we in the Swedish Liberal Party still have fundamental objections to the report.
Every Member State should have full responsibility and the right to make its own decisions regarding its social security systems.
I know several women who have gone back to work earlier - there must be freedom of choice!
As a matter of fact, in the discussions held in the Parliamentary committees, we tabled various amendments designed to guarantee the statutory right to take breaks from work for breastfeeding, to ensure non-discrimination in the workplace against pregnant women and women who have just given birth or who are breastfeeding, particularly in terms of salary, and to guarantee career progression and employment, with particular emphasis on the situation of working women who have temporary or atypical contracts.
I hope that Parliament will adopt this amendment.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, the incorporation of women into the labour market means that at some time their working life will coincide with a pregnancy, which sometimes means that they are obliged to take additional leave so as not to endanger their own health or the health of the unborn child.
Pregnancy is a natural state for women which society must respect, defend and protect.
Society must care for working women in particular by ensuring that they remain in their jobs.
The protection of maternity and breast-feeding cannot be considered as a form of unequal treatment between men and women, since maternity is exclusive to women and it is women who must be protected, independently of the fact that some parental leave can be granted to men.
The directive must include a minimum leave of 20 weeks, with an obligatory period of at least eight weeks after giving birth.
In no circumstances must pregnancy be a cause for discrimination against women.
It must provide for new working situations and also the new family situation of single parent families.
The pregnant worker must be provided with adequate protection, which is designed for their specific circumstances, but this should not mean discrimination or a reduction in their work opportunities, but quite the opposite.
Mr President, in today' s Europe there is no room for a divorce between women and employment, and much less a divorce between women and maternity.
It seems to me that, in this proposal for a revision of the directive that we are asking the Commission to present quickly, it is essential to preserve the reality of three fundamental principles for women and their well-being: the prohibition of dismissal for pregnant women or women on maternity leave, the right to a mandatory minimum leave and allowance during this leave to be taken into account for the purposes of acquiring pension entitlements.
Furthermore, it seems to me that this new directive should comprise substantial improvements, in particular all women must be offered the opportunity to take 20 weeks' maternity leave, without necessarily being obliged to take the entire period, but the employer shall be obliged to offer it, and a minimum of 8 weeks after the birth, in order to foster development of the bond between mother and child.
Finally, it is recommended that this text should correlate and reinforce the formal prohibition of dismissal during pregnancy and maternity leave.
This is why it is necessary to have a sufficiently long period of rest from work before giving birth and even longer afterwards, when there is a child to breastfeed, look after and bring up.
The Community legislation and the jurisprudence of the European Court of Justice still do not offer a sufficient framework although they are undoubtedly key elements to making further progress in this aspect which is essential to safeguarding the rights of pregnant workers.
Directive 92/85 was adopted before the Treaty of Amsterdam.
That is what we propose and to this end we are going to prepare a supplementary report on the implementation of this directive, which we will present in 2002.
As the honourable Members know well, the Commission last week approved its new social agenda for 2000-2005 and it is within this framework that we hope to offer an adequate solution, not only to this specific problem, but also to a whole series of other issues.
The report on the Feira Summit was issued on Tuesday morning, the report on Tuesday morning' s discharge sitting was issued at 9.12 p.m.
The report on Zimbabwe, Tuesday afternoon, was issued at 10.55 p.m.
The report on the European Central Bank on Wednesday morning was issued at 8.00 p.m.
I would ask you, Mr President, to revert back to the old system and to ensure that the press releases, the daily press releases, not only appear on time, but also afford a general overview - in a decentralised manner - for each language.
Mr Staes, your comments will, of course, be passed on to our staff so that we can work as efficiently as possible.
I would like to know exactly from the Commission - because this compromise has been concluded with the Commission - whether a) the Commission is prepared to implement Amendment No 51 which has been added to the compromise and b) whether the Commission is prepared, in consultation with the Council, to bring up for discussion the special position of Belgian, Dutch and Northern French flax growers.
We referred the report back on 16 May and in the meantime it has been improved.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I really want to give warm thanks, not just to the Commission but also to all those involved, to all my colleagues on the Committee on Agriculture, for enabling us jointly to achieve this compromise!
If the Socialist Group does not support compromise Amendment No 10 - and that is up to the group - then let me tell you that this will be a very grave decision it is taking here today. (Applause from the PPE-DE Group) Mr Poettering, as you are aware, explanations of vote are made after the vote.
Yes, Mr President, I note that the law is not equal for all, because I wanted to speak along the same lines, in the previous sitting, on the resolution on Feira, and I was not given the authorisation to do so, and I did it at the right time in the end.
On behalf of my group, I would like to point out that it is absolutely unacceptable, firstly, that a non-existent agreement be cited, and secondly that my group be threatened.
Furthermore, and I will end, Mr President, by saying that there is no mention by name of any group in the Kuhne report.
Secondly, I myself proposed in my original report, which was adopted in committee in March and voted on here in April, to include a problem relating to my group in that report.
At that time, my group and the Greens voted in committee to resolve that problem.
Let me now make a very fundamental comment as rapporteur for a discharge procedure.
No rapporteur for a discharge procedure, in which the groups are involved, can have this discharge taken from him by an agreement between group chairmen, whether or not such an agreement exists.
Amendments Nos 5 and 6 are not here.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 (first part), 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 (the first, third and fourth part of 15), 16, 17 and 18.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE Mr President, in view of the vote on the Papayannakis report I should like to ask the Commission to convene a conciliation committee next week so that we sort this out before the 1 September deadline.
We voted against extra money for military advisers because we believe a peace policy needs peace experts and non-violent conflict resolution.
It will be hard to explain to the citizens of Europe why EUR 14 million of taxes were squandered on the Fléchard case and why Parliament is letting itself be fobbed off with empty promises.
On behalf of my group, I therefore want to state that we voted against the discharge to the Commission for that reason. - (DA) On 6 July 2000, members of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group voted against giving discharge to the Commission in respect of implementation of the general budget of the European Union for 1998.
Unacceptable pressure has been placed upon a number of rapporteurs, and the shady operators who have an interest in preventing the serious examples of fraud and deception in the Commission' s administration from coming to light have not held back from making physical threats.
This firm was suspected of fraud as early as 1992.
But the Commissioner for budgets does not have the right to refuse to tell us how many millions the Commission has paid to this firm over the past years.
Faced with the need to finally make a decision on whether or not to grant discharge, we eventually gave the current European Commission the benefit of the doubt for 1998.
Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the report on the protection of forests to be postponed until the next sitting, because today, for unavoidable reasons, I must leave this Parliament at 5 p.m.
The votes on certain resolutions, such as the European Council of Feira, Zimbabwe and the trafficking of human beings took a relatively short time.
We will take note of your comment and pass it on to the Conference of Presidents, for, in the order of voting, according to the procedure we have been following, out of all the recommendations for second reading - which engage our capacity as a legislative House - priority is given to the drafts which engage our power of colegislation.
Mr Arvidsson - all this relates to what I know about - will, I hope, also agree.
Rühle report (A5-0167/2000) Mr President, I voted against the Rühle report.
Apart from this, I would like to stress that, in addition to the other aspects which are inadequate as the rapporteur himself states in his report - which begs the question of why he does not conclude the report with a recommendation to vote against it - it would be appropriate to give at least part of these funds to voluntary organisations, which include many pensioners and elderly people who are willing to go out into the world and assist developing countries. . (FR) The European Parliament, during its sitting of 13 April 2000, quite rightly decided to delay the decision giving discharge to the European Commission on the implementation of the budget for the year 1998.
This decision was legitimate, insofar as the citizens of our nations have the right to be told how the money of the European Union, their money, is being spent.
There is no question, however, of accepting that, on the pretext of better monitoring, in order to achieve a more honest and rational use of the European funds - and I am thinking of African, Caribbean and Pacific countries in particular, that our action should be a pretext for also organising the unfounded trial of certain countries of the European Union - incidentally one of the main net contributors (I am talking about France) - by means of a witch hunt which, it is said, targets certain high-ranking civil servants of that nationality.
Kuhne report (A5-0189/2000) - (DE) I voted against giving a discharge to the Secretary-General because he gave misleading information to the political decision-making bodies about the purchase of the ASP building in Brussels.
Today, on the basis of a unanimous agreement within the Council, we finally have the opportunity to show a little determination.
Indeed, the common position submitted to us includes a large number of the amendments adopted by this House at first reading.
Certain fellow Members have explained, in good faith, that this statement does nothing to contribute to tracing beef.
On the contrary, this labelling is just as important as establishing health guarantees.
These two types of information are not in competition; they are complementary and contribute, each at their own level, to restoring the confidence of European consumers.
The confidence of our consumers cannot be decreed, it must be won.
What we are discussing here today is the revision of the original 1993 regulation which put in place the Community Eco-Management and Audit scheme.
Under the new regulation which we are discussing here today easier access will be made for small- and medium-sized enterprises to apply for accreditation under the EMAS scheme.
I fully support this programme and commend this report.
Recommendation for second reading: Breyer (A5-0166/2000) Mr President, I voted for the recommendation, which sets limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in the ambient air.
This draft recommendation establishes minimum criteria to be applied in the organising, carrying out, following up and publicising of the results of environmental inspections.
Two types of inspections are foreseen, in particular, routine inspections carried out as part of a planned inspection programme and non-routine inspections as a follow-up to complaints in connection with the issue and renewal or modification of various licences.
Under this draft recommendation, each plan should define the geographical area which it covers, cover a defined period of time, include specific provisions for its revision, identify the specific sites or types of installations covered, prescribe the programmes for routine environmental inspections, provide for and outline the procedures for non-routine environmental inspections, provide for coordination between the different inspecting authorities.
I would like to commend the rapporteur, Caroline Jackson, for her report.
The rapporteur believes that only a directive can force the Member States to introduce these inspection systems.
The European Union also has competence in environmental matters under Article 130 of the Maastricht Treaty.
Santa Maria da Feira European Council of 19 and 20 June 2000 Mr President, the Feira Council of 19 and 20 June 2000 showed a certain hypocrisy regarding a goodly number of subjects, and I will cite four of these.
This matter is particularly serious as it clearly shows that the powers of coercion given to the European Union can easily be used against national democratic expression.
On the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights, the Heads of State and Government have mostly pretended not to know yet whether they wanted to include social rights and make the document binding in nature.
Earlier today, at the Constitutional Affairs Committee, I asked Joschka Fischer a question on this subject, but he wriggled out of replying.
Fourthly, the Lisbon Summit, midway through the Portuguese presidency, gave another sign in favour of abandoning the European welfare model and changing to the American model. - (DA) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have voted today in favour of the resolution concerning the conclusions from the European Council' s summit in Feira on 19-20 June 2000.
I know that opinion on the tax compromise that we just managed to negotiate in Feira is divided.
Not only is closer cooperation itself vigorously denounced, and rightly so, by the small- and medium-sized Member States, as damaging to their integrity, whereas sovereignty is a principle that guarantees the equality and respect of each.
In order to put an end to a situation where poverty forces thousands of human beings to leave for lands where they hope to have a slightly better life, we must put an end to a social system which, in order to concentrate extraordinary riches in the hands of the few, enforces poverty on the majority of the planet.
It is disgusting that, even in areas where current national and European institutions could actually do something, they do nothing.
The Dover tragedy happened between two European countries.
Mr President, I shall explain my vote in writing.
Previously, when Members were present for the vote and an explanation of vote was made in writing, it was possible to leave, as the President used to state that he had received such and such a written explanation of vote on such and such a report.
Now, we have to wait.
If all the Members here had given their explanations of vote in writing you would have had your chance rather earlier.
However, your fellow Members have the right to give explanations of vote on all the reports that we put to the vote.
Mr President, I would like to comment on points 2 and 3, in which it is claimed that the Intergovernmental Conference is the key issue in the run-up to enlargement of the EU.
I would also like to comment on point 10, the contents of which I think involve an unfortunate development in the direction of militarisation of the European Union.
I am saying this also as a representative of a country that is non-aligned.
First of all, Mr Maaten, the article you are talking about only refers to one Group or 32 Members.
In both Fiji and the Solomon Islands democratic government and law and order have been undermined.
The beleaguered inhabitants of Fiji are looking to the European Union, which they see as the beacon of democracy and racial equality, to come to their aid.
We also warn the Solomon Islands that a suspension of aid may be needed there to restore democracy, peace and stability.
Madam President, I want to concentrate on the Solomon Islands, but first just a word on Fiji.
This situation is unsustainable.
That aid is 25% of their GDP.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the Pacific always evokes images of paradise: beaches, coconut palms, sun.
Moreover, in spite of these differences, all these people are at home in Fiji.
This practice is only possible because the population is poor and suffers from a lack of knowledge of other groups.
In the Solomon Islands, a sham parliamentary vote brought a new Prime Minister to power, elected by the power of the gun.
These two examples support our vision of the conflict.
From this point of view, if we want to be really effective, we must prevent further conflicts and to do so, we must genuinely aid the development of education, the local economy and local democracy.
The Commission is currently preparing a proposal to the Council on the application of Article 366a of the Lomé Convention because, in its the view, the fundamental principles of the Convention - democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights - are no longer guaranteed in Fiji.
Tibet is occupied, Tibet was invaded by Chinese troops in 1949 and since then has been occupied and colonised by the Chinese.
We must oblige them and, through political action by Parliament, assert our determination to see this matter, which has lasted 50 years, finally resolved.
China is a large country which has a right to democracy.
First of all, why is it that there is still no real dialogue at official level between the Chinese Government and the Tibetan Government in exile?
Secondly, how can a renowned institution such as the World Bank be on the brink of financing a Chinese programme which is tantamount to a common or garden colonisation of Tibet?
Mr President, Commissioner Verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the World Bank will be taking a decision with very serious implications for Tibet.
A fortnight ago, the Members of our Intergroup on Tibet and many other MEPs urged the President of the World Bank in Washington not to go against the Bank' s own principles for the protection of endangered peoples.
But that also implies an obligation to act more responsibly than before and, for instance, to apply the concept of "one China - many systems" .
On behalf of the EPP Group and the Intergroup on Tibet, I call on all the Members of the European Parliament to support our resolution.
I hope you will help us bring about a U-turn, as requested by my fellow MEPs in the amendment; a U-turn which prescribes that, if there is no change in three years' time, we will eventually decide to recognise Tibet' s provisional government rather than continue to tread water.
I would like to address the Commissioner and say that I hope that the Commission has very good relations with the representatives of the World Bank.
We have therefore only got an extremely short time in which to influence the World Bank, to which this resolution is, of course, primarily directed.
The Council is, of course, not represented here to any great extent.
Madam President, the Commission, like Parliament, is deeply concerned about the human rights situation in Tibet.
We are particularly concerned about respect on the part of the Chinese authorities for the cultural, linguistic and religious identity of the autonomous region of Tibet.
In particular, the European Union has called on China to resume the dialogue with the Dalai Lama as soon as possible.
In our view, a direct dialogue between the Dalai Lama and the Chinese authorities is the only realistic way of achieving a lasting and peaceful solution to the issue of Tibet.
With regard to cooperation, the European Union takes the view that it is in the interest of the Tibetan people that we support aid projects in Tibet, provided the group of ethnic Tibetans benefits directly from them and is given priority in the management of the projects.
If any influence at all can still be brought to bear, it would be up to the Member States to do so.
Firstly, I hope, in particular, that the Council and the Commission will be active when it comes to also taking up this issue in the Security Council when the action plan concerning children in armed conflicts will be debated at the end of this month.
I would also like the EU jointly to take up the issue in the Security Council at the end of this month during the follow-up to the general debate on children in armed conflicts.
Madam President, the situation in Northern Uganda and Southern Sudan is the setting for the drama of the child-soldiers.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, war is always cruel, and civil war even more so.
This is why we must increase aid and support for UNICEF, which has set up an action programme enabling children to return to a normal life.
Sudan must stop supporting the LRA.
And Parliament must intervene to urge the Ugandan Government to find a peaceful solution to this conflict in the north of Uganda, which, let me remind you, has been the cause of 100 000 deaths in 15 years.
Some weeks ago, a documentary from Southern Sudan was shown on Swedish television.
We must, as is stated in point 8 of the resolution, strongly urge these companies to cease their activities in Sudan until a peaceful solution to the conflict has been found.
I would ask Commissioner Verheugen specifically whether he is absolutely clear about the point mentioned in the resolution, that of bringing the investments in both oil and oil pipelines in Sudan to a halt for the time being.
We do a great deal financially in this respect in different countries.
However many finely-worded resolutions we have, as long as we in the Community fail to get to grips with the issues relating to children in our own community, we do not have a strong voice to raise our concerns about this.
Many of our policies affect children's rights and interests but this week Commissioner Prodi said he did not feel it was necessary to have a dedicated unit looking at children's rights within the Community.
Situation in the Moluccas Madam President, the Moluccas require our attention once again.
The brave attitude of President Wahid should not go unmentioned.
Finally, I would like to ask your attention for the victims of these conflicts, namely the ordinary citizens.
The lack of political and economic interests in that region should not determine the level of aid.
It is therefore vital that the international community offer immediate financial and moral support in order to solve the problems in Indonesia.
After a few months of peace and quiet in that area, violence has flared up again over the past few weeks, and once again, dozens of people have been killed and once again, thousand of people have fled.
It seems that the Jihad militiamen are being financed and armed by these groups, and sometimes backed by regional military forces, which are, in fact, supposed to protect the population.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is becoming increasingly clear that the violence on the Moluccas is not a chaotic, spontaneous fight between the local population, between local Muslims and Christians.
In other words, the security apparatus which should guarantee stability, is divided over two camps.
However, we must also let him know that we support him in his fight against those sections of the army which are of course trying to undermine democratic reform, in his battle against people like Amien Rais, the chairman of the People' s Consultative Assembly who, for example, referred to young people devoted to the Laskar Jihad as the heart of the nation.
I think that certain forces are at work behind these actions, and there is a significant similarity between a certain type of behaviour that we are now seeing in the Moluccas and the events we recently witnessed in East Timor.
Madam President, we can all put our signatures to what is written in the resolution.
We must also question the actions of the European Union and its ability to pursue this initiative in favour of the international moratorium alongside the United Nations and the international community.
To avoid repeating last year' s failure at the United Nations, we must urgently coordinate the actions of the European Union.
To this end, I have presented an amendment asking that this policy within the United Nations in favour of the establishment of a universal moratorium be coordinated by the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy.
I therefore urge my fellow Members to support these amendments.
Mr President, this House is appealing to the Governor of Virginia to spare the life of a man, Derek Rocco Barnabei, sentenced to death, who is in all probability innocent.
As we debate our resolution, in a death cell in the same State, they are sterilising the needles which will be used to administer the lethal injection which, in a few hours' time, will kill Michael Clagget, probably guilty of multiple murders committed many years ago.
We have adopted countless resolutions during these last two parliamentary terms in a vain attempt to put an end to the death penalty in the United States and elsewhere.
What is certain is that many other executions will be performed at an increasingly high rate before August in Virginia and other States, in particular Texas, whose governor - who will almost certainly be the next President of the United States of America - holds the world record of having put 132 human beings to death in the last five years.
Bush boasts of this record, but I do know - because he told me in a letter he sent me dated 22 March - that he is confident that he will be able to fulfil the highest obligations of a fair and errorless justice.
The resolution before Parliament notes the fresh debate which is currently in progress in the United States, not on the abolition of the death penalty at all but on a moratorium intended to ensure a more reliable but no less merciless system.
It is therefore a horrible irony that the United States is one of the few countries in the developed world which still retains and practises the use of the death penalty.
We face today a particular case, that of Derek Rockwell Barnabei: each human being is an individual in her or his own right and must be stood up for as such.
Mr President, the case of Derek Rocco Barnabei makes our resolution all the more urgent.
Serious riots broke out, especially before and after the Germany-England match.
Germany set a good example in this respect.
Mr President, this debate is not entitled hooligans but Euro 2000, and this is great.
I also want to make sure that we actually condemn hooligans in a very strong way in this House; all hooligans whatever country they come from and whatever their background.
In Denmark when Galatasaray played Arsenal, a number of Arsenal fans were arrested yet not charged with hooliganism.
So all these factors actually led to a number of people thinking: "Well this Euro 2000 championship is a soft touch.
We must therefore be concerned when the game is unduly weighed down by either economic interests or excessively emotive behaviour, neither of which must be encouraged in any way by the political world.
The item on the agenda as approved by the House is 'Hooligans' .
Notably, the Rotterdam incident does not alter our view of the human rights record or the quality of democracy in Holland, which I consider to be among the most liberal countries in the world, although it was treated as serious, both in terms of the shameful treatment of the disabled people and because of the violence against the journalists who were merely doing their duty.
I would strongly urge the Italian delegates, and also the Italian press, but mainly the Italian MEPs to refrain from drawing any comparison with the Heysel tragedy.
The measures taken by the Belgian authorities served to limit the clearly racist, xenophobic and homophobic violence of the hooligans.
I therefore believe that Parliament can provide a real impetus for the Member States and the UEFA to implement such measures immediately, as the red card, Mr President, must admittedly be applied on the pitch, but must also be applied with regard to hooligans, both in and outside the stadium.
All Member States should, in consultation with each other, take appropriate measures.
Not only was Euro 2000 a superb festival of football, it was also a festival of solidarity among the citizens of the European Union, whom it brought closer together.
Mr President, on Monday, the Liberal Group voted against including this item on the agenda and if I now consider the resolution, I believe we were right to do so.
Extending congratulations in a resolution is very civilised, of course, but hardly the task of this Parliament.
The Dutch Public Prosecutor is involved in this matter and so it is completely premature on the part of this Parliament to pass a verdict on the incident at this stage.
Iraq Mr President, the United Nations has been emasculated by two members of the Security Council on the issue of sanctions on Iraq.
Kofi Annan is a good and honourable man.
The alleged purpose of the sanctions is to get rid of Saddam Hussein.
I am a friend of Islam and I think we should stop, in this European Union and the European Parliament, demonising the Arabs and demonising Islam.
Mr President, we had originally submitted a text on the same subject and with the same purport, but this text gives a far more balanced view than the text of the so-called joint resolution.
Mr President, Iraq was at war with Iran from 1980 to 1989.
Iraq invaded Kuwait on 2 August 1990.
In 1994, Iraq recognised the territorial integrity of Kuwait.
The UN representative reported to the UN in 1997 that UNSCOM's work had covered virtually everything about Iraq.
In 1998 the International Atomic Energy Agency declared that Iraq no longer had a nuclear capacity.
The oil for food programme started in 1996 has been excessively bureaucratic and incompetent, resulting in long delays in procuring essential medicines and food supplies.
If the sanctions were intended to dislodge Saddam Hussein, this has not still been achieved after ten years.
However, ten years of sanctions have caused enormous suffering and hardship for the 22 million people of Iraq.
The intellectual embargo has deprived doctors, teachers and other professionals of the advances in science and technology.
I hope that this House will vote in favour of this resolution.
Mr President, on 15 April this year, following a full debate with the Council and the Commission, we adopted a resolution that was endorsed by an overwhelming majority of this House.
Secondly, we propose that our Parliament should take the initiative in sending a fact-finding mission on the ground.
In particular we must ask Iraq to cooperate with the International Committee of the Red Cross on tracing the 604 Kuwaiti citizens who disappeared as a result of the illegal Iraqi occupation of Kuwait.
If there is to be any EU visit to Iraq it must include a visit to those families in Kuwait who are still waiting to know ten years later what happened to their loved ones.
What a contrast and what hypocrisy between so-called humanitarianism and this holocaust that we are collectively carrying out due to simple cowardice in the face of American power, that great empire that this House in particular and Europe in general are incapable of opposing on any subject, as yesterday' s vote on Echelon showed once again.
It is precisely this obsession of Saddam Hussein' s which reveals the very risky naivety of Paragraph 3 of the joint resolution, because the lifting of the no-fly zone in the North of Iraq - remember this is the international guarantee for the Kurds against their arch enemy Saddam - will probably drive millions of Kurds to take flight once again.
On the question of human rights let me therefore sum up by saying that the Commission' s foreign policy remains, as ever, directed at helping to prevent conflicts, prevent infringements of human rights and promote democracy and human rights.
Wherever we encounter violent conflicts and infringements of human rights, we resolutely apply the means at our disposal, be it through dialogue, be it through diplomatic measures or be it in the form of economic cooperation and aid to these countries, in order to play a positive part in resolving the conflicts and promoting democracy and human rights.
But everyone in this House also knows that the oil for food programme has certain weaknesses, which once again the Iraqi regime has to answer for, and that is also why we are still using ECHO as an instrument in Iraq.
I would like to say a little more on an issue that is being discussed here for the first time today, namely hooligans and football.
One important instrument is the handbook the Council adopted in June 1999 on cooperation between police authorities and measures to prevent violence at international football matches.
The handbook sets out practical rules of conduct for the police, which were applied for the first time at the Euro 2000 championship in the Netherlands and Belgium.
The evaluation of the Euro 2000 championship will provide a great deal of useful information on improving the measures to combat hooliganism.
Its findings on the police action during the Euro 2000 championship will be useful for similar future events.
The Commission will await the findings of this project before putting forward practical proposals to improve the existing measures.
Once the Euro 2000 championship has been evaluated, the Commission and these two countries will establish more concrete contacts.
Mr President, let me say that I am shocked and horrified at the Commission reply on the issue of Iraq and the dismissive way in which they dealt with it.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
I hope it will thereby be possible to finance, in a significant way, the programme for recovery of the areas affected and that it will be drawn up according to the models for this type of action.
This issue of Venezuela is serious and urgent.
I hope the Commission is capable of mobilising the necessary human resources to deal with the priorities indicated by this Parliament and I am sure that, if the Commission, as it has proposed in its preliminary draft budget for 2001, is going to be able to spend EUR 815 million in the Balkans, it will also be able to spend EUR 50 million in Venezuela.
Mr President, this issue raises a problem which goes much further than the resolution on Venezuela.
The problem involves the preservation of Parliament' s capacity to respond to this type of situation.
Mr President, the three points which the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left wishes to make on the aid which the European Union can and must give to Venezuela as a result of the terrible flood disaster are: first, we should throw ourselves economically and technically into resolving the consequences suffered, and not reduce this aid, as the Commission intends, in order to fund another catastrophe, this time artificial, caused by us in the Balkans, in Kosovo and in Yugoslavia.
Finally, last but not least, we should reflect on our methods of production and our consumption of natural resources, because this lies behind these catastrophes, and we should not be regularly lamenting them.
Of course, we have had good experiences with the European Union' s contribution to Central America after the Mitch disaster, and we also saw a good initial reaction on the part of the Commission, which quickly allocated EUR 400 000 for emergency humanitarian aid to Venezuela when the disaster mentioned by previous speakers happened.
We must remember for example that the European Union is the main foreign investor in Venezuela and that we have many cultural and social ties with those countries.
As a member of the European Parliament' s ad hoc delegation, I was able to witness the terrible effects of what is considered to be the worst natural disaster that has ever occurred in Latin America.
This aid is directed at two things.
The disaster-prevention measures are very much in need of improvement, as we have indeed learned from this disaster in Venezuela.
I believe the best way we can help the people in the long term is for us to concentrate on that.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
I believe that what happened to Mr Pelinka, a renowned academic respected by the scientific community, is indicative of the true nature of the coalition in power in Austria.
There certainly is an urgent need to call on all the governments - as I propose - to support the Monitoring Centre.
Mr President, I will tell you immediately that the ELDR group refused to sign the joint resolution for a very simple reason: we find it a little over-emotional, while not forceful enough, and does not offer the possibility of a more political and more balanced choice in the name of Parliament.
I do not understand their agreement on the text in its current form, in relation to the initial text that they themselves introduced.
I am sad to see the ÖVP members also giving us a sample here of the way they deal with government critics in their own country; in fact attempting to present them as traitors to their country.
A policy that does not respect the independence of the judiciary does not, in the final analysis, respect the principle of the separation of powers and thus violates a basic principle of democracy.
The Commission services have already requested the Austrian authorities to appoint a new member of the Management Board.
The Commission emphasises the importance of the independence of members of the Management Board, as provided for in the regulation on setting up the Centre.
We are firmly convinced that the Monitoring Centre plays an important role in combating racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism.
Before the vote on Venezuela: Mr President, the same applies here as to the one I just spoke about.
The President has already replied.
Vote Mr President, I simply wish to express our enormous sadness at the news we have just received concerning a horrendous accident on the Spanish roads, in which a lorry has collided with a school bus transporting Catalan school children, with an initial toll of 20 dead and 30 injured, some of whom are very seriously injured.
Mr President, as rapporteur for the previous item, I have the task of explaining on behalf of the members of the Group of the Europe People's Party and European Democrats that we abstained from voting on the legislative resolution because Amendment 6 to Article 2 of the directive has been adopted.
A written explanation of vote will be submitted.
This concerns Amendments Nos 4, 5, 6, 18, 21, 33, 36, 40, 42 and 46, some of which directly imply policy down to individual schools in Member States.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE - Redondo Jiménez report (A5-0152/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Redondo report which regulates European Union interventions in the event of fires and atmospheric pollution.
I voted for the motion but I would prefer it if, in future, in implementing the proposal, we took into consideration the fact that many pensioners and elderly people live near forests and they are often the only people left in remote and countryside areas.
The amendments to the regulation on protecting forests against fires are particularly important for Portugal.
For Portugal, where fires have destroyed large areas of forest, it is vital to increase appropriations in order to supplement national investment in building infrastructure, for example, and to help local authorities, private landowners' associations or wasteland management bodies to buy fire prevention equipment.
This is why the increase to EUR 77 million in Community appropriations proposed by the rapporteur as opposed to the EUR 50 million proposed by the Commission is so important.
I know the Committee on Agriculture tells us that we are having the wrong debate in defending an increase in the budget in the context of these reports.
Personally, I consider that we have a political responsibility to send strong political signals to the Commission, the Council and the citizens.
In December 1999, part of the European Union was hit by terrible storms which devastated a large proportion of the forests in southern and eastern France and created despair among the victims, in particular small-holders.
Regulation No 3582/86 is about the protection of forests against atmospheric pollution and Regulation No 2158/92 has established a framework for the protection of forests against fires.
The rapporteur proposes increasing the sums allocated to both of these programmes, whereas the Commission proposal seeks to cut them drastically.
The problem is identifying whether there actually is added value.
Subsidiarity works in favour of Community action in this specific context.
So, the Nordic countries, which since 1998 have comprised most of Europe' s forested areas, are affected most of all by atmospheric pollution, stresses due to climatic factors and soil acidification whereas the countries of southern Europe are more subject to the effects of desertification, drought and fires.
Now, when the Commission' s communication of 2 February 2000 advocates resorting to the all-out precautionary principle and a Community action programme in favour of civil protection instituted by the Council Decision of 9 December 1999 is waiting only to be implemented, is not the time to cut off funding for Regulation No 2158/92.
The heart of the problem is political, however.
Some Member States have expressed doubts as to the importance of forests, even though the forestry industry employs 2.2 million people in Europe, and forests cover 36% of the surface area of the European Union!
We call on the European Parliament to stand by its repeated votes and positions on the need to strengthen measures to prevent and fight fires and protect and enhance the value of our forest heritage in all areas of the Union.
Mr President, I abstained from the vote on the Arvidsson report on restrictions on the use of phthalates.
The members of the Group of the Europe People's Party and European Democrats choose to abstain from voting on the legislative resolution because Amendment 6 to Article 2 has been adopted.
Reason: Marking toys designed for children between 3 and 6 years of age and childcare articles manufactured completely or partially from soft PVC plastic containing phthalates, and their packaging, with a warning label is very difficult and in reality is likely to be tantamount to an indirect, extended ban.
I was a rapporteur on this subject in 1992 and I am particularly interested in following legislative developments on the subject.
To avoid encouraging children to suck or chew on their toys, we should add a clause to prevent flavouring substances being added.
Consumer Product Safety Commission, only rarely, if at all, among children is there a risk of exposure to harmful chemicals, as the quantities of phthalates in toys do not exceed that level which could be considered harmful.
Although it was found in the 1980s that very large quantities of phthalates caused liver tumours in rats and mice, official agencies in Europe and the United States have not confirmed that phthalates present a risk of cancer in humans.
In practice the problem is a minor one, however, as the European toy industry has, in the main, stopped using phthalates.
Hieronymi Report (A5-0186/2000) Mr President, I voted for the MEDIA report but I feel that, since pensioners and the elderly watch television more than anyone else and are therefore extremely interested in this European Union aid, it would be beneficial if they were able to watch a European television channel broadcasting European programmes.
I therefore hope that my proposal will be taken into account when the document is implemented. - (SV) The Swedish Christian Democrats have fundamental objections, based on the principle of subsidiarity as laid down in the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties, to EU funds being used in any way to develop, produce or market what are known as European films and film training.
At no point in the texts, though, is this priority stated, but more especially, in none of the countries of the European Union is it applied.
Mombaur Report (A5-0180/2000) Mr President, I voted for the motion partly because one of the recitals states that competition does not prevent the States from imposing public service obligations in the general interest on the parties involved.
As you will be aware, at the Santa Maria da Feira European Council, the Commission was asked to present a report by March 2001 on developments in the energy markets under the Lisbon strategy, so that we could assess progress in the liberalisation of the electricity market at the Stockholm Summit in March 2001.
The energy sector is crucial to the economic development of a country and vital to its defence.
Radwan Report (A5-0169/2000) Mr President, the 1999 annual report of the European Central Bank is not terribly forthcoming on the subject of the main question that all observers are asking: why has the euro, which was presented as a strong currency, turned out in the end to be a weak currency?
This will not change a great deal in the short term.
As I explained at a recent symposium of the French National Assembly, the Charter of Fundamental Rights is intended to serve, among other things, to put an even greater stranglehold on the peoples of Europe in relation to Community law and hence also in relation to the single currency.
This report reflects the concern felt by many leaders in the face of the public' s virtually total lack of interest in the implementation of the euro.
We are, however, eighteen months away from a crucial deadline: the withdrawal of national currencies and the start of the physical circulation of euro notes and coins.
In order to make up for this omission, the European Parliament is demanding that the information policy be stepped up, increasing appropriations by approximately 30%, to EUR 38 million per annum.
Let me mention, incidentally, that we have always challenged the Commission' s option to make expenditure commitments without a legal basis, and we also challenged this interinstitutional agreement which the Council was weak enough to accept in contravention of the customary principles of proper management of public monies.
In our vote, we attached importance to information being provided in the individual countries by the Member States and to special agreements being entered into with the Member States concerning this issue.
The Karas report mainly intends to instil more confidence in the euro among the public at large by, inter alia, involving sports associations and education.
So when the honourable Members reject the amendment tabled by William Abitbol, simply asking that this integrationist objective be clearly stated in the Commission' s communication programmes, they are contributing to a propaganda operation which their voters will most certainly punish them for.
The resolution of the Karas report claims that women for some reason do not share the general enthusiasm which should have greeted the implementation of the euro.
The principle of subsidiarity must be applied here, and each Member State must retain control of the organisation of air traffic control.
In conclusion, I support the proposals to strengthen the role of Eurocontrol, the pan-European agency responsible for the management of the airspace of European states, be they members of the European Union or not, in its capacity as regulatory authority.
We must also measure the problems due to the air companies or the limited European civil airspace with regard to the number of overflights.
Air traffic control does not play a very significant part in causing delays, in the final analysis, and, in any case, improvement of the system involves improving the organisation of the coordination of the various Member State control systems, supporting Eurocontrol in this role.
From this critical stance, we tabled 11 amendments.
Since it is true that effective cooperation is required and since technical and disciplinary measures are essential in this area, we do not support these guidelines, which are even more radically in favour of liberalisation than those suggested by the Commission.
We, on the other hand, are in favour of the harmonised development of transport on a European level, prioritising the fulfilment of real social needs, and opting for railways as the best solution for most needs, particularly for distances of less than 500 kilometres.
It is for all these reasons that I voted against this report.
Damião Report (A5-0141/2000) I voted for the Damião report, Mr President, partly because I voted for the amendment which stipulated that women on maternity leave should receive a full allowance.
If there is enough money to spend on dogs and cats, there ought to be enough for women on maternity leave, who are not ill but people who have the right to a full allowance.
Mr President, this report on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the health and safety at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding is very valid and is a step in the right direction.
It is a very important part of the cultural and social identity which every nation and every country creates.
Moreover, we should not like our vote in favour of the specific protection of women night-workers during pregnancy to be interpreted as legitimising women' s working night shifts.
The prohibition of night work for women is a right acquired by the working movement in France.
To speak of equality between men and women is hypocrisy.
We wish to point out and highlight the risks inherent in a strict prohibition on dismissal, especially under the present, extended regime of generalised atypical employment contracts and the indirect exclusion of pregnant women from jobs, a regime in which we need not just to maintain and consolidate but to increase maternity leave, define the maternity allowance more clearly and apply strict and more substantive controls on night work by pregnant and breastfeeding working women.
A strict European framework must be established to protect pregnant women against any form of discrimination during recruitment, regarding issues of their working conditions, access to maternity leave or its duration: 20 weeks including 8 mandatory weeks after the birth.
Finally, night work must be prohibited for both men and women in sectors where it is not absolutely essential, rather than seeking to modify the conditions for pregnant women.
However, after five years, it has become clear that short shipping is still merely an empty promise which has not been kept, despite the verbal support by the Transport Council of 8 December 1999, which considered short sea shipping as a priority.
It is a fact that transport shipping will increase by 70% in the next decade.
It is impossible to meet this growing demand by road transport alone.
Parliament and your rapporteur have looked at the Commission plans with a critical eye and tried, in consultation with all parties involved, as befits a Parliament, to compile this report.
Once again, short sea shipping can only take off in Europe if it is considered an integral part of the transport chain.
Innovation in the construction of specialist ships will prove decisive here and this could give our shipbuilding industry a shot in the arm.
For example, the road transport monopoly springs to mind, with the impact this has on the levels at which short sea shipping should pitch its prices to tie in with Bilbao' s short sea port.
The market is still fragmented at present.
The setting up of these new lines requires critical mass and it could be one or two years before these resources are available.
The European Union will need to help out by providing cheap loans from the European Investment Bank in order to overcome this difficulty.
Furthermore, I wish to say that there are two things which I am regretting right now: firstly, that I am not able to hear the opinion of our friend Mr Fatuzzo on how short sea shipping affects the interests of European pensioners, and secondly, that so few Members are present because, considering the egotistical interests of this House, it is probable that one day they will regret not having found out about the issue of short sea shipping, because they will perhaps have to use it one day to travel to and from Strasbourg.
I would like to highlight the fact that in the last two years there have been a series of actions which have had positive effects on short sea shipping.
This has made it possible, as the Commission' s report points out, for intra-Community sea transport activity to increase by 23% between 1990 and 1997.
All of this indicates therefore that we not only need more vigorous quantitative measures but that we probably need a different qualitative focus.
This means a revitalisation of the whole area, as is well known by the people who live in those cities, in those regions, in which the ship-building industry is a very active element in the local economy.
First, we can improve the interfaces with other modes of transport by introducing modern systems of transhipment - especially to inland shipping - standardising containers, promoting transport logistics services for the entire transport chain and by many other means mentioned in the report.
I hope that the next progress report in two years' time will tell us that we have moved a little closer to our vision, our vision of a successful intermodal transport system in Europe.
My group endorses Amendments Nos 1 and 4 accordingly.
If we were to interpret the regulation on maritime cabotage sensibly, we would say: Of course these peninsulas are functionally equivalent to islands, and public service obligations apply in these cases as well.
Mr President, Mrs Peijs, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission' s communication on the development of short sea shipping in Europe and the very good report on it by Mrs Peijs give a realistic picture of the development of this environmentally-friendly mode of transport in Europe over the past two years.
The development and promotion of short sea shipping are a particularly important step on the way to developing a system of multimodal transport for the European Union and bordering regions.
Efficiency, cost-effectiveness, environmental compatibility and sustainability distinguish this form of transport from road transport and can offer a serious alternative in coastal regions.
The integration of short sea shipping in the logistics chain of door-to-door delivery can be an effective means of sustaining the growing economic cooperation between the EU and its neighbouring states and satisfying the growing need for transport that accompanies it.
Mr President, I would like to say the following on behalf of Mr van Dam.
Transport policy requires choices.
The mode of transport we are discussing here, short sea shipping, has the reputation of being a mode of transport which can counter the negative effects of the transport sector, especially in terms of the space occupied and environmental pollution, in more than one way.
Given the developments in the road transport sector as a result of new European emission standards for fuels, I am of the opinion that in order to boost the environmental performance of short sea shipping, we need to lay down a European directive concerning maximum permitted emission levels generated by ships' engines.
Mr President, Commissioner, living as I do in a country with an extensive coastline and many islands - in fact I live on an island -, I have first-hand experience of the value of short sea shipping.
It is worth noting that, although the volume of traffic carried by this form of transport has risen over recent years, road transport has fared better, meaning that special attention needs to be given to this more environmentally-friendly form of transport.
Developing cabotage has an immediate impact on social and economic development in our regions and hence on the cohesion of the European Union.
As always, I would like to remind you that the regional and structural policy of the Union, as a whole, is a response to the specific disadvantages suffered by certain European regions, such as the so-called outermost regions.
In this way, we could correct the error made by the Commission when it drew up the two-yearly report on the development of this type of transport, of employing an incomplete definition of short sea shipping.
What is most peculiar about our situation is, however, that our shipping always comes to a halt in the winter unless certain measures are taken, because the sea freezes.
That is the problem.
It is an important addition to the reports on railways and air traffic.
For the measures proposed in the report to be implemented, good levels of co-operation will be required between the Union, Member States, players at local level, and companies too, as will genuine investment of time and money in short sea shipping.
Mr President, first of all I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report.
To be competitive ports have to be more efficient and for this they will certainly require more support.
Mr President, Mrs Peijs, I should first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of her report.
There are, however, two points in your report that I have a problem with.
Firstly, the proposal to draw up a list of ports particularly suitable for short sea shipping.
Moreover, there is a suggestion that the logistical services offered to users should be combined in a single unit.
In this context and in this spirit, the Member States should moreover harmonise their regulations so as to prevent distortions, which, particularly in the case of mainland transport, often cause hold-ups.
Several bottlenecks hamper the development of short sea shipping.
National short sea promotion offices should play an essential role in implementing this policy.
Thank you for ensuring that we all move in the same direction.
Mr President, I should like to express my disappointment that on a matter on which I have had a written question before the Commission for more than six weeks, and which I raised in the debate, I have had no acknowledgement, far less a reply.
Thank you very much, Mr MacCormick.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Friday, at 9 a.m.
Civil dialogue The next item is the oral question to the Commission (B5-0533/2000), on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the future financing of the civil dialogue.
Firstly, it is indisputable that non-governmental organisations play a vital role in Member States, in the European Union and outside of the European Union.
Also, Article 136 of the European Treaty, in combination with declarations 23 and 38, underlines that cooperation with Wohlfahrtsverbände (welfare associations) is necessary, and these are also non-governmental organisations, of course.
The European Parliament has always put its money where its mouth is and has for some time, for some considerable time, created a line, B3 4101 in order to finance non-governmental organisations.
The six million dollar question now is how we can translate the finely worded ideas we have all expressed into reality.
We might otherwise run the risk of failing to implement not just a core task stipulated in the European Treaty, but also what has been stated by the European Council in Feira, because NGOs - and this is the only problem - are extremely sensitive, at least the majority of them, to breaks in payments to them.
They are far more sensitive to this than other organisations, and certainly Member States.
The Court of Justice' s ruling on case C 106/96 together with the Interinstitutional Agreement of 13 October 1998 on the legal bases have altered the conditions for financing social non-governmental organisations.
Moreover, the new rules on financing must be observed to the letter in all programmes and budget lines.
Against this background, organisations financed in the past will continue to be financed in future only if they satisfy the conditions set out in the decisions on certain action programmes, which will form the legal basis for the budget line in question.
The Commission will then approve the annual grants on the basis of detailed work plans and funding plans.
The NGOs have already welcomed the guideline for the administration of financial aid that entered into force in 1999 as progress.
The conditions set out in it will be incorporated in the budgetary rules and their implementing provisions in due course.
The two programmes proposed by the Commission - combating discrimination and social exclusion - should basically cover the running costs of the social NGOs that operate on a Europe-wide basis.
The Commission also takes the view that civil society plays a most important role in the European Union.
that have helped build up a stronger partnership, as was emphasised in the working document on the Commission and the NGOs adopted on 18 January 2000.
In line with these priorities, the President and several members of the Commission have made it clear on many occasions how much importance they attach to the civil dialogue.
The President of the Commission intends to consider the question of the dialogue with the citizens in the framework of the White Paper on strengthening democracy in Europe.
Finally, because we are of course involved in the development of NGOs in the new Member States, in the context of enlargement, we believe that this should be given extremely high priority.
The role of the non-governmental organisations in the democratic construction of the Union and the economic and social role they play in Europe, the entire social economy sector, the third sector, is now acknowledged in practice as well as in documents - if we consider that approximately nine million workers are employed in this sector - as a major sector of fundamental importance.
Earlier today we discussed the annual report of the Committee on Petitions, that is the complaints end of the process of evaluating what is going on within the European Union.
They make us think of new things and they are essential to our process.
The work we have been doing in various committees over the last few weeks on Article 13, the anti-discrimination article, would have been impossible without the input of those bodies.
I believe that if we set to work on a task like this with a certain diplomatic tactfulness, the Member States would react positively to the proposal.
You must be aware of the problems experienced by a good number of smaller NGOs in being able to respond to a number of invitations to tender.
The work they do in terms of relations and competencies is, however, just as important as that of the major NGOs, but some of them do not have the same administrative facilities that some major NGOs have.
It was not until the Dutroux case that we were able to obtain a budget line enabling two programmes to be run: Daphne and STOP.
This is precisely why, given that social matters are essentially part of the remit of NGOs, we must make progress in the matter of civil dialogue.
Since the 1998 budget crisis which saw the freezing of funds destined for NGO work with some of the most vulnerable people in Europe and the developing world, much progress has been made.
But words are not enough and two years after the 1998 budget crisis, the difficulties continue.
With our pre-accession aid, we are working very closely with the non-governmental organisations in the candidate countries; moreover our communications strategy, the organisational and financial framework of which has now been established, is also very much targeted at non-governmental organisations in candidate countries, since the aim is precisely to fully involve civil society in this important political process.
