Migration to the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) - Migration to the second generation Schengen Information System (SIS II) (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Carlos Coelho, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on migration to the second generation Schengen Information System (decision) (12059/1/2008 - C6-0188/2008 -, and the report by Carlos Coelho, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on migration to the second generation Schengen Information System (regulation) (11925/2/2008 - C6-0189/2008 -. (PT) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President of the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are examining two instruments: a regulation and a decision on migration from SISone4ALL to SIS II, including a comprehensive test that will assess whether the level of performance of SIS II is equivalent to that of the current system.
Lastly, the mandate given to the Commission in 2001 expires at the end of this year.
Firstly, the need for the European Commission to continue to have a mandate to develop SIS II until it is operational.
Thirdly, that all the conditions laid down in No 2 establishing the legal basis for SIS should be fulfilled before the migration of the data takes place.
The proposals we received on 3 September, on the same day that they were approved in Coreper, make major changes to the initial proposals.
However, once again, we are up against a tight schedule; the Commission's mandate expires at the end of 2008 and it is essential that the Council approve these proposals at the end of October.
As a matter of fact, the changes that have been made do answer most of the concerns outlined in my draft reports, especially in terms of clarifying the Commission's responsibilities and those of the Member States and that the Commission will continue to have a mandate to develop SIS II until it is operational.
The European Parliament wants to contribute to avoiding further delays and to having SIS II operational by the new date set: 30 September 2009.
Firstly, that the European Parliament should be updated on a six-monthly basis on the development of the project and, secondly, that the mandate given to the new Commission should not be an open-ended mandate and that a rule be included whereby the European Parliament has to be consulted again if there is a delay of more than one year.
We sincerely hope that this time the project will be concluded in a timely fashion and that SIS II can start operating on the scheduled date.
Obviously I return the compliment in terms of commitment to Europe, and to the Vice-President of the Commission, Jacques Barrot.
The 'SISone4ALL' system, Minister, developed on the initiative of the Portuguese Presidency, is a happy compromise that allowed the Member States that joined in 2004 to be included and, more importantly, led to the removal of controls at internal land borders, in December, and then at air borders, in March.
This is why the aim of the Schengen II or SIS II information system must be maintained; as you clearly explained, this is the real issue in our debate.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the Presidency and Mr Jouyet for agreeing just now with Mr Coelho's report, since I truly believe that progress needs to be made in this crucial area now, without delay.
If SIS II ever sees the light of day, then we will owe much to you, Mr Coehlo.
Therefore, Mr Coehlo, we are in full agreement with your amendments; that goes without saying.
For my part, Mr President, I would like to emphasise - like Mr Jouyet, speaking on behalf of the Presidency - that for Schengen to truly be a complete success - which it already is - we need SIS II.
on behalf of PPE-DE. - (RO) I endorse the rapporteur's proposal of setting the deadline for this new legislative package for 30 June 2010; this is important in order to prevent any possible delays in the implementation of the second generation of the Schengen Information System, SIS II.
The removal of border controls on land and at sea, which started on 21 December 2007, as well as in the air (March 2008) is a relevant step for nine of the ten Member States.
However, the working of the Schengen System in the three states depends on the working of SIS II in the current Schengen countries.
As is known, SIS II was initially scheduled to start operating in May 2007, then it was delayed for December 2008, and now it has been postponed again to September 2009.
These measures in the acquis are undermined by the fact that countries such as Romania, Bulgaria and Cyprus depend on the delayed implementation of SIS II in countries which are part of the Schengen Area.
Therefore, I call on the Commission and the French Presidency to solve the problem of managing SIS II and to negotiate with the contractor, so as to avoid the imposition of a new timeline for the implementation of SIS II.
Mr President, I wanted to say that Mrs Roure is the shadow rapporteur for this report.
We have already had to extend the Commission's mandate once until the end of December 2008 to carry out the migration.
However, we do not want the migration of SIS to SIS II to be rushed, since this would impact on the quality and security of the data and of the system as a whole.
However, there is no way that this process can continue without democratic scrutiny by the European Parliament.
This is why the PSE Group supports the rapporteur, in order to safeguard the powers of the European Parliament.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I would also like to extend my recognition to the rapporteur of his very good work.
The Schengen Information System is the largest common European database which operates as a joint information system for the Member States.
SIS II is also needed to bring on board the new Member States, as we have heard.
Nevertheless, as underlined by Commissioner Barrot, in this enlarged Schengen area, the reinforcement of security requirements has become even more urgent and can only be fully achieved by a full transition to the next generation of a system.
A must for this transition is that SIS II meets all the legally-defined technical and functional requirements, as well as other requirements such as robustness, response capacity and performance.
As the ALDE shadow rapporteur, I fully support the line taken by the rapporteur, notably that the Commission shall submit by the end of June 2009, and then by the end of every six-month period, a progress report to the Council and to Parliament concerning the development of SIS II and also concerning the migration from the Schengen Information System to the SIS I+ to the second generation SIS II.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Mr President, the subject we are now debating is of much greater importance than others that are regularly debated in this Chamber.
I am referring to the fact that Schengen also results in the mobility of huge numbers of people being restricted because of social systems.
The creation of a society of control with immense powers.
However, I do not believe that Schengen, or the EU for that matter, is the right forum for the purpose.
The date of 21 December 2007 was a great day in the history of my country, Slovakia, and of the entire EU.
This is why I should like to thank Carlos Coelho for producing this report and for the tremendous efforts he has made.
Mr Marinescu, I have praised the excellent work of the Portuguese Presidency, which has allowed new Member States to join the system.
In answer to Mrs Ždanoka and Mr Guerreiro, I understand - and Mrs Lefrançois underlined this - that several of you would like a further discussion on incorporating new functions into the system, but it is vital that we complete SIS II before we allow these.
In terms of the other speeches, which were mainly concerned with data protection, I would like to point out - as the President did, and we took part in this morning's debate on personal data protection with Commissioner Barrot - that we effectively want to continue the work undertaken at European level, and that we believe that the guarantees you requested, in terms of protecting this data and sharing information with third countries, must be in place.
Without returning to the general debate that we had this morning, I would just like to say that, in terms of the protection of this data, it was agreed that we would follow the recommendations of the European Data Protection Supervisor so that these concerns are taken into account.
As you said, President-in-Office, the services are in regular contact with those of the European Data Protection Supervisor to ensure that these rules are properly integrated into the development and management of SIS II.
A visit to Strasbourg by the European Data Protection Supervisor is planned in the first half of 2009, before the migration takes place, to ensure that data protection is secure.
The converter, which is in the process of being developed, will also enable secure data transfer from SIS I to SIS II.
Nevertheless, the implementation of SIS II does not just concern the central SIS II.
Mr President, I am taking the risk of making my final comments in French in response to the courteous remarks made by Mr Jouyet and Vice-President Barrot.
The Commission's mandate cannot end until SIS II is working properly.
I would also like to thank the Council, the Commission and all political groups in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs for their work on drafting the amendments that we will vote on tomorrow.
For us, the transparency clause is crucial: citizens have the right to be kept informed about Schengen and SIS II.
To finish, Mr President, I would like to explain why we like SIS II to those who have spoken rather negatively about the system.
We like SIS II because we like freedom of movement in Europe.
