Decision on urgent procedure Mr President, the Committee on Industry considers that this is an extremely important issue and should be dealt with as a matter of great urgency.
I therefore propose producing a simplified report so that we can vote on urgent procedure.
Mr Wynn, chairman of the Committee on Budgets, asked for an opinion, has the floor.
It has done so in the past and will do so in the future.
On this occasion there is no urgency for this to go through now.
Thank you Mr Wynn.
Mr President, we have not discussed it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, but my personal view is that we should not accept urgency now.
Mr President, in my opinion, this proposal has been submitted under rather strange procedural circumstances.
Montenegro is in great danger, especially from Belgrade, and I think we should send out this signal.
It cannot take it away from Kosovo.
Mr President, firstly, I am against the urgency for the reasons expounded by the chairman of the Committee on Budgets.
I therefore propose that we examine the next item on the agenda.
Secondly, we must also exercise extreme restraint in the area of staff policy in the coming year.
And we must also solve the problem of promotion in the autumn in a way which is acceptable to all institutions.
My fifth point is that this increased responsibility must also find expression with regard to groups in the European Parliament.
We need to be a bit more realistic in our approach to the important question of enlargement.
We moved into a new building in Brussels three years ago, we moved into a new building here in Strasbourg a year ago and if we tap the taxpayer on the shoulder again so soon after and say we need more buildings, more office space, he is only likely to agree to so much.
A budget with EUR 987 million is not very much in comparison to the budget of over EUR 90 billion which the Commissioner will propose shortly, but this is the taxpayers' money and we must take our decision as the trustees of that money.
We shall have to discuss this again in September during the first reading of this budget, once all the documents from the budget discharge procedure have been submitted.
I should like today to thank the Bureau of the European Parliament, especially the vice-president responsible for budgetary questions, Gerhard Schmid, for their constructive cooperation, especially during the conciliation procedure between the Bureau and the Committee on Budgets.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work that he is doing for our House in terms of getting value for money out of our budget.
It is not right that we should be expecting the Commission to do a whole range of things in putting their House and their budget in order unless we also take the same kinds of rigorous steps.
The approach which has been taken is absolutely correct, not only in making sure that we do not simply give money away if we have a little spare in the budget, but also where we have asked the Secretary-General of Parliament to come forward with a number of reports: for example, in paragraph 6 of the resolution where we have asked the Secretary-General to look at and identify job needs in the same way as the Commission so that we can match job needs to the staff which we have available in the longer term.
That quite clearly is a way of long-term planning which is very sensible at this stage of Parliament's life.
There are three things which I would like to emphasise in particular in this Parliament Budget 2001.
It is a matter of frustration for many of us that our staff can access the net with their computers, of course, Parliament's computers, but if we as parliamentarians bring in our own computers, we do not have a place to plug them in and work effectively.
It is important to have a date when this facility will be available to us.
We never saw it as a report on suggesting how the hub and spoke system should work - the relay system for interpretation - nor, indeed, did we really have any thinking about the freelancing possibilities with modern communications where we can dispatch a large amount of our translation material to people who are in the Member States, rather than recruiting a whole range of people to come and work in Luxembourg as fixed and permanent employees of Parliament.
Therefore, I strongly support the compromise which has been put forward by our rapporteur asking, by first reading, for the Secretary-General to come up with a strategy of how to handle the whole question of languages in Parliament and enlargement.
I suspect the Commission might wish to do that as well, because it is a problem which rightly, in this amendment, relates to interinstitutional matters.
Our main priority has to be to explain to European citizens what we are doing, why we are doing it and how we are doing it.
We must win the confidence of the European taxpayer and we can only do this by improving accountability through simplifying - not mystifying - the work of Parliament, by reducing jargon, by improving the process of approving legislation and improving the legislative machinery and by making a clear connection between what we do here and how it benefits the individual.
We are going a long way towards achieving this transparency through the introduction of activity-based budgeting and the proposal we have in this report to put appropriations for political parties in separate budget lines will contribute significantly to achieving this.
We in the Socialist Group strongly believe that the European Parliament should be giving every encouragement to candidate countries in their preparation to joint the EU.
I have the impression that there are those in this House who appear to be frustrating this process of enlargement by placing unnecessary obstacles in the way and often using spurious arguments to limit the preparation for enlargement: for example, the rejection of the proposal to fill the 35 vacant posts in the language reserve between 2001 and 2002.
I strongly favour planning properly for enlargement because experience has shown that there is a long lead-in time for the training of interpreters and translators.
We need to plan and to be imaginative and to be creative as to how we prepare for enlargement because nothing will be more damaging to the EU if we make a bad job of enlargement.
The average time that it takes for a case to be heard has risen from 17 months in 1988 to 23 months last year.
What we need to do is to have reforms, not just in the areas of staffing and procedures, but we also need to have a new approach in terms of buildings policy.
I am a relatively new Member of Parliament and while I see a lot of good work going on in the committees, I am acutely aware that as a result of the new responsibilities in the Treaty of Amsterdam there is a need not just for individual support for Members but also scientific support for committees.
The Commission's Work Programme now incorporates a very large number of codecision procedures and these procedures have significantly increased our workload.
If we are to convince the people of the EU of the importance of the European Parliament's work and persuade them to take it more seriously, we need to improve our systems of working.
I have been disappointed by some aspects of the report's focus.
Rather than reducing the budget we should be looking at how we improve security services, and the question we should be asking is: should we have our own security services or should we be retendering it rather than just reducing the budget?
Already, at this early stage, the intention is to spend this increase on the creation of 33 new posts and, apparently, 12 more will be created as a result of the amendment by the Bureau.
For example, we have been asked to pass judgement on the fact that the Directorate for Committees and Delegations must comprise five A posts, two B posts and one C post, and that one A post and two B posts must be added to the Directorate-General for Personnel.
Moreover, generally speaking, the objective is to reduce the budget.
On behalf of the radicals in this House, I must inform you that I shall be voting against Mr Ferber' s report.
We are in agreement and we are very happy.
I believe that the rapporteur, in drawing up this draft budget for 2001, has been rigorous, has made optimum use of resources and has, at the same time, been imaginative and looked to the future.
These three challenges faced by the European Parliament should be set in a context of great budgetary rigour and complete transparency in the use of public funds.
I believe - and I agree with him on this - that the rapporteur wants a Parliament that treats the MEPs' political work, both in Strasbourg and in Brussels, as well as in their individual political constituencies, as a priority.
Six new countries - with at least five new languages - in 2004 means that we will have to make a great effort to adapt.
In order to fill these vacancies, we will need to know the exact order in which the candidate countries will join the Union, and that is something that cannot happen now or in this budget.
We must ensure that we can achieve equality in arms with the other legislative authority, namely the Council, both in respect of the scientific service and scientific research.
Allow me to comment now on the question of enlargement, because that is the only point on which we disagree with Mr Ferber and, above all, with our colleagues in the PPE group.
As far as preparing for new languages is concerned, if you read the Cot report, called for by the honourable Member of your group, Mr Elles, you will see that we shall have an additional 460 language combinations in the future.
According to one estimate, this will mean another 500 translators and interpreters.
Mr President, allow me to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Ferber, for the good work he has done.
A good deal in the report under discussion is based on the assumption that the EU will be enlarged by six new Member States in 2004.
A few days ago, the Commission said it was its own objective to be able to welcome ten new Member States by the year 2005.
My only criticism is that Amendments Nos 4 and 5 should have been tabled in someone else's name for the PPE Group.
Parliament demands that the Commission and the other institutions are prudent with taxpayers' money, and we think the same should apply to the European Parliament.
I also have a loyalty to my political group which has given me this speaking time.
One only has to look at paragraphs 15 to 18 to see how serious we are about the buildings policy.
The policy of ramassage has been a great success for this Parliament.
What we have done with the Belliard building may not be ideal but at least it is a step in the right direction, and it is now off our backs.
It seems that we expect everything and, at the same time, we expect nothing at all from the European Union' s priorities, as we can see from the level of budgetary transposition - or lack thereof.
Mr President, as other colleagues have said, dealing with Amsterdam and preparing for enlargement are major challenges for this institution.
The decision will be taken for us.
As Members will notice, the Finnish interpreters do a good job speaking English and other languages because we could not recruit Finnish-speaking English interpreters.
So I want Parliament to rethink the 35 language posts.
The second area where we still have much to do as an Institution is informatics.
The new Amsterdam situation means that when we pass amendments and resolutions in this Chamber we have to be more aware of the legal consequences as well as the political consequences of what we are deciding.
However, to spend one or two per cent more in order to ensure that we remain effective is worth it, and we should look at prudence in the context of the wider demands of this Parliament.
Above all, however, what is important is that you have paid a great deal of attention in your report to the question of enlargement and staff policy in the translating and interpreting sector and, of course, the question of what measures are taken here is a highly political one.
In this respect, congratulations once again on your report, especially on the fact that the report on the Budget 2001 looks beyond the Budget 2001.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
Presentation by Commission of preliminary draft budget for 2001 The next item is the presentation by the Commission of the preliminary draft budget for 2001.
Commission. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in February, the Commission debated the priorities for the European budget for next year and had the opportunity to discuss these priorities in detail with the European Parliament both here in plenary and, more importantly, in the Committee on Budgets and in the various trialogues between the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council which have taken place since.
Now to the budget proper: as with every national budget, most of the figures in the European budget for a given year are determined by contracts, by previous decisions in past years and by legal bases in past years.
This is particularly true of agricultural expenditure in the area of the organisation of the markets, the largest item in the budget, including in the Budget 2001, and of the Structural Funds and multiannual programmes, be they in research, youth measures or foreign policy.
Despite the fact that figures are determined by previous years, the Budget 2001 also sets clear political priorities and, following discussions over recent months, I think I can say that the priorities in the Commission' s preliminary draft budget tally to a large extent with Parliament' s priorities.
Take, for example, the priority under the second pillar of agricultural policy; the highest rate of increase in the Commission' s preliminary draft budget is for promoting the development of rural areas and I think that this in fact highlights that the Commission considers that we need to focus on the second pillar of agricultural policy.
We have already had the opportunity to debate this in great detail, especially assistance in the Balkans.
I think that this figure clearly illustrates that the preliminary draft budget is in keeping with the overall policy of budgetary rigour, and that the rate of increase in payments as a whole, without agricultural expenditure, is 3%.
I stress this because it will certainly play an important part during the debate with the Council.
However, we have included a considerable increase in agricultural expenditure in the preliminary draft budget, namely 7.6% or, in absolute terms, a total of EUR 3.12 billion.
This is mainly as a result of the resolutions passed by the Heads of State and Government at the Berlin Summit last year and these agreed financial perspectives form part of the interinstitutional agreement concluded last year between the Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
I should point out that this figure for agricultural policy actually makes provision for the draft budget for agricultural policy to remain under the ceiling decided in Berlin because the Commission proposal includes shifting EUR 300 million from the agricultural budget to foreign policy, yet still there is such a high rate of growth for agricultural policy.
I highlight this - we also have extremely intensive debates in the Member States on state quotas, which are between 40 and 50% - in order to illustrate the fact that the European budget accounts for 1.07% of the total gross national product.
This clearly illustrates that the budget of the European Union is worth its weight in gold.
it does not, for example, include expenditure by Member States for KFOR troops.
I should point out that the proposal for Serbia for the year 2001 makes provision for a fixed sum of 40 million.
The Commission has proposed that, if the political situation changes in Serbia, additional funds will be provided from the flexibility reserve.
You, yourself, said just now that the Budget 2001 is only 1% higher than the Budget 2000 without agricultural expenditure and we all know that agricultural expenditure accounts for a huge part of our budget.
It is through Category 3, which encompasses all our priorities - not only Category 3, Category 4 also of course - but it is mainly through internal policies that all citizens perceive the European Union.
But what about social dialogue and employment - down 4.7%.
To my mind, the preliminary draft budget, as it now stands, takes no account of Parliament' s priorities.
I have just this to say about Category 4: I think it is asking for trouble to support Serbia with such a small amount in 2001 and, at the same time, to say that once Serbia has democratised we can again use our flexibility instrument.
Thank you, Mrs Haug.
I know we should not do so, but there is that link between the two which makes me want to comment on both.
The second factor will be Parliament's attitude to redeployment, especially in Category IV, not just for 2001 but for the whole of the Financial Perspective.
The proposal to take EUR 2 million per year away from South Africa for six years may not seem much.
I would not be happy with that and I am sure other people in other areas of interest in Category IV would adopt a similar attitude.
Then we have Parliament's attitude towards redeployment in Category I.
Similarly, we have to consider our approach to the use of the flexibility instrument if it was invoked for Serbia, as you suggest.
The third factor, and probably the most important one, is the attitude of the Council.
Mrs Schreyer, you are something of a juggler and an illusionist at the same time, with the proposals that have been made.
You have to keep several balls in the air and, at the same time, because of what is proposed after 2003, you have to make more appear.
In this specific instance, I move that this report be deemed inadmissible and that we move on to the report which is the next item on the agenda.
Such a motion shall be put to the vote immediately." According to the Rules of Procedure, one person may speak for and one person against the motion, after which it is put to the vote immediately without further debate.
Mrs Theato, are you speaking against Mr Dell'Alba' s motion?
Secondly, I would be obliged if Mr Dell'Alba could tell me what he means by saying that I have blocked documents for weeks.
I have therefore taken recourse to Rule 181 of the Rules of Procedure and proposed an amendment to the Rules of Procedure.
The text which I have proposed is in line with the original proposal of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
I urge you to support this initiative to amend the Rules of Procedure.
This is why I fail to comprehend why a number of proposed amendments to my report claim that the Court' s judgement has strengthened the position of the European Investment Bank and the European Central Bank in their opposition to the regulation.
The European Court of Justice and the Court of Auditors have duly implemented the provisions of the OLAF regulation in corresponding internal decisions.
Three points on the content of my report.
Point number 2 concerns the European financial public prosecutor who, in the initial stage, has the right to support the national courts in prosecuting criminal offences committed by officials or employees of the Union.
The report also includes a number of points from the White Paper on the reform of the Commission in connection with OLAF.
And yet I have just heard from some quarters that we should postpone a decision on these points and not take a stand on them just yet.
Except that the Commission wants to implement all the points addressed here before the summer recess.
In our Community, there is hardly anything worse than fraud to undermine public confidence in the activities of the Union, and so the views of the rapporteur deserve our full support.
It is important that the work being undertaken by the Commission should be expanded because, in a situation in which 20% of irregularity amounts to fraud, the fact of the matter is that by referring to it as fraud and irregularity, European citizens can often be left with an impression that all of the claims are fraudulent ones.
The second point that I want to make is about the commitment of Member States to deal with fraud.
They are responsible for administering some 80% of the EU's budget and they must recognise that they are, at the very least, partners if not prime movers in attempting to address this important issue, and the report indicates that the performance of Member States has been mixed to say the least.
My final point concerns the accession countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, when deciding here in Parliament whether or not to grant discharge to the Commission, we check that there is no irregularity in expenditure by the administration.
Nevertheless, deeper causes for error rates clearly lie in the different handling systems in the Member States.
I would remind you at this point that Parliament called for an external chamber for budgetary discipline in its resolution of 19 January.
With an increase in staff, with a new structure and independence, all the conditions are now in place for OLAF to concentrate on fighting fraud in an area where the objective and verifiable figures point to a more serious situation.
Special report No 9 of the Court of Auditors on the protection of the European Union' s financial interests in the area of VAT on intra-Community trade points to an even more serious situation.
According to the Court of Auditors, the gap between actual receipts and their theoretical amount is EUR 70 thousand million.
Unlike the main areas of expenditure, which the Commission monitors and on which it imposes a system of sanctions, there is nothing comparable in these two vital areas of the Community' s own resources.
Despite the fact that there is widespread agreement on the need to overcome the problems of fighting fraud which result from restrictions imposed by national legislation, or to the lack of a legal basis in Community legislation, the Commission' s proposals have not, until today, met with any response and the anti-fraud sub-committee in the area of indirect taxation has found it impossible, in the words of the Commission "to achieve meaningful progress and cannot take the necessary decisions to improve the fight against fraud" .
What is more serious than this is the fact that the Commission' s reports on VAT collection have been scandalously disregarded by the other institutions and have not been followed up to any degree by the Member States.
Compliance with Article 280 of the Treaty, specifically where it requires the effective and equivalent protection of the Community' s financial interests will be dead letter unless we overcome the situation of there being a loophole in the law in the area of traditional own resources and VAT.
Everyone has a right to a defence, including those who need to be investigated by OLAF.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to emphasise the point I raised to the effect that, out of the 19 recitals and the 30 paragraphs of the Bösch report, there were only 11 recitals and 6 paragraphs to do with the subjects that Mr Bösch was supposed to be discussing.
Important matters, I do not deny, but matters which have already been dealt with in the van Hulten report and the Theato report, or matters which will be dealt with when we come to discuss the White Paper, the reform and OLAF, with the judgement and the ruling of the Court of First Instance.
Probably in your own country too, and these were not exactly models of democracy.
I think this report is a waste of a lot of paper.
Mr President, Mr Bösch has prepared a good report on protection against fraud.
With reference to 1998, I believe that we should recognise that, after having intensified the task of control, which should be initiated by Parliament and which OLAF carries out, the number of cases of fraud and irregularities has stabilised.
Without relaxing our efforts to control expenditure - of which we have shown signs in the past - we can see that this stabilisation has been the result of an increase in control.
However, I think it is very important that, in this first stage - precisely because we are interested in control - we do not increase OLAF' s scope of activity so soon after it has begun its work.
It is essential that we allow OLAF to continue to pursue its scope of activity little by little and that we expand its role at a later date.
As usual - and as has already been mentioned - the annual report shows that in 1998 too, an excessive proportion of the European resources was not spent according to the rules.
Mr President, my last point concerns the European Parliament itself.
As you know, the Court recently decided in an initial ruling that OLAF only has limited access to the European Parliament.
Ladies and gentlemen, this report is an excellent illustration of what should be done and what should not be done.
In fact, the proposal to create a European Public Prosecutor' s Department is unacceptable since this requires us to be effective immediately.
In the same spirit, we shall support Amendment No 13 from the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which will prevent us creating a budgetary discipline body just for show.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung published a survey which showed that an overwhelming majority of my fellow countrymen were in favour of a more common approach to judicial matters.
Other surveys in the past have always confirmed that this applies both to Germans and to the citizens in most other Member States of the Union.
We are therefore responding to the expectations of the people in tabling proposals on how to strengthen effectively the protection of the European Union against fraud.
Allow me to congratulate you on this report.
I am delighted that both the Commission and Parliament have included this question in the Intergovernmental Conference.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has gone one step further in this report.
Mrs Theato, you know perfectly well what I am talking about.
I contend, together with the group chairmen, who have, moreover, disclaimed you, that on the 13 April you informed the Conference of Presidents that on the whole you were in agreement with the spirit of Annex III on the exchange of information with the Commission.
One group chairman even left the room on an occasion when the matter came up on the agenda one day.
We must address the lack of moral responsibility on the part of bureaucracies, which was condemned in such a masterly way by Kafka.
The creation of an effective and transparent office to fight fraud is a task with which all Members of this Parliament agree, and I hope that all the institutions agree.
The Socialist Group, which is interested in combating fraud as well as protecting the rights of citizens, including officials, and the construction of a Europe based on the principles of fair play, democracy, proximity to the citizens, transparency, efficiency and solidarity, has presented an amendment to paragraph 29 of this report, which lays down the principle that combating fraud should not take precedence over the basic rights of officials.
I would like to remind you that claims have been made that no action has been taken against this type of action and that OLAF' s monitoring committee, in relation to these appeals, is aware that certain aspects are not functioning properly within this body.
While accepting that, with the dynamic of European construction, the increase in the budget and the growth of the administration, there may be more fraud and errors, we must not fall into a kind of policing paranoia, or at least this Parliament must not.
There are a number of paragraphs I have doubts about - 14, 15 and 16 for example, regarding the legal basis and whether it is necessary to involve both national and European responsibility to resolve problems of fraud that affect national states more than they do the European Union.
I have run out of time without saying what I wanted to say but I wanted to respond to some of the points already made.
Even though there was a slight decline in fraud and irregularities between 1997 and 1998, there is nonetheless still a need for more effective supervisory mechanisms.
If such a body were to be established, this would mean that disciplinary matters would be taken away from the Commission.
At present, officials who have had actions brought against them by the disciplinary council have colleagues of theirs sitting in judgement over them.
Both the ECHO and MED cases are all too well-known examples of this state of affairs.
I cannot, however, vote in favour of setting up a European Public Prosecutor' s office.
It is, for all that, only the most serious cases which will have penal consequences.
We need changes to staff regulations and to the disciplinary procedure, as also proposed in the report.
Mr Blak, allow me to apologise officially.
You are quite right, you had three minutes.
At the same time, however, both the Court of Auditors and the Council of Ministers grant this refusal to issue a declaration of assurance the status of a mere water-level report, while we here in Parliament and the media see it as an indication of the poor state of the Union' s finances.
One thing that is certain to create a stir in terms of the EU is big stories about fraud.
Let us not forget that 80% of the fraud takes place within Member States.
Finally, I want to read out a list of shame - Member States which have not yet ratified the Convention on the Protection of the Financial Interests of the EU: Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Greece, Ireland and France.
They have had five years to do it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against fraud and protecting the financial interests of the Community are among the top priorities of the new Commission.
The fight against fraud includes activities such as preventing, uncovering and prosecuting customs and subsidy fraud or tax evasion, as well, of course, as uncovering and prosecuting irregularities within the institutions of the European Union.
Although UCLAF only had 120 employees at the time, this annual report illustrates the considerable success of their work, in my view.
There were 5,318 cases of suspicion of irregularity or fraud investigated by UCLAF in 1998, in cooperation with the Member States, and around 20% of these cases were classed as fraud following the investigation.
The Commission explained in its statements on Parliament' s demands in connection with the 1998 discharge procedure that it did not think that the right way forward was to call in a chamber of the Court of Auditors or the Court of Justice to issue orders in disciplinary proceedings against employees on the grounds of irregularities in connection with the budget, because the European Treaties had granted each of these bodies its own specific remit.
It explained this in its White Paper tabled on 1 March and will also make detailed proposals on reforming disciplinary law in the paper on the overall future disciplinary procedure to be published by the Commission in October.
It was rightly pointed out in numerous debates and in the report that good cooperation and the involvement of the Member States are essential if the fight against fraud to the detriment of the financial interests of the European Community is to be efficient.
The Commission welcomes the fact that some enlargement countries are already taking steps to set up and activate structures similar to those set up by the European Anti-Fraud Office.
The Member States have indicated that they will not amend the Treaty in this area.
I should like to comment briefly on the complaints filed by the Commission against the European Central Bank and the European Investment Bank.
The aim is to implement precisely what was introduced into the OLAF regulation by the European Parliament, namely that OLAF is responsible for fighting fraud in all the institutions of the European Community.
We shall have the opportunity of debating other reports on the subject of fighting fraud this year.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 11.55 a.m.
However, I regret to have to inform you that the Commission cannot agree to Amendment No 2.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, indeed, I checked the situation: it was only this morning that we received the request for split voting, which was therefore not within the time limits set by our own rules.
Mrs Schierhuber, let us be clear on this.
We must prevent this and Parliament and the Commission must join in the discussion to find a compromise. (Parliament decided to refer the first part of the report to committee) - Following the vote on legislative proposal No 2 and adoption of the Commission proposal as amended Madam President, exactly the same applies to this second decision as what you said for the first decision.
Two proposed amendments in this second file are of fundamental importance to the Committee on Agriculture, namely Amendments Nos 28 and 29.
Madam President, my colleague Mr Fischler made a statement on this yesterday.
The objective of this directive is to ensure that the injured party has a right of action against the insurer of the person who caused the accident.
This directive which streamlines the issue of civil liability in respect of accidents involving motor vehicles is a logical extension to directives which have been put in place over the last 13 years to complete the European Single Market.
The directive will apply to accidents involving nationals of a Member State of the Union on Union territory or in any third country operating the Green Card system.
The Conciliation Committee has also agreed to enable Member States to retain and implement more favourable arrangements in respect of the victim than the provisions required so as to ensure compliance with this directive.
This legislation governing the issue of civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles and accidents in Europe will ensure that the rights of the 370 million consumers in Europe will be enhanced in the case of accidents taking place within any of the territories of the European Union. - I welcome my Socialist colleague, Willi Rothley's recommendation on protecting motorists abroad.
The proposal extends current EU directives on the handling of motor insurance claims to cover cases where a person visiting another Member State is the victim of an accident caused by a resident of that country.
Every insurance company will, therefore, need to appoint a representative in each Member State.
Under the compromise, the directive will apply to such accidents in a certain number of countries outside the European Union.
Thousands of British holidaymakers travel by car or hire cars every year in France, Spain, Portugal and many other countries in Europe.
Surely we owe all of our citizens the right to ensure that things are made as easy as possible for those involved in car accidents abroad and for their families.
Madam President, the situation in South Africa is difficult - and it is by no means an easy country to run.
That is why I regret that the Council proposes only EUR 787.5 million for South Africa, which is effectively a 10% cut on the amounts we agreed five years ago.
In terms of the European budget it is not something we would struggle to find.
I would urge that we be generous to South Africa, that the Council finds this EUR 98 million, does not go to conciliation but accepts Parliament's amendments and gets on with implementing this new regulation with South Africa.
Thank you, Mr Martin.
The most scandalous aspect of what they are daring to call an agreement on "development cooperation with South Africa" is that this cooperation is subject to the trade agreement with South Africa and that the Council is using it as a means of blackmail in order to foist its own terms on Pretoria.
Such cynicism borders on candour: the European Union grants aid to South Africa on condition that it is able thereby to make a commercial profit.
Thank you, Mrs Cauquil.
I welcome our action to support farmers, but I feel that we need to change direction, in some cases completely and in others only in part.
The income of people working in farming has fallen by a total of nearly 10% in real terms since 1996.
A reduction in the monthly increments would further exacerbate the economic situation of farmers. - (SV) A transformation of agricultural policy is a prerequisite for enlargement of the European Union.
We Swedish Social Democrats (Pierre Schori, Anneli Hulthén, Jan Andersson, Maj Britt Theorin, Göran Färm and Eva Hedkvist-Petersen) therefore believe that the EU' s agricultural subsidies should be considerably reduced and we welcome the Commission' s proposal for a progressive reduction in the monthly increases in the intervention price of cereal.
It is problematic, however, that there is not the courage to engage in a full and candid discussion of how our agricultural sector is, in the longer term, to cope under quite different conditions and with a quite different aid scheme than that which is in place at present.
Schierhuber report (A5-0124/2000) Madam President, I voted against this measure on the European policy on flax and hemp.
This is because I feel that we should change the way we support and provide aid to agricultural products in the European Union.
Basically, we must start to change the way we provide aid to agriculture in Europe.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of Mrs Schierhuber' s report.
The 50 tonne per annum limitation would exclude many Member States from cultivation in advance.
The aim must be to develop a flexible system which also takes account of regional sales potential, thereby allowing all Member States to cultivate on an equal footing. . (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats (Pierre Schori, Anneli Hulthén, Jan Andersson, Maj Britt Theorin, Göran Färm and Ewa Hedkvist Petersen) believe that the EU' s agricultural aid ought to be considerably reduced and we are therefore also opposed to aid for hemp production.
Bösch report (A5-0116/2000) Mr President, I have taken the floor for the last time to declare, once again, that it was with no reservations that I voted against the Bösch report on the 1998 report on the fight against fraud.
The same report states that these EUR 1 019 million which have disappeared as a result of fraud are only the tip of the iceberg.
It is absolutely essential that we change the way we spend our money.
Madam President, you have just congratulated the rapporteur on his work.
Even though there was a slight decline in fraud and irregularities between 1997 and 1998, there is still a great need for more effective supervisory mechanisms.
Parliament has already proposed, in the Van Hulten report, that an external court should be established under the aegis of the Court of Auditors, part of whose task would be to deal with disciplinary matters and which would help recover money which had been paid out wrongly.
If such a body were to be established, this would mean that disciplinary procedures would be taken away from the Commission.
At present, officials who have had actions brought against them by the disciplinary council have colleagues of theirs sitting in judgement over them.
Both the ECHO and MED cases are all too well-known examples of this state of affairs.
It is, for all that, only the most serious cases which will have penal consequences.
Mr President, our discussion today on transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, transmissible diseases which include BSE or scrapie, is one of the many follow-up reports or one of the follow-up discussions to the final BSE report and I think that it is also of great interest to the visitors in the gallery.
We have a report here before us which the Commission promised together with its final report on the 1997 BSE report at Parliament' s request.
We have drafted a report on it, although not as quickly as we would otherwise have done, due to the break last year.
In other words, we have been able to keep the BSE team going well.
We must ensure that the European Parliament can act in the codecision procedure as the real guarantor of consumer and health protection in the European Union.
What we also need, and we have tried to achieve this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, is to strengthen the Member States' obligation to inform the Commission and to give the Commission information and data on incidents in their countries, on BSE problems or on suspicious circumstances.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development also welcomes in principle the Commission proposal, which is in line with the promise made by the Commission to Parliament.
However, I will not conceal the fact, Commissioner, that the problem of third countries in general will continue to remain an issue for us, as will the question of including pharmaceuticals and cosmetics.
Consequently, these tests, which produce results within a relatively short period of time, will most certainly help us to take immediate and appropriate action.
Safety must be a priority and we all understand that if we are to have equal precautions throughout the Member States, we need a variety of measures in place which have not so far been instituted.
Commissioner Byrne is to be congratulated on moving that closer.
These proposals take us a good deal further down the line in the field of diagnostic testing, in a more sceptical attitude to animals which ought to have been under suspicion but in some Member States were not, and in terms of the general prospect of fallen stock being tested for the possibility of BSE.
I want to say something, however, coming from the Member State which first suffered the full rigours of BSE and which has also, as a result of that, been in the vanguard of cleaning up this problem.
We have now had for a considerable period of time in the United Kingdom an over-30-month cull of all animals which have been taken out of the food chain.
From our position, given the measures we take, we do not see any reason at all why we would need to introduce, additionally, whole-herd slaughter of the kind done in some other countries.
I should be very glad to hear whether the Commissioner feels he can accept that in some circumstances - particularly in view of the over-30-month cull in the United Kingdom - for those countries which are admittedly very high risk but also with a very high level of precaution now in place a certain number of derogations are necessary and would be satisfactory to him.
The BSE crisis is an example of such a phenomenon.
If the Commission really wanted to protect public health from spongiform encephalopathies, it would have proposed rules to prevent such risks a long time ago, but it did not.
That is the direction in which things are heading with the classification of countries, which, rather than taking into account the most basic factor, which is the existence or non-existence of cases of encephalopathy in their raised cattle, takes account of other factors when allocating countries to a particular category.
The worst thing about this is that, theoretically, if a member state in which cases of encephalopathy have been reported can prove that it has established systems for monitoring production, it could be placed in the same category as a country in which no cases have ever been reported.
Mr President, I welcome the opportunity of making a brief contribution to this debate and I congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work.
Parliament has certainly devoted considerable time on behalf of its citizens to addressing the important agenda of food safety, while at the same time ensuring that our farmers can operate within a production framework of traceability which is the only way to fully restore consumer confidence in the wide range of quality food products produced by European farmers.
I would urge Commissioner Byrne to prioritise introduction of that level of consistency which is the only way that we can convince our consumers that we have a common policy in relation to ensuring public health.
I welcome the availability of rapid diagnostic testing for improved detection of TSEs in cattle and believe, Commissioner, that further consideration should be given to its use as a means of establishing the health status of animals in Member States.
For my country, Ireland, food exports and in particular beef are of paramount importance to our economy and the income of farmers.
May I say in conclusion that farmers have always responded in a positive way to the introduction of regulations governing public health and the health status of animals raised for food production.
Their task as guarantors of food security and quality is, as everyone in this House knows, becoming increasingly difficult.
Mr President, Mrs Roth-Behrendt, Mr Böge, Commissioner, we have before us a proposal for a regulation on the prevention of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, which is to say degeneration of the brain in bovine animals, sheep, primates, antelope, cats and even humans, since there have been 53 cases of atypical Creutzfeldt-Jakob in Great Britain, all fatal.
So I think it would be useful for the more recent Members, in the end, if I gave a sort of debriefing on the subject, quite apart from the problems with the legal basis under Article 100 A or BSE monitoring problems.
The starting point for this business was the 1984 milk quotas.
Secondly, the precautionary principle means safeguarding nations.
The action taken in 1997 is now proving even more inadequate as scientists are today talking about a third transmission route.
The development of common guidelines should allow firmer, more balanced and, therefore, more effective responses.
For example, we consider that setting up mandatory disposal consortia according to the model already laid down by the legislation of some Member States could be a practical response to the need to limit the economic impact of disposal operations on breeders and, at the same time, thanks to the increase in the degree of social control over the proper use of the service, to the need to consolidate consumer and environmental guarantees.
It is therefore essential that the withdrawal period relating to the transfer of animals from one farm to another be increased from two years to six years.
For example, the Scientific Steering Committee has recently established that it is necessary to regard the vertebral column and dorsal root ganglion as specified risk material in the UK only for bovines over 30 months and in Portugal only for those over 6 months.
That is why some of us seek an Amendment No 56 to allow adjustments in this area on the advice of the Scientific Steering Committee rather than requiring fresh legislation to implement them.
Similarly, certain measures in combating TSEs have already proved effective.
I refer to the exclusion of animals over 30 months from the food chain, the slaughter and disposal of suspects and offspring of BSE cases, a fully effective feed ban and the removal of a wide range of specified risk materials.
In these circumstances, the precautionary principle must be adopted to the full.
No public health policy should ignore these factors.
They are, however, discussed only on rare occasions and in little detail by the European institutions, including Parliament.
You might therefore expect me to be enthusiastic about these new controls on BSE, but I am not.
Of course, I have no objections to other countries adopting measures which match ours.
In fact, it would be helpful if measures already in place in the UK were implemented throughout the EU and elsewhere.
Thus it is not new laws we need - we need more compliance.
The British BSE inquiry which was commissioned by the UK Government at a cost of £20 million is due to report in November.
This regulation is not a major revolution, but it does attempt nonetheless to afford a higher level of protection, based, moreover, on the most stringent practices adopted in specific European Union countries, such as in France.
I think it essential in this case to define suspect animals quite apart from the age criterion.
The age criterion ceases to be justified as soon as we are practically assured that this third transmission route does in fact exist.
We know that this is not the practice in Great Britain, and that this is a solution which is vigorously opposed by our fellow Members from the United Kingdom.
Once again, in France, a number of measures have been implemented, which have been more or less understood, but I am convinced that it is essential to be extremely vigilant and to apply the precautionary principle.
Allow me therefore to say a few words on some of the points raised.
Nonetheless, I must ensure that this level of safety also applies to Italy, Germany and all the other countries in the European Union.
For some time Parliament, the Commission and Member States have sought the introduction of common EU-wide rules to deal with the problems of TSEs such as BSE in cattle and scrapie in sheep.
The basis of this proposal is that the discovery of any TSE or the first incidence of BSE in a Member State would be covered by common rules which would take effect automatically.
These rules will form a blueprint that can be followed in the event of any new scientific information being made available or if more radical action is required.
This view was made plain in Council working groups and was reflected in the final draft Presidency Proposal, a draft that is supported by the vast majority of Member States.
For the purpose of agreement and the speedy implementation of this regulation and hopefully to avoid a lengthy conciliation process, the use of common OIE criteria would be appropriate.
However, this proposal may have negative consequences for countries trading in sheep and this is an important point as it currently stands.
I would reiterate in conclusion my support for the use of OIE provisions to have an internationally recognised basis for classification, a basis supported by 150 countries in resolving world trade disputes and recognised by the WTO.
The UK would be in class 4, Ireland would be in class 3 under either classification system, the SSC or the OIE.
The OIE meets next week in Paris to consider amendments to their classification system and consequently I hope to bring further amendments to this regulation for second reading.
Mr President, legislation which seeks to protect the public from a terrible brain disease such as new variant CJD should be drafted to complement measures already in place in Member States, to recognise the stage of the epidemic that we are at and have due regard to the body of scientific knowledge we have built up.
The United Kingdom already has comprehensive and effective measures in place to protect human health and eradicate BSE in our herd.
Incidentally - and Mrs Grossetête referred to this - there has been recent press speculation about a third possible infection route through grass contaminated by faecal material.
Amendment No 26 seeks universally to impose the whole-herd slaughter policy which some Member States with low levels of incidence have introduced in an attempt to reassure the public.
The majority of herds that have experienced BSE in the UK have had only one or two isolated cases.
Most herds in Britain are not closed herds and therefore animals come in from all over the place.
Whole-herd slaughter is not an effective way of reducing cases of BSE.
I hope Parliament, in amending this directive, will do so in the light of sound scientific advice, not as a knee-jerk reaction to tabloid newspaper scare stories.
It is my pleasure to give the floor to a Member of Parliament who received the title of Great Chief of Rangatira, when he led our delegation to New Zealand.
I think both of them not only take credit for themselves but indeed bring credit to this Parliament for the way in which they have carried out that duty.
We have to try to find ways by which we can control the disease of BSE and TSE and at the same time create the consumer confidence that is needed because consumer confidence has been lost.
Everybody has problems in the European Union of one type or the other and no-one should try to make or take advantage of the other's problem.
However, whatever we do, we should not overburden the producer because he has already been considerably overburdened.
Once we get to the stage where we have a vaccine or some way of identifying or testing if an animal has BSE, then there is an argument for testing the rest of the herd and if there is a trigger level whereby it goes beyond that, then the whole herd should be taken out.
But it would be wilful carnage to simply go in and slaughter good animals in the thought or the notion that BSE may possibly be in the whole herd.
One other point: where I come from, in recent years there has been a continuing downward trend.
That is an important thing to recognise because in my area farmers feel very secure because of the very low instances we have of BSE and because of the strict controls that we have monitored and made sure worked over recent years.
That is perhaps why our situation is much better than the rest of the United Kingdom.
Mr President, I would like to join in the congratulations to the rapporteur on her excellent report.
I wish to begin by thanking you for the excellent cooperation between your assistants and my services.
Due to this thorough preparation I am in a position today to agree in full or in part to almost three-quarters of your proposed amendments.
Furthermore, most of the amendments, which I am not in a position to accept, relate to two issues: the so-called "whereas" clauses - that is the recitals - and whether or not changes to certain provisions of the regulation should be by commitology or codecision.
I can think of no other individuals who have made such a positive contribution to tackling BSE.
I might also add that this piece of legislation is an excellent example of the good work and cooperation which has taken place between our two institutions and could provide a precedent for the future.
With regard to the recitals, I also accept Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5.
However, I cannot accept Amendments Nos 1 and 2 because it is inappropriate to introduce recitals in a piece of legislation which are not matched by substantive provisions in the text.
With regard to the articles themselves, firstly, the scope: I accept Amendments Nos 7 and 8.
With regard to definitions: I can partly accept Amendments No 9 to Article 13 on the definition of TSE suspected animals.
The Commission will, however, be monitoring the situation closely both through the recently agreed measures on random testing for BSE and in the forthcoming proposal on animal waste.
However, I accept Amendment No 52.
I also accept Amendments Nos 10 and 49 to Article 3, with a slight reformulation to create the possibility of delegating the evaluation, not the approval, of tests to an external body.
With regard to classification, BSE status: I accept Amendments Nos 13, 14, 51 and 58.
With regard to epidemiological surveillance: I accept Amendment No 15 to Article 7, introducing the mandatory use of the rapid diagnostic tests in the annual monitoring programme.
On specified risk material: unfortunately I cannot accept Amendments Nos 16, 17, 18, 40 and 41 to Article 8, bringing under codecision the approval and conditions for use of rapid diagnostic tests.
Nor can I accept that tests should be capable of detecting infectivity in all products and at all stages of the disease.
I partly accept Amendment No 19 to Article 8, requesting a review of the age limits for SRM removal under a commitology procedure.
I cannot, however, accept the restraint of annual reviews and, in particular, the proposed deadline for the first review which is foreseen for 1 January next, which is too soon.
I also accept Amendment No 20 to Article 8, which brings under codecision the principle of granting derogations from the provisions on SRM removal in high-risk areas or for taking account of an effective feed ban.
I also welcome Amendments Nos 38, 39 and 56 to Annex IV.
I can partly accept Amendments Nos 21 and 57 on condition that the possibility of extending the feed ban is allowed, irrespective of risk status.
I also partly accept Amendment No 54 to Annex V, laying down the detailed rules on the extended feed ban.
I can partly accept Amendment No 50 to Annex V where it exempts gelatine from hides from the ban.
I also cannot accept Amendment No 23 to Article 9, ensuring immediate application of the feed prohibitions, as this amendment does not fully make sense legally.
On disease eradication: I accept Amendments Nos 25 and 28.
I also welcome Amendment No 24 to Article 11, but propose to reformulate, providing for "regular" rather than "immediate" notification.
I can also partly accept Amendment No 26 to Article 13 and Amendment No 43 to Annex VII, introducing whole-herd slaughter for BSE in cattle, sheep and goats and, secondly, excluding research animals from these provisions.
I can partly accept Amendment No 44 on condition that the equivalent measures are approved on a case-by-case basis under commitology.
I do not accept Amendment No 27 to Article 13, requiring a complete standstill on a holding with a confirmed TSE case, as I consider the extremely strict conditions of our proposals are already sufficient, as they require measures to be taken under strict, official veterinary supervision, duly certified.
I also cannot accept Amendment No 37 to Annex II, as the proposed definition is not used elsewhere in the text and is, in addition, inadequate for TSE control purposes.
I should add that ADNS regions are too small and too difficult to control.
On the conditions for marketing animals: we welcome the intention of Amendment No 53 to Article 16.
I also welcome the intention of Amendment No 45 to Annex VIII, but would ask for flexibility to determine the exact duration of the scrapie-free period.
I cannot accept Amendment No 55 to Annex VIII, reducing the protection measures against scrapie.
Furthermore, I cannot accept Amendment No 46 to Annex VIII, extending the ban on placing on the market offspring of TSE cases, for lack of scientific support.
Finally, on laboratory techniques, I accept Amendments Nos 47 and 48.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, as you say, this is a new procedure and I hope that it helps to establish in Parliament the importance of the conciliation procedure in achieving legislation to which Parliament has aspired.
The delegation also had a great responsibility in this negotiation because we had many difficult decisions to take.
We did not achieve everything that we wanted to achieve as a Parliament, but I think we went a long way towards helping all those people who are now going to be included within the Working Time Directive to see some progress so that they can eventually get to the goal that we were all trying to achieve.
If we take, for instance, the junior doctors, we discover that Parliament originally wanted a six-year period in which to achieve the 48 hours.
That was never likely to be negotiated with the Council, but we were able to make substantial progress from the Council's original proposal of 13 years.
Only in extreme circumstances will governments be able to go through a procedure to justify an extension of that period of nine years.
We also were able to clarify the position regarding the classification of mobile workers.
In all honour to everybody concerned in the negotiation, the Council and all Members of the delegation, they have made real progress and I recommend the outcome of the conciliation process to the House and hope they support it.
Thank you, Mr Provan.
For the sea-fishing sector, the European Parliament managed to secure a maximum working week of 48 hours, over a twelve-month reference period.
The main thing is that those countries that want a transitional period in excess of nine years will need to follow a very demanding procedure in order to achieve this.
The idea that politicians in Brussels or Strasbourg should determine how many hours different people work across Europe is, we believe, fundamentally daft.
However, because of the special issue of over-worked junior doctors in the UK, as Conservative MEPs we voted last November to extend the directive to them.
I believe in the circumstances we could not have done any better, but those three played a major role in that.
I should briefly like to mention a point made by some of my colleagues from that delegation.
The fact that I could say that on this issue we were speaking as one and it was a cross-party alliance hopefully helped to reinforce the overall message and the will of Parliament.
But it is, as you know, nine years, plus two years, plus one year.
The UK Government will add that up to twelve years as against the 13 years which the UK Government was asking for initially.
We still support a better deal for junior doctors; we will still continue to pressure our own government to provide it, but a directive from the European Parliament is clearly not the right way to secure it.
I would like to begin by echoing previous speakers and adding my words of thanks to the rapporteur and to our chairman and to you for the magnificent work you did in that conciliation.
The progress we achieved is in large part thanks to the formidable effort and attention to detail the rapporteur put in to this.
There are three main issues which I would like to concentrate on in the brief time available to me.
In the original working time directive we had agreed way back in 1993 that it would be possible to introduce annualisation of working time for categories of workers, but only where collective agreements allowed that to happen.
As far as offshore workers and mobile workers in the transport sector are concerned - there was an attempt in the common position to allow annualisation of working time for those workers without collective agreement.
There we have now built in to the directive the principle that a 48-hour average working week over a period of one year will be the rule.
Looking at this part of the agreement without detailed knowledge of the negotiations that went into it, it must seem like a very strange animal.
A four-year transposition period - five years transition and then the possibility of extra time beyond that.
I think that in fact we will see all Member States complying with that section of the directive relating to junior doctors within that nine-year time frame.
I am confident, speaking today, that will be the case.
The provisions relating to nine years for junior doctors only relate to the average working week.
Those parts of the directive can, of course, be subject to derogation but only by collective agreement so those elements will apply to junior doctors.
I would like to talk specifically about junior doctors.
There are 270 000 junior doctors across the EU who will be affected by this. 50.1% in my constituency work over 72 hours a week as do 10 000 in the UK as a whole.
You can see from those figures that it is extremely important that all Member States actually meet those objectives and I mean the nine-year objective.
The present situation is not good for patients or doctors alike - they have our life in their hands.
As I have said before, our life is in their hands and it is important that we get this right.
I believe that they are wrong and that is why we have the extension for two years and also the extension after that for one year.
It is not twelve years - it is nine years and we must state that very, very clearly.
I have been deeply concerned at some of the arguments put forward by certain governments which have said that other aspects of health provision could be threatened if the reduction of working time for this group was brought in more quickly.
I cannot understand why it is less important for these workers to have reasonable working conditions and hours than any other group of health workers.
I want to know whether junior doctors in some countries are some sort of superhuman who can do without adequate rest and who will not harm their own health or that of their patients in the process.
I would like to congratulate in advance those Member States that will meet their obligations under this directive for all sectors.
The idea was that seven million people should be brought within the scope of the directive.
If the decision is interpreted as it already has been by some people in this debate, namely as saying that the transposition and transitional periods for doctors should add up to nine years and that there should, above and beyond that, be the possibility of an additional three years' extra time, then we arrive at a total period of twelve years.
I thought it was appropriate for at least someone in this Parliament to use his voting right for the purpose of indicating this dissatisfaction.
The intention expressed by this Chamber has, of course, been that, where junior doctors are concerned, the period for implementing the present directive should be nine years and that the three extra years should only apply in extreme and exceptional cases.
I want to conclude by saying that, on more than one occasion, the European Parliament has shown itself to be a significant force where working time legislation in Europe is concerned.
Young and old have different needs and different abilities.
It is incumbent on us to send out a clear message that we would expect every government in the European Union to comply fully with the nine years.
I shall just deal very briefly with two other points concerning the whole working time directive.
However, it is a notoriously difficult area to enforce because of outside conditions, such as bad weather, that will affect the way fishermen operate.
Secondly, transport workers: when we already have tachograph legislation in place, why do we need to bring in a separate and new directive on transport workers, in particular lorry drivers and so on?
I would like also to extend warm thanks to the Commission, particularly for their declaration on working on Sundays.
If you vote against this compromise - and I would understand if you did, because I myself find nine years for junior doctors far too long - you will then be against everything, in effect.
The working time directive will not be complete until these issues have been resolved.
I will be truly happy to see these sectors, which were excluded from the 1993 directive, provided with a recognised European regulation on working time, even if it does involve long and protracted timescales.
Mr President, in previous debates here last November and in April of this year I supported the general principles behind the idea of directives on working time and I still do so.
I note the compromise concerning sea-fishermen - a maximum of 48 hours of weekly work in a reference period of 12 months and the possibility of derogation after consultation and by agreement.
This may be an improvement but I still have some questions to put to the Commission.
The directive says that work at sea comprises sea fishing and other offshore work.
The most contentious part of the directive was bound to relate to doctors in training who would benefit from this piece of legislation.
One should recall that the Council had originally proposed an exemption for a period of some 13 years before doctors in training would secure the benefits of the directive.
Naturally, Parliament put forward its own proposals to support the right of doctors in training to be covered by this directive after a period of 4 years.
According to the conclusions of the Conciliation Committee, junior doctors will secure benefits after a transitional period of five years and a four-year transposition period.
I fully support the right of junior doctors and doctors in training to secure the benefits of this directive, but the Conciliation Committee conclusions will have reluctantly to be accepted.
I would like in conclusion to refer to one small but very important matter, namely that under exceptional circumstances there may be a further extension of two years and indeed up to three years if governments argue that the reduction would cause real administrative difficulties.
Seven million workers were affected and specific sectors, such as the mobile worker sector, have been subject to ruinous competition over recent years, especially in Germany.
It is therefore also a social problem and it is not enough, Mr Crowley, to use tachographs or other technical aids.
I think, Mrs Smet, you have proven that we can also fight.
The results are acceptable.
Directive 93/104 was already very restrictive as far as worker production is concerned.
What is more, a number of categories were excluded from its field of competence.
It will permit further exemptions to the already excessive legislation of 48 hours per week.
Finally, it will take nine years, in the best possible case, for the working week of doctors in training to be reduced from 58 hours to 48.
In fact, the proposed working time organisation institutes social deregulation at the very time when, in France, doctors in training are campaigning for decent working conditions and genuine safety for service-users.
Proper organisation of working time would entail, we reiterate, a real reduction in working hours accompanied by moves to create a sufficient number of jobs.
We cannot support this report as it stands.
Mr President, this proposal will bring an additional seven million workers in Europe under the protection of the Working Time Directive, allowing them to have reasonable working conditions and proper rest periods.
It has been obvious since 1993 that those excluded from the directive at that time would eventually come under its protection.
One has to ask, therefore, why over that seven-year period virtually nothing was done in Ireland or in Britain to bring the number of doctors forward that would be needed to implement it.
In Ireland some junior doctors work over 100 hours per week, the average being 70 to 80.
I would appeal to all national governments, including Ireland, not to utilise the additional provisions for extending the implementation of this directive beyond the nine-year period and would remind them that it is intended only as an exceptional measure if all other genuine steps have been taken to implement the measures here.
Mr President, the proposed working time directive for specific categories of worker such as doctors in training, offshore workers or mobile workers, is typical of the slow and derisory nature of social Europe.
The recitals of the proposal, nonetheless, stress the specific importance of this file, the first major file on social issues, adding, even, that it is a matter of the health and safety of 7 million workers.
In France, for example, a number of strikes by junior doctors recently drew the attention of public opinion to the intolerable length of the working day for this category of worker, harmful to the doctors in training themselves, but also to the quality of the care they are providing their patients with.
What we should have had was a quick decision and an appropriate reduction in working hours.
For the first three years, 58-hour working weeks are permitted.
We shall not vote against this text, but we shall conclude from this experience that workers can have no expectations of social Europe and that, decidedly, nothing can replace the collective strength of the workers when it comes to amending legislation in favour of the workers.
Mr President, the chairman of the European Parliament' s Committee on Employment and Social Affairs could not remain silent in this debate.
I feel that the most interesting point - and this is my third comment - is the number of workers affected by this directive, who are at present excluded from the working time directive and who will enjoy these rights once this directive is applied.
The upshot is that the provisions of the working directive will apply to doctors in training, workers at sea, rail workers and all non-mobile workers in excluded sectors.
I would also like to give special thanks to the Portuguese Presidency and the Member States, particularly those which, for reasons we cannot go into right now, have experienced major problems with their national health services, such as Great Britain, Spain and Ireland.
Secondly, as for road transport, the Commission tabled a proposal in 1996, but it was blocked by the Council in 1998.
The Commission intends, with the cooperation of the French Presidency, to re-table the issue.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
People occasionally get a little bored when one talks about internal procedures but what they should recognise is what we are discussing in these particular proposals: ways in which, first of all, we can get assistance to people more rapidly and effectively and, secondly, ways in which we can change the image of the European Union around the world.
It is worth noting that our assistance programmes in the Mediterranean have increased four and a half times since 1990.
Then there is the Balkans crisis where the attempts to put in place a common foreign and security policy are being particularly tested.
While our external assistance programmes themselves have grown very rapidly, staff resources have failed to keep pace.
The Commission has 2.9 staff for every EUR 10 million that we manage.
That compares with an average figure about twice that for Member States - the figure is 5.7 but it goes as high as 9 for some Member States and 4.2 for the World Bank.
It is worth noting that we have spent about EUR 170 million a year on the 80 technical assistance offices which is equivalent to the cost of 800 staff working for the Commission.
A consequence of all this is that the SCR today has over EUR 21 billion in outstanding commitments awaiting payments.
We have brought forward in the document, which has now been made public, our proposals for dealing with this problem.
What we have to do - whatever the long term objective may be is - to find better ways of managing our external assistance straightaway.
What we propose to do is to create a new implementation body replacing the SCR which we think should be called Europe Aid.
The budgetary authority will ultimately have to judge the right scale of European Union external aid programmes.
However, my only aim is to put the Commission in a position where it can run these programmes competently.
I have to say very bluntly to Parliament that there are two possibilities: either the budgetary authority agrees with our ideas and will then try to implement them from 2001, or else, in order to manage what our programmes amount to more competently, we will be obliged to propose very large cuts.
We cannot go on in a situation in which we are not prepared to provide the resources to manage effectively the money that is voted by the budgetary authority for our external assistance programmes.
I am sure that Parliament will have a considerable contribution to make to the discussion over the next few months.
However, my impression after a few months in this job is that Parliament wants as badly as the Commission to deliver a more competently run assistance programme all around the world.
Mr President, this is refreshing - the fact that the European Union is acknowledging that there are problems but that we have solutions.
The solution we have reached is to create a board of directors which will oversee and politically be the managerial part of running the new office or EuropeAid or whatever SCR is going to be called.
My role on that board will be that of the chief executive officer.
We are in a sense structuring the political roles that have been defined and we are doing it in such a way that I think it really does have a chance of functioning.
The other one is the quality-support group which will have its secretariat in DG Development.
This will also concentrate a lot of attention among all RELEX Commissioners on the problem of whether or not we actually are delivering.
The reality, because of the way we are organised in the Commission, is that ownership on our side is extremely vague and problematic.
This is going to change as a consequence of the reform we are putting forward now.
Finally, I will address the issue of the risk of what happens if we do not get the staff and the resources to do the job.
We have commitments, we have an agreement with 71 ACP states, we have the Member States backing that and accepting the next ninth European Development Fund.
Mr President, I am very happy to hear that, in order to fulfil commitments, more resources and personnel are required.
As Parliament is aware of this, we will offer our full support.
Within this 'continuum' I would like to know whether, as has been the case until now, ECHO will be an office dependent on the Commission, but whose action will be based on development policies aimed at what we want to see, and that is the eradication of poverty.
The only issue is to create a better link or bridge between the phase of humanitarian assistance and the more forward-oriented, long-term development assistance.
We have to say it à tous azimuts.
We will be making a positive effort to get a solution that makes it possible to continue at least at the level of activity that we have now.
I warn against giving the impression our development cooperation activities have all but stopped.
Mr Deva, we will, as part of the new Suva Agreement - the successor to the Lomé Convention - be including in our activities a EUR 2.2 billion private investment facility which will be administered by the European Investment Bank at arm's length.
Micro-credit is a big thing but it is not the only answer to all problems.
Thank you very much, Mr Nielson, for your optimistic view of the future.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B5-0220/2000).
Xu Wenli, one of the founders of the CDP, was sentenced to 13 years in jail in December 1998, along with two other prominent democracy campaigners.
As the honourable Member will know, the longstanding policy of the Union is to raise the individual cases of Chinese citizens who have been in prison for political offences with the Chinese authorities, particularly in the context of the human rights dialogue, the last meeting of which took place on 25 February this year.
Bearing in mind, Commissioner, what you said about your willingness to raise individual cases, could I also ask you to make enquiries about the fate of Rebiya Kadeer.
She was arrested on 11 August 1999 in Urumqui, the capital of the XUAR, while on her way to meet representatives of the US Congressional Research Service.
I will gladly provide more detailed information on that, Mr Commissioner.
As the author is not present, Question No 33 lapses.
Question No 34 by (H-0357/00): Subject: The Commission's reform programme and enlargement On 1 March 2000, the Commission adopted the White Paper on the reform of the Commission.
Delay in designing a practical strategy and in pursuing necessary modernisation would not have been acceptable to the Commission, to the Council, to this Parliament or to the public, as I am sure the honourable Member understands.
As the College of Commissioners made clear in our introduction to the White Paper, and elsewhere in that document, and I quote what we said: "the challenges of globalisation and future enlargement require better governance at all levels including the European Union".
All political institutions must rise to this challenge and so must the Commission.
The current administrative reform is not a limited exercise - it is an evolutionary process as we have made very clear - it will be continuously monitored and the results achieved will be assessed in order to provide for any relevant adjustments.
What I know on the basis of precedent, and also the Commission's assessment of the scope and the depth of the challenges that arise from the forthcoming enlargement, is that appropriate measures will be taken at the right time not only in terms of the recruitment and integration of properly skilled staff from the new Member States but also to assist with the preparation of other areas of expertise - presumably including the Scientific and other committees.
In addition to relying upon those casual professional relationships, I am sure that the Commission will want to ensure that there is continuity and access provided for those new incoming Member States not only in areas like those that he has mentioned - veterinary and plant health - but in many other areas where the smoothest possible integration of efforts is a matter of crucial and mutual importance.
Question No 35 by (H-0411/00): Subject: Boarding of Community vessels by Canadian inspectors in international waters Five years after the seizure of the Estai, the Community fleet fishing in NAFO international waters has expressed deep concern at the boarding of a Portuguese vessel, the Santa Mafalda, supposedly by Canadian inspectors.
The Santa Mafalda, a vessel used to catch halibut, was boarded on 24 April last.
NAFO inspectors are obliged to carry out their duties in accordance with rules set out in the NAFO scheme and they are also obliged to remain under the operational control of the authorities of their contracting parties and be responsible to them.
Against that background, on 23 April two Canadian NAFO inspectors accompanied by a trainee carried out an inspection of the Community fishing vessel Santa Mafalda which was operating at that time in the NAFO regulatory area.
The Santa Mafalda arrived in Aveiro on 10 May 2000 and two Commission inspectors participated in a thorough inspection of the vessel.
The Commission has drawn the attention of the Canadian authorities to the procedures followed by the Canadian inspectors in relation to their seizure of documentation and their continued stay on board the Santa Mafalda.
The Commission takes the view that the Canadian NAFO inspectors in question acted in breach of the NAFO scheme by taking away documents from the vessel without the permission of the master and by continuing to stay on board the vessel.
The Commissioner knows, as I do, that the current situation in the NAFO is not, fortunately, what it was five years ago after the seizure of the Estai.
However, there are still outstanding questions, such as the extraterritorial clauses, which allow the Canadian Government to carry out inspections, controls and seizures beyond their national waters, in open sea, which is incompatible with international provisions and which, all too frequently, involves the arbitrary application of controls within the framework of the NAFO.
It would not be proper publicly to pursue the matter further, but when the report of that inspection and the assessment by the Portuguese authorities are available, I am certain that they will be communicated to interested Members including, of course, the chairman of Parliament's Committee on Fisheries and I am certain the honourable lady whose interest is manifest.
Question No 36 by (H-0415/00): Subject: Need to support and strengthen the olive oil sector The implementation of the new olive oil regulation is having severe consequences for Greek producers who are poor farmers in infertile and island regions.
Second part Questions to Mr Solbes One of the greatest benefits of the question time arrangement is the way in which it endows me with instant expertise on issues as far apart as fishing, olive oil and human rights in China!
In June 1998, the Commission undertook to present a proposal on the future of the common organisation of the market in olive oil to the Council and Parliament in 2000.
The new regime would apply from the 2001/2002 marketing year which, as the honourable Member will know, begins on 1 November 2001.
The Commission is currently studying new data on the structure of olive oil production in the various producer Member States, as well as developments in the world market where the Community is the leading producer by a considerable margin.
The study will also take into account the need to draw up an olive oil quality strategy in order to add more value to the product.
As far as product promotion is concerned, the Community is already financing promotion campaigns through the International Olive Oil Council.
In response to a specific issue raised by the honourable Member's question, I have to point out that the produce of new plantings would not give entitlement to aid.
Finally, the Commission wishes to point out that rather than simply abolishing the intervention system, what has actually happened is that it has been replaced by a system of private storage which is more flexible than the intervention system because it applies throughout the marketing year if the market situation calls for such support.
All I can say to him at this juncture, because I know this is a matter of continuing concern and activity by him, is that the CMO for olive oil is due to be reformed, as I indicated earlier, by 1 November 2001, following agreement in the Council and in this Parliament in adopting Regulation 1638/98.
I cannot assume that if the situation were precisely as the honourable Member describes, and smaller producers were in a dangerously disadvantaged position by comparison with the big producers, there would have been such agreement in the Council and in this House.
That is how we sustain our considerable lead in world markets.
Thank you very much, Mr Kinnock, for your cooperation during this Question Time.
Question No 37 by (H-0409/00): Subject: Further integration entailed by EMU In the Commission's estimation, to what extent do the requirements imposed by EMU on economic policy - which include permanently fixed exchange rates - create the need for further economic integration in the form of a more extensive common budget (a common fiscal policy), cyclical transfers between Member States, increased labour mobility between the participating states and/or a more flexible labour market?
At the same time, as the common monetary policy will mean the same interest rate for all Member States of the monetary union, it will not only have an effect in terms of developing demand, but it will also mean greater integration of the financial markets.
For this to have the greatest positive effect, it is essential that we carry out a policy of rationalised public finances, which will not generate tensions in monetary policy itself, and at the same time, a decisive policy of structural reforms and a competition policy, which will allow the maximum benefit to be drawn from the process.
The basic framework which we have introduced is a framework of mutual supervision of national fiscal policies and of coordination of economic policies by means of processes to improve our structural situations and the coordination or creation of a positive macroeconomic environment which will favour growth and employment, and at the same time reduce the possibility of asymmetric clashes caused by economic policies.
Budgetary consolidation itself, which is, of course, the reduction of the public deficit, gives each Member State room to act in adverse situations.
Greater labour mobility may certainly help to confront the problems which may arise in the event of asymmetric clashes.
Both an increase in the available work force and an improvement in productivity would improve the situation in terms of creating jobs and helping to reduce unemployment.
The Commission has therefore insisted on its various strategies regarding the specific point of labour mobility, while remaining aware that this is a difficult issue.
It is difficult within Member States and it is difficult between one Member State and another, due not only to historical and cultural incompatibilities in terms of education, but also to a series of other aspects related to this type of situation.
We believe that it is a much better idea to establish a general framework of economic health, of good economic behaviour, which will allow us to confront the difficulties in the case in question.
This is an agreement adopted by the Council of Ministers as a result of initiatives by certain Member States and which I also support, since I believe that a good budgetary policy provides greater room for manoeuvre in the event of difficulties.
In this year' s recommendations we have taken particular account of the Commission' s own analyses regarding what the margins are, and which benchmarks we are setting in each of the Member States to tackle the crisis without exceeding the 3% public deficit, which is the figure we have established as a reference.
We can see that that situation is different in each of the countries and, therefore, our recommendations and our comments will always be different in each of the countries, although this is not the only aspect that we take into consideration.
The euro has been a great success, in terms of its introduction, in terms of issuing it as a currency, in terms of the consolidation of an excellent economic situation in Europe and in terms of the forecasts for the future.
We also believe that the development of growth in Europe will be strong throughout 2000 and, as a result, we will match US growth by the end of this year.
In these circumstances, we believe that the value of the euro will be rising in the coming months.
Therefore, despite a certain degree of concern - because that concern exists within public opinion - about the evolution of the euro, we believe that this situation will be corrected and that it should be considered to be temporary rather than permanent.
Firstly, with regard to increasing cooperation in terms of coordinating economic policies, I believe that it is necessary and positive and is one of the elements which is emerging from this current crisis.
Transfers of capital may generate additional activity in the United States, but the positive increase in exports is generating activity in Europe.
In any event, what I do believe - as I said earlier - is that the euro, at the moment, has an exchange rate which, if we analyse it in relation to its components and its historical situation, is not that different from situations which have existed at other times.
I am convinced that this is a transitional situation which will improve during this year.
Question No 38 by (H-0419/00): Subject: Precarious employment and the industrial-accident rate in Spain and in the Murcia region At the Lisbon Summit, a commitment was made to achieving full employment in proper jobs throughout the EU.
In response to the French Government' s proposal involving a reduction in working hours in order to create more proper, stable jobs, the approach agreed between the Spanish and UK Governments, which calls for further deregulation of employment conditions in order to increase the number of jobs, has been adopted.
Questions to Mr Verheugen Mr President, despite the fact that I was born next to the Murcia region, it is difficult for me to analyse, in Community terms, the problems of the precarious employment there.
The assessment of the labour market reforms which have resulted from the processes we have established in the Union - the Luxembourg process and the broad guidelines for economic policy - demonstrates that the reforms of the regulations on the labour market in the different countries are making a positive and significant contribution to greater economic growth and to promoting the creation of employment and the greater participation of men and women in the labour market.
The broad guidelines of economic policy and the recommendations for employment have never advocated a simple deregulation of the labour market, as the question states.
Together with the reform of certain labour market regulations, they also include, for example, the need to adopt measures which will promote entrepreneurial spirit or active labour market policies - and we state this quite deliberately - to improve employment opportunities.
It is also quite normal for the Commission to insist on the need to hold debates and make agreements with social partners so that they may actively participate in the changes to the labour market in each country.
The recent Lisbon Summit gave a new impulse to the Union' s economic and social agenda and we have also insisted on this point by talking of more and better employment.
I would also like to highlight, as a fundamental contribution to the consolidation of the progress made until now, the promotion and maintenance of rigorous regulations on health and safety at work, which has been one of the most prominent issues in the debate held in the Commission, which advocates better jobs in Europe.
Labour market reforms directed at improving employment opportunities and workers' ability to adapt to these new opportunities in no way seek to undermine working conditions or health and safety at work.
In accordance with its legal competence as laid down in the Treaty, the Commission has kept up the necessary efforts to implement and propose various legal instruments and monitor the incorporation of the acquis communautaire in this area.
The Commission must guarantee that those directives are transposed into national law correctly and, clearly, to monitor all the issues relating to its application, which is the responsibility of the national authorities.
Our concern has always been not only greater employment but also greater quality of employment.
Nevertheless, you introduced a second element in your supplementary question which, in my opinion, is of great interest: Why do we not establish the objective of full employment in the same way that we established the objectives of the Treaty of Maastricht at the time?
In the case of full employment, the figure is the consequence of measures which are intended to achieve an objective, but which do not have a causal relationship which guarantees its objective.
What we can consider is what is being done in the various employment programmes, and that is the implementation of certain elements which will allow us to move towards full employment.
When we spoke of full employment in the Commission document which served as a basis for the debate in Lisbon, we expressly said that if we add the development of the economy in accordance with currently available figures to the various determining factors and policies proposed by the Commission, full employment will be achieved.
However, this cannot be a political objective, as in Maastricht, because it does not depend on the will of the different governments or on a specific decision by each one of them.
In the countries of the Southern Mediterranean, and specifically in the region of Murcia, they have, in recent years, stopped managing unemployment and started to manage employment.
However, it is clear that accidents in the workplace - which I am now talking about - are a problem of education and mutual responsibility on the part of businessmen, the state, public administration and, of course, trade unions.
In Spain, back in 1995, a law was adopted in this respect, and they are trying to comply with it, but this cannot be achieved in a day.
Therefore, Commissioner, firstly, what active policies and which economic sectors do you intend to bring into play in order to achieve better education in this particular area, so that a sense of responsibility may be developed?
Consequently, both the funding of these immigrant education programmes and the active policies are decisions which logically depend on which social policy the Spanish Government accepts or decides on.
The legal acts which we are talking about here are legal acts passed by the Council, by Parliament, by the Commission and by all the Community institutions.
You, as a member of the most important legislative institution of the European Union know full well that these legal acts have not been numbered consecutively.
If you think that Commission officials are well employed if I sit them down and tell them to spend a week counting the legal acts issued since 1955, then let me tell you that I do not.
I am curious to know how it helps if I tell you that this figure is 21334 or 21425.
Screening is used merely to identify the acquis of the European Union and how much of it already forms part of the candidate country' s legislation and how much does not.
I know that for the Luxembourg group of countries, with which negotiations started in March 1998, between 10 and 15 out of a total of 31 negotiating chapters have been provisionally completed.
With the Helsinki group of countries, negotiations did not start until February of this year.
But whether or not that will be possible will only become apparent in the autumn of this year once we have the up-to-date progress reports on preparations for accession for each individual candidate country.
Mr President, Commissioner, my question does not concern the timetable; instead I would like to ask a question regarding a principle of enlargement.
The process of enlargement is expected to be a truly demanding one, in which there is a danger that we either become frustrated by long waiting times or compromise over the criteria by granting overlong transition periods, which will naturally cause displeasure in the old Member States.
Mr President, it is certainly correct to say, Mr Verheugen, that the chapter has not been completed, but negotiations have started.
Mr President, Mrs Müller, I assume that you know that accession negotiations take the form of a state conference at which the Member States, not the Commission, negotiate and I am not therefore entitled to divulge the content of negotiations which have not yet been completed.
The question which you actually want answered is the question of how we can prepare for the problems which will arise in certain border regions following enlargement.
But we have not yet reached that point.
I believe, in fact, that we can succeed in enlarging the Union if we combine these two aspects: firstly, the free movement of services and employees and, secondly, more equal conditions when it comes to the dialogue between employers and employees.
Mr President, to be honest, the underlying question was how many legal acts does the European Union have.
All the acquis is taken into consideration in the progress reports on the candidate countries.
We must also report in the progress reports - as you will have noticed - as to whether a country is complying with the Copenhagen criteria.
Commissioner, we were in fact discussing the matter of transition periods.
Thank you very much, Mr Commissioner, for your replies.
Questions Nos 41 and 42 will be replied to in writing.
Also in the rules as I recall, you are only allowed to take one supplementary question per political group and these rules are being broken and as a consequence, for the second week running, I miss out on a question.
You may write the letter you mentioned and you will receive a polite and full reply, but please do not worry since my intention was to give you the floor within the time allotted.
In most cases the Commission can close the examination of the notified aid project after the preliminary examination, that is without opening a formal investigation.
Such decisions must be taken within two months following the receipt of a complete notification.
In practice, notifications are frequently incomplete so that the Commission is forced to request additional information before it can take a decision.
When doubts are raised about the compatibility of an aid project with the common market, the Commission must open a formal investigation for which the regulation provides an indicative time-limit of 18 months.
Secondly, the cases for which a formal investigation is opened are usually very complex and therefore require a longer period of examination, often also involving meetings with the Member State concerned and modifications to the original project.
Once they are in force, Member States will no longer need to notify aid projects complying with the conditions of the exemption regulations but can grant the aid immediately.
This will considerably simplify state aid procedures.
However, in some Member States there is still a serious problem created by delays in decision-taking on state aids.
I am convinced that some jobs have been lost because waiting for the decision on state aid has meant that a company has gone out of business in the end because it did not have the approval in time.
Does the Commission therefore consider that all state aids to the nuclear industry are prohibited by the EC Treaty, given that no derogation is specified, and that Article 98 of the Euratom Treaty does not provide for a subsidised accident insurance scheme for nuclear risks?
Moreover, while Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty do provide for a general principle prohibiting state aids, they also authorise specific categories of state aid.
The Commission has not made any proposals to the UK Government on the subject of the NFFO system in application of Article 88 of the EC Treaty.
If, however, cases of incompatible aid are brought to the attention of the Commission, such cases will be dealt with in compliance with the terms of the relevant articles of the EC and Euratom Treaties.
I very clearly understand your concern, but permit me some observations.
The proposed new framework for state aid to the environment is very flexible with regard to the granting of aid to renewable energies.
It authorises aid of at least 40% of eligible costs in the case of investment, and for operational aid the Member States are entitled to adopt a system authorising aid up to 100% of eligible costs.
Aid to these forms of energy may, moreover, vary according to the Member States.
The Commission recognises that renewable energies may need support in order to be able to develop but, at the same time, it is also important for these forms of energy to adapt gradually to competitive markets in order to ensure their long-term development.
As far as the latter is concerned, Community programmes for nuclear research are established by the Council which, pursuant to Article 7 of the Euratom Treaty, acts unanimously on Commission proposals.
In this context, the activities of the JRCs are intended, in conformance with its mission, to increase protection and nuclear safety, and in particular, provide scientific and technical assistance to the competent directorates-general.
This is particularly true in the case of the competition rules, which do not derogate from the framework established by the Euratom Treaty regarding Community nuclear research.
I conclude from your answers both to my question and the previous one that here we have not just a white elephant in the nuclear industry in Europe but a holy cow.
Commissioner, you say that neither the Treaty nor the directive on the internal electricity market stipulate any exemptions regarding subsidies to the nuclear sector.
Articles 87 and 88 make no reference to nuclear energy.
I can add that, on the operational level, as indeed I think I said in response to your own question, Mr Turmes, on existing aid to the nuclear industry, the Commission is not undertaking a comprehensive investigation.
If, however, cases of incompatible aid are brought to our attention, then these cases will be dealt with in accordance with the terms of the two treaties.
I would further like to add that in the logical overall construction of the EC Treaty, the articles governing state aid, i.e.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 46 to 83 will be replied to in writing.
Mr President, there are few of us here at this time in the evening, but it is also true that this is the third time we have debated this report in the European Parliament.
On the first occasion, in December 1998, this report on the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions from new passenger cars was approved at first reading with 48 amendments.
The report therefore returned for a second reading.
It also seemed very important that we maintained something that was traditional in the positions of the Committee on the Environment: a certain degree of precaution in relation to voluntary agreements.
The Committee on the Environment had little faith in these voluntary agreements and another amendment asked for the establishment of a clear legal framework which would come into play in the event that the voluntary agreements failed.
Mr President, in total, 10 amendments were approved by a substantial majority in this House and then not accepted by the Council, and we therefore had to embark on this conciliation procedure, which I must point out has been neither difficult nor controversial.
It includes a study of the future inclusion of lightweight industrial vehicles, the possibility of shortly presenting a proposed legal framework and reviewing the data with a view to making them more rigorous and more or less equivalent in each of the countries.
In short, Parliament' s main concerns have been taken up, if not in an immediate and radical manner, at least to the extent that a commitment has been given to adopt decisions on this issue in the future.
Mrs González Álvarez, conciliation processes vary in difficulty, I can assure you.
Reducing greenhouse gases by 8% in comparison with 1990 is therefore the main objective between now and the year 2012.
This joint monitoring scheme is the first of its kind and I think that its success or failure will decide whether or not we opt to introduce other similar schemes.
But despite all these efforts, directives and joint measuring schemes, we should not delude ourselves: we are unlikely to achieve the target objective of reducing greenhouse gases to 1990 levels.
That may well be pessimistic but if we consider that the number of cars on the road is continuing to rise in the 14 Member States, oh excuse me, I meant 15; we Austrians often have to stop and ask ourselves if there are 14 or 15 Member States, but there are in fact still 15, and if we consider enlargement to the east and if we consider that people in China and India also want to live as we do, then we should make no mistake: it will be difficult to achieve a reduction in greenhouse gases or CO2 and we should therefore make every effort to stabilise them at the very least.
Nonetheless, once in a while these words of wisdom fit the bill because our CO2 strategy for cars is of course a new departure in that we are trusting in the willingness of car manufacturers in Europe, Korea and Japan to take voluntary technical measures to reduce CO2 emissions from their cars to 140g by 2008, which will represent a reduction of around 25%.
I think that all of us, especially of course the Member States, need to give clear additional incentives, so that we really can achieve our objective of 120 g in 2005.
Since the Rio de Janeiro Conference and then Kyoto, the European Union has always led the political side of the debate on climate change.
Nevertheless, although Europe continues to lead the debate in terms of rhetoric, it is beginning to lose the legitimacy to do so in a credible way.
In terms of political action, the transport sector must be our priority for the following two fundamental reasons.
Secondly, because transport is the sector that is contributing most to Europe' s falling short of the levels set in Kyoto.
According to a study recently published by the European Environment Agency, transport is responsible for almost 30% of the European Union' s total emissions, and it predicts that the level of carbon dioxide emissions generated by this sector will increase by 39% of the 1990 level by 2010.
Given this extremely disturbing picture, which shows that road transport is responsible for 85% of total carbon dioxide emissions in the transport sector, and given the overwhelming need for action, the agreement reached in the Conciliation Committee on this system for monitoring CO2 emissions from light passenger vehicles is to be welcomed.
This system is a crucial aspect in the implementation of the Kyoto protocol and will ensure rigorous control of the voluntary commitment made by the car industry to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in new passenger vehicles by 25%.
In any event, I congratulate Mrs González Álvarez once again on the results she has achieved.
Mr President, Commissioner, I intend to be as brief as our successful rapporteur in the conciliation procedure.
However, let me just offer her my hearty congratulations on her excellent report and brilliant success, as some of the previous speakers have done.
Contrary to some previous speakers, I think it is most important that the report should seek not just to stabilise concentrations of greenhouse gases but to reduce them, especially given the fact that we need to achieve a demonstrable success by 2005 under the terms of the Kyoto protocol.
I think it is fundamental, given the reservation which this Parliament has always expressed in connection with voluntary obligations in environmental agreements, that we have managed to include the passage stating that data will be used from 2003 onwards to monitor the voluntary obligations of the car industry.
The adoption of this decision will allow the effectiveness of the Community strategy to reduce CO2 emissions from passenger cars to be monitored and, more specifically, it will provide credible data to monitor the implementation of the voluntary agreements with car manufacturers.
This strategy is one of the most concrete activities of the Community on CO2 emissions and reductions from the transport sector.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I hope that the two members due to speak before me were not travelling by train and have been delayed.
If you take lorries and buses from eastern Europe on the A1 motorway, which is the most important east-west route, traffic increased sixfold between 1995 and the year 2000.
The main requirements are, of course, to harmonise the gauge throughout Europe, especially where more than two countries cooperate.
At the moment, we still have five different gauges.
Mr President, first of all I should like to thank all the Members who supported the rapporteur in his work in presenting these two reports which are, I believe, absolutely crucial to the future of the railways.
What is the subject matter?
Next, and this is the substance of the second report, we must discuss and vote on a proposed directive on the interoperability of the trans-European conventional rail system.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must appreciate the full importance of this subject.
At a time when we have right here, in most of the countries of the Union, a rail network and technology unparalleled in the world, with a recent study evaluating the external costs of road transport in terms of public health, infrastructure and pollution at some EUR 480 billion, even though the objective of sustainable mobility and respect for quality of life are now shared by all Europeans, it can be noted that rail has only an 8.6% market share for freight, and 5.8% for passenger transport.
There is more than one explanation for this paradox: rail' s reduced level of competitiveness due to a social differential in relation to the road sector, but also the distortions of competition engendered by the considerable external costs of road transport, the priority which most major railway companies in recent years have given exclusively to prestigious high-speed passenger transport, but also excessive national characteristics in terms of railway traditions, techniques and protocols, thereby compromising the flow of continental rail traffic.
The issue at stake in railway interoperability is, of course, doing away with the technical frontiers that have been inherited from the national railway structures set in place gradually since the nineteenth century.
Of course, the new high-speed train infrastructures offer a prime area for the introduction of interoperability, since they are new or recent networks devoted to very similar technology.
Directive 96/48 was adopted for this purpose.
The report on its application, four years on, referred to Parliament to express an opinion, delivers contrasting results, but results that are in the end more positive than they may seem.
In the first place, significant delay is observed in the transposition of laws and regulations since, to date, only two countries have transposed it and the first technical specifications for interoperability are on the point of being completed and published.
More than that, however, in anticipation of tangible results in future, the directive on the interoperability of high-speed routes has primarily made it possible to define and iron out working methods.
For the first time, the railway industry, rail companies and infrastructure managers have started up a joint project to define the technical specifications for interoperability.
Finally, the Committee established by Article 21, bringing together representatives of the Member States and the Commission, enables political and technical monitoring of interoperability projects and intervention at the discretion of states to direct such projects.
Furthermore, we have to look to the future and, therefore, both the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy have proposed involving candidate country representatives in the projects at this early stage, so that they can anticipate this future acquis communautaire.
The aim of the directive - as with high-speed trains - is to harmonise technical provisions in order to ensure that conventional rail traffic within the Union runs as smoothly as possible and to give candidate countries really exact specifications so that through traffic is also guaranteed after enlargement.
Better services, greater comfort, less travelling time, increased safety and possibly also lower prices.
Including these aspects will only result in the directive being difficult or impossible to manage.
Allow me in closing to highlight the excellent cooperation once again; I am optimistic that together we shall achieve the objective of creating as smooth a railway system as possible.
For a long time, the European Parliament has been advocating a transport policy that promotes rail transport, as it is the form of transport that causes the least pollution, and in many situations it is the most comfortable for passengers and adapts most easily to long distance goods transport.
What we have seen, however, is exactly the opposite: the volume of rail transport of passengers and goods has been steadily decreasing, as has the number of people working in companies in those areas which nevertheless, still stands at around one million.
Secondly, rail transport is considered to be a great deal more expensive than road transport.
As to this second aspect, some measures have already been adopted, with the construction and management of transport infrastructures themselves being separated in most countries of the European Union.
The amendments that have now been tabled to establish rules for cross-border interoperability in the European Union clearly show the direction we should take in this matter.
The interest demonstrated by the Portuguese Presidency in taking these dossiers forward as quickly as possible gives us hope that, with the contribution of the European Parliament, this situation will finally change, to the benefit of rail transport.
In conclusion, I must emphasise that we Socialists feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the European Union' s fundamental aims, and that, in the rail transport sector, support must be provided for Europe' s northern and southern peripheral regions and for specific and historical cases where costs of adaptation are very high but are absolutely essential, because their different track gauges have to be changed.
This is an important topic, but also an extremely complicated one.
There is one further matter which would require fine tuning; this was outlined in Amendment No 35 by my Group.
It applies to Finland in particular, but some of the applicant countries will be faced with the same problem in connection with enlargement of the Union.
There is no certainty either that Russian wagons in all instances would be regarded as special cases.
Implementation of this proposal would give assurance that rail traffic in Finland could continue without becoming drastically reduced.
Mr President, Environment Commissioner, I am pleased that you are here because we can now address this matter straight away.
This gives me the opportunity to make a few comments on the environmental dimension to this proposal.
The passengers are unaware that it is two companies who are responsible for this one joint and frequent link.
My group would like to see trade-union rights, participation, working conditions and work pressure given a more prominent role.
Luckily, the rapporteur is not yielding under the pressure to consider personnel as a cost factor alone.
Mr President, Mr Savary' s reports raise a matter of crucial importance to European railways.
Given the alarming position rail finds itself in in most Member States, intervention is vital.
I also hope that the Council will accept our proposed amendments.
We are opening the markets but we need interoperability in order to do so.
In a few weeks' time, we shall propose to Parliament at second reading and by a large majority - there are still a few differences of opinion here and there - what framework market conditions and operating regulations are needed in order to create a European railway system.
All this, as the previous speaker has already said, will not produce a European railway system unless there is also a degree of interoperability on the technical and social side.
Mr Savary has also highlighted a very important point; namely that we must ensure during the enlargement of the European Union that the European railway system does not stop at the current borders of the European Union but covers the whole of Europe so that it can help to improve the environment and increase traffic safety throughout Europe.
It is true that in a good number of European policies we put forward the need to transfer passenger transport, but most especially freight transport, from road to rail in order, on the one hand, to comply with our international commitments but, on the other hand, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to reduce environmental pollution in general, to relieve congestion on the roads and to reduce the social costs of road transport, which are borne indirectly by the community as a whole.
In transport policies within the European Union, rail was overlooked.
Only rarely was there a question of allocating aid to conventional rail systems in order to modernise them and so that they might compete, particularly with heavy goods vehicles on the roads.
Moreover, we would point out that it is essential that the European Parliament should incorporate staff training and health and safety conditions into this directive.
Indeed, many of us still remember the conditions in which the transportation of radioactive waste between Germany and France was carried out for many years.
In general, then, we consider this report to be a well-balanced one, and we also wish to congratulate the rapporteur, but we have nonetheless tabled a number of amendments in order to improve it still more.
Most national railway systems in the Member States have comprehensive rules governing the aforementioned social aspects and rather than lose them in the process of liberalisation at European level, we must harmonise them at the highest possible level.
Secondly, in addition to agreeing to the minimum level of technical harmonisation proposed in the report, the preparation of ex ante cost-benefit analyses and the order of priorities for drawing up TSIs, my group sets particular store by including the social partners, associations and organisations, passengers and users in the work of drafting and checking technical specifications for interoperability.
Thirdly, we also support the proposal to allow representatives from the candidate countries of Central and Eastern Europe to attend committee meetings from the outset.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Savary report follows the rationale of sustainable development.
As for conventional rail networks, it is time that interoperability was made compulsory, reinforced by considerable amounts of European aid which would, moreover, enable Member States to safeguard their conventional local networks.
So border stops, changes in equipment and staff and, more importantly, transhipment operations should be limited to avoid putting a strain on reliability in terms of the time and service provided.
In my view, the most important points to be borne in mind are two figures, which are really quite shocking.
The first is that in 1970, the railways had a 20% share of the freight market, whereas today they have just 8.5%.
And all this in the year 2000!
We should all realise that a common market without a unified transport network is simply will-o' -the wisp.
I would like to add two separate issues concerning my country, Greece, since my capacity as chairman of the Transport Committee does not, I imagine, deny me the right to raise problems of this kind.
The first problem is that Greece has no main cross-border rail links, especially with other Member States.
Mr President, I too regret the absence of the Commissioner here this evening.
I begin by welcoming the Commission's proposal to integrate Europe's convention on a high-speed rail network.
As we have heard already this evening, in 1970 the railways had a 21% share of the freight market, today just 8.5%.
The sad fact is that the railways have lost ground even where there are well placed, for example, in long distance freight.
A key reason for this decline is that, in contrast to aviation and road haulage, a single market does not exist in this sector.
For 150 years, the railways have been organised along national lines.
More recently the railways have adopted 16 different and incompatible electronic signalling systems.
Differences have also contributed to the fragmentation of the market for railway equipment.
This proposal being considered here tonight, together with other proposals from the Commission, aims to create an internal market in rail services.
It would also boost the railway equipment industry in countries such as my own.
The revitalisation of the railways is crucial to the future of Europe's transport system, our environment and our economy.
It is high time that the Member States forsook their national stances in favour of a European stance because it is national stances that have prevented the rail system from being vital and from retaining its passengers and freight.
The bridge will make it considerably easier to convey people and goods from Sweden and Finland to the rest of Europe.
The only railway linking the two countries is that between Haparanda and Torneå.
Coordination of the railway systems is especially important for those countries and regions which are not situated in the centre of Europe.
The Savary report is therefore very important and one step along the road.
Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members, literature has a few well-known words for what we are discussing in the two Savary reports this evening: "You are late, but at least you are here" , was how Friedrich Schiller put it, words which also apply to our work here in the European Parliament.
It has taken more than 100 years for us to pluck up the courage here and give the railways another chance.
But where we want to network Europe in the long term, especially with the future Member States of the Union, things do not look any better.
In this context, a word to my Austrian Minister of Transport.
The southern railway in Austria is an old stretch of line and is of regional importance.
Mr President, I believe that Gilles Savary has done magnificent work with these two reports.
The routes of the railway structures on our continent were set a long time before Schuman made his famous speech on the Quai d'Orsay.
Furthermore - as others have said - almost every country has constructed its network in a radial manner, around its capital, which is a serious obstacle to all those who want to create a different kind of route, such as from Spain to Germany or Italy to the UK without passing, for example, through Paris.
Paris and many other capitals and almost all intra-European borders act as barriers for through rail routes.
We have managed to harmonise the European economy, but the current rail network is not a useful instrument for the single market.
The inclusion of a social clause seems to me to be an excellent idea.
These workers have already paid the price for our forgetfulness.
Their number has decreased by 500 000 in the last 15 years.
It is possible to revitalise the railway, as certain projects that have already been undertaken demonstrate.
A Community which is undergoing a rapid process of integration and which is facing imminent enlargement needs to improve the efficiency and quality of the railway services it offers to customers.
This is already the case in the technical field, in the form of the European Association for Railway Interoperability.
Take, for example, the night train from Amsterdam to Milan which will be introduced from 28 May.
From a position, thirty years ago, when it had a more than twenty per cent share of the goods transport market in the EU, the railways are now down to having a share of less than ten per cent.
Otherwise, there is an obvious risk that Europe' s railway network, at least where goods transport is concerned, will no longer exist within a few decades.
The next step is to help extend the EU' s internal market to embrace the countries of Eastern and Central Europe, too.
It is extremely important that we recognise the importance of a railway system.
One thing that has concerned me recently in my region is that, in Europe, we talk about how important to regions it is that we should have the most environmentally friendly type of transport.
We have also recently had Northern Ireland Railways tell us that they are going to close the link between Coleraine and Londonderry which is absolutely unbelievable and totally unacceptable.
There should be no more closures and we should make more finance available to improve the present railway system to have more goods moved by rail and not by road, which is totally unacceptable from an environmental point of view.
The directive must be seen, in the first place, as a technical measure, but the proposal is, of course, also of political significance in so far as it helps implement a common and open market for railway services and railway materials.
This has also emerged clearly in the course of the debate.
These differences affect not only interoperability but also the internal market for railway equipment.
The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has adopted an amendment to the report and, in that way, backed our own proposal.
As you know, the Council too has examined the proposal and, thanks to contacts between Parliament' s rapporteur, the Presidency of the Council and the Commission' s officials, it is entirely possible that the proposal may be adopted as early as at first reading.
Those cases which are mentioned may be dealt with as special categories, as special cases or, at worst, as exceptions.
Amendment 28, Article 22(3).
Amendment 29, Article 24(1).
Amendment 32, Annex I, together with Amendment 35 on exempting passenger carriages from third countries.
Amendment 39, Article 18(3) and Amendment 40, Annex VII.
The proposal therefore mentions a number of special cases (cf.
Allow me to leave the other amendments, because they all have our support.
I would conclude my intervention concerning the interoperability of the conventional rail systems by thanking Parliament for its efforts.
Parliament' s proposal for carrying out an assessment of how much progress really has been made on interoperability is therefore very interesting.
At the request of a Member State or of the Commission, this would provide a picture of the trans-European rail system for conventional trains.
It is generally known that the railway sector is of crucial importance in terms of Europe' s future transport needs and a more sustainable European transport system.
Secondly, please be so kind as to point out to your employees that the report is not from the Committee on Regional Policy, but from the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, because we are devising a transport policy for the whole Community, not just for the regions.
Mr President, the report on safety at Sellafield, published by the UK Nuclear Installations Inspectorate, is a damning indictment of safety at the plant and falsification of safety checks there.
In mid-February Chief Inspector Laurence Williams said that he himself would pull the plug on the THORP reprocessing plant if his safety recommendations were not acted on.
It is time that the citizens of Europe received detailed answers to the questions of the effect on safety and the environment of the falsification of data in the MOX facility at the BNFL Sellafield site - falsification that has been ongoing for some years - because of the seriousness of the questions it raises for the safety of MOX fuel in use and for the nuclear installation's safety generally.
It also raises questions for the transport of nuclear material such as MOX fuel and, indeed, for nuclear safeguards because of the production of plutonium stockpiles.
I am also directly concerned with the effects of reprocessing on neighbouring states, such as my own, where radioactive contamination from Sellafield has been found on the east coast beaches, in particular Carlingford Lough, where I grew up.
I believe the scandal of abuse of safety at Sellafield is a European question.
In particular, the high-level waste tanks pose a serious, on-going risk to the east coast of Ireland because of the risk of a release of large amounts of radiation should the cooling tanks overheat.
The Nuclear Inspectorate's report stressed that the amount of high-level liquid waste continues to increase faster than BNFL can deal with it.
For more than 40 years high-level liquid waste has been stored in tanks at Sellafield under constant cooling.
Even then, they will still be highly radioactive for more than 50 years.
The problem for BNFL is that the amount of high-level liquid waste produced by reprocessing continues to increase faster than it can deal with it.
In committee I also queried whether a culture of corruption had spread to the independent quality assurance verification by Lloyd's Quality Assurance who verify that BNF procedures comply with health and safety requirements.
Last September it published a report stating that BNFL has high-quality management in terms of health, safety and the environment.
I am therefore grateful that the European Parliament decided to debate this important issue in plenary tonight and to adopt a resolution later this week.
Let me now turn to the first specific issue which is the implications of the MOX data issue for the safety of nuclear installations.
Let me first remind the honourable Members that under the International Convention on Nuclear Safety the responsibility for nuclear safety rests with the state having jurisdiction over a nuclear installation.
It is also clear that our Member States do not wish to give up this responsibility.
That is a quote from their report.
However, the inspectors' report on the control and supervision of operations at the BNFL Sellafield site also stated its opinion on the deterioration in safety performance at Sellafield.
We are now awaiting the formal reaction of the inspector to this programme.
Therefore, also for the transport of radioactive material the prime responsibility lies with the Member States.
However, the Commission welcomes any decision which would increase even further the safe transport of nuclear material.
The Commission has as its objective to promote the harmonisation of the regulations in the field of transport of radioactive material, which would increase safety in the field.
Finally, regarding the concept of proposing a Euratom directive for harmonising minimum standards for nuclear safety in the European Union and its value in discussions of nuclear safety with the accession states: individual EU Member States' safety requirements are more specific and demanding than those of the International Atomic Agency.
My concern is that any attempt to achieve a consensus on a set of common Euratom safety standards might only result in a very generalised set of rules and principles.
I do not see any obstacles to future harmonisation of rules in the field of safe management of radioactive waste and decommissioning of nuclear installations.
In the context of enlargement, a directive setting out harmonised minimum safety standards might have facilitated our early discussions on the very sensitive issue of nuclear safety.
It is also difficult to prejudge if common minimum standards would give us the level of safety that we wish the accession states to aim for.
Another major step forward was taken only last week with the setting up of a European nuclear installation safety group.
However, it is not clear that a directive requiring the harmonisation of safety standards at a European level at this moment in history is the best way forward.
It is very important that we retain a sense of perspective, a sense of proportion about this issue and I welcome the balanced response from Commissioner Wallström.
It is very important that we stick to facts and avoid some of the wilder claims that have been put in the Green motion for a resolution on this issue.
I would like to quote also from the NII report that the fuel manufactured in MDF, the MOX Demonstration Facility, will be safe in use in spite of incomplete quality assurance records caused by the falsification of some acceptable quality-level data by process workers in the facility.
I would also like to draw colleagues' attention to the positive response by BNFL to the two reports made by the NII, one on the records incident and the other on the control and safety management regime at Sellafield.
BNFL has responded positively to the 28 recommendations in one report and 15 recommendations in the other, the falsification report.
The offence of falsification of records must not negate or obscure the long-term case for reprocessing or MOX fuel assemblies.
I welcome their launching of a project aimed at harmonising its members' safety rules and practices.
Mr President, the vast majority of United Kingdom citizens or indeed EU citizens were deeply shocked and dismayed at the recent events at BNFL.
Failure to comply in one aspect of an accredited quality system has led to a major loss in confidence in BNFL overall." That is from a management which is now aware of its shortcomings, a management that foolishly engaged in staff reductions, now reversed thank goodness.
The highest standards are required of any nuclear installation.
I do not want to talk at this stage about the viability or wisdom of reprocessing nor about the economics of MOX.
The main reason this is being raised in the European Parliament is to point out the lack of European harmonised standards in the nuclear industry.
There are harmonised standards in almost every other aspect of European industry.
The Commissioner says she does not feel it advisable to produce a communication.
I think one is needed in the near future indicating how we could achieve more harmonisation - of course not at the lowest standards in existence but at the most stringent.
The processing of spent fuel from 34 plants in 9 different countries was thrown into doubt and, indeed, Japan, Germany and Switzerland stopped sending material - and quite rightly so - to Sellafield.
A number of improvements have been made: the new chairman of BNFL has undertaken a fundamental review; a number of people have been dismissed.
The fact is that the Commissioner telling us that the rules of individual Member States are more specific is simply not good enough.
We need high minimum standards and, in particular, we need those standards in the light of the accession of candidate countries, many of which are more reliant on nuclear technology than existing members of the Union and have much older generating capacity.
The fact is that we need legislation to implement what is called for in the motion put forward by the three main political groups tonight: high minimum standards for the safe and reliable design, construction and operation of nuclear and nuclear-related installations, as well as for nuclear-safety management systems.
My group cannot support the Green motion here tonight.
It raises the perfectly legitimate question of whether nuclear reprocessing should continue at Sellafield.
But one cannot conduct this debate in the terms employed by the tabloid newspapers.
But it is an area where action at European-Union level really can make a difference.
No one in this House could have been anything but appalled at the recent events linked to Sellafield, with the falsification of MOX fuel data and the Nuclear Installation Inspectorate's report on the low level of safety procedures at the plant.
BNFL was determined to press ahead with the Sellafield MOX plant to keep reprocessing going.
The nuclear industry has caused enormous damage already and we have to be certain that more and more communities and people's lives are not blighted by its legacy in future.
Mr President, an essential requirement in parliamentary work is rigour.
For the sake of this rigour, I would like to remind you of four facts relating to the case of the falsification of manual measurements of the diameter of MOX fuel pellets at the British Nuclear Fuels installation at Sellafield.
Nevertheless, a mishap like this reminds us, despite its trivial nature, of the need to give utmost priority to the constant control and improvement of the procedures in an installation such as the Sellafield reprocessing plant.
However, we should note that the response of BNFL to the nuclear inspectorate report has already resulted in very significant management changes.
We should also note that the chief inspector and the Commission made very clear to the industry committee that there were no safety implications at any of the Sellafield installations.
We seek to apply standards to the applicant countries in eastern Europe and, I would suggest, beyond the applicant countries in eastern Europe.
Mr President, I have been a Member of this Parliament now for sixteen years.
I believe I am accurate in saying that literally in every one of those sixteen years the concerns of the Irish Government and the Irish people about the nuclear processing plant in Sellafield have been raised in this Parliament.
We are aware that the Germans and the Japanese are sending their nuclear waste for processing to Sellafield because it is politically too uncomfortable for them to do it in their own countries because of concerns about this.
I also ask her another question: are any of the non-nuclear countries on the nuclear safety committee you mentioned?
Mr President, I asked to speak in this debate not just because I am a Member from the north-west region of England where the Sellafield plant is situated, not just because there could be 10 000 livelihoods at risk if Sellafield was closed, and not because I have any vested interest in the nuclear industry.
I asked to speak because I want to try and help to get some truth into this debate.
BNFL were the ones who told the nuclear installations inspectorate and their customers what had happened.
I quote from The Independent where seven prominent Danish scientists, who actually study as a professional interest the releases of radioactivity from Sellafield, said on 12 May: "There is no scientific basis for the claim that the present release of radioactivity from Sellafield causes an unacceptable contamination in the North Atlantic and Arctic regions".
They would certainly not put their families at risk it that was the case.
Mr President, as a Cumbrian - born, bred and resident - and one of the representatives of north-west England, there is nobody in this Parliament who has been more affected by the reverberations arising from recent events at Sellafield than me.
Speaking as a Cumbrian I know a lot of people in my home county - which I have the privilege to represent - feel let down by British Nuclear Fuels.
In particular I know this is a very strongly held view in parts of Ireland.
This true in Ireland, Denmark, the United Kingdom or any other Member State.
Finally, just as the recent crisis at Sellafield has been self-inflicted, so the solution to it lies in British Nuclear Fuels' hands, as they themselves understand.
No uniform standards for safety and discharges, no Community consultation procedure concerning power stations sited near frontiers, no clear Community provisions for the storage and transport of nuclear fuels or nuclear waste, no adequate Community system of information and monitoring in cases of nuclear malfunction.
Nuclear safety in the enlargement process is a major cause for concern.
If nuclear safety and nuclear energy are so safe, why are not the majority of these installations located near the population centres of the south-east of England?
But seen from an Irish perspective, this stands logic on its head, we have counties Antrim, Down, Louth, Dublin, Wicklow and Wexford where the vast majority of the population of the island of Ireland, about 2 million people, live on or adjacent to the Irish sea where the majority of British nuclear institutions are sited.
Furthermore in recent years, we have all seen how consumer concern about the integrity of the food chain can devastate a once seemingly secure market.
The reality of Sellafield goes beyond the contribution to the Kyoto targets on the dependence of the UK economy on nuclear energy.
It also includes a litany of unreported incidents, falsified quality control checks on MOX fuel rods resulting in the loss of confidence by the Japanese in safety standards at the plant and the cancellation by the Germans and the Swiss of mixed oxide nuclear fuel pellets.
The reality of Sellafield includes incidents last September and early this year of deliberate sabotage, allegedly by members of the staff.
A director has publicly stated the future of the plant is in doubt.
It is in the interest of all of us to ensure that our citizens have confidence in our safety and security systems.
I am ready to come any time to any committee in Parliament to discuss those issues.
But we must not give the impression that this would mean higher levels of safety in the European Union, because with the unanimity rule on the decisions on these issues, the end-result could be that we have minimum standard rules which would not live up to the expectations of our citizens.
That is also why the Commission's responsibility in this area is restricted to control radioactivity - but no more than that.
It is not the first time that Sellafield has been discussed and we need to look into the safety issues very closely because, you remember, there was an accident in Japan.
So even in highly advanced societies there are serious risks with nuclear and processing techniques.
I should be pleased to come to Parliament at any time to continue this discussion.
The debate is closed.
