The Commission has implemented a series of activities to stimulate the debate in all Member States and has given support to those countries which requested it.
The single market has brought huge benefits for citizens, but it is still unfinished business in the areas of energy, banking charges and roaming fees, for instance.
The Commission will take forward the debate on enlargement and its added value, and this will be part of the Commission’s enlargement strategy report, to be submitted in the autumn.
Five countries that had not ratified the Constitution before the start of the period of reflection have now done so.
Furthermore, Estonia’s Parliament voted in favour of the Constitution on 9 May, which brings the number of countries to have ratified to 15.
They show that Member States are attached to the principles and values of the Constitution.
We have to listen to the views and the positions of the countries which said ‘no’, but it is equally important to listen to the voices of those who say ‘yes’.
Of course we would like to see the Constitutional Treaty ratified in all 25 Member States.
To use wording that is familiar to us, is it now time to work on the text or still time to work on the context?
Plan D was not a one-off operation.
I have promised the Commission that after the June Summit I will address what our next steps should be – if you wish, the second phase of Plan D.
It is by reconnecting with citizens that we can create the conditions for a future comprehensive institutional settlement.
We therefore encourage you to keep going.
You can therefore count on the European Parliament for this institutional declaration, but this means that we want to take part in drawing it up, not just sign it at the end.
I think that the fact that the process of ratifying the Constitution continued in Estonia and that the Finnish Parliament decided to ratify it is good news, which proves that all those who are prophesying that the Constitution is dead are wrong.
I believe that what we need to do in this debate on the Constitutional Treaty is something similar: to explain to people, with examples, what would be lacking in their lives if there were no European Constitution.
You are one of the really prominent people in the Commission who are speaking up not only for Plan D but also for the democratisation of Europe as a whole and for greater effectiveness in the Commission's activities.
You are – and I say this on behalf of our group – one of the personalities who can be described as an asset for progress in Europe.
They want the subsidiarity principle to be strengthened.
They want the EU to be effective in fighting crime.
We all know that we need the Constitution if we are to meet these demands from the public.
At the end of the period of reflection, it is now clearer than ever that it is not possible to meet the demands of the public on the basis of the Treaty of Nice.
Without a shadow of a doubt, nobody should be fighting harder for the Constitution than the President of the Commission.
I will give you an example: 25 ministers of labour, and representatives of the Commission and the European Parliament, were present at the last informal Council meeting in Luxembourg, at which the Services Directive was discussed.
That is a long time in comparison with the European Parliament, but was out of all proportion to the matter on the agenda.
If we want to make Europe more democratic, more transparent, more efficient – if we want to deliver to the people – we need to act, not talk.
There are those in this Parliament who oppose the Constitution.
Those people now raising their voices are in a minority.
The overwhelming majority of this House are in favour of the Constitution.
The overwhelming majority of the Member States are in favour of the Constitution.
The overwhelming majority of the Commission are in favour of the Constitution.
We see it every day – Europe is not moving forward, or even standing still, but going backwards, and at the same time national egos are growing and the feeling of sharing a common destiny is in retreat.
Our group has taken note of a few timid steps forward among those proposals.
For example, you are going to send all of your legislative proposals directly to the national parliaments at the same time as you send them to the European Parliament; that is good, but it does not change anything.
I should have liked to have heard you advocating new common policies, which are vital in order to prepare better for the future.
Moreover, we should have like to have heard some proposals on the issue of economic governance.
The lack of proposals from you regarding the institutions is, in my opinion, even more serious.
With regard to the basic issue of the future of our institutions, and therefore of our democracy, you contented yourself with commenting that there is currently no consensus between the Member States.
Even though the ratification process is continuing symbolically, we all know that this Constitution will never see the light of day.
We need to rewrite the Constitution, to produce a new text that is shorter, simpler, more readable and more tightly focused on the major principles on which the European Union is founded.
If we want to be in a position to ratify a political project of that nature in 2009, when European elections will be held in all the Member States, we must start preparing for it right now.
One can hardly quote him without him claiming the exact opposite in the same speech, and whenever one tries to pin him down he claims to have meant something quite different.
Interestingly, however, the whole of Europe has understood the same message from this master of misunderstanding: no chance.
As he said, the world will keep on turning without the Constitution.
That is yet another misunderstanding, of course, but the citizens have understood perfectly well.
Since the start of his time in office, the President of the Commission has not made the slightest effort to find a solution to this constitutional conflict.
It is not just formulas or pure rhetoric, as the President of the Commission keeps trying to suggest in this debate.
I was very surprised by the Eurobarometer surveys following the referendums in France and the Netherlands, which clearly showed that more than two thirds of those who had voted 'no' were in favour of improving the constitution, and that they wanted those improvements to aim for a social Europe.
Yes, the Austrian Presidency is talking about subsidiarity and bureaucracy and the Court of Justice, but the citizens are not.
While the governments are clinging on to their claims to power, the citizens want a European democracy, they want a social dimension, they want their basic rights, and they want a better constitution.
It is the President of the Commission’s historical responsibility to initiate and support this improvement process, and he would be well advised to assume it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner&#160;Wallström, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission and a significant proportion of this Parliament have really distanced themselves from the citizens of Europe.
Precisely in this respect we need to make changes, so that we can ultimately have a real discussion on the future of the European Union.
The members of my group take this forum seriously, though, and both before and during the forum they were involved in the discussions regarding a European appeal – Europe gives the citizens their say – and regarding the Charter of Principles for a Different Europe.
In my opinion, it is therefore quite grotesque for the President of the European Commission to state, as he did on 10&#160;May&#160;2006, that we must deliver results for Europe through a citizens' agenda.
Today we adopted our proposal for a citizens' agenda; the communication proposes 11 initiatives relating primarily to the internal market.
However, that will never result in a true social Europe of solidarity with social cohesion at the forefront, and that is what the citizens of Europe are so critical about.
If I am to be honest, Plan D seems to have more to do with a democratic deficit than with democracy, and more to do with a lack of dialogue than with dialogue.
This reflects the real debate taking place in society and the lack of a real debate within the structures of the European Union.
Commissioner Wallström has the opportunity to play a more significant role than that of the conductor of this chorus. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the paper ‘Citizens’ agenda: delivering results for Europe’ is to be welcomed in the emphasis placed on policy delivery rather than on institutional grand designs.
It is true that people in Europe want to see greater cooperation between Member States to combat and defeat the threats we all face in the modern world – particularly terrorism – but I want to see more intergovernmental coordination in tackling crime and terrorism, rather than trying to make such issues the subject of qualified majority voting.
The national veto should remain in those areas.
The British Government is currently playing with fire in its ambivalence on the subject.
Instead, I urge the Commission to concentrate on delivering the economic reform agenda.
People in Europe want action; they want action on growth and they want action on jobs.
They do not want grand projects that erode the sovereignty of their nations or affect their chances of getting a job.
So my message to the leaders for the June summit has to be simple: they should focus on people’s priorities, particularly the plight of the 18&#160;million who have no job in the Union.
I believe that is what the people of Europe have said, particularly in France and the Netherlands.
As we move forwards to an EU of 27, let us celebrate the diversity of the modern European Union; let us harness that diversity to work together for a true Europe of nation states. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I fully support what you said today, and I know how committed you are to Plan D.
I am talking in particular about the citizens' agenda.
I therefore share the criticisms made by Mr&#160;Schulz and many others that, reading these papers, one gets the impression that the Commission has given up on fighting for the Constitution.
I think that is a great shame, because you have severely disappointed not only many citizens who have also fought for the Constitution – for example in the referendums.
There are two major deficits to which you barely refer in this paper.
The first is the institutional deficit: this could be dealt with through the Constitution, and I agree with Mr&#160;Méndez de Vigo that the costs of not having the Constitution have not been stated.
If I may turn to energy policy, we have discussed the fact that, independent of the Constitution – which also gave Europe more competences in energy policy – we need to take some significant steps, particularly with regard to infrastructure.
It is a similar case for foreign and security policy, in which it can be said, on the one hand, that we need to go as far as we can without Constitution, but also that it is very important to have a Constitution so that we can go still further.
That, too, is a citizens' agenda, and it is precisely what many of the citizens expect from us.
However, do not neglect the institutional conditions, because you will disappoint the citizens if you do not clearly say to them that a Constitution is also necessary so that their interests can be implemented globally. &#160;&#160; The period of reflection is coming to an end, but it does not feel as if very much thinking has been done around Europe.
I hope that we can produce practical proposals within the very near future.
Among the matters debated a lot in Europe and featuring among the top subjects on the Commission’s web site are institutional issues and the issue of Parliament’s seat.
A huge number of people throughout Europe find it bizarre that the European Parliament meets in two locations.
I do hope that this citizen initiative will soon land on Mrs&#160;Wallström’s desk with a million signatures. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is not the first time that this House has debated the future of Europe.
The Commission’s contribution to the European Council of June 2006, which is the topic of this morning’s debate, offers little in the way of analysis, unfortunately.
As the Commissioner knows from internal reports, one of the main reasons for the Dutch ‘no’ was the loss of sovereignty.
I am all in favour of extending this period of reflection, provided that time is actually spent on reflecting on Europe’s future.
This framework – call it a basic treaty if you like – must put concrete policy before the setting up of new institutions, such as an EU foreign affairs minister.
This will really not help us any further and will not impress the Dutch voter – something which my Dutch fellow Members do not need to be told. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have three points.
Mr&#160;Farage is no longer here, but it was interesting to see that his message to the ‘cricket people’ was that he wants France and the Netherlands to decide for everyone else how the Constitution should be dealt with.
My second point, echoing what Mr Méndez de Vigo said, is that we have five phases in this debate.
My final point concerns the blame game.
The Commission has a tendency to blame the Member States, and the European Parliament blames both the Commission and the Member States.
The idea of a joint declaration, in which the European Parliament also participates, is a good one.
May I just point out that we are talking about the future of the Union, in preparation for the European Council, and only one group leader is present in this Chamber: Mr&#160;Poettering.
Five have done so since the negative referendum results and a sixth ratification is on its way.
The Commission clearly indicates the concrete action that has been taken, which, in itself, proves that the Commission sets great store by sending out a clear message.
We must also ask ourselves what exactly we want to say about the future of Europe and, above all, how this message relates to the action which the European Union has taken.
Which is the question as to the direction of the debate about Europe’s future in the different Member States.
All institutions have a role to play, but certainly as a Member of this House, I should like to draw the Council’s attention to its particular responsibility for the execution of a substantial policy agenda that is necessary to get the public to back the European project. &#160;&#160; Mr President, what we learned from the Dutch and French referenda was that many people, sadly, see the EU as part of the threat of globalisation, rather than offering a safe haven from its colder winds.
The Commission action on mobile roaming charges is excellent, by the way.
Under European arrest warrants, a suspected murderer was brought back from Latvia in four weeks and a suspected terrorist back from Italy in six weeks.
But there has never been a Council common position or joint action under the CSFP calling for the closure of Guantánamo Bay or even just for the return of our own citizens and residents.
Recently, our Temporary Committee on Extraordinary Rendition heard Javier Solana say he had no power to check whether Member States were upholding their human rights commitments.
Now Tony Blair, far from leading a national debate on the benefits of Europe, is conniving disgracefully in a dangerous and populist attack by Conservatives and the media on the European Convention on Human Rights.
Consequently, we are not one Europe with a future, because for one country, one nation, one union to have a future, it must know what it is and where it wants to go.
It has to be made clear that we want, by doing this, to put the case for the Constitution and to make good use of the time remaining before it enters into force, but also that it is indispensable to achieving certain crucial objectives, not only in the institutional sphere with such things as voting rights, numbers of seats, and foreign and security policy, but primarily for the public good.
We want this constitutional treaty, and we will do everything possible to see that it is ratified; I hope, Madam Vice-President, that the Commission will join in this endeavour with all the courage at its disposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the Commission’s Plan D.
We need debates and I know from experience in my country that the more people are informed about the European Union, the more positive they tend to be with regard to it.
They want people to rely on their ill-informed prejudices about Europe.
It is right to say that so far the reflection has been less about the text and more about the context.
The debate will need more structuring and more focus, perhaps along the lines on which Mr Méndez de Vigo and Mr Stubb spoke just now.
It is far too simplistic to say, as Mr Farage and Mr&#160;Kirkhope did, that the people have spoken and they have spoken against the Constitution.
A majority supports this Constitution, even in countries which held referendums.
When we have divergence in this Union, we talk it through to find a solution to make it acceptable to everyone, recognising the majority trend and trying to find out what adjustments might be necessary to make the minority able to accept it as well.
We have a duty to the minority to talk it through and find a compromise, but we cannot ignore the will of the majority either. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Vice-President Wallström, ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental question is this: what do the public want from political institutions?
What they want is solutions to problems, and, from time to time, a vision – yes, that as well – and they want their problems, fears and worries to be taken seriously.
This does not mean that the constitution is dead, but it is a reason why we cannot vote again on a constitutional treaty in unamended form.
Arguments are the salt in the democratic soup; many in this House will be aware that I was not happy with what happened to the services directive, but I was pleased that 30&#160;000 people were here in Strasbourg demonstrating, for that is real dialogue with the citizens, in comparison with which Plan D has something artificial about it.
We have neither the money, nor the legal basis, nor the powers to do that.
Create new rules of procedure in the Council and the Commission so that, from now on, all meetings are open and all documents public unless there are good arguments for sitting behind closed doors or otherwise dealing with a matter in secret.
Let the national parliaments question their Commissioner each Friday, and why not let the voters choose their own Commissioner directly next time around.
Resolve that we will never vote in favour of an EU law that has not obtained a majority in either the national parliament or the European Parliament.
The official programme provides for not a single speaker representing the French and Dutch ‘no’ votes.
Close the purse strings to propaganda, or give funding only to events that are pluralist. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, at last the time has come, one year after the 'no' in France and the Netherlands, but the 'yes' from the majority of Member States and citizens of Europe, to finally start to 'de-demonise' the European constitution and push Europe forward.
Thus, the European constitution protects democracy in the European Union by giving Parliament a codecision role on most matters in the area of freedom and security.
The incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights demonstrates that we do not consider fundamental rights as a 'bolt on' to the necessary protection of the security of the citizens, but as a central part of our policy.
That, at any rate, is the impression that Mr&#160;Barroso has given in his speeches and statements, and that is what the people of Europe have come to believe.
The new ‘plan D’ ought to do both.
All your posturing about the completion of the internal market will not help to defuse the prejudice against the new treaty, which is prompting people to spread rumours about this being a superstate, a neoliberal concept, about the unbridled centralisation and militarisation of the EU, and this ‘plan D’ is doing nothing to lay these prejudices to rest.
Mr&#160;Barroso should be capable of providing the political leadership of a President of the European Commission who helped to draw up the Constitution and is in favour of it.
To be honest, it would be more interesting for any citizen to read the first and second parts of the Constitution, which are obviously easier to understand, than this document.
No, there is no Europe of plans, but a plan for Europe, and that plan is the Constitution.
The objective can be nothing other than bringing it into force within the right timeframe, in other words with the changes that need to be made and in a different political context, but without losing our way. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to welcome the Commissioner.
When we look at what has happened in Europe and when we consider all the words, emotions and print pages that have been published on the future plan for Europe, one key element is missed.
That is that what the people across the European Union have said, not just in the referenda on the Constitution but also in previous European elections, was a cry for help.
Some Member States have agreed a text on the Constitution for the future of Europe and it is ultimately up to them to deliver on their agreement, to make sure they convince their people.
We could take the concerns of citizens on board and force a change in those amendments.
The first: to be able to describe reality, so that people will recognise reality as it is and agree that is the correct way to describe the world in which they live.
Indeed, we have tried to help by describing what we have heard through our Plan D activities and from the Member States and all the institutions involved in these activities, including visits to pubs.
I was in London last Friday to listen to the fears the British people expressed about the European Union.
That is the way to engage people and to prove the added value of the European Union: by working together to change people’s everyday lives.
This we know from the Eurobarometer surveys and from all our contacts.
That is what people expect from us.
There has been a lack of concrete suggestions as to what to do in France and the Netherlands, where we have had a ‘no’ and where we have to engage with citizens again to regain their trust in any constitutional project.
Let us see if we can do that together and subsequently describe our findings.
We have a number of examples to describe to people the costs of non-Europe: energy policy and the fact that we do not have a foreign affairs minister, etc.
Nobody has presented a solution so far, but there are at least seven or eight different ideas on how to take this project forward.
The Commission’s idea is, therefore, to begin by proving the added value of the European project by changing reality and doing our best to respond to citizens’ concerns.
At the same time, we must engage with governments to ensure that we sign up to the things we want to see realised in the future and that we share the same values and ideas for the future.
We believe that Member States should act in unison and that we should hold the European project together.
This means moving on both these tracks at the same time.
The first issues people raise when we speak to them in pubs, universities or elsewhere are the tangible issues.
That is why we pointed to the opportunity next year, when we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome, for Member States to agree on the way forward.
The European Evidence Warrant is one example, and it is still blocked in the Council.
This is a very important proposal that would help our law-enforcement authorities to do their work more effectively.
The Constitution is not dead.
The Estonians explained that they ratified it, not because they think that this issue will be solved immediately, but as a political statement.
However, they also realise that we have to look for solutions that satisfy both the French and the Dutch people and the other Member States, including those who said ‘yes’.
This regulation is the successor to Marco Polo I, which was adopted in 2003, and has the same objectives.
The new programme, like the old one, aims to reduce congestion on the road network, to improve the environmental performance of the transport system, and to strengthen intermodal transport in order to contribute to the implementation of an effective and sustainable transport system.
This programme was designed, in the impact assessment, such that one euro of subsidy granted under Marco Polo II will generate more than six euros in terms of social and environmental benefits for society.
Although it is based on the mechanisms of the current programme, the regulation provides for two new types of action: those relating to motorways of the sea and those relating to traffic avoidance.
These actions should help to reduce the volume of international road freight, and thus respond to the strong expectations of our citizens.
The actions related to the motorways of the sea aim to reduce road traffic in a specific corridor.
This clearly visible Community added value will be of benefit to European citizens and, due to that, it deserves a Community contribution based on projects planned by consortia involving shippers, transport operators and infrastructure providers.
It is time to get the production sector and logistics systems more actively involved in a coherent sustainable development strategy.
The industry has already taken an interest in this problem, in order to rationalise its supply chains and to reduce distribution and transport costs.
Thus, we can see that the measures to improve industrial efficiency and the political will to reduce the negative effects of transport simply by trying to avoid it serve the same interests.
Marco Polo II also extends the scope of the programme to include all of the European Union's neighbours.
Today, Europe as a whole, and not only the Union of 25 Member States, will find itself at the spearhead of an integrated transport market.
I am delighted that the rapporteur and Parliament's Committee on Transport and Tourism have tried to achieve agreement at first reading.
This constructive approach taken by the two institutions should enable us to adopt the regulation quickly and to launch an initial call for tenders under Marco Polo II.
I should like to thank you, Mr&#160;Rack, and the Committee on Transport and Tourism of which you are the chairman.
With regard to the compromise that has been reached, four points are worth emphasising: aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, the funding thresholds for the various actions, the possible impact of traffic avoidance actions and the particular attention paid to sensitive and metropolitan areas.
I am grateful to Mr&#160;Rack for stressing this point.
I believe that the fear that the traffic avoidance measures could potentially have a negative effect on employment and cohesion in certain regions has been satisfactorily addressed.
The new regulation also aims to give greater attention to sensitive and metropolitan areas.
I should like to repeat how happy I am that Parliament has taken a very constructive approach to this report, with the result that, in my opinion, today's text is most satisfactory.
We are working on the assumption that all the EU’s neighbours to the East, as well as those around the Mediterranean, are meant to enjoy the benefits of Marco Polo II, since it makes sense to intercept traffic, and transfer it to environmentally safer modes of transport, as near as possible to the point from which it started out.
With this project we are sending out a proper and vital message, and I would like, in conclusion to thank all involved – the Commission, the Council and my fellow-Members of this House – for their constructive cooperation.
Finally, there is something technical to be considered: because we wanted to wrap this up at first reading, we had to ensure that the two documents – from the Council and from Parliament – were technically compatible.
There is still work for the lawyer-linguists in both services to do on this, and for that I ask the House’s indulgence. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fortunate development in the transport policy of the European Union that we are debating today the Marco Polo II programme to promote alternative and environmentally-friendly forms of transport, which will contribute to the competitiveness of our economy and, at the same time, to the quality of the environment and our quality of life.
The new Marco Polo II programme provides many opportunities in this direction.
It extends to our entire neighbourhood, as far as Russia and our Mediterranean partner states, it provides opportunities for maritime transport by creating a separate category of actions, motorways of the sea, and it promotes the rationalisation of international transport.
My congratulations in particular to the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Rack, because his proposals strengthen the added value which the programme gives to the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the European Union and its neighbours.
It gives new room for intervention in small- and medium-sized enterprises, something in which the Committee on Transport and Tourism has often expressed an interest.
Mr&#160;Rack also intervenes in promoting and strengthening the balance between transport efficiency, reductions in costs, pollution and road traffic, thus contributing to the objective of drastically reducing accidents, which is a primary objective of the European Union.
I am convinced that the development of motorways of the sea will constitute a dynamic element in our planning and in the efficacy of our objectives.
The sea is a force and capital that has not yet been developed in our policy and we must work in this direction.
To close, I thank the rapporteur because, with his proper handling and negotiations with the Council, he made it possible for us to have an acceptable text which we believe will quickly be put into practice. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by taking this opportunity to thank my compatriot Mr&#160;Rack, the rapporteur, for the good cooperation, and also the Members belonging to my own group for their patience with me and the confidence they have shown in me in this matter, for, as Mr Rack said at the end of his speech, the Council’s rather roundabout approach to this has, time and time again, made amendments necessary at short notice.
As we are all aware, the European transport system will face major challenges over the next few years, and they need to be addressed right now.
The Marco Polo II programme is, in this respect, certainly capable of meeting the requirements of business and industry on the one hand, but also those of the environmentalists on the other, meeting the needs of the environment and all that is associated with that; that is one reason why I was very glad that it was possible relatively quickly to draft an extended and adapted Marco Polo programme.
It is also important that the programme covers one aspect in particular, namely the shift onto rails and the modernisation of rolling stock.
Finally, I think it particularly significant that the text addresses the jobs issue and that we have taken the initiative on this front too.
The Commission estimates that, for every euro spent on this programme, six euros will be saved on these external costs.
We are going to support the proposal and the compromise amendments achieved as a result of considerable efforts by Mr&#160;Rack, but we would have liked projects to have been eligible for subsidy if they would have brought about a net reduction in road congestion, whether or not they transferred goods to other modes of transport.
Finally, as I do not wish to go on for too long, I would like to reflect on something, although this might be part of a different proposal: we believe that there also needs to be a discussion regarding our current model of production and subsequent distribution of goods.
If we were really incorporating all the external costs of transport without exception, as well as the repercussions of that model on the distribution of the population and land planning, we might have to change the model. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by saying that the Greens will, of course, support this programme, even if there is too little money for it; that must be made clear.
The programme would also send out a message to the general population, who suffer from the adverse effects of goods transport by road, such as emissions, noise, and the other hazards to health and the environment that people talk about, which they regard as tragic and which they wish to reduce.
The White Paper on Transport is right to mention the shift of freight transport from the road to rail and inland shipping as an important objective.
Despite this, my group remains of the opinion that the present programme is of huge importance in order to improve the environment and to curb the growth in road transport that has got completely out of hand.
My group is in favour of extending the programme to include the European Union’s neighbouring countries and also the extra attention for shifting more of the freight that is being carried along coastal roads to the Motorways of the Sea.
The number of miles driven can be reduced by preventing empty runs, by shortening the distances between the different processing stages as much as possible and by higher loading factors.
The only fundamental observation I should like to make with regard to this programme is that there is no assessment of Marco Polo I.
The lack of such an evaluation means that it is impossible to say whether Marco Polo II will have the desired effect, simply because the link between goal and resources used is unknown.
As a French Member of the European Parliament, and in view of the geographical position of France as a real crossroads in the European road network, I fully support all the initiatives aimed at reducing congestion on our roads, at promoting ways of transporting goods and persons other than by road and at improving the environmental performance of the transport system in general.
We will be faced with an increasing number of accidents, with greater congestion, with more environmental damage and, ultimately, with higher costs for European industry as a whole, which, to the extent that it depends on reliable and profitable supply chains, will become less competitive.
That is why we must focus all of our efforts on developing intermodal transport.
With the enlargement to the East, Europe's maritime borders have been pushed back, and we now have new conditions and opportunities for developing the motorways of the sea.
We must make the most of them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, I should like to warmly congratulate Mr&#160;Rack on getting the agreement reached at first reading and, at the same time, thank him for the way in which he has achieved this fine result.
All credit to the Commission for extending the scope of Marco Polo II in its proposal to include motorways of the sea actions and a reduction in transport, and also for the fact that there are more opportunities for inland shipping, so that a whole range of alternative and environmentally-friendly modes of transport can help promote the modal shift via this programme.
I am pleased that Parliament, in its negotiations with the Council, has managed to carry out a number of important improvements in the proposed programme, the most important of which is a substantial reduction in the thresholds for awarding support, which, in many cases, have been reduced by half, for in practice, it still proves difficult for small enterprises to use this programme.
This too can give small enterprises a helping hand.
The Commission has pledged to look into the possibility of awarding support to small infrastructure projects for the benefit of modal shift actions.
Minor improvements, such as building quay walls, can be decisive in the success of those modal-shift actions.
That is why I would like to ask you if you can inform us of the results of the study and whether you will actually include this possibility of small infrastructural projects in the programme.
I would ask you to keep the finger on the pulse, though, because your services will need to be accessible and accommodating to those who want to apply for projects. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I, too, wish to thank the rapporteur for his considerable expertise and cooperative approach to the job.
Mr Rack's report is, overall, uncontentious, and should be implemented as policy with the greatest possible speed; the added value of these measures will be immediately visible to the public, and that is something for which time is needed. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, faced with risks to safety and the environment, with the practices of a sector that too often treats its employees as modern-day slaves, and with the expected major increase in traffic flows, the Commission seems to be realising that the problem is a serious one and that something needs to be done about it.
We have before us a proposal to develop the motorways of the sea, rail and intermodality and to help industrial and non-industrial SMEs.
That is why my group is calling for a separate vote on Mr&#160;Rack's report and on the opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
I clearly support – and I call on my fellow Members to do the same – Mr&#160;Rack’s amendments, which are aimed at revising the Marco Polo II programme for the purposes of reducing the administrative formalities required for intermodal transport.
I believe that his objective and that of most Members who contributed to the debate in committee was to address the need, above all, to rebalance the distribution of means of transport in a sustainable manner and to develop intermodality, addressing the congestion problem with efficiency.
That being said, the excessive transport of freight on our roads is simply the most visible problem.
It will make it possible to boost investment in rail transport, inland navigation and in the use of motorways of the sea more effectively, making use of European maritime islands and the outermost regions as thoroughfares between those routes – the motorways and inland navigation.
The objective of reducing international road transport, especially that of freight, implies pushing to the fore projects located in sensitive areas, such as urban areas in which traffic is mainly concentrated.
Lastly, Mr President, I shall turn to the issue of funding.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the objectives contained in this report and the solutions that it puts forward will certainly have a decisive impact on the future of Europe’s freight transport, in terms of its fluidity and its sustainability.
At the same time, transport is extremely important for our regions and for companies out in the regions.
The Marco Polo project also reveals the different conditions under which we live in the various regions of the EU.
In many regions, there are long distances to be travelled.
The Marco Polo project ought not, therefore, to lead to employment in the EU being relocated.
I would like to express my appreciation to Mr&#160;Rack for his work, as we have received a document which could make a significant contribution to more effective use of the transport infrastructure by means of active support for intermodal solutions.
We are well aware that the European Union budget, including that for the period 2007-2013, will have much less funding available for transport than we would have wished to receive.
I would also very much like to stress that this is a historical moment: an enlarged European Union, perhaps with two more members from 1 January 2007.
We therefore have the opportunity to involve the new Member States in shaping a new European transport and logistics system.
It is very important to maintain the role played hitherto by the railways in the new Member States.
Finally, I am pleased that we see an opportunity and a new role for small and medium-sized enterprises, and that we are moving in the direction of stabilising the transport and logistics systems. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, first of all I would like to cordially congratulate the Commission on its excellent proposal, and also the rapporteur and other colleagues, who have improved it in an exemplary and cooperative manner and achieved an early agreement with the Council.
I would also like to congratulate us, the European Union, on the existence and improvement of this Marco Polo programme, which is achieving effective results through its efficient, although possibly too discreet, work.
Regarding the addition of motorways of the sea, I must refer to the example of the successful relationship between Valencia and the Italian coastlines and the avoidance of traffic through the integration of logistics, and in the last few days we have learnt that a company like Mercadona – which is now achieving ratios close to those of Carrefour in Spain – is in discussions with RENFE regarding a permanent transfer from lorries to trains.
To conclude, I would like to express two wishes: from the experience of Marco Polo I and this improved Marco Polo II, and looking to the review of the White Paper on Transport, I hope that the successes and achievements of this programme will help us to maintain a firm commitment to modal shift from roads to more sustainable modes of transport, and logistics will obviously be the key to this.
Even though I welcome the efforts made by the members of Parliament's Committee on Transport to limit the reduction of this funding, I cannot vote in favour of this report, and I will be abstaining in the final vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, road freight transport in Europe has increased enormously over recent decades and will increase by more than 60% by 2013.
This increase certainly has numerous negative consequences which we all know about: pollution, congestion of the roads, accidents and particularly high infrastructure maintenance costs.
The way to cut this spiralling increase in road transport and limit its negative consequences is to develop alternative forms of transport and, in particular, to strengthen short-distance maritime transport by creating motorways of the sea and rail and inland waterway transport.
The Marco Polo programme may help in this direction, by financing appropriate actions to prevent the risk of our road transport system collapsing.
Certainly, like other programmes for the next period from 2007 to 2013, the budget is ultimately reduced in relation to what we had proposed.
First of all, I should like to thank Mr&#160;Rack and your Committee on Transport and Tourism, and also Parliament in general, for this work, which will allow the proposal to be adopted at first reading.
The Commission supports the compromise reached during the informal trialogue with the Council.
We are indeed quite determined to avoid the dangers and risks of a continual increase in road traffic on Europe's roads and motorways.
To achieve this, we need, particularly through the Marco Polo II programme, to actively promote all the alternative solutions: motorways of the sea, river navigation and a truly European rail network.
Ladies and gentlemen, thank you once again for your work. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
At long last, we will be able to adopt our own sustainability policy, even in our export policy with regard to fisheries products.
Secondly, this proposal gives all regions in Europe and civil-society organisations scope for implementing policy, something which will be brought to a close in the Commission proposal and probably also in the Council proposal.
No treaty has replaced the Treaty of Nice.
Your point is essentially political and very well made.
We all take note of it, thank you. &#160;&#160; President Abbas, honourable Members, the European Parliament is very honoured that you are here today with us, and the massive attendance at this plenary sitting is evidence of that.
Mr President, all of us here want to do everything possible to bring about a viable peace process, and we are fully aware that if we do not act correctly, we run the risk of the world being driven towards a period of holy wars, religious wars, brought on by the election of potentially aggressive parties throughout the Middle East.
No one in Europe has forgotten that, since the 1970s, you have paved the way for negotiations for peace, even way before the majority of your people were ready to accept it.
You negotiated the beginnings of peace with Matiyahu Peled in 1977, and those agreements pointed the way towards a solution based on the co-existence of the two States.
You led the negotiating team in Oslo, you were the person who signed those agreements on behalf of the PLO, and after your election as President last year, you sought to restart the peace process, giving rise to a truce between the armed groups in the territories.
No one can therefore have the slightest doubt as to your commitment to peace and your will to negotiate, on the basis of international law and respect for the agreements already made.
Mr President, you have the opportunity to talk to the representatives of the people of Europe about all of these matters and you can do so in the knowledge, which we all have, that you are the only person who is capable of talking to all the parties involved.
When I speak to you today, I convey the message of the Palestinian people to the peoples of a continent we have always been linked to with relations of neighbourliness and as a result of our historical links of cooperation and friendship and partnership and association in numerous sectors.
We would like to launch this cooperation through fruitful dialogue between civilisations and cultures which can enrich both sides of the Mediterranean and help all of us to defuse extremist views in order to ensure that our historically close links continue, and for us to be able to achieve peace in the Mediterranean area.
Only yesterday, the Palestinian people commemorated the 58th anniversary of the Palestinian Nakba in 1948, which represented the historical injustice when we, the Palestinian people, were uprooted from our land, forced into a Diaspora; when many of us were displaced and forced to become refugees.
Throughout the political course and national struggle of the Palestinian people under the leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization, and following the establishment of the Palestinian National Authority in 1994 in the aftermath of signing the Declaration of Principles, the desire for a major, effective and active European role has always been a fundamental pillar in Palestinian policy and diplomacy.
Our people have never forgotten the positive positions adopted by numerous European countries since the early 1970s in support of the Palestinian people’s rights and its national liberation movement led by the Palestine Liberation Organization.
Our people have not forgotten either the European countries’ generous political, financial and technical support for building Palestinian institutions and a national assembly, and in helping us to deal with the consequences of the policies of occupation, besiegement and destruction.
Despite the horror of the historical injustice inflicted upon our people, we have always been able to formulate a realistic policy to restore the rights of our people to self-determination.
It was in a European capital, Oslo, that the first official contacts took place between the PLO and the Israeli Government.
The initial signature of the first agreement in history between the two sides in 1993 also took place in Oslo, before its official signing in Washington that same year.
When the Palestine National Council approved in 1998 the Palestinian peace initiative and accepted United Nations Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338, it offered an opportunity to achieve a historical reconciliation.
The severest blow to the peace process, which was supposed to have reached its final stages within a few short years, was a result of the Israeli rejection of the logic of partnership and its insistence on practising destructive policies, particularly on building settlements, constructing walls and confiscating land to create a reality on the ground that would prejudice and pre-empt the outcome of negotiations.
The abandonment of commitments and agreements and the rejection of international patronage have become a main feature of Israeli policy, and have resulted in the loss of momentum of the peace process and the consequent shaking of people’s belief in its usefulness.
This policy has developed in recent years to the level of attempting to completely destroy the Palestinian National Authority and its institutions, and to the systematic destruction of our basic infrastructure, which your countries contributed in developing.
We have emphasised the importance of building a culture of peace instead of a culture of war, and we have done everything peaceful that we could to resist occupation.
I also wanted to introduce a policy of reform in various fields, to strengthen democracy, to achieve a period of calm, to foster security, and to promote the rule of law.
We ensured that it was implemented smoothly and calmly, and proved our ability to assume our own security responsibilities, especially in the border areas where monitors from the European Union have assisted us in ensuring the proper functioning of the first border crossing in history that is fully administered by Palestinians.
The Israeli policy of rejecting our extended hand, of rejecting the opportunity of negotiating and giving peace a chance, has increased the frustration of our people.
These checkpoints oppress and humiliate individuals who only want to lead normal lives, reach their places of work and their fields, travel to their hospitals and universities, take their children to schools or go to mosques and churches.
The frustration and disappointment created by the practices of the Israeli occupation and the absence of a positive outlook for the peace process formed the background for the legislative elections that took place last January.
We would reiterate once again that democracy remains without soul in the absence of people’s freedom and in the continued occupation.
The declared platform of the party that won the elections and formed the government does not conform to my platform and the commitments and prior agreements of the Palestinian Authority.
We are addressing this problem inside our institutions and in accordance with our laws and regulations.
The political activity in Palestine over the last few months is gradually producing a public opinion that emphasises respect for the agreements and commitments undertaken by the Palestinian Authority, and commitments to international law.
We are in a constant and continued dialogue that will take us to an expanded national dialogue in just a few days’ time.
I hope that this will lead us to the required process of amendment.
The new government must be given the chance to adapt to the basic requirements of the international community.
In that regard, we call upon Israel to fully release our tax and customs revenue immediately.
The European Union can play a leading role here, and we would ask for your assistance in ensuring that Israel fully releases the tax and customs duties that are owing to us immediately.
We are gravely concerned for the future of peace in our region as we hear about Israeli projects that aim to draw the final borders of Israel inside occupied Palestinian territory.
I reiterate that, based on the constitutional power granted to me by our basic law, which entrusts the PLO Executive Committee, its President and its Negotiations Affairs Department with the responsibility of negotiation, we remain fully committed to returning immediately to the negotiating table to reach an agreement to end this long conflict.
The whole world demands this of us, and we ask that the international community act immediately to support us, in order to prevent the region from sliding into an abyss and a new cycle of conflict that will have a negative impact not just on the Middle East, but on the world as a whole at a time when the region is experiencing other tensions too.
All of this is extremely important for us, because it is only through negotiations that we can in fact unify people in our region, while providing them with the principles of peace, development and modernisation that we share with the people of Europe.
I once again thank you for this invitation and for your hospitality.
I am confident that you will continue to support the just cause of the Palestinian people until we gain our freedom and build an independent state in the Holy Land on the basis of the 1967 borders with the State of Israel.
Your last words are also our own, as we remain committed to the solution based on the existence of two States.
I am also sure that your words will have encouraged many MEPs to dedicate more time and thought to the Middle East problem.
Thank you again, Mr President, we wish the best for you and your people. &#160;&#160; We now resume the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this information is only for my PPE-DE colleagues, as there were some minor problems with the first amendment.
Although it is contrary to our voting list, I would nevertheless like to ask my honourable colleagues to vote in favour of this amendment as well as in favour of the whole report in the second vote. &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote. &#160;&#160; The Commission proposes removing customs duties for certain varieties of unpolished rice from India and Pakistan, a development we think is excellent.
As this derogation was due to expire on 30&#160;June&#160;2006, there is a pressing need to amend the text of the regulation in force.
The collapse of the Fisheries Agreement between the EU and Angola was inevitable in view of the obligations created when the new legal framework came into force in Angola, which run counter to the EU’s principles on fishing agreements with third countries.
I also feel however that, in the name of reciprocity, the EU should be aware of the fishing activities of Community vessel owners who stand to benefit from these measures. &#160;&#160; The Commission’s proposal differs from most proposals concerning fisheries agreements with third countries because, instead of extending the agreement or introducing a new protocol, the EU is cancelling the current fisheries agreement with Angola.
The June List consistently votes against extensions to fisheries agreements and thus welcomes the cancellation of this agreement.
The reason why the agreement is being cancelled is that the Commission has certain views on the Angolan legislation concerning biological aquatic resources.
The rapporteur regrets that the Community and the Angolan authorities have not succeeded in reaching an agreement.
The Commission and the European Parliament do not appreciate that the fisheries agreements with third countries have harmful consequences for the populations of the countries in question.
New fishing opportunities or opportunities already in existence that are not being used must be negotiated.
Measures must therefore be taken to facilitate the conversion of these vessels, for example by exempting them from having to pay back construction or modernisation aid obtained during the previous ten years, and temporary tie-up aid awarded under the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance.
There are a number of reasons why this House has not made any substantial amendments to it.
The first is that the Commission proposal constitutes a coherent framework for the amendments to the sixth Value Added Tax Directive, which were proposed all of three years ago.
Secondly, this framework achieves a good compromise between taxation at the place of consumption and European businesses’ ability to administer this tax.
Thirdly, the proposal is an important step towards the reform of the European VAT system in a changed environment.
The Member States need stability and predictability so that they can manage their public finances.
Given that Community legislation was put in place very recently regarding, for example, e-commerce, it is quite unreasonable to suggest turning it all upside down.
I therefore voted against the Karas report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Police Officers Michaelis and Proske claim that our fellow Member Mr&#160;Pflüger used the word ‘shithead’, or ‘’, in connection with a demonstration in Munich.
Accordingly, I would like to say that Mr&#160;Michaelis and Mr&#160;Proske are real shitheads – in claiming that our fellow Member said this.
This case refers to 2005, when Mr&#160;Pflüger took part in the demonstration for the first time as an MEP.
While we are on this subject, we cannot of course overlook the contamination of some foods by radioactivity, which persists even twenty years on from Chernobyl, and the effects of which have as yet not been sufficiently researched. &#160;&#160; We Swedish Social Democrats should ideally have liked to have seen Parliament support the stronger proposals in both the Commission’s original proposal and the Council’s common position.
We therefore supported the compromise and voted in favour of all aspects of it. &#160;&#160; Today, following a real battle, we have been able to reach an agreement between Parliament and the Council for regulating the claims made on food products and, contrary to all expectations, to have done so no later than at second reading.
The wording we have voted in favour of has – at least – a dual objective: that of preventing certain improper claims or forms of advertising and that of preventing obesity.
A varied and balanced diet is a prerequisite for good health, and products taken separately are of less importance than diet as a whole.
Nutrition and health claims, however, must be scientifically substantiated, in light of all the available scientific data and the testing that has taken place, which formed part of the adopted proposals, and to which our group lent its backing.
Although the adopted compromise fell short of expectations on certain points, it does offer some protection and information to consumers, and seeks to safeguard the rights of SMEs. &#160;&#160; Explanation of vote in relation to the report by Mrs&#160;Poli&#160;Bortone on a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on nutrition and health claims made on foods.
The Commission’s draft regulation on nutrition and health claims is based on a number of assumptions about which we have our doubts: the assumptions not only that what is healthy is a matter of absolute truth and that sales pitches and advertisements are harmful and should be regulated but also that people’s eating habits can be controlled through political decisions.
Finally, there is an assumption that the EU has a political task to perform in this area.
Wine is also governed by existing EU regulations, and that must also apply in this case.
I supported the amendments in the hope that they might make this squalid compromise tolerable. &#160;&#160; Although I approve of the compromise wording in relation to the directive on nutrition and health claims, which contains a number of improvements – in particular, Article&#160;4 which requires a scientific analysis to be carried out before any health claim is made – I have nonetheless been anxious to vote against all the Amendments (90, 66, and 17) presenting genuine risks to public health.
It would be dangerous for food products still to bear claims that, by not presenting the complete picture, could mislead consumers.
It is, however, unacceptable to do as the Commissioner did yesterday and also to target wine in one’s efforts to promote health and to combat obesity and alcoholism.
In Europe, wine is not water plus chemicals plus flavourings, as it is in the self-styled wineries of California or Australia, but a food produced from fermented grapes.
It is on this basis that we supported the compromise package. &#160;&#160; I reject the regulation on nutritional and health information in the version adopted by the Member States.
Food must then be advertised with claims relating to health and nutritional value only if those claims have previously been verified in a procedure standardised across Europe.
The European Food Authority’s standardised procedure for approving health-related claims is objectionable, being a superfluous bureaucratic monster and, above all, a burden on our small and medium-sized businesses.
Large companies find it much easier to cope with the extra outlay involved in applying for approval, but the additional costs jeopardise small and medium-sized businesses’ very existence.
This law frustrates all efforts at reducing bureaucracy and the proposals for ‘better lawmaking’. &#160;&#160; I had the opportunity to express my point of view yesterday evening during the debate on Mrs&#160;Poli Bortone’s report.
In my view, this compromise is therefore the worst sort of hypocrisy whereby it is permitted to make nutrition claims for food with high sugar, salt or fat content as long as the high content of these substances is indicated on the label.
Firstly, we have come a very long way indeed from our vote at first reading which purely and simply killed off the nutrient profile.
In an ideal world it would be achievable but the problem is that producers must give evidence of health claims made for their product.
We do, however, wish to declare that our intention was to vote in favour of Amendment 49, which ultimately failed, as we think that it is an amendment of crucial importance to the Spanish Socialist Delegation, because of what it means for fermented drinks of agricultural origin (beer and wine) and for food use in a country such as Spain. &#160;&#160; This report, on which we have voted at second reading, entails improvements where health considerations are concerned, but a number of the amendments amount to a real retrograde step.
This is clearly the case with Amendments 17, 66 and 90, which are aimed not only at legalising products high in fat, sugar or salt but also authorise claims that mislead consumers.
Both the solution with regard to food profiles and the notification procedure prove that we achieved this in an adult manner.
What has become evident from these long drawn-out debates is that the Member States differ very strongly among themselves not only as to the necessity of the addition of such nutrients for a balanced diet, but also on the basis of their own differing traditions.
Although this report deals only with the voluntary addition of vitamins and supplements, it is important to remember that the manufacturers’ sole intention in adding vitamins and minerals must be to do so with nutritional and health considerations in mind.
Accordingly, I welcome the fact that it has been left to the Member States to propose their own recovery plans.
I also believe that the EU must support the measures that each Member State deems appropriate for repopulating the various river basins.
The proposal is intended to guarantee a 40% escape rate of adult silver eels from each river basin, an objective that will be difficult to meet.
The proposal also treats all Member States in the same way, without taking account of their particular characteristics.
The report replaces the ban on fishing in the first half of every month with a season in which the fishing effort is reduced by half.
Instead, intended ambiguity prevails so as to facilitate Morocco's abuse of Western Saharan waters and to avoid facing up to its illegal claim to the territory. &#160;&#160; Today, the European Parliament voted in favour of the EU entering into a fisheries agreement with Morocco.
We Social Democrats voted against the agreement.
We believe that the fisheries agreement should not extend to include Western Saharan territory because Morocco has been occupying Western Sahara since 1975.
The new agreement provides for a significant reduction in the number of fishing licenses awarded to the Member States.
The number is to fall from 500 to approximately 100, with the loss of some important categories of fish, namely crustaceans and cephalopods.
Consequently, to my mind, the Agreement – and the corresponding legislative proposal by the Commission – violates international law. &#160;&#160; The EU is again to enter into a fisheries agreement with an African state.
The International Court of Justice in The Hague has pointed this out.
By entering into a fisheries agreement with Morocco, the EU is indirectly recognising this occupation and the human rights violations constantly committed by Morocco in Western Sahara.
Furthermore, experience of previous Agreements has shown that ports in Western Sahara have been captured and used without the rights and interests of the Sahrawi people being safeguarded.
I wish to emphasise, as the Polisario Front has done, that the United Nations reiterated condemnation of the exploitation and looting of natural resources and of all economic activity taking place to the detriment of communities in colonised or non-autonomous territories where such people are denied their legitimate rights to their natural resources, in its legal opinion on Western Sahara and its natural resources of 29&#160;January&#160;2002.
Both for the EU and for me personally, however, the issue of human rights is also crucial.
As for the actual question that we are addressing, the fact that it has finally been possible to reach agreement on this issue is to be welcomed, although I must express my disappointment that the final outcome is not very favourable to Portuguese interests.
If the agreement is implemented, the EU will be violating international law and helping to prolong a conflict which has already lasted for 30 years.
The International Court of Justice and successive UN resolutions have made it clear that Western Sahara is Africa’s last colony, with a right to self-determination for its people.
I voted against this poor report and am saddened that the House approved it. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the report by my fellow Member, Mrs&#160;Frassoni, on the recent reports by the European Commission on monitoring the application of Community law.
I wonder if the time may not have come to consider creating a European body of independent inspectors with the task of monitoring the application of Community law in the Member States. &#160;&#160; What the reports voted on today reveal are the growing number of difficulties in applying Community law and the proliferation of cases submitted to the European Court of Justice.
On 31 December 2003, it emerged from the 21st report of the Commission that 3&#160;927 offences were being examined, compared with 2&#160;270 in 1999 and only 124 in 1978.
This is partly because of the large amount of Community law but also because of the large quantity of sanctions that the European Commission can impose on any Member States reluctant to apply Community legislation.
The issue of applying Community law is, above all, a political issue and not a legal or technocratic one as a number of people think and state that it is.
The Commission’s annual reports on the application of Community law indicate the progress made by the Member States in transposing directives, with the purpose of ensuring efficient monitoring of the application of the law.
I agree with the rapporteur that the Commission’s services need greater human and financial resources if it is to enhance its ability to deal with violations.
As the report says, it takes the Community institutions, and in particular the Commission, an extraordinary amount of time to monitor the application of European law.
This is especially regrettable given that it reduces the effectiveness of the mechanism, and deprives it of virtues as important as enabling Member States to honour their obligations within the time allowed.
Without good Community legislation, it will be very difficult to apply Community law properly.
It contains a number of sensible proposals to make our law making more effective in terms of how it actually affects our citizens, which at this time of increasing scepticism over the workings of the EU is often not paid sufficient attention, and I was pleased to support her today. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of this report, albeit while expressing my doubts about the amendment that refers to the Treaty establishing a European Constitution.
That Treaty was not actually approved, but rather rejected by means of popular referendums in France and the Netherlands, with the leave of Mr&#160;Napolitano, the newly elected President of the Italian Republic, who, in his inaugural speech, championed the cause of that Treaty, having forgotten that he was above the parties.
He who declares himself above the parties should not support something that has divided the Italian Parliament. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, Mr&#160;Doorn, on a motion for a resolution of the European Parliament on the application of the principle of subsidiarity.
The way in which European legislation is applied continually creates a gulf between European integration and the nations.
It is therefore a matter of urgency to bring about the vitally needed consistency between Community law, its transposition by the Member States and its practical application.
As I have previously stated, in spite of constant and perhaps excessive amounts of legislative output, it is possible to monitor closely the Community institutions’ legislative output and more importantly the impact thereof.
I should lastly like to mention the importance of recognising the role of the national parliaments, which is vital to a good legal outcome.
The EU must give the highest prominence to decision-making at the level closest to the citizens, must assess the new laws it adopts and must ensure that existing laws are simplified on the basis of intelligibility, appropriateness and proportionality.
I believe this report represents a step forward, but we in the EU still have our work to do. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the report by my fellow Member, Mrs&#160;McCarthy, on a motion for a resolution of the European Parliament on the implementation, consequences and impact of the internal market legislation in force.
The way in which European law is applied continuously creates a gulf between European integration and the nations.
It is therefore a matter of urgency to bring about the vitally needed consistency between Community law, its transposition by the Member States and its practical application.
I am in favour of the idea of the European Parliament being closely involved in monitoring the application of European law by the Member States.
Indeed, such non-application is the unfortunate effect of extending qualified majority voting to the Council, as states that have been in a minority in refusing, for reasons of their own, to adopt a text will, quite naturally, have difficulty in applying it within their own territories.
All this obviously creates genuine legal insecurity for all the institutions, countries and peoples.
We trust, however, that this objective will not be used to undermine certain principles that protect the citizens’ fundamental rights, including social rights and workers’ rights.
The endeavour to analyse and review the Community’s legislative framework is a proposal that should be promoted with the aim of simplifying the regulatory environment, a vital prerequisite for greater legal certainty for both the citizens and lawyers.
There is one point in the report and the Commission communication with which I do not entirely agree.
There are certainly positive aspects to the report, for example its call for the Council to become more open, but it otherwise focuses too much on growth and reduced costs when it should instead highlight sustainable development and greater cost effectiveness.
Cost-effectiveness is a better objective. &#160;&#160; It is excellent that useless and harmful legislative texts that contradict other Community provisions or that, above all, are incompatible with the much touted principles of subsidiarity and proportionality can be withdrawn from the legislative world.
Worst of all, Parliament is happy with this state of affairs, which it acknowledges.
Our basic view is that the Council of Ministers should be a stronger political force than the other EU institutions, since the Council of Ministers represents the Member States in an EU that we see as a form of intergovernmental cooperation.
This means that, in our view too, the Council of Ministers should have the right to put forward legislative proposals, just as the Commission has.
Nor do we share the view expressed in paragraph&#160;B of the draft report, which calls on the Commission to think twice before withdrawing 68 legislative proposals thought not to be in keeping with the objectives of, for example, the principles designed to produce better legislation.
In addition to a debate on the powers of the different institutions, what is needed is an investigation into what is routine and bureaucratic in the Community’s legislative procedures.
What is more, the fact that between them Parliament and the Council have more than 500 documents awaiting the attention of the legislators is an issue that is worthy of our attention and concern.
I would like to thank Parliament, in particular its Committee on Foreign Affairs, the chairman Mr Brok and the rapporteurs Mr Van Orden and Mr Moscovici for their contribution to this important exercise.
The starting point of our approach is that the European Union must honour existing commitments.
I should like to make a few brief remarks before, with your permission, giving the floor to Mr Rehn, who will comment in more detail on the Commission’s findings in the monitoring report.
Since October, the Governments of Bulgaria and Romania have worked extremely hard to deliver on their outstanding commitments.
They have continued to make progress in their preparation for membership.
However, there are still some important issues which need to be addressed.
The Commission considers that Romania and Bulgaria should be ready for membership by 1&#160;January 2007, provided that they address a number of outstanding issues in the course of the next month.
Let me first turn to the situation in judicial reforms and the fight against corruption.
We expect any acceding country to have in place a fully functioning judicial system equipped to fight corruption and organised crime.
Both countries have shown determination to undertake the necessary remaining reforms and our reports give them full credit for the results already achieved.
Bulgaria still needs to demonstrate clear evidence of results in the fight against corruption, in particular high-level corruption, notably in terms of investigations and subsequent judicial proceedings.
Romania needs to continue its efforts and demonstrate further results in the fight against corruption, notably in terms of further investigations and subsequent judicial proceedings.
It is practicable for the two countries to be ready in 2007, but they must take decisive action.
I count on the support of all governments and parliaments that still need to complete their procedures to ratify the accession treaty.
Enlargement has always been Europe’s response to strategic challenges and history has shown that this response has been the proper one.
Time and again, it has been accompanied by a dynamism that has given the enlarged Europe a greater capacity to make its mark in the world.
In the situation in which we find ourselves today, it is more important than ever to preserve the spirit of openness and ambition that has always inspired us to press ahead with the construction of Europe.
The Commission’s duty is to assess the progress made by the two countries to see if they are truly ready for accession.
Hence, when we last met in late April, I promised you a carefully calibrated decision that maintains the momentum of reforms up to and beyond accession.
Bulgaria needs seriously to intensify its efforts to crack down on organised crime and corruption.
It also needs to demonstrate clear evidence of results in the fight against corruption, in terms of investigations and judicial proceedings.
Building on the progress made so far, Romania needs to continue its efforts and show further results in the fight against corruption.
Both countries have registered robust growth in the last years, creating a zone of much-needed economic dynamism at our south-eastern corner.
Since October last year, the areas of serious concern have been brought down from 16 to 6 in Bulgaria and from 14 to 4 in Romania.
Our report specifies the safeguards and other protective measures under the existing legislation that we have at our disposal.
These safeguards could be invoked if certain limited problems persist at accession in the areas, for instance, of the internal market and justice and home affairs, where we can also establish a monitoring mechanism based on the Accession Treaty.
I trust that today’s carefully calibrated decision and its rigour will convince the national parliaments that have not yet ratified the Accession Treaty to do so.
The Treaty itself includes the conditions, safeguards and monitoring mechanisms that ensure the countries can join only once they are ready, and that once they have joined, they must respect their obligations as members.
Let me express our appreciation for the support of the European Parliament for the accession process of Bulgaria and Romania.
As agreed between President Barroso and President Borrell last year, we have listened carefully to your views before presenting our position on whether or not to postpone the accessions.
I am sure this constructive, transparent and rigorous approach will bring the best results for Bulgaria and Romania, and for Europe. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by assuring the Commission of how much I appreciate the presence of its President and, of course, of the responsible Commissioner, when such an important issue is being debated.
I would encourage you, Mr President – and this has to do not only with the presidency, and it is not only they whom I am addressing, for this is also a matter for the General Secretariat of the Council – to use your influence on the Council to get them to actually be present for such important debates.
You, Mr President, will have our support if you press this point home as clearly as possible to the Council, to its General Secretariat, and also to the presidency.
The impression has been given in many quarters that we – the existing European Union of 25 States – are the ones from whom they have to learn.
We have to take a positive line on this with our citizens and say that having Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia and of course Malta and Cyprus too, joining us was a massive success, for the rule of law, democracy and the social market economy have prevailed in these countries, and that helps to keep the whole European continent stable.
We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the social democrats in this House, stand by the wish that we have expressed, namely that, if there are no major obstacles, then 1&#160;January 2007 should be the accession date for Bulgaria and Romania.
That was, and still remains, our position, and I note that the President was very precise in the way he expressed it in his speech, saying that the Commission was working on the basis that the two countries should be ready for accession to the EU on 1&#160;January 2007.
Now you, Mr&#160;Rehn, and you, Mr&#160;Barroso, have chosen to express yourselves in forms of words that indicate the presence of deficits – deficits that you have described superficially rather than naming them one by one.
To do so is only fair, for, as you yourself – both the President and the Commissioner – have said, these governments are doing a great deal.
Now, in the final stage, when we need to take account of the hopes of the people of Bulgaria and Romania, of their hope that they will be able to join the European Union, this is a time when great precision is of the essence.
You will be telling the governments in Sofia and Bucharest which criteria have yet to be met.
What that means, then, is that you, in October, will have to tell the Council and the European Parliament in very precise terms whether or not you think these things are as they should be, and, if they are not, then by the logic of your own argument the decision ought to be different from what you, today, expect.
Bulgaria and Romania are indeed to become Member States of the European Union, and we social democrats would like them to accede on 1&#160;January 2007.
These two countries, constituting the Black Sea Region, have made enormous advances.
Quite apart from the things you so rightly criticise, both Romania and Bulgaria have stabilised to an enormous degree, and this stability on the borders of the European Union is of great significance, for this region is also bordered by others that are also our neighbours and which are far from being as stable as we would wish them to be.
It follows that we have a vested interest in these countries achieving stability – economic, social, political and cultural stability – as Member States of the European Union, and so, the sooner they meet the criteria, the sooner they will be ready for accession, and the better it will be for all concerned – not only for the countries in question, but also for the European Union.
The social democrats in the European Parliament have taken note of what the Commission has proposed; although we regard its approach as acceptable, we would advise you to be more precise in Bucharest and Sofia than you have been today.
What we would like to see is both countries fulfilling the criteria in such a way that they will be able, on 1&#160;January 2007, to become Members of our Union. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I would like to pay tribute to Commissioner Rehn for his balanced and thorough assessment and his competent handling of this dossier.
Our monitoring must be in line with current treaty provisions and legislation in force.
Imagine, colleagues, that last autumn Romania’s Interior Minister had proposed detention of suspects for three months without charge or that the Bulgarian Prime Minister had used the secret services to spy on his colleagues.
It gives added salience to his group’s decision to meet last week in a city called Split.
Commissioner Spidla’s report on transitional arrangements shows that enlargement has brought more jobs and higher economic growth, particularly in those countries that gave open access to their labour markets.
So I urge all Bulgarians and Romanians to work together with government to ensure the best possible outcome and avoid any delay to entry, not least because reform demanded to join the Union is the means to raise standards of living, quality of life, and security at home.
I urge all colleagues in this House to show solidarity and demonstrate to the Bulgarians and the Romanians that they do not walk alone. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not know that my fellow MEPs, Mr&#160;Watson and Mr&#160;Poettering, embraced the attitude of young people of my son’s age who, when there is a problem, can be relied on to say: ‘but everything will be all right; really, it will’.
It is simply a question of saying that, at the present time, neither Bulgaria nor Romania can be integrated, given the prevailing situation in those countries.
Instead of talking constantly of monitoring, you should state that these countries will be integrated into the EU in 2008 and you should introduce programmes that will genuinely make it possible to integrate the Roma, or travellers, into Romania and Bulgaria.
Ask the Bulgarian Government what has happened to the money.
There is therefore a need to be clearer and more precise: yes to enlargement, but not on just any terms.
Although it has the necessary instruments at its disposal, the Commission is not helping us enough. &#160;&#160; . – I would advise my fellow Member to look at the integration of the Roma in Italy, and the integration of minorities in other Member States, in the old Member States and then to talk further, without interruption – perhaps.
We are inviting you to participate in a common project that is open to all the countries of Europe.
The economic component of the Copenhagen criteria is obscure and is usually interpreted as including acceptance into the WTO (World Trade Organisation), as well as an EU Association Agreement.
Their terms of accession include a whole series of discriminatory measures, and the fact is that these have been very poorly evaluated, especially in the areas of agriculture and the food industry.
The inequality between the inhabitants of the old and the new Member States is all too apparent.
People talk of corruption, of reforming the judiciary, of the situation of children, human trafficking and so on.
Everything that applies to the old states applies to the new states.
It is clear to me that their views will not change and that they could not care less about the energy situation in the Balkans.
As for the Bulgarians, they will just have to burn candles, as the power station at Belene is still in the early stages of planning, unless the European Commission perhaps has another environmentally-friendly but workable solution.
At the same time, we have always advocated a solid enlargement of the European Union, and hence an emphatic enforcement of the recognised accession criteria, the well-known Copenhagen criteria.
After all, following the revolution of Europe’s magic year of 1989, church and civil-society contacts were strengthened between our grassroots support and both candidate countries.
As I already said, my party is in favour of the ‘solid’ accession of Sofia and Bucharest, that is to say on the basis of a separate assessment for Bulgaria and Romania.
Finally, it was not for nothing that the Council and Commission added two specific safeguard clauses to the three regular clauses in the accession treaties with Bulgaria and Romania.
I know of many parents in Ireland who are willing to and wish to adopt children from Romania, especially children with mental and physical disabilities, and want to bring them to loving and caring homes in Ireland, but because of the difficulties they run into major problems.
However, we are back to where we are because of the statement from the Commission today and also because of the underhand moves taking place in certain capitals around Europe to try to prevent or slow down the accession of Bulgaria and Romania.
Let us not forget that this is not just about those two countries living up to commitments that they made to us under the Copenhagen criteria and under their accession agreements.
It is also up to us to live up to our commitments.
We held out the hope and the desire and the wish that those countries could become part of the European Union.
What we need to do today is not just to tell the Governments of Bulgaria and Romania to continue with the work they are doing and achieve the goal they are trying to achieve; not only should we speak to the governments of our own countries and say they must be clear and even-handed and give a real response to those countries; we must speak directly to the citizens and the people of Bulgaria and Romania and say to them that within the European Union they have a home, they have a right, they have an entitlement, and we will defend those rights and those entitlements for them. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there is no doubt about the fact that ending the European division by welcoming into the European Union those countries that had, for decades, suffered under the Communist yoke, was a great and historic accomplishment.
While it is not a matter for doubt that Romania and Bulgaria belong to the European family of peoples, these countries cannot be expected to resolve their manifold problems – such as corruption and organised crime – within the space of a few months.
I have to say to Mr&#160;Watson – although he is no longer here – that my party has always argued in favour of enlargement, and that my own country, unlike the United Kingdom, has never asked for a rebate in order to fund it.
Reading, as I do, about the major problems that there are with corruption and organised crime, about the considerable differences that there are between the two countries, and looking closely at what the Commission has had to say about this, which is to the effect that Romania should press on with its efforts at consolidation, while Bulgaria has yet to produce any evidence of doing anything at all on this front, it strikes me that this is an important communication, and here we must act on the basis of ‘everyone on their own merits’.
The second thing to be said is that we can make European funds available only if the structures in these countries are so organised that the money can get to its intended recipients in a way that will pass muster with the Court of Auditors.
Reference has been made to a number of other similar examples, but always with considerable differences evident between the two countries.
I would like to remind the Commission of this, and to congratulate them on the report they have submitted. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Barroso, Mr&#160;Rehn, firstly, I should like sincerely to thank Mr&#160;Rehn, whose work as Commissioner for Enlargement is appreciated by us all for its rigour, good sense and thoroughness.
Thanks to him and to the work he has done, cooperation between the European Parliament and the Commission and between the European institutions and the Romanian and Bulgarian authorities has been effective and fruitful.
I have been pointing out for many months that our friendship for Romania and Bulgaria and our support for the process of their accession always goes hand in hand with a precise demand, namely that there be respect for the criteria and for the reforms needed if the countries concerned are to move towards accession.
However, I would go further than Mr&#160;Barroso and Mr&#160;Rehn regarding the judgment to be made today concerning the outcome of the efforts made by these countries to respond to our demands.
Indeed, I firmly believe that, only seven months before the anticipated accession date of 1&#160;January 2007, it is our duty finally and clearly to confirm this date or say that it no longer applies.
In expressing a more precise opinion on Romania in my capacity as European Parliament rapporteur, I have on several occasions had the opportunity to state that, in my opinion, the postponement clause should only be regarded as a last resort and emergency measure.
I have on many occasions pointed out in this Chamber how dangerous it would be for us to trivialise this clause or to use it as a pretext for drawing attention to a variety of real concerns and one-off causes of dissatisfaction, so rather losing sight of the overall picture.
The Commission’s report emphasises that Romania now satisfies the political criteria and those to do with the market economy and that the has continued diligently to be applied, although, admittedly, there remain a number of points in relation to which the country will have to make further progress.
As for less serious concerns, the oral question that I submitted together with Mr&#160;van&#160;Orden and Mr&#160;Brok was designed to promote the other safeguard clauses of a quite different, and clearly less dramatic, nature.
The time allocated to ratifying the accession treaty would be restricted and would perhaps even be too short.
The debate on enlargement would become still more tense.
That is why, while keenly appreciating the rigour of the work done by the Commissioner for Enlargement and while concurring with his analyses and demands, I propose that we proceed on the basis of this work and of the very encouraging results that he emphasises and finally formulate our clear agreement to, and support for, Romania’s accession on 1&#160;January 2007 on the conditions specified by the Commissioner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am delighted that I do not have to play cards against Mr Rehn, because he holds his cards so close to his chest and plays his trump card – his last card – at the very last minute!
I am confident that 1 January 2007 will be D-Day – delivery day – for Romania and Bulgaria, when they will receive full membership of the European Union.
In fact, I am so confident that on 31 December 2006 I shall be buying my ticket to Bucharest in Romania.
I am so pleased to have been able to work alongside several Romanian prime ministers, including the current Prime Minister, Mr Tariceanu, several presidents, including the current Head-of-State, President Basescu, as well as a huge variety of Members of Parliament.
Here today in the Distinguished Visitors’ Gallery are Alin Teodorescu, as well as the Secretary of State for Adoptions, Theodora Bertzi, Gabriela Coman, responsible for child protection, and, of course, the Minister for Europe, Mrs Boagiu.
It is true that there is more to be done and there always will be more to be done, but within moments they will be here beside us and they will be full members.
I thank the Commissioner for all his work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the Commission’s conclusions where Romania is concerned.
Since that country has indeed made substantial progress over the past year, a case can be made for it to accede in 2007.
That is why it would be wise to do a kind of final check in the autumn and that it would be very wise, following its accession, to closely monitor it to ensure that this progress that we have seen is also taking hold, although I must say that the sanctions for non-compliance are not very impressive.
I have to say to the Commission that, if it takes its own reports seriously, then I do not believe that those weighty problems that it has flagged in them can be resolved in five months’ time.
I am in favour of coming clean at this stage and saying to Bulgaria that, regrettably, they will not be able to join until 2008.
This is about sending out a message, not only to our own people, but also to new candidate countries such as Croatia and Turkey.
If there is cause for any doubt, we would be better off not mentioning a deferral date and we should not give the candidate countries any guarantees to the effect that they will be able to join if they meet the conditions.
Nobody could then seriously foresee that these European communities would grow into an overarching cooperative of 27 or more European states.
States that used to belong to the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) or the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance (COMECON) now form part of the European Union.
To this day, Roma people are driven out and their houses razed to the ground.
To this day, nature and the environment are under more serious threat there than in other parts of Europe because motorways are built and minerals extracted in the cheapest ways possible.
In the Dutch Parliament, both my party, the Socialist Party, and the Christian Democrats, have concluded that the risks of enlargement in 2007 are too great. &#160;&#160; The issue of Bulgaria’s and Romania’s membership of the EU has, of course, already been decided in practice.
The only matter that we can formally debate in this House is that of whether these two countries are to be admitted in January 2007 or January 2008.
There are two reasons why the June List welcomes enlargement to include new Member States.
Secondly, our admitting new countries to the EU is a great success for democracy, for the principle of the rule of law and for peace in Europe.
In actual fact, the EU contributes to democracy and the principle of the rule of law in the countries on its doorstep for the simple reason that such countries wish, for all sorts of different reasons, to join the EU, and, before they join, we in the EU require them to fulfil important conditions, known as the Copenhagen criteria.
That being the case, we must, however, take these considerations seriously.
What we can now do regarding the issue we confront today is at least to postpone Bulgaria’s and Romania’s accession to January&#160;2008.
With the future in mind, we should in that way be sending the correct signal to Europe, including Croatia, Serbia, Turkey, Ukraine and Belarus. &#160;&#160; Mr President, every time we discuss the issue of enlargement, we touch upon the historical dimension of our work.
One cannot see the extent to which enlargement can boost trade and investment and create opportunities for modernisation.
Without enlargement we would not be able to boast today that we, as the European Parliament, are the point of contact for 450&#160;million citizens.
There would be 75 million fewer of us and Europe would be a correspondingly smaller player on the global stage, which we so eagerly aspire to appear on today.
That is why I enthusiastically greet the prospect of two new Member States joining the European Union, Bulgaria and Romania, which have reformed their national political culture with much effort over the last few years.
As a Member from Poland, a country that owes a lot to the European Union’s aid policy in recent years, I am enthusiastic about the prospects for membership of these two new countries, although we will soon have to share our dwindling Union budget.
It is difficult to believe advice concerning enlargement that comes from someone with as little knowledge of other Member States, such as Poland, which has been a Member State for two years.
Robin Hood could not be killed.
He did not dedicate much time to the measures taken by the governments of both these countries in this field.
He used the debate as a pretext for talking rubbish about my country, Poland.
If I were him, I would prefer to focus on racism and anti-Semitism in Germany and France, countries he is very familiar with, or perhaps on the social problems in France.
Let us acknowledge the considerable efforts made by the societies and governments of both these countries in this field.
I appeal to the European Commission to do just that. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank Commissioner Rehn for the serious way in which Bulgaria’s progress towards accession is being monitored.
Over the coming months, we need to see dramatic results as well as further steps to improve the effectiveness and resources of the police, investigative and judicial services.
The Commission must specify more precisely what outcomes are required.
I believe that the European Council, at its summit in June 2006, should endorse the decision for the accession of Bulgaria on 1 January 2007, at the same time confirming the remedial action that is required of Bulgaria in the months ahead and the nature of possible post-accession monitoring.
For its part, the Bulgarian Government must take urgent action to deliver tangible results, particularly in the fight against organised crime.
I completely endorse the analysis which my group chairman gave a moment ago in a reaction to the Commission’s reports.
My group, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, has always been, and will continue to be, consistent where support for Romania’s and Bulgaria’s membership is concerned.
The number of red flags has significantly decreased in both cases: from 14 to 4 in Romania and from 16 to 6 in Bulgaria.
I think that the progress that has been made in both countries demonstrates the governments’ determination and the fact that we can use that as a basis for our optimism that 2007 is very much possible.
I think that both the Government and Parliament in Sofia do not want to leave us in any doubt as to their willingness to do the things that need to be done as quickly as possible.
The difference between Romania and Bulgaria has mainly to do with implementation.
It is to be hoped that this timeframe is in synch with the ratification processes that are currently taking place, or are yet to take place, in a number of Member States.
We trust that Romania and Bulgaria will succeed in this, and I think that both Sofia and Bucharest realise that this trust must also be earned. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Rehn, ladies and gentlemen, Bulgaria and Romania will join the European Union on 1&#160;January 2007.
Both countries have made progress in their reform efforts, but this work will continue for some time yet.
Fair monitoring by the Commission can help here and should be accepted by both countries.
The citizens of the EU and of future candidate countries will be keenly interested in enlargement policy in the future, too.
That makes it all the more important that the EU should pursue a consistent and credible enlargement policy.
This enlargement has shown that in future, we in the European Parliament must be careful to vote on enlargements close to the time of accession and not 18 months before.
There is moreover no point in including in treaties postponement clauses that actually have no teeth, like Article&#160;39.
Both countries have achieved a lot, but we too still have something to do in order to improve our enlargement policy.
I also believe we should be holding this debate in Brussels and not in Strasbourg. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, this recommendation is wrong.
If we take a wrong decision and allow these two countries to join prematurely, we will pay for it.
Here, the liberals are supporting the liberal prime minister in Romania, the socialists the socialist prime minister in Bulgaria.
The outcome is that we still do not enjoy the same conditions as the so-called old Member States.
Furthermore, I would venture to add that more than one member of the old Union of 15 might find it difficult to meet the conditions offered, for example, to the Czech Republic.
In connection with this, I feel that it should not be our aim to bring about a repeat of the situation in the Czech Republic, where a majority of people, according to a public opinion survey, now believe that equality and justice do not prevail in the Union and that the so-called old Member States continue to enjoy advantages that are denied to the new Member States, in the form of subsidies that are withheld from the latter.
In the case of Bulgaria and Romania we are, at the very least, going down the same route.
The question is who really benefits from this.
All today’s statement represents is a victory for the political classes, the classes in the European Union who want this to be a world superpower to take on the United States of America, and of course a huge victory for the politicians in Romania and Bulgaria, who will enrich themselves enormously and give themselves jobs in perpetuity.
So you may have your diversion today, Commissioner, but the EU is failing, public confidence is falling and it will all end in tears. &#160;&#160; Mr President, yes, it will end in tears; the question is, which?
The judiciary enjoys great freedom, frequently even freedom from justice and the law.
In short, in any case they are areas on which I know that the Romanian authorities are working very hard, as I had the opportunity to see a fortnight ago, when I visited Bucharest with a delegation from my Group.
In the October 2005 report the Commission mentioned a high number of areas, fourteen as you told us, affecting seven chapters of the that were causes for serious concern.
Now I understand that these areas have been reduced to four, as you told us, and they affect very few chapters.
I am sure that in the autumn you will be able to confirm the date of 1&#160;January 2007 for accession, with no further conditions.
Finally, I would also like to encourage those Parliaments who have not done so to speed up the process as soon as possible for the ratification of the accession treaty. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too welcome the Commission’s decision on the accession date of Romania and Bulgaria.
I also wish to praise the Commission for its work, in particular the work of DG Enlargement.
The European Council was right to decide to welcome the people of Bulgaria and Romania as from 1&#160;January 2007 to our big European family – the European family to which they have always belonged since they share our historic culture and common values.
As the Commissioner has pointed out very correctly in numerous exchanges of views which we have had either in plenary and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Bulgaria and Romania have shown continuous progress in all the relevant areas.
Both capitals are aware that they have to speed up and reinforce their efforts in certain fields and I strongly believe that they are going to be successful in fulfilling the expectations of the European Union, as expressed by its Parliament, and most of the expectations of their own people.
Firstly, I should like to thank the College of Commissioners for raising the issue of the situation of the Hungarian minority in the current report.
Secondly, as I have said so many times in this House concerning this issue, one of the basic failures of the current Romanian Government coalition agreement was and is to adopt a law on minorities.
The road leading up to that point has been, and remains, long and difficult.
These countries’ politicians and people have made enormous efforts and sacrifices with the clear aim of reforming and democratising their countries and leading them into the European Community.
A lot of work remains to be done, and we are painfully aware of the problems that exist: corruption, organised crime, the difficulties of integrating the Roma and the situation of orphans.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has for a long time advocated safety clauses for us all, new and old Member States alike.
The candidate countries must do their homework, but we too must do our own.
We must also dare to proclaim the significance of enlargement and explain to our people why it is so important for Romania and Bulgaria now to get together with us and for Romanians and Bulgarians to sit in this House and be allowed to speak from the benches instead of sitting in the public gallery and merely listening. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for half a century Bulgaria was under Communist rule.
The report stresses the need for greater efforts for the social inclusion of Roma.
I appeal, therefore, to all my fellow MEPs to sign Written Declaration No 19 – initiated by MEPs from five different political groups – on protection of people in Bulgaria against neo-totalitarianism.
Holocaust-deniers in Bulgaria close to the former secret service do not belong in the EU.
Finally, I am very pleased that last week the Bulgarian Minister of the Interior, Mr&#160;Petkov, promised the Verts/ALE delegation that all the archives of the Darzavna Sigurnost would be opened before 20 July.
Only then will we know who killed Georgi Markov, who committed other crimes and who is really ruling Bulgaria today.
Let us support real reformers and free Bulgaria from its past, instead of postponing its future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, on the motorway between Istanbul and Sofia, there is a border post or toll-gate called Kapitan Andreevo.
Mr&#160;Rehn told us in this House on 25&#160;October that radiographic equipment was indeed necessary, and EUR&#160;8&#160;million was paid out for this purpose.
The fact is that everyone who liked Sangatte, Brindisi, Almeria and the Canaries is going to love Kapitan Andreevo, the gate for entering Europe from Asia and the focal point from which criminality will spread far and wide. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to congratulate Commissioner&#160;Rehn on the thorough measures he is pursuing in relation to the two countries in question and, from what the Commissioner has said, it is clear that Romania and Bulgaria have made progress.
Well, I think that we are all aware in this House that, when ten countries joined the European Union on 1&#160;May 2004, the ten countries in question were not completely ready to enter the Union.
We also know that the efforts made by those nations complement each other over time.
Can you tell me that, in some of those countries, there are not problems with regard to minorities and that the fight against corruption does not concern each of the 25 Member States of the Union?
I believe that we must acknowledge the fact that, if it is true that there are in fact problems in the two countries that are about to join the Union, it is likely that the main problems exist within the Union itself.
Furthermore, if we ask ourselves what has changed compared to back then, the answer is that we were unable to carry through that Constitutional Treaty, which was a fundamental element of this enlargement.
I believe both countries’ governments are prepared to make the changes.
But if we are making so much of this issue, perhaps more than the Copenhagen Criteria or the allow – and there are good reasons for that – then we must say very clearly what changes are necessary; I must ask you to do that today, and when you are in those countries tomorrow.
If we do that, and if there is then special monitoring, in other words a precise period of observation, then I am sure that both countries will now take the necessary steps and really will be able to join on 1&#160;January 2007.
Pressure from the European Union has brought that about. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would firstly like to say that Mr&#160;Rehn’s report and his work deserve the utmost credit, especially in the context of this parliamentary debate.
They have achieved what the European Union wanted of them.
They have implemented regulations in the economic, political and social fields and have instituted the principle of the rule of law.
During the period since 1 May 2004, countries such as mine have shown how to navigate accession to the European Union.
I think that the success of that transition for both the old and the new Member States will convince those who remain sceptical.
The fact that Great Britain not only had the generosity but also the sense to open its labour market immediately to people from Eastern Europe means that now, apart from Germany and Austria, which Mr&#160;Brok appears to have forgotten, many other European countries have followed in Britain’s footsteps.
Poland’s example shows that the introduction of the principles set out in the Copenhagen criteria can be a good omen, but that these principles also have to be implemented once the countries have joined the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are sticking to January 2007 as the date for accession, but attaching to that date conditions that must be satisfied by October.
We are eager to see, Commissioner, how you will explain to us in October that the hurdles you have erected here today have now been overcome.
Under the leadership of President&#160;Basescu and Prime Minister Popescu-Tariceanu, a determined and serious reform process has begun there, affecting home affairs, the judiciary and the fight against corruption.
The corruption trials have not yet been finally concluded, but they are seriously under way and it will take time.
That is important.
The law on minorities is an example to others.
You are saying that our goal is to get the two countries on board on 1&#160;January 2007.
So what we are really talking about is how we can promote further progress with those two countries as much as possible.
The appeal I am making to you has already been mentioned by the chairman of my group, Mr Schulz, and by Mr Swoboda and other colleagues.
What we need now, if these countries are to work with us, is for you to be very precise.
I propose that you make a scoreboard to present to the two new governments in Bulgaria and Romania, a precise scoreboard showing what we want of them in the next three and a half or four months in particular areas.
As some members of the Bulgarian Government said to me recently, ‘We cannot change our constitution every other week’.
My final hope is that the June Council will take a clear decision.
As Mr Moscovici said, it is time now to send a clear signal, and the June Council can send a clear signal that they are welcome on 1&#160;January&#160;2007 and that we look forward to working with them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased with the Commission’s proposal because it does justice to Bulgaria’s and Romania’s efforts and also to the concerns about lasting problem areas, the existence of which, by the way, nobody denies.
To previous speakers, including Mr&#160;Cohn-Bendit, I should like to say that as far as I am concerned, this proposal is a shot in the arm for the reformers and thus a source of frustration for criminals, corrupt folk and xenophobes.
The notion that reforms will end as soon as those countries accede is nonsense.
It is, of course, also true that we must, as a matter of urgency, have an instrument by means of which we can tick off all EU Members, including current EU Members, if they fail to adhere to the rules, also where fundamental rights are concerned.
I should like to argue in favour of long-term vision, for we all know that this is not the end where reforms are concerned.
Corruption, crime, discrimination against minorities, and suchlike must all be tackled, also in future.
One day, Bulgaria and Romania may well lead from the front in the European Union, just as they also demonstrated that economically, they are capable of much more and much greater willingness to reform than us in Western Europe.
Finally, I should like to urge all Members in their own countries, to give the full account, rather than populist talk that is based on xenophobia.
All previous Commission reports, followed by the Parliament reports, called attention to the needs of the Hungarian community in Romania.
Commissioner, I can state with certainty that the Hungarian population of Romania has not vanished since October 2005.
And it is becoming increasingly clear that there is no political willingness, either, to resolve them; for instance, there is no willingness to adopt a Minority Act based on cultural autonomy.
Or to ensure higher education in the Hungarian language.
Commissioner, the European institutions have a considerable responsibility to help the citizens of Romania, including the minorities, to recognise the possibilities provided by accession.
Thus, the Hungarian community in Romania must also benefit from the European Union methods and techniques for the enforcement of interests.
This needs support both from Bucharest and Brussels.
Therefore now, Commissioner, I will hand over to you the letter written by Members of the European Parliament, as well as, symbolically, a few of the thousands of letters written to you by people and civil organisations in Transylvania.
It would be difficult to question your findings and hence the grounds for your conclusions on the basis of the facts.
If in the autumn your report shows there are still deficits, the Commission should propose safeguard clauses.
Parliament should then give the Commission its backing, although each of the two countries should be treated separately.
Some other Members have touched on it, and I will say it again quite clearly: there must never again be accession treaties without the accession conditions being fulfilled in their entirety.
Bulgaria and Romania in any case complete the list of 27 countries that were in the Nice catalogue, so to speak.
There can only be further accessions if the European Union also does its homework and makes the necessary internal reforms to ensure its continued existence with more than 27 states. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am pleased that both countries have joined the Decade Programme, and they are doing everything they can to ensure that the Roma are integrated as soon as possible.
However, the monitoring report describes abuses committed by the police and law enforcement authorities, in both countries.
Segregation in the education sector is already mentioned in the Bulgarian report, but I would very much like to see that this issue is given increased attention in the case of Romania, where the level of segregation is just as high.
In spite of this, I voted for the accession of both countries.
However, the significant difference between the two countries is that while Bulgaria acknowledges the problems related to the Roma population, Romania would like to conceal and deny them.
I call upon the Romanian colleagues, the Commission and the Commissioner to ask the competent authorities to change this policy! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the enlargement is undeniably one of the EU’s biggest success stories.
Turning to the Commission’s present proposal, if one considers the level of progress there, then I think that the pressure tactic has so far worked, particularly in Romania, where Mrs&#160;Macovei, in her capacity as justice minister has achieved more in a short space of time than the Nastase administration in previous years.
Thirdly, if we really talk about credibility, then we should dare assess each country on their own merit and one country should not become the victim of the other.
The Commission has put forward a report that is generally positive, but acknowledges some shortcomings.
As we represent our people, we must understand and support the people of Bulgaria and Romania, understand their difficulties and, by confirming their accession date for 1&#160;January 2007, help them to gradually resolve the shortcomings found.
Our role is above all to understand that in Bulgaria and Romania there are two peoples with deep Europeanist convictions, much more so than the majority of the Member States, whom we therefore really need in order to move forward with the European Union project culminating in the Constitution.
Because we need them and because they are going to be the best of us, Parliament must give its full support to their accession on the planned date.
The fifth wave, which enlarged the Union to 25 Member States in 2004, has actually been a great success, in spite of many dire warnings that the Union would be paralysed without a Constitution and that countries such as mine would suffer unsustainable immigration flows, including from the Roma population.
I believe that the accession of Romania and Bulgaria, which is really the fifth-and-a-half wave as initially they were supposed to join at the same time as the other 10 new Member States, will also prove to be a great success.
It is fair to say that organised crime is still a problem, even in some of our current Member States, such as southern Italy.
Let me raise two specific issues.
However, this very rigour is leading the Commission again to postpone its decision on Bulgaria’s and Romania’s accession date.
Once again, you recommend them to continue with their efforts in a wide variety of areas: agricultural administration, the monitoring of Community expenditure and the fight against crime, corruption and fraud.
It appears that the Bulgarian authorities are addressing these two problems, although there needs to be more consistency if we want to see more concrete results.
I am informed that, apart from corruption which is deeply rooted, there is as yet not enough control on drug trafficking, especially of heroin from Afghanistan as some have already mentioned before me, which is being sold to northern European countries at astronomical prices.
The Chairman of the Bulgarian National Assembly, George Pirinski, said earlier this week that the European Union should use the same scale of measurement as it did with the ten countries that joined in the last enlargement.
I think that all of us can assure Mr Pirinski and the people of Bulgaria that not only will the European Union ensure that this same scale of measurement is used, but that it will do all that is possible to help Bulgaria reach its necessary criteria.
We should also add, however, that the European Union will never accept any candidate country, be it Bulgaria or Romania, Croatia or Turkey, as a Member of the European Union if they do not satisfy the accession criteria.
I am sorry to say, for example, that the reform in the judicial system has not made as much progress as was necessary, and certain things still need to be clarified, including the independence of the Judiciary.
Finally, I think, Mr President, that the Bulgarian authorities should take this opportunity to continue implementing the necessary reforms in the shortest time possible.
In this way, we can welcome them here among us in 2007.
Thank you very much. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the preparations for the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union are taking place during a period of crisis in Europe.
Heightened populist and anti-immigration sentiments are just some of the things that have contributed to this crisis.
According to recent Eurobarometer surveys, around 53% of Europeans view the enlargement process with indifference, fear, irritation or frustration.
I would like to draw your attention to three other aspects.
First of all, let us remember that building normality in Western Europe, in spite of democracy and significant aid from the USA, took a long time.
Secondly, the Union has made the decision to accept these two countries and has set a date, which I think constitutes an obligation on the part of such an important political institution.
The Commission needs to play an active role, as do the Council and Parliament.
Our support obviously cannot mean that the Romanian and Bulgarian government are released from their obligation to do everything in their power to eliminate the deficiencies listed in previous and current reports of the European Commission and the European Parliament.
The European Commission should call to account Romania, in the spirit of the previous decisions of the government, for failing to adopt the Minority Act, to return church property and to establish a state-financed Hungarian language university.
Mr&#160;Olli&#160;Rehn, I do not ask for anything more than what you described in your October 2005 report.
Commissioner, you recently stated that we cannot demand of Romania more than what we are demanding of current Member States, while in your earlier statements your starting point was different.
Therefore in the future, the starting point should always be the situation of the country in question.
It is wrong to refer to old Member States, some of which – and I do not wish to single out France – deny even the existence of minorities, and if they were to apply for accession to the European Union today, they would be definitely turned down. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, which is scheduled for January 2007, could be postponed due to the corruption that the Commission would have us believe is rife in those two countries.
Romania and Bulgaria are authentic European nations and are all the more worthy for having been subjected to the Turkish occupation between the 16th and 19th centuries, and then Communism from 1945 to 1990.
That is why we are putting them on their guard against another form of oppression, which is less brutal but just as dangerous: the Europe of Brussels, which has no borders, destroys our national freedoms and identities and opens its gates to Islamic Turkey by denying the Christian origins of our civilisation.
Meanwhile, there have been a number of developments in Europe that have nothing to do with Romania and Bulgaria but that have strongly influenced public opinion, including on the issue of these two countries’ membership.
That is not, however, something for which Romania and Bulgaria should pay the price.
I am both surprised and perturbed about the fact that no one in this House today has pointed out that enlargement is really about security.
The majority of countries in the Balkans are in the throes of forming nation states, which is a difficult and delicate process that could come to grief at any time and that has to be handled with both sensitivity and knowledge.
In such a situation, it would not be sensible to postpone Romania’s and Bulgaria’s entry into the EU, particularly because it would most certainly divert both attention and energy from much more complicated issues in the region such as the status of Kosovo, the referendum in Montenegro and the status of that country and the constitutional changes under way right now in Bosnia.
Romania and Bulgaria have done a good job.
Hard work is needed, and both countries will work hard in the future too, just as other countries did during their first period as EU Member States.
I urge the Bulgarian authorities to restore our faith in their criminal justice system.
The true test of a democracy is the will to redress any potential wrongs and ensure that real justice is served.
I trust you will be sympathetic to this excuse, because we have to get the right message across tonight to both Bulgaria and Romania, where we are heading with President Barroso immediately after this sitting to pass on the message of encouragement.
That is, of course, the role of Parliament.
In this debate I sense overall support for the Commission’s basic approach, which is that the target accession date of January 2007 should be possible, on condition that the countries can address the remaining shortcomings.
Yes, some are more in favour than others and opinions differ as to the conditions, but the overall tone of the debate has been very clear and I can say that the Commission is in favour of the target and of sticking strictly to the conditions.
We would not propose a final review of whether the conditions have been met in October if we did not believe that it is feasible for the countries to meet the remaining criteria.
At the same time, it is clear that, as guardian of the treaties, we cannot recommend something that does not exist.
We have to see that the conditions are really fulfilled, especially in the field of terrorism and the fight against corruption and organised crime.
Moreover, we have to trust in the political maturity of the governments, parliaments and administrations of these countries for them to know what the Copenhagen political and economic criteria and the criteria mean, and plan their roadmaps of reform on the basis of these well-established criteria, which form the basis of our crystal clear report.
I hope this example is concrete enough, but I could give you dozens of other precise examples of what still needs to be done in various areas of the Union’s policy and .
Finally, Mr Van Orden said that no reference was made in the Commission’s report to the recommendation of a possible postponement, which is one of the provisions of the accession treaty.
To avoid any confusion or misunderstanding, this compels me say that in fact, in the conclusion of the Commission’s report adopted just three hours ago, we say that by early October we shall assess whether the two countries have been able to address the remaining shortcomings and on that basis we shall adopt a position as to whether the proposed accession date can be adhered to.
Our goal is the accession of Bulgaria and Romania in 2007 and our duty is to see that both countries join when they meet the conditions and are fully prepared to join the European Union.
In Romania, in spite of the commendable efforts of the current government, there are still many serious problems waiting to be solved.
There have been several positive changes in respect of the latter, which have been significantly aided by the presence in legislation and government of the Democratic Alliance of Hungarians in Romania (RMDSZ), the political representation of the Hungarian community in Romania.
However, it is mistaken to think that, as Commissioner&#160;Olli&#160;Rehn has stated, the participation of the RMDSZ in the government coalition is sufficient to guarantee the legal certainty of minorities.
The political party representing the Hungarian community will never be in majority, and results can only be achieved with the help of the Romanian majority parties and their willingness to compromise.
This would obviously need a precise drafting of the indispensable sanctions and of the conditions of safeguard clause activation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the fact that neither Bulgaria nor Romania have completely finished their homework should not come as a surprise to anyone, for it is a Herculean task.
The two countries should not, though, become the victim of the Union’s internal problems or of a lack of solidarity.
We really hope that they will be, that the criteria will be detailed and, above all, that those who are politically responsible in those countries will be backed in any way possible so that they can keep to the 1&#160;January 2007 deadline.
The Commission should not hide behind the Council any longer.
It should come to us with a clear opinion. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like by way of introduction to express my appreciation of the European Commission for the valuable work which it has presented to us today.
Certainly there are deficits in institutional and administrative adaptation, especially in areas relating to the European area of freedom, security and justice.
The crucial question, in my opinion, has to do with weighing the costs and benefits for the European Union in the event that accession is postponed.
In other words, there will also be a positive spill-over effect for the Western Balkans.
It contains an incentive and a warning: the incentive of accession on 1&#160;January 2007 in accordance with the timetable and the warning that this objective will be achieved if both countries intensify their efforts in accordance with the final report which will be presented by the Commission.
Today, Mr President, the responsibility for the final outcome rests with the governments and political forces in these two countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is a pity that the Commissioner had to go because now our immortal speeches will not make an impact on the EU’s future, but never mind.
We must say ‘yes’ to leadership, because the progress of those countries towards harmonisation in the bigger European family depends on political will.
This is the power of enlargement, and we must see the bigger picture and not indulge in populism.
I am therefore in favour of their accession on 1&#160;January 2007. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I represent Poland, a recent member of the European Union.
The memory of the large effort made by our country, the work of the citizens but also of the politicians and the civil service aimed at adapting to the exacting standards of the European Union, is still fresh in our minds.
Maintaining this date is all the more important because a change may be interpreted as an attempt to block or even reject the application for accession of both these countries, especially as we have recently witnessed protectionist tendencies within the European Union, or in other words moves to prevent access to the benefits of a common market and truly free movement of persons and services.
I am also convinced that, just as the enlargement of the European Union two years ago by 10 countries proved to be a political and economic success, the accession of Bulgaria and Romania on 1&#160;January 2007 will prove to be equally successful. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this afternoon a very important event took place in Constanza County in Romania: the official opening of protected homes for over 100 people who currently live in unsatisfactory conditions.
Last week a report by Mental Disability Rights International caused huge concern and outrage because it outlined serious abuses in Romanian institutions.
The problem of trafficking has been identified by the Commission, and all Member States – including my own country, Ireland – need to play their part to stop this cruel and horrific trade in vulnerable human beings.
There are shortcomings in all countries before their accession to the European Union, but they remedy them.
This is the historic challenge and I am sure that, with our and the Commission's and everyone else's help, these people will prove that they are big and will join the big family of the European Union on 1&#160;January 2007. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; I should like to highlight a problem that is very distressing in human terms: that of the adoption of Romanian children by European couples.
By means of a moratorium dated June 2001, the Romanian authorities banned all international adoptions, except in exceptional circumstances: the adoption of siblings, of children aged over 6 years or of disabled children.
Despite the fact that they were among the authorised exceptions, several dozen adoption applications have been left pending since being reviewed in 2001.
Thus, 800 European families have been waiting for more than five years to adopt their children, even though their adoption applications had been validated prior to June 2001 by the Romanian adoption committee.
These children know their adoptive parents and have a bond with them.
With the arrival of the ten new Member States, socio-economic disparities have doubled in the enlarged Union, while the 15 are not stimulating European growth, their economic performance remaining rather average.
Therefore, before we contemplate the accession of new countries, should not we first think about consolidating the Union of 25 Member States?
That is why I am calling on the Council not to confuse speed with haste when looking ahead to these countries’ accession. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0207/2006).
Furthermore, the directive bans direct pressure on children to purchase.
The Distance Selling Directive also protects consumers who purchase goods and services at a distance, in other words with no face-to-face contact.
The Commission has already launched a review of eight of the consumer directives, including the Distance Selling Directive.
Indeed some (including those that are more economically developed) continue to perpetuate outdated and poor quality child care practices, which in many cases can cause psychological and neurological damage to children.
These groups share the common characteristic of a very high threat of social exclusion, and great effort is required to prevent them from slipping into persistent exclusion and poverty.
The Commission has noted, however, that many of the large traditional institutions are gradually beginning to be replaced by more short-term care, and that there is a general preference for reuniting families or securing foster care in a new family.
Ever more attention is being paid to the living conditions of children and young people in the European Union.
The European Council, meeting in March 2006, challenged the Member States to take measures towards a rapid and substantial reduction in child poverty and to provide all children with equal opportunities, regardless of their social background.
In the action plans for social inclusion that the Member States submitted to the Commission, children who faced the threat of poverty and social exclusion were identified as a priority group.
Some Member States have set out concrete goals at a domestic level for reducing child poverty.
The Commission is aware of the fact that in some EU Member States the facilities that care for mentally or physically disabled children and adults make excessive use of methods of restraint, whether pharmacological or physical, and the Commission regards this as unacceptable.
The communication recently issued by the Commission on the position of physically disabled persons in the enlarged EU places great emphasis on de-institutionalising the care for physically disabled persons.
The Commission would also like to state that it will soon be publishing a communication on EU activities in defence and support of children’s rights. &#160;&#160; Thank you for that very exhaustive, full and explanatory statement, Commissioner.
I salute your determination to pursue a policy of inclusion across Europe.
However, may I draw his attention to the Daphne-funded analyses, recently conducted surveys focusing particularly on long-term institutional care, averaging 13&#160;months, of children under three years of age, which is the time when they are most likely to be damaged neurologically.
The mere fact that the study has been financed through the DAPHNE programme provides a signal that Europe is making solid progress over this matter and is striving to achieve its goal.
Concerning the question of caged beds, I think you are right that in some countries such beds are used fitted with nets and that there is often controversy as to whether they are used excessively or even simply for the convenience of staff.
The problem – in my view – is not entirely one of technique so much as one of a generally restrictive culture which in some institutions and in some countries has persisted to a greater extent than would correspond to the high humanitarian standards which the EU is striving to enforce, since a similar kind of inhumane interference in people’s minds can also result from the use of pharmacological substances, if these are used without proper need and on the basis of a restrictive culture.
In each case we can report striking progress, even though in some areas, for example the issue of international adoption, very intensive discussions are still continuing.
The Commission has not in any way abandoned the idea of focusing on children’s rights, as I firmly believe that the European Union has a certain duty to be socially responsible, and this responsibility must also be implemented within the context of accession talks.
It is difficult for the EU to get involved in this area directly, although it is possible within the framework of the European Social Fund projects, or specialised projects, or within the framework of discussions and the exchange of information, and we are putting considerable effort into doing this.
Even in this area the European Commission is striving in the first place to formulate at least an exchange of the defining data, in order to be able to compare the situation in different Member States, and on the basis of this to formulate specific approaches.
The basic principle still applies that social matters, which frequently include tragic and sensitive issues, fall within national jurisdictions, which means that if a case has not been resolved for a long time, it will be an issue much more for the domestic authorities than for the EU, although we should use such jurisdiction as we do have to the full. &#160;&#160; I am part of the advisory council for the Mental Disability Advocacy Centre and we have been raising the issue of caged beds for a number of years now.
For both of us, the way forward is de-institutionalisation, in other words transferring care as much as possible to local authorities, the community and of course families.
When we consider these things in an ordinary way, we think of financial support, but in my view it is also necessary to provide some form of qualification, since for families that have to assume such a responsibility it is very important to know something about basic nursing methods, and the basic principles that are to be followed, as well as the limits that such care can impose.
To read our proposal as ‘to allow 0.9% of GMO content in products labelled organic’ is a clear misinterpretation.
Not all consumers are aware of this, but currently there is no specific legislation on permissible GMO thresholds in organic products, there are no permissible GMO thresholds in organic products.
The existing organic production rules ban the deliberate use of GMOs or GM-derived products without laying down any threshold for the unintended presence of traces of GMOs.
The proposal of the Commission maintains the ban on the deliberate use of GMOs or GM-derived products.
However, we propose that an operator may rely on GM labels when assuring that no GMOs enter his/her production.
These labels provide for effective evidence as, today, GMOs or products derived from GMOs generally have to be labelled as GM according to Community legislation.
This de facto means that the same 0.9% threshold for the unintended presence of GMO traces applies to organic products as to other products.
The operator will have to continue to take all appropriate steps to avoid the presence of GMOs!
What, on the contrary, would really change under our proposal is that a product labelled as GM could no longer be labelled as organic at the same time if the 0.9% threshold is exceeded, which is in fact possible today under the present legislation.
Recently the WTO confirmed the ruling against the EU in the case of GMOs.
I believe the most essential step was that we were able to agree in the Council in November 2002 on the traceability and labelling of GMOs.
The final outcome might not have satisfied everybody, but it was important that products that are produced directly from a GM product – for example, tomato ketchup produced directly from GM tomatoes – must be labelled.
To give you a clear figure is simply impossible, but we have calculated and made it clear that if anyone did wish to reduce the ceiling to 0.1%, that would have a serious impact on the survival of organic farmers. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, to date we still have no long-term studies of the effects of genetically modified organisms.
Let me begin by congratulating the Commission on its initiative in drawing up a Community regulation to reduce international roaming mobile telephone charges.
As the Commission knows, current market prices penalise Europeans for being outside their country of origin, and the prices charged for roaming calls also vary for users from different European states.
In order to guarantee that the new regulation meets not only the criterion principles of competitiveness and of the internal market, but also of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, could the Commission tell me what the bases used for this regulation will be?
Parliament and the national regulatory authorities have drawn our attention to that fact several times.
At the same time I publicly declared that six months later I would benchmark the progress.
In March 2006 we compared the roaming prices to their level of autumn 2005.
We saw that in 19 Member States the prices were more or less stable, in four Member States they had gone up.
That is a very interesting move and is in the interests of our consumers. &#160;&#160; I would like to thank you, Commissioner, for this initiative, as I did when I was preparing the question, and also for the explanations that you have given to us, which show the level of interest and concern concerning this issue.
You have already explained this, but I think that this is an extremely important issue for encouraging mobility within Europe, both in terms of employment and in general.
Roaming prices for a four-minute call still vary from as little as 20 cents for a Finnish consumer calling from Sweden to EUR 13.05 for a Maltese consumer in Latvia.
That is why we will now have to analyse what we have received as input with these 150 contributions.
Here we are talking about Article 95.
I am convinced and satisfied by the answers from the legal services that Article 95 provides an appropriate basis for our proposal. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, yesterday I was reading a British paper whilst I was travelling to Strasbourg.
That is why the market had been warned a long time in advance.
The Commission had to resolve to put a regulation on the table before the first market forces began to move a little in the right direction.
Most of all, we would like to give back to the consumers the advantages of the common market and promote mobility rather than being a barrier to it.
Since 1996 the Commission has been active in the fight against illegal content such as child pornography, or racist content, as also in the protection of children from accessing legal but harmful content such as adult pornography, violent content and gambling.
Parliament is examining the Commission’s proposal to update the Television Without Frontiers directive in order to cover all audiovisual media services.
On the basis of this recommendation, in 2005 we launched the Safer Internet Plus programme.
That programme has established a network of 21 hotlines throughout Europe, which enable the general public to complain about illegal content found on the Internet.
These hotlines investigate and refer complaints to the appropriate organisations, police, Internet service providers or hotlines in other countries.
We also have a network of 23 awareness-raising projects, which provide advice to children, teenagers, parents and educators about the risks of the Internet and the way to deal with them.
The Commission will provide guidance to parents on the effectiveness of filtering software and services.
I would also like to say that at international level the follow-up conference to the World Summit on the Information Society will tackle all these negative aspects of the new technologies.
We are doing all we can to get it removed from the Internet, but it is a world wide web and we do not have access to these contents everywhere.
I would also like the European Parliament to support us, with Members taking related initiatives in their constituencies.
A coordinated campaign would surely benefit our children all across Europe. &#160;&#160; I should like to thank the Commissioner.
This will be of the utmost importance, and responsibility will lie with those working in online services. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, you cannot control what is on the web, but you can control access in the following way.
If there was simple control on access and more passwords on computers themselves, then parents, schools and others would have greater control.
That is why we have to provide parents with very simple software, simple filters and parenting devices so that they can take their responsibility.
At the end of the year, when we present this study, it will be most beneficial to organise an awareness-raising campaign on those filters in order to inform parents what they can do to help their children.
Very often parents are lost in such cases because they are not very familiar with technology – at least not as familiar as the new generation is. &#160;&#160; Questions Nos 55 to 58 will be answered in writing.
The Commission has highlighted the importance of access to finance in developing countries on many occasions, for example in a communication that it co-sponsored last year in the WTO.
Financial services are clearly one of the European Commission’s priorities in the services negotiations and, therefore, figure prominently in the European Commission’s bilateral services requests.
Furthermore, the European Community was one of the co-sponsors of the recently tabled financial services plurilateral request and is particularly active in plurilateral and bilateral negotiations with our trading partners in Geneva.
Unfortunately, the offers in financial services on the table so far are mostly disappointing.
Certain ASEAN members, with very low existing commitments, have not made any financial services offers and larger players, such as China and particularly India, also have room to improve their offers.
In short, most of our main requests in financial services have not been addressed by our trading partners.
That is why the Commission will continue to press very hard and at all levels to convince our trading partners of the need to correct the situation by submitting substantially revised offers in July this year. &#160;&#160; – I am very sorry that Mr&#160;Mandelson, a Member of the Commission, was unable to attend and I would not like to ask a question which is perhaps not in your area of expertise.
This is the core question and I believe that, for the European Union, the symmetry between the Union markets which have already been opened up in the agricultural sector, on the one hand, and the corresponding opening up of other countries in the services sectors in general, on the other hand, should be strengthened.
This should also apply to access to the market for non-agricultural products.
We are working all the time with those countries so that they improve or strengthen the services offered, including financial services.
It is part of our negotiation strategy.
It is not that we are only taking a defensive position on agriculture; we are active in all areas that concern the trade negotiations.
Firstly, our energy security depends on developing alternatives to oil.
The EU has decided to achieve rapid development of biofuels use.
The Biofuels Directive, adopted in 2003, set a reference value of a 2% market share for biofuels in 2005 and 5.75% in 2010, compared with a 0.2% share in 2000.
In adopting national indicative targets under the Directive, Member States have been somewhat less ambitious, but, overall, the target is a share of about 1.4% in 2005.
If not, what can be done to ensure that the objective will be achieved?
However, it is also true that their production can have some adverse effects on the environment.
I believe that second-generation biofuels can have even greater environmental benefits and their introduction should be accelerated as much as possible.
This could ensure that only biofuels whose cultivation meets required environmental standards count towards objectives in the Directive.
The Commission does not consider that the use of biofuels should in any way reduce the objectives agreed upon with the car industry. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner, for your response.
As I said in my answer to the first question, we should look upon the issues in our trade negotiations.
Both these documents have been discussed in the Council and there is definitely a need for Member States to pursue a more proactive policy to bring biofuels onto the market.
For example, I wish there were more of them in Brussels. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, I am very glad that it is at last being recognised throughout Europe and the world that we need to be independent of the politically unstable regions from which the European Union gets much of its energy.
The car industry will follow our political trend.
The most important thing at present is to show that the European Union really is prepared to do that.
I would like to start by saying that today Russia plays a very important role in securing Europe’s energy supplies.
So the energy dialogue aims to discuss issues related to energy policy and market developments, infrastructure developments, and EU-Russia cooperation in multilateral energy fora.
I believe that Russia will remain an important supplier for the EU in the future.
At the same time, the EU will import 70% of its energy in 2030, compared with 50% today.
As a consequence, energy interdependence is becoming a global issue, with major shared concerns, such as increased demand for limited resources in the world, the lack of investment in new production and the climate change issues.
The Green Paper emphasised opportunities, such as policies to improve first of all energy efficiency and energy savings, as well as enhancing the market penetration of renewable energy sources.
It also highlighted external policy options, such as strengthening the framework for energy relations between the EU and Russia in order to give more confidence to both sides, as well as policies and measures to diversification of the geographical sources and transportation routes of external energy supplies to the EU.
This policy of diversification is not directed against our current suppliers: it is a necessity dictated by the global energy security challenges and by the challenge posed by global warming and other environment-related issues.
Together with the Austrian Presidency of the European Union, I recently sent a letter to the Russian Energy Minister, Mr Khristenko, on the issue of energy cooperation and in particular gas interdependency.
In this relationship with Russia, the EU is promoting such principles as market reciprocity, fair transit conditions through Russia and third-party access to infrastructure in Russia.
Therefore, the short answer to the questions that have been asked is that we are looking for diversification, but it is extremely important to establish measures on the demand side, because only with demand-side measures, energy efficiency and savings can we actually establish our energy independence more strongly and, at the same time, look towards our goals of sustainability and competitiveness. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I believe President Putin’s politicisation of Gazprom is just as dangerous as the politicisation of OPEC by a few Gulf States 30 years ago.
We must make the best possible use of our own resources.
But my answer today is: we must all do our homework at home, because that is the only way we will achieve our objective. &#160;&#160; I thank the Member of the Commission for his detailed reply.
I agree that Russia is an important energy supplier and it is definitely essential to maintain the dialogue with Russia in the field of energy.
However, there is a good Russian proverb saying that God saves those who save themselves.
He emphasised two issues that concern energy: first, he said that Gazprom has shown remarkable progress since he addressed the issue of energy efficiency.
He also said that Russia could play an important role in the creation of a common European energy policy.
The United States has higher prices and, with the development of LNG, competition between big consumers will grow.
I hope our dialogue will be able to bring about such a result.
Geographically we are the best market and historically our companies have had very good relations.
Firstly, is the EU in a position to counter the Russian pipeline monopoly in the transportation of oil and gas from Central Asia to Europe?
As regards transparency and relations, at this stage there is some reciprocity.
In the EU Gazprom is treated as a company that has a complete pipeline monopoly in production and transport.
In October this year, we will have a conference on energy policies.
It is also fairer to the Russian side also to ask questions as to what Europe’s views are and how far Europe is going in creating a common energy policy.
In view of this, the Commission is very pleased with the work that has been done so far and the compromise proposal that is now up for discussion and for the vote.
This proposal provides a reliable legal framework that will allow the Commission to continue to take action on the basis of new scientific findings and at the same time to maintain the level of protection of human and animal health in the European Union or to raise it if that is scientifically justified.
The directive on TSE basically has two parts; firstly, the question of transitional periods and secondly the operational or substantive part.
She has called on the Commission to develop a kind of roadmap, which, while it has not been discussed in this house officially, will nevertheless guide us in tackling the difficult topic of BSE and TSE in the future.
Up until now, we have had five risk categories.
We found, however, and became convinced that in order to be compatible with what is being done in other parts of the world, including the World Organisation for Animal Health in Paris, it was better to scale this down to three factors, which came more easily after much discussion.
That was the compromise after the rapporteur – and I strongly support her – agreed to this proposal.
It is in the end also a factor in consumer protection and for farmers, because these questions can now be better coordinated and also policed across the globe in the developing world.
The minimum list of special risk materials is a matter of particular concern to the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Roth-Behrendt.
Brain and spinal cord, for example, will now appear in a genuine list and not in the Annexes as before.
What troubles us about this movement is that the Commission is now very much taking over the action in the comitology procedure and is taking the decisions.
We believe the European Parliament should be involved.
We are all somewhat concerned that in taking over the administrative and regulatory process the Commission is leaving the European Parliament out in the cold.
We have therefore strengthened the decisions of principle to ensure that questions of consumer protection and environmental protection must play a major role.
My group considers many parts of this report on the amendment of the Regulation on the prevention of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies an extraordinary success.
In the hectic days when the BSE problem was at its height, we had to take very quick and very harsh decisions on many things, and science has advanced in the meantime.
Secondly, the introduction of three risk categories simplifies risk assessment without jeopardising safety.
The results of risk assessment in all countries can now be compared.
Among other things, that also makes exporting and importing easier.
However, the BSE crisis showed us that this principle had been anything but self-evident for a long time.
Since then, this question has again been very hotly debated in this House.
I can agree to the compromise in as much as it provides for the possibility in future of feeding fishmeal to young calves as a substitute for milk when they have just been separated from the mother cow.
The outcome of that commendable work is a text on which MEPs agree in principle.
We are unanimous both in our overall opinion that the transitional period should be extended by a reasonable amount of time and in our adherence to the principle of a consistent ban on the feeding of animal protein to ruminants.
The problems with fishmeal lie elsewhere.
Fishmeal is unnecessary to the physiological development of ruminants, whether old or young, and, as they are the only animals which can produce protein from grass, they satisfy their protein needs in other ways.
This is the reason for our support for the compromise solution, even though the unanimous view, backed up by expert opinion, is that there is absolutely no justification for feeding fish protein to young animals. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, over the past decade, the European Parliament has played a decisive role in the political response to BSE, which, although this disease emerged in the United Kingdom as long ago as the 1980s, was given another dimension when the British Health Secretary stated in the Parliament at Westminster that there is a probable link between BSE and a new variant of Creutzfeldt-Jacob Disease.
Parliament was quick to give its political response in the shape of an inquiry committee under the leadership of Mrs&#160;Roth-Behrendt, which carried out excellent research into the state of affairs and the Commission’s and Member States’ shortcomings.
Since June 2001, BSE legislation has had no fewer than 19 updates on comitology decisions, and so vigilance on the part of this House must be the order of the day.
Let me give you just two examples.
The second example is about feed provisions described in Annex&#160;4 to the Act which were changed by comitology decisions, without Parliament’s involvement, from detailed descriptions taking up half a page to no fewer than 9 pages of detailed provisions and exceptions.
The comitology procedure remains a huge problem, therefore, and one that we failed to resolve in this negotiation round with the Council.
It is particularly regrettable that the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Roth-Behrendt, cannot be present for this debate.
That is the issue I invite the Commissioner to address when he replies in this debate. &#160;&#160; Madam President, in 2001, during the BSE and CJD scares and outbreaks, the Commission implemented a temporary ban on feed of animal and fish origin being fed to ruminants, pending thorough scientific risk assessment of the regulation.
In accordance with the precautionary principle and as a measure to promote consumer confidence, a policy of zero tolerance of processed animal proteins and meat and animal bonemeal in animal feed was put in place.
This initial six-month ban has been extended on a rolling basis ever since, despite a categorical Commission announcement in 2004 that there was no risk of TSE occurrence, let alone transmission, from fishmeal fed to ruminants and that the policy of zero tolerance of meat and bone spicules in animal feed should be lifted.
The Commission argued that this zero tolerance policy could not be implemented, since the technical detection methods for identifying processed animal protein had not previously been sufficiently accurate to take account of the so-called adventitious presence of small amounts of protein from small birds, mammals and rodents accidentally caught in the harvesting process.
The impossibility of distinguishing these proteins and bone spicules, which do not pose a TSE risk from proteins of ruminant origin which could contain BSE-carrying prions, resulted in a number of high-profile, extremely costly, wasteful and unnecessary withdrawals from shipments and, more controversially, beet-based animal feed, owing to this harmless and unavoidable adventitious presence of non-ruminant proteins.
The proposal before us is intended to amend and update the regulation.
I welcome the compromise reached and support the provisions relating to the possible lifting of the feed ban, because the provision is based on sound science.
We cannot be driven by emotion; otherwise our credibility as legislators will be severely undermined.
Scientific rigour is at the core of this regulation.
In conclusion, as regards setting the tolerance thresholds for adventitious presence of bone spicules and technically unavoidable contamination, it is imperative that we apply scientific rigour through standing committees under the comitology procedure.
This procedure is not perfect, but it is more responsive than codecision and ensures informed scientific analysis and risk assessment, rather than risking emotive concerns guiding European decisions in technical areas.
For this reason, I cannot support Amendment 57, which I believe would threaten the chances of reaching a hard-won first reading agreement in the interests of all concerned.
But having said this, as parliamentarians, we should exercise fully and vigilantly our right to scrutinise the outcomes of comitology meetings and to hold the Commission to account when their standing committee experts’ decisions exceed the powers conferred on them by the TSE regulation.
We continue to feed ruminants and eat them in our countries.
In concrete terms, that means that, in my constituency for example, a feed plant which at the moment is producing feed for ruminants will be able at the same time to manufacture feed for pigs and poultry.
I send my good wishes to Mrs Roth-Behrendt.
She has produced a very good report and I know that she has worked very hard on TSE and BSE for many years on behalf of this Parliament. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I wish Mrs Roth-Behrendt a speedy recovery.
Consequently I voice my support for her position on almost all aspects of her report except one: the issue of fishmeal.
Had she been here, I know I would not have managed to convince Mrs Roth-Behrendt of my point that fishmeal is good as a ruminant food, but I hope that I have provided the rest of my colleagues with food for thought. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, warmest congratulations to Mrs&#160;Roth-Behrendt, best wishes for her recovery and many thanks for her excellent report and the good negotiations with Council and Commission.
We consider the rules provided by Parliament, namely TSE checks for cattle over 30 months slaughtered for human consumption and for all cattle over 24 months that have died or been sent for emergency slaughter, to be sufficient and correct.
The adaptation to the World Organisation for Animal Health’s three risk categories is also logical and necessary.
In my country, zero tolerance resulted in tens of thousands of tonnes of sugar beet having to be destroyed because animal protein was found in it when it was delivered.
The new limit here is a real step forward towards sensible legislation.
I agree to the proposal, but cannot refrain from making one small remark in conclusion, namely that life for Parliament would surely be even better and even more democratic if there were less or no comitology. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, even ten years after the outbreak of BSE, prevention, control and eradication of certain spongiform encephalopathies are still necessary and still under discussion.
The regulation on this, which we are also discussing today, is intended to bring EU law into line with international requirements and the standards of the World Organisation for Animal Health, particularly important among which are all the precautions.
Food safety and consumer protection are both priorities, but it is equally important to take a measured approach.
Three aspects are important in this regard.
The list of specified risk materials also forms part of this.
The third point is that there should really be a tolerance of up to 0.5% for animal protein accidentally present in feed; be it a mouse, bird, small animal or bone in the field.
Zero per cent tolerance is rarely achievable in this world.
Together with the Spongiform Encephalopathy Advisory Committee, Parliament decisively influenced risk management in the legislation in the first version of the regulation.
Since then, Parliament has been bypassed and numerous amendments made through comitology.
This does not seem very democratic and often impedes cooperation and acceptance.
It is important to review acts, regulations and directives on an ongoing basis, and it is right to then incorporate into the legislative text any amendments that new findings render necessary and possible.
Consequently, I, too, welcome the Commission’s proposal to amend EC Regulation No&#160;999/2001 laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform encephalopathies.
I am obliged to the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Roth-Behrendt, for her report.
When we set this regulation in motion in 2001 – with inner uncertainty and without sufficient scientific evidence, and prompted by contemporary events – it was a good measure that pointed the way ahead.
In the present day, we can see that there has been a change – indeed an improvement – in our sensitivity in dealing with animals, animal husbandry and feeding animals, at least.
Zero tolerances can be measured, but they naturally entail problems – which some Members have just described – because zero tolerance does not exist in nature.
Finally, I should like to remind the Commission that a loophole has emerged as regards the recycling of swill.
I should also like to remind the House that the last few days have seen the discovery of a case of BSE on an organic hill farm in Upper Austria, and that the entire herd of 40&#160;animals has had to be culled – which, of course, has entailed a loss of livelihood for the farmer concerned.
We can also note that there has been a fall in the overall number of cases of illness and that, therefore, the measures have obviously taken effect.
On the other hand, these controls, or the measures taken, are very expensive and represent a real threat to the livelihoods of many farmers.
The alignment with the requirements of the World Organisation for Animal Health, namely the reduction of the five risk categories to three, is justified; provided, of course, that this does not result in the measures as a whole being watered down.
Parliament as an institution should make a real effort to keep this to a minimum, so that these measures, which are after all very technical, remain subject to democratic control. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I was a journalist at the height of the BSE crisis, so I have very vivid memories of the unfolding of that story and its impact not just on politicians but on consumer confidence.
Zero tolerance is a big issue for the feed industry and for farmers.
We need science to rule here and we need scientific risk assessments of the level of adventitious protein sources in feed.
I think the feed industry itself would welcome clarity on that, because too often zero tolerance has given rise to huge costs as well as concern and confusion within that industry.
I think it is good that tonight we are debating in less emotive terms than we would have ten years ago, but I would urge that people look at the science of the debate, rather than the emotion of the past, when they are voting on this very important report. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30&#160;a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0107/2006) by Mrs&#160;Pleštinská, on behalf of the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the financing of European standardisation (COM(2005)0377 – C6-0252/2005 –2005/0157(COD)). &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking your House, and in particular your rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Pleštinská, the members of the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection and Mrs&#160;Herczog, for their prompt advice and this sound report.
The adoption of this proposal by the European legislature creates a new, solid legal basis for the financing of European standardisation.
European standardisation has already played an outstanding role in supporting European policy for more than 20&#160;years.
More than 20 directives have been adopted that follow this approach, a concrete example of which is the Machinery Directive.
Standardisation is also an important tool for realising the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy.
In view of the positive experience with standards in connection with internal market legislation, there are plans to use the approach of reference to voluntary standards in other areas of law, too, within the framework of what is known as ‘better lawmaking’.
The budgetary resources for financing European standardisation must be approved annually within the framework of the budgetary procedure.
In the course of the discussions, many parties called for European standardisation to take sufficient account of all the relevant interests, such as those of consumers, environmental protection and small and medium-sized enterprises.
This decision is not intended to guarantee the financing of the individual interests concerned, however.
I should like to point out in this connection that support is provided for the participation of experts, for example from SMEs, within the framework of our SME programme.
It is also the responsibility of Member States to guarantee sufficient participation of the relevant stakeholders.
The Commission expressly welcomes the amendments drawn up in cooperation between Parliament and the Council.
For such apparently simple things to happen, however, requires serious thought on somebody’s part, and this ‘somebody’ is the European standardisation system, which is made up of three European and 29 national standards organisations, and more than 60&#160;000 experts.
Because the main function of common European standards is to remove technical barriers to trade and to promote the internal market, standardisation policy should be regarded a&#160;cornerstone of EU policy for meeting the targets of the revised Lisbon Strategy.
Technical requirements are set out in detailed technical standards.
When I&#160;worked as an architect, standards were a tool I used in my work.
Even though European standardisation is necessary for the functioning of the internal market, there has as yet been no legislative basis dedicated specifically to financing it.
The EU’s contribution towards financing European standards is currently 2%, while national organisations contribute approximately 5%, and enterprises 93%, primarily by providing expertise.
The Member States have their roles to play in technical standardisation, in that they have to ensure the adoption of European standards by the national systems.
I&#160;am pleased that my country, Slovakia, has been among the quickest to transpose European standards thanks to the Slovak Technical Standards Act.
Business representatives and other interested parties are becoming increasingly aware of the role technical standardisation plays in the business world.
It must be a&#160;priority for Parliament to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises, and in particular micro-enterprises and trades enterprises are able to effectively use European standards.
It is in the interest of the Union to contribute financially to the translation of these standards into all official languages, to make them equally and transparently accessible, in particular to small enterprises in the new Member States which lack the financial and human resources to translate specialist standards.
In the approval process I&#160;supported all proposed amendments which helped to improve the Commission’s proposal.
Please allow me also to thank the representatives of the Council and the Commission for their exemplary assistance and their wish to find a&#160;consensus right from the outset, allowing a&#160;financial framework for European standardisation to be found at the first reading.
In conclusion I&#160;would like to express my conviction that my report and the support that Parliament has shown for it will lead to adequate financing for European standardisation, which will contribute to a&#160;simpler and safer life for all European citizens. &#160;&#160; . – Madam&#160;President, although, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets, I generally support the approach taken by the Commission, I should like to emphasise the political dimension of this matter and to point out, if I may, two shortcomings.
It proposes to make wider use of standardisation work in the field of services, while preserving the monopolistic nature of the bodies mentioned in the report – which is, in my opinion, regrettable – even though standardisation has been mainly focused up to now on industrial products and nothing else.
These standards are required in all European invitations to tender but, until now, they have been drawn up exclusively by manufacturers, without any democratic control, and may accordingly constitute an obstacle to market access, which is something that we cannot accept.
That is why it is important to ensure, in particular, that all of the parties involved can actually participate in the work of these bodies.
The compromise amendments certainly address this concern, but only to a very small extent.
On the other hand, I felt that, insofar as public funds were involved, the European Parliament had to be informed each year of the standardisation process that had actually been implemented.
The compromise amendment regarding this issue makes provision for a Commission assessment of standardisation activities to be carried out at least once every five years, which is clearly not often enough.
So there you have my observations summed up in a few words, Madam&#160;President.
I should also like to thank Commissioner&#160;Verheugen, however, as he has managed, by way of better regulation, to create a new instrument – namely European standardisation – to enable the objective to be achieved faster and more efficiently.
For example, we are currently addressing the issue of mobile TV: the problem of Nokia versus LG standardisation.
If carried out quickly, efficiently and well, standardisation offers prospects of gaining market shares in this field.
This would enable our economy to achieve the Lisbon criteria significantly faster and more efficiently by means of standardisation that is accepted worldwide – one of the best examples of this being the GSM system.
A Green Paper in this field could give us the opportunity of demonstrating where our future opportunities lie.
This represents a challenge.
It is entirely appropriate that, coming from one of the new Member States most active in the field of the internal market, she has not only blazed a trail for Members from Slovakia, but also has the moral authority to carry this forward.
If you look at the internal market scoreboard, you will see that top of the list of countries that have transposed internal market legislation and adopted European standards are the new Member States.
They are putting all the old Member States to shame in that respect.
I am also delighted that we have reached an agreement with the Council and the Commission in pre-conciliation to get this important package through at first reading.
As you said, Commissioner, it is largely about the development of effective technical standards for products.
But we must not forget that this is all part of the total development of the internal market.
We are now on the verge of a very important review of the future of the internal market.
I have to ask the limited number of people here how we are going to create jobs and growth in the European economy if we cannot get the internal market to work properly; if we cannot engage all the tools and weapons at our disposal.
I was really pleased that the President of the Commission, in the statement that he made this week about delivery for our citizens, put the completion of the internal market absolutely at the top of the list.
If we cannot make the internal market work, what else have we got to do to achieve success in the global economy?
Standards are part of that, not just in Europe but also in the world as a whole.
As the rapporteurs say in one of their amendments – and I would also like to thank the shadow rapporteur, Mrs Herczog, for her work – we want to ensure fair and transparent access to European standards for all market players throughout the Union.
I, too, would like to start by congratulating Mrs&#160;Pleštinská on her first report.
I would like to thank her for the very friendly environment she created both in the Committee on the Internal Market and in the course of the talks and negotiations with the Council, enabling us to reach an agreement.
Mr&#160;Harbour said that new Member States are at the top of the list in transposing internal market regulations.
At this point we need to remember the work of Commissioner Verheugen in this area, because without him we would never have been able to do this so efficiently.
At that time he was responsible for the enlargement of the internal market.
Returning to the report, I think that the most important result we have achieved is that by starting this European financing, we are better able to ensure the improved operation of the internal market and clean competition for each market player and interested party; also, we have managed to achieve this without creating too much bureaucracy or, God forbid, a new institution, which we are so keen on doing.
I personally like the approach of trying to increase the efficiency of the work of existing institutions that already operate efficiently, and making it available to everybody, using a relatively low amount of resources.
I would like to express my gratitude once more for the cooperation of all those with whom I have had the opportunity to work together in connection with this law, and my wish is that we will have many other laws like this, and that REACH, in particular, will follow along the same lines. &#160;&#160; . – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the mid-1980s, European standardisation has made it possible to achieve both the free movement of industrial products in the European Community and a high degree of protection for consumers and workers.
European standardisation complements key European policy objectives by establishing a consensus between economic operators, and has now managed to establish itself in approximately 20 industry sectors.
The catalogue of the three European standardisation bodies, CEN, CENELEC and ETSI, now numbers more than 15&#160;000 standards and other European specifications.
This standardisation work has often rendered detailed Community legislation in the areas concerned superfluous, and it is sometimes possible to avoid legislation altogether.
In addition to the internal market aspect, European standardisation has the potential to support a whole range of Community policy measures capable of increasing the competitiveness of European enterprises.
Despite this positive assessment, European standardisation and its institutional framework need to be improved and strengthened.
The provisions of the new Financial Regulation require the creation of a clear, complete, detailed legal basis for European standardisation.
All the actors involved deserve thanks for their constructive cooperation, particularly the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Pleštinská.
I shall be recommending that my group support the compromise reached, and am confident that agreement will be reached here as early as at first reading.
The aim of this directive is not to set up a new office, but to introduce a legal framework for systematically financing standardisation offices and agencies.
The offices for standardisation have very limited national budgets in the new Member States compared to Germany, France or the United Kingdom, and they must also carry the burden of translation costs.
This is because standards are incorporated everywhere into national law, but for the new Member States they are available only in English, German or French.
The rapporteur has, moreover, made some valuable additions to it which will, for example, assist small and medium-sized enterprises.
I would therefore like to thank Mrs&#160;Pleštinská.
I appreciate in particular the care and attention that has gone into the preparation of this report, and I would note that she has played an important role in the drafting of a well thought-out and non-controversial proposal that will serve the citizens of Europe well. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is already rather late, and my fellow Members have already made many good points.
Tomorrow’s vote is the result of an informal trialogue aimed at bringing the issue of the financing of European standardisation to a successful conclusion at first reading.
Frequent experience has shown that the economy, which is the main beneficiary from the harmonisation of the EU internal market, participates in these rules, and indisputably has urgent need of them, and therefore we MEPs must support this process.
European standardisation has an important role to play in removing technical barriers to trade, and thereby promoting the development of the European single market.
Technical standards replace detailed legislative provisions and simplify the rules, which will at the end of the day make the entire European economy more competitive.
Defining mandatory basic requirements will also ensure a high degree of protection for consumers, health and the environment.
Standardisation is indispensable in sectors such as health care, transport, telecommunications or electrical engineering.
In the health care sector, for instance, there are some 10&#160;000 different medical devices, and in this field European standards play an important regulatory role.
More than 80% of companies operating in this area are SMEs, which is why we appreciate the rapporteur’s efforts to ensure equal access to European standards for this group of players.
Since 1985, when the ‘new approach’ to European standards was adopted, more than 15&#160;000 standards have been issued.
The European Union, however, makes only a&#160;minor contribution to the overall financing of European standardisation, even though studies have shown that the benefits to the economy far outweigh the costs.
For this reason it is important for the EU to provide a sizeable portion of the finance for the entire system not just within the European Union, but also on an international level. &#160;&#160; – As the revised Lisbon Strategy makes clear, Community-wide rules underpinning a uniform understanding and implementation of technical standardisation constitute very important tools for creating and sustaining the conditions for policy implementation, and hence ensuring the competitiveness and constant sustainable development of the Community.
I&#160;remember how the new Member States recently had to rebuild their technical systems.
In Slovakia that meant revising more than 25&#160;000 technical standards, scrapping almost half of them and incorporating 15&#160;000 national standards into the remainder, all of which required a lot of investment.
In conclusion I&#160;would like to draw attention to the praiseworthy and constructive efforts of Mrs&#160;Pleštinska, who has succeeded in building a consensus over this important issue. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my particular thanks for the very constructive spirit that has characterised this debate, and for the consensus that has emerged from it.
It is a very modern instrument and, from a legal point of view, a very flexible one and the instrument of choice.
Indeed, the question should be asked – and here I refer to a remark by the rapporteur from the Committee on Budgets, with which I disagree – whether it is always necessary to bring in the legislative big guns – laws, in other words – straight away when we want to regulate something, or whether putting responsibility for technical standards in the hands of those who need them, and merely laying down a policy guideline stating that a rule is necessary, would perhaps take much greater account of our own society’s right to freedom.
I should like to announce to you once more this evening my political intent to use the experience we have gained with the New Approach over the last 20&#160;years to extend this modern instrument of European legislation to other fields of the internal market and to other policies, too. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30&#160;a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0136/2006) by Mrs&#160;Berès, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on appointment of an Executive Board Member of the European Central Bank (C6-0071/2006 – 2006/0801(CNS)). &#160;&#160; . – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament attaches a great deal of importance to the issue of the democratic control of the European Central Bank.
On behalf of all of the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I imagine, but also on behalf of the Commissioner, I should like, if I may, simply to deplore the fact that this debate is being held at such a late hour.
As rapporteur for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I must point out in this House that, following a vote within the ECOFIN Council, the candidate put forward by that body, whose appointment must be validated by the European Council, required a majority vote in order to be presented as the candidate supported by our Parliament.
In that consultation procedure, the profile expected of the candidate is one of possessing the necessary authority and professional experience in the finance or banking sector.
We looked into the selection procedure of members of the Executive Board and we therefore question the Council on two aspects of that procedure.
In any case, the issue of how members of the eurozone are represented on the Executive Board was raised by members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, while that of the size of the Executive Board was not, for its part, mentioned.
Our committee felt that, in the long run, the Council should be able to hold a genuine and open debate, with guidelines, on the profile that should be proposed by the Member State, which would have the opportunity to appoint a member by respecting the diversity of the member countries of the eurozone.
We believe that the European Parliament should have the right to a vote of approval, as the members of the Commission do.
I believe that all of the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, with the entire institution behind them, are open to dialogue with the Council, thanks to which we will have a better and totally satisfactory procedure in 2010. &#160;&#160; . – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;Stark, the Vice-President of the Deutsche Bundesbank, is a convincing candidate for the Executive Board of the European Central Bank.
He stands for a low rate of inflation, for a stable currency, for the Stability and Growth Pact – which is very important at this particular time, when Member States are finding it hard to make savings.
Speaking of the enlargement of the euro area, I should like to say that the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats warmly welcomes Commissioner&#160;Almunia’s decision today in this context.
I, too, should like to see a strengthening of Parliament, and wish to emphasise that Mr&#160;Stark stated explicitly that the role of Parliament is very important to him.
Diversity in educational backgrounds, work experience, age, gender and nationalities guarantees more sensitive, alert and creative cooperation than just adding more of the same sort of people.
I will not hide my criticism of this lack of dynamism in the development of monetary policy, although I agree that it is not only the ECB that should be addressed but also the political decision-makers, the Ecofin Council and the governments of Member States, which nowadays do not seem to be very inspired by macroeconomic coordination at European level that complements their common monetary policy.
But in this debate tonight we are not dealing with the policies of the ECB and the eurozone as such, but with the appointment of a new Bundesbanker to the Executive Board.
In my political group, the PSE, we are more interested in discussing the procedure leading to this appointment.
In the coordinators’ meeting following that committee meeting, we jointly agreed to write a letter to Mr Grasser, as well as starting a more fundamental debate about the nomination procedure, particularly the upgrading and reinforcement of the role of the European Parliament in such nomination procedures.
It is very important for the European Parliament to counterbalance what I see as a strong renationalisation and non-integrationist trend in the way Member States deal with these issues.
The issue of appointment is taken as an ‘A’ item in the Council debate and the European Parliament has a very limited role.
We hope that if we have the opportunity to present more proposals, the Commission, the Council and the ECB will ready to discuss with us a change in this appointment procedure.
But we hope to cooperate very well with any candidate put forward by Mr&#160;Radwan. &#160;&#160; . – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe welcomes the proposal to appoint Professor Jürgen Stark as a member of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank.
The report presented by Mrs&#160;Berès clearly expresses this positive assessment, and therefore has the support of our group.
At his hearing in committee on 18&#160;April, he then proved himself once more to be an excellent candidate for membership of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank.
The Chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Mrs&#160;Berès, has written a letter to the Austrian Council Presidency proposing procedural improvements, as she has just stated.
The ALDE Group expressly supports this proposal. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful to Mr&#160;Klinz for distinguishing so clearly between the assessment of the candidate himself and the procedure, because we must not give the impression that our demands and desires as regards the procedure interfere with our assessment of the man himself.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank the outgoing Executive Board Member Mr&#160;Issing once again for his work and constructive cooperation.
I would also ask that we refrain from sacrificing these facts, which are also set out in the report – committed European, competent expert, champion of the value of independence, advocate of prioritising price stability, firm conviction in monetary policy, openness with regard to the rights of Parliament, and commitment to stepping up the dialogue between the two institutions – to party political small-mindedness, because this attitude has no place in either the EU or the European Central Bank. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30&#160;a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0162/2006) by Mr&#160;Rosati, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on public finances in the EMU (2005/2166(INI)). &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, the state of public finances has a real influence on the rate of economic growth, employment and macroeconomic stability.
It is also an important indicator of the health of the common European currency.
This is why the Treaty on European Union clearly states that developments in the public finances of the Member States are of interest to the bodies of the Union, including the European Parliament.
Exercising its powers under the Treaty, the European Parliament has once again reviewed the state of public finances in the European Union and will adopt a report on the matter.
The main message behind this year’s report is the conclusion that public finances in the majority of the Member States are still not balanced and that this situation has not improved significantly since last year.
In effect, public debt has systematically grown in the last few years in relation to GDP and by the end of 2005 rose above 70% in the eurozone.
Since 2003, 11 European Union Member States have been running deficits in excess of 3% of GDP, and 10 countries have been subject to excessive deficit procedures.
This situation clearly shows that some Member States are experiencing considerable difficulties in restoring the balance of public finances.
This state of affairs also shows that the preventive and corrective procedures of the Stability and Growth Pact have not been very effective to date.
One of the main reasons for this unfortunate budgetary situation has been the persistently low rate of economic growth in Europe.
The policy hitherto implemented has not succeeded in changing this state of affairs.
The situation is made worse by insufficient coordination of tax policy in the eurozone.
One of the reasons behind the tendency towards stagnation in Europe is the insufficient progress of structural reform in many Member States, and especially a lack of action to increase the flexibility of the labour market, to promote professional activity, to remove barriers on the services market, to promote innovation and to support entrepreneurship.
Madam President, in the report we suggest a list of measures aimed at improving the state of public finances.
First of all, it is necessary to adhere strictly and rigorously to the tax regulations set out in the modified version of the Stability and Growth Pact.
We call on the European Commission to assess the likely effect of increased tax policy coordination on economic growth in the Union.
Finally, we recommend that measures be taken aimed at strengthening motivation for the implementation of tax reform by Member States, including the publication of reports on the dangers associated with a failure to balance public finances.
The European Parliament should send out a clear and unambiguous political signal on this matter.
The second comment that I should like to make relates to the particular subject of public deficits.
The report notes that the situation worsened in 2005 and attributes that to the incorrect application of the Stability and Growth Pact.
The stability and convergence programmes, which have been approved under the guidelines and parameters of the new Pact for the first time, show a qualitatively clear improvement in the Member States’ medium-term budget strategies, with greater attention to sustainability and a greater effort to improve the quality of public finances and to link budgetary and fiscal policies with the growth strategies included in the Lisbon Strategy and in the national growth plans.
Now that economic recovery is beginning, now that we have defined the Lisbon Strategy, and now that the 25 Member States have defined their priorities for structural reforms aimed at growth and employment, I believe – and here I share the view of this report – that we have a unique opportunity to close the door on a period of low growth, economic pessimism and lack of confidence among economic operators.
We have a unique opportunity in our hands to use Europe’s institutions and the European dimension to meet the people’s demands and aspirations. &#160;&#160; . – Madam&#160;President, I should like to start by giving my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Rosati, who, together with all the shadow rapporteurs and others, has been at pains to draw up a report on which a consensus can be achieved.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs supported this draft by an overwhelming majority – I would almost say unanimously.
Unfortunately, this idea is not popular with all European governments, who often lack the political will to make budgetary reforms.
They have to clearly observe the criteria laid down in the Stability and Growth Pact rather than repeatedly attempting to circumvent them.
European governments should not now view these criteria as a scourge or obstacle to their development, therefore, but as a sustainable path to a healthy economy.
Large budget deficits have an adverse effect on economic developments.
Our Amendment 7 tries, in fact, to remove this wording altogether from the text.
With regard to the statistics and prognoses, your remark that the content of the 2005 report has seemingly been superseded underlines once again how relative these prognoses and statistics are.
I would also like to stress this in the light of what you said today about Lithuania, a Member State that wants to join the eurozone and in respect of which comments can indeed be made if one considers the figures.
Only one figure matters, in fact, namely that of inflation, while many Member States would envy that country for its achievements in other areas of public finance.
We consider the recommendations that are issued to the euro group in a bid to improve the procedures another important element in this report.
I think we are well on our way in this respect, in the framework of the Lisbon Strategy to joining forces with national parliaments and to seeing how a number of public finance procedures in the Member States can be streamlined in terms of timing, but also in terms of assumptions that are made about the oil price development and other parameters that are important for the planning of policy.
I think that in this respect, there is much room for improvement in order to make this more predictable and more comparable in a European context.
Therefore we must determine reference points in the public finance policy which would help to reconcile the Member States' interests with the objectives of the Community.
Secondly, preparation of coordinated timetable of budgetary procedures of the EU Member States, preferably for at least two years.
The third priority should be the fostering of fiscal discipline, based on the best practices of the Member States.
Furthermore, the Stability and Growth Pact should be repealed and replaced with a proper social development and progress pact.
Without that trust, we will certainly continue to live in this atmosphere of pessimism arising from policies that do not address the problems currently facing people in the EU. &#160;&#160; Madam President, public finances have a huge impact on economic growth, the creation of new jobs and on macroeconomic stability.
The Maastricht Treaty clearly stated that the course followed by public finances in European Union Member States should be carefully monitored at European Union level.
The main and most pertinent point of this year’s report is the unbalanced budgetary positions in the majority of Member States.
The rate of economic growth in the European Union is significantly slower than its potential would suggest, and significantly slower than that of other global economic powers, such as the United States, Japan, China or India.
The reasons for this situation also lie in the low level of internal demand and uncertainty concerning job security, social protection, salaries and pensions.
The indicators show rising levels of debt which pose a real problem, especially in terms of long-term budget stability, across the whole of the Union.
Bearing all these problems in mind, I think that we should take decisive steps to increase the effectiveness of preventive measures, as well as implementing corrective measures to strengthen and consolidate public finances. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, paragraph&#160;11 of the report states the following: ‘Stresses that in the context of an EU with low consumer and investor confidence, it is vital to correct public deficits’.
Since the introduction of the euro, of the Maastricht criteria, of the Stability and Growth Pact, there is a public interest in a discussion on the structure of public finances, on the causes of the annual deficits, on the impact of public debt.
That is why I am pleased that the public debate has intensified and that we have thus contributed to making the structure of our budgets more future oriented. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, I shall begin by thanking the rapporteur for his contribution to our debates.
The first is the cyclical conditions that place a strain on the public finances of the European Union.
Given the rise in oil prices, this is an exogenous factor that we must take into account in our public finance strategies.
The second element is, for its part, practically exogenous with regard to our public finances: I am referring to the policy of the Central Bank and, in particular, to the policy of raising interest rates on which it has embarked.
The third element is undoubtedly more political, and is also an aspect that my political group holds dear, namely that the plea that some people make for structural reforms without accompanying it with a strategy for boosting growth is likely to fail, as there can be no structural reforms without genuine support for growth.
That is why I should like to point out two lines of action that I consider to be absolutely crucial.
The first line of action is an investment strategy to help genuinely implement the Lisbon Strategy.
From that perspective, I am surprised that my fellow Member, Mr&#160;Karas, can, on the one hand, speak in favour of an increase in the allocation for the Lisbon Strategy and, on the other, be getting ready to vote, tomorrow, in favour of the financial perspective as it is proposed to us in the compromise drawn up between our institutions.
The second line of action concerns the issue addressed by Mr&#160;Rosati at the end of his report with regard to the conditions for growth and coordination of economic policies within the eurozone.
I believe that we are on the right track, particularly with regard to the harmonisation of the timetable and of the macroeconomic data on the basis of which the Member States evaluate and draft their budgets.
That being said, we still have a great deal left to do and, to that end, I believe that work carried out between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament should make it possible in the coming months and weeks to come up with practical proposals that would enable the European Union to have a eurozone that is more in line with the kind of prospects for growth that we have a right to expect from having a single currency in our favour. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I take the floor in the debate on the report by Mr&#160;Rosati concerning public finances in order to draw your attention to the following issues.
Secondly, measures taken in this field by the European Union Member States are unfortunately not yielding satisfactory results, as is reflected in the falling rate of GDP growth from 2.4% in 2004 to 1.5% in 2005.
These indicators confirm that the European Union is not only failing to catch up with the United States and other developed countries, but is actually falling behind.
Here we should add that GDP growth in the United States stood at 3.5% in 2005 and was therefore more than twice as high as in the European Union.
Thirdly, a low level of economic growth and continuing high unemployment make significant reductions in budget deficit and public debt difficult.
In the European Union of 25, the budget deficit has fallen from 3% of GDP in 2003 to 2.6% of GDP in 2004 and from 3% to 2.7% in the eurozone.
However, public debt rose from 61.4% in 2002 to 64.1% in 2005.
Finally, the new Member States are implementing very difficult reforms based on fundamental changes to pensions systems.
In spite of moves from a budgetised system to a capitalised system, as has been the case in Poland, for example, the European Commission (Eurostat) wants to treat the contributions to this system as budgetary spending which increases the budget deficit.
It thus, in fact, wants to punish these countries for implementing far-reaching reforms of their public finance systems.
I would like to voice my strong objection to this manner of dealing with the difficult reforms being implemented in the new Member States, especially Poland. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, first of all, I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Rosati, because I think he has produced an excellent report, which takes on board contributions from the other political groups.
In my speech tonight, I should like to focus on the relationship between public deficit and economic growth.
The Commissioner has provided us with more up-to-date information.
Despite that, I would dare to regard the European Union public deficit situation as worrying: 2.4% on average is better than 2.9%, but it is still worrying.
The report begins by stressing that the EU’s main problem is weak economic growth, the persistently high level of unemployment and the inadequate use of the production capacity in place.
This, in my view, is a crucial message.
It is also true that neither the way in which the Stability and Growth Pact has been interpreted nor the opening of proceedings relating to excess deficit has been successful in preventing persistent imbalances in the public finances of the major European economies.
The early shoots of growth have emerged in spite of, rather than because of, the Pact.
Public and private investment must be increased in the fields of innovation, education and the development of new skills and technologies, in accordance with the Lisbon Strategy.
Intergovernmental cooperation and the coordination of economic policies at EU level are key factors and are currently not being sufficiently exploited.
It is also regrettable that this priority of growth has not been sufficiently reflected either in the interpretation, as mentioned in the Pact, or, more importantly, in the financial perspective that we are supposed to be adopting tomorrow.
I feel that these are the two key messages to take from the report before us today. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful to be given the floor once more this evening, at an hour when, in fact, the debate is drawing to a close.
In my view, the report by Mr&#160;Rosati on public finances in Economic and Monetary Union is an extremely important one, as it rightly draws public attention to the fact that, in the present situation, the Member States are responsible for EU finances and also for the resulting debt for future generations.
The rapporteur is right to address his appeal to the Member States.
The development of Germany’s economy will thus give the EU as a whole new momentum – or at least that is my hope.
I should like to refer once more to the report by Mr&#160;García-Margallo&#160;y&#160;Marfil, which considered the state of the European economy during the last part-session, with Parliament’s concern being the development of an intelligent growth strategy for Europe.
Despite the rise in oil prices, inflation remains stable, and even consumption in the EU is at a level that could certainly be called acceptable.
I congratulate Mr&#160;Rosati, because his report identifies the main problems with public finances and provides valuable guidelines for treating them and improving their future course.
Until then, the public debt ratio had done nothing but rise ever since the euro had been brought into circulation.
There are still five members of the euro zone subject to the excessive deficit procedure and, indeed, growth in the European economy is lower than in the most advanced countries.
Defining medium-term budgetary objectives, while taking into account each country’s situation, its cyclical conditions and sustainability status, provides a more consistent fiscal environment and better incentives for structural reforms to raise growth potential.
It is also necessary to use a cyclically adjusted budget concept, as the rapporteur proposes.
I believe there is quite a considerable level of agreement and consensus on the diagnosis and on the main guidelines as to what the European institutions’ response should be, so that public finances and good fiscal and budgetary policies can help to produce more growth and jobs and more effectively meet European citizens’ demands.
Indeed, in recent months there has been a significant improvement in confidence and optimism among economic operators and also among European consumers.
We are now in the process of trying to convert this confidence and optimism into real evidence of an upturn in the economic situation, with more consumption, more jobs and more economic growth.
The European economy by itself, without further reforms, is incapable of growing any more than the figures that we are estimating for 2006, namely slightly more than 2%.
When we find that we have the answer to the question of what to do in this situation, we have a relatively strong consensus: good fiscal and budgetary policies, which are not pro-cyclic, which are anti-cyclic, which improve the quality of revenue and expenditure, and which contribute better to growth and skills enhancement; better operation of the internal market; use of our enormous potential as a market of 450 million consumers; and, as we have all mentioned, the need for better coordination.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30&#160;a.m. &#160;&#160; One of the problems with EMU is that there is no control by the financial market of the way in which Member States conduct their economic policies.
My view may be summarised in three points.
Secondly, new countries that have public debts in relation to GNP more than 60% in excess of GNP should not be approved.
Thirdly, a proportion of new countries’ state borrowing should compulsorily be from the long dollar market, involving for example ten-year bonds.
