We should complement our reactive policy to short- and medium-term challenges with a more long-term strategic approach and definition of European interests in the long term, by addressing the true causes and not only the effects of some changes around us like Darfur, which is both a climate and a conflict situation.
We have also carried out operations that we can declare successful, such as the missions in the area of the rule of law in Georgia and other similar missions.
In addition, there are new developments that we must consider as we reflect further on the Security Strategy.
I was in Islamabad not long ago and I would like to report on that trip, if the sitting allows me the time.
I think that there are many excellent points in these reports on how we can strengthen the European Union's overall impact around the world, in line with our values, in line with our interests.
As you know, I have a mandate as High Representative in Office from Declaration 15 of the Treaty to carry out preparatory work with the Commission and with the Member States.
December 2008 will be the fifth anniversary of the ESS.
On the key threats that the strategy contemplates, I think those identified in 2003 were the right ones.
Let me say a word also about the ESDP, which the rapporteur mentioned.
Over the last five years - and it is good to recognise that - we have deployed more than 15 missions - in fact 17.
As you know there are still elements to be resolved in the Western Balkans.
In Kosovo, as you know, by 15 June the global package of laws, including the constitution that was promised from the day of the independence of Kosovo, will be operational.
I should report to you in addition on the situation in Lebanon, where important events have also recently taken place.
For EU foreign policy to be effective, all Member States must summon the necessary political will to support the European Union's common interests.
I expect that these points will also be accepted by the European Council in December 2008.
The overall development and therefore the global influence of the European Union depend on optimal use of all its resources and instruments.
The Commission is of the opinion that we should pool our energies.
That is what the people of Europe - and also the international community - expect from us.
Despite considerable progress, Europe still has a long way to go before, as an economic giant but a political dwarf, it can become a global political power punching at its economic weight.
As Mr Saryusz-Wolski indicated in his excellent report, Europe's role in the world is still far from reaching its true potential.
Ladies and gentlemen, we want a credible defence for Europe, not so that we can go to war, naturally, but so that we can ensure peace and more importantly help the world's poorest.
The collaboration between the Council and Parliament has not always been easy when it comes to these matters.
The Council has not always been open and transparent enough for our liking, but our relations have progressed a great deal nonetheless.
In terms of the implementation of the European Security Strategy, our group calls on the High Representative to publish a White Paper in order to assess the strategy introduced in 2003.
The first - and we have already discussed it today in our group, as Mr Schulz has already mentioned - is the question of energy security and common energy policy.
This is also an important region, in which we must do a great deal, particularly in our own interests.
Obviously, we support this, in connection with this report and will discuss it further in connection with the Brok report, so that our common neighbours in the east and the south become co-advisers, involved with us in managing and implementing the European goals.
There is a lot of discussion about it and we will also produce a report on it, but let me make one thing clear: we need a diplomatic service that is viable and is acceptable to the Commission, the Council and the Member States, one that is efficient and can really take its political responsibility seriously, including its responsibility to this Parliament.
We shall of course make use of every possibility offered by the Treaty of Lisbon in order to continue playing our role to the full.
I believe we are making a mistake in this and therefore we will also be submitting an amendment.
The work that we do, and what we have achieved and built in the European Union since 1958, has proven that acting collectively, cooperating with tolerance and understanding of different points of view is a far greater power and tool than any weapons we can put at our disposal.
That is an essential reason why we are against the Lisbon Treaty and I would like to point out that it has not yet been ratified and that I am hoping for a 'no' in Ireland on 12 June.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, both of these reports assume that the Lisbon Treaty/European Constitution will be ratified, despite the fact that the result of the Irish referendum will not be known until 12 June.
The only people in Europe being allowed a say on this are the Irish in their referendum of 12 June.
I think the cooperation you mentioned between civilians and the military is fundamental.
We are in the business of crisis management and not in any other business.
Therefore, we have to work in both directions, with capabilities but also with political will.
The construction of political will is something that everybody in this beautiful building has to work on, together with the other institutions of the European Union.
Marie Colvin is one of my friends and I have written some of those pieces with her.
For example many of you have mentioned the question of energy security - which is important - and the question of the consequences of climate change in all its dimensions, the question of how to tackle the responsibility that we have with disasters that are natural and not manmade, for which we have resources and capabilities that have been put in place to combat such dramatic events.
I would like to say a few words to my dear friend, Brian Crowley.
I would like to thank you, Mr President, and all the parliamentary groups and I hope very much that in the time we have ahead of us, as we approach the end of the year 2008, we will be able to work constructively towards making the dream of so many citizens of the European Union a reality - the implementation of the Treaty in order to have a Europe that has a presence in the international community, in the world, that is proportional to our ideas, our principles, our capabilities and our standard of living. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Solana, I would first like to thank Mr Kuhne for his report and for the way he went about it, which meant that we were able to achieve unity on almost all points.
With regard to this broad agenda, it is also important that, thanks to the Treaty of Lisbon - and let us hope and pray that, on 12 June, Ireland will vote in favour of this Treaty, which is what we are assuming - the European Union will be able to work with a broad agenda, because the new High Representative, who must be called as such because of my own country, will also be Vice-President of the European Commission and will therefore coordinate this broad agenda effectively.
