Mr President, there have been further developments regarding the report on the 1997 discharge.
It was the first discharge after the fall of the Santer Commission and thus the first opportunity for this Parliament to have a say in the European Commission' s reform policy.
Since then, Parliament has made its views heard on a regular basis, notably in the excellent reports by Mr van Hulten and Mr Pomés Ruiz.
One section of the discharge which this Parliament has every reason to be proud, is that concerning the hospital in Gaza.
In 1996, this project, which is subsidised by the European Union, was 97% complete.
If this Parliament had not made it so clear that enough was enough, I am convinced that the hospital would still be empty now.
This Parliament will monitor the follow-up of all reports brought by the Commission.
Mr President, the van der Laan report gives a clear overview of the measures which the European Commission has taken further to observations made by Parliament in the context of the 1997 discharge.
However, I would like to point out - and that is also mentioned in the report - that although some progress has been made in five areas, they have a long way to go yet.
This applies to the closure of accounts, improving institutional management and control problems, the technical assistance offices and the fight against fraud and corruption.
We shall be following her lead in not supporting the amendments tabled because we want to keep to that clear-cut approach.
Another Court of Auditors' report on external aid has come out very recently and we shall be looking at that in the future.
Once again, I thank the rapporteur and congratulate her on a job well done.
Mr President, in her report, rapporteur Mrs van der Laan looks at the progress which the Commission has made over the past year with regard to following recommendations set out in the report on the 1997 discharge.
Mrs van der Laan devotes much thought to the aid to the Palestinian regions and displays an astonishing degree of faith in the decisiveness of the European Union' s delegation in the process.
European aid must serve peace.
It is truly alarming when we put in excess of EUR 70 billion to one side, which inflates the budget and is then unavailable for other tasks that the EU has set itself.
Only, the corresponding provisions of Articles 73 and 74 of the Financial Regulation have never actually been applied in a single case yet.
It is this very issue, an absolutely crucial one, that the consultation paper on the reform of the disciplinary procedure put forward by Vice-President Kinnock on 29 November, ignores, and it postpones a response until a later date.
This House has repeatedly and clearly opposed this and called for an external chamber for budgetary discipline to be established at the European Court of Auditors or Court of Justice, which should be called in whenever the financial accountability of officials is at issue.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are discussing the follow-up measures to the 1997 budgetary discharge at the beginning of the year 2001, is, to my mind, rather anachronistic in procedural terms, given that the 1998 discharge procedure was concluded more than six months ago and the parliamentary committee responsible is already working on the discharge for 1999.
The same goes for our demand that Parliament, as a discharge authority, should be given at least the same amount of access to the Commission as the Court of Auditors.
After all, the duty to provide information is clearly Treaty-based, i.e.
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report, and to express my utter admiration for the way in which she completed the task, the skill with which she handled the matter, without getting carried away by the excesses which are always possible in the matter of discharge, as we have already seen.
I think that Parliament must focus especially on this aspect during this term of office.
Discharge for 1997 was a rather special case, coinciding as it did with an extremely difficult time for the Commission.
I think the report, and the way it has been settled, and the way I should like to see it definitively settled without it forcing us to take another turn around the discharge procedure, will enable us to look to the future, taking as our model, to some extent, this discharge which is the fruit of lengthy deliberation by Parliament and which has given rise to certain responses from the Commission.
You have ascertained that in most areas that were central to the 1997 budgetary discharge procedure the measures taken by the Commission merit approval because we are heading in the right direction.
I would again draw attention to the fact that, before Christmas, the Commission adopted a proposal that is now undergoing the consultation procedure between the institutions and will be forwarded to Parliament in February.
The key figures are as follows: it should be possible for 600 people to participate in the early retirement scheme.
However, owing to budgetary neutrality there are to be only 248 new appointments.
It is conditional on the official being at least 50 years of age and having been in service for at least ten years.
In its January report, Parliament proposed that an external chamber for budgetary discipline should be set up within the European Court of Justice or Court of Auditors.
I think I should just run through the reasons again - which my colleague Neil Kinnock has outlined in great detail - as to why the Commission has distanced itself from this proposal.
The Commission would also point out that, in all international organisations, it is the institutions themselves that are responsible for disciplining their staff.
Many thanks, Commissioner.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
The Community budget comes, in part, from the traditional own resources raised by the Member States' customs services and therefore the principal role of Community legislation on guarantees and securities is to protect the financial interests of the Community.
The Garriga Polledo report deals with cases under Member State responsibility in which a failure to enforce Community legislation on securities and guarantees harms the Community' s interests.
If these rules were observed, the pertinent financial interests would be fully protected.
The data on these securities and guarantees, which are clearly identified in accounting and legal terms, certainly exists in the customs accounting departments of Member States, but there are no procedures to enable it to be collated and known at Community level.
I must stress the need for the New Computerised Transit System (NCTS) to come into operation soon in all the Member States and the countries associated with the common transit system.
To solve the problem of the high level of undischarged transit operations, we should emphasise the importance of operational measures and, again, the need for swift development of this new system.
Fifthly, the large number of cases reported by the Court of Auditors in which the amounts owed to the Community budget have not been paid or received with the relevant late payment interest.
To conclude, Mr President, I want to stress that the Commission must study the various problems raised and, in particular, review the computer system in order to take into account the interest owed in this respect to the Community budget by the Member States.
Mr President, I want to acknowledge the important role of the Court of Auditors in preparing these reports.
I am dealing with four reports relating to the dairy sector, the cereals sector and swine fever involving total spending of approximately EUR 16 billion, which is a considerable proportion of the budget.
We can also acknowledge that the Court of Auditors plays a role in assisting the Commission to identify weaknesses in its administration and difficulties which it may not have observed in the way Member States implement our various schemes.
The Court of Auditors, in this particular report, has drawn attention to the weaknesses in the basic regulations, weaknesses which make it difficult for the Commission and indeed even the Member States to effectively control spending.
In the special report on the reform of the cereals sector, the Court of Auditors has drawn attention to the question of whether or not the policy itself attains its economic and social objectives.
This identifies the weaknesses in the policies where we have a quota system and at the same time require vast Community resources to subsidise surpluses.
The report also draws attention to the fact, and Parliament notes this, that something like 40% of all the EUR 14 billion spent in the cereals sector goes to 3% of farmers, and 54% of farmers only get approximately 5% of the aid.
We should also say in relation to the cereals sector or to the dairy sector that we have noted that the Commission has undertaken a root and branch review of the policy and has already set that study in motion.
I want to thank the Commission for its cooperation and the fact that it has already taken action on some of the weaknesses identified in the various reports.
Mr President, since the end of December 1995, when the Dayton peace accords were concluded, the European Union has contributed to peace in a major way.
The Court of Auditors' Special Report which is before us, is the third in a series.
There have already been reports on the situation in Mostar, and a second report dealt with the reconstruction in former Yugoslavia.
I believe that these special reports, together with the report which is now before us, have consistently made us as a European Parliament sit up and face the facts, and also try to act upon these reports in an effective manner.
Ladies and gentlemen, the task of budgetary control cannot be carried out from a little office in Brussels or an office in Strasbourg.
They learnt a lot from their visit, and I visited the place myself between 16 and 19 October of last year.
I would like to stress here that the people in the delegation in Sarajevo are better organised, highly qualified and highly motivated.
Thanks to the Court of Auditors' report and the action taken by Parliament, there is now a new mentality in the Office of the High Representative.
It is indeed the case that, since March 1999, there has been a new financial director who has written a veritable tome on the rules to be followed.
Moreover, one of the key criticisms directed at the High Representative was also in the shape of Paragraph 17 on the conflict of interests generated by the former financial director.
Parliament, at least in the resolution now before us, is asking for a full explanation in this regard.
I have to let you know that I have now received a document from the High Representative, and from the Commission, and that the key criticisms have been addressed in this document.
I believe we should make more funds available to those people, but in terms of human rights, we are still waiting for responses from the Commission with regard to Paragraphs 29 and 35.
A final - important - point I would like to make is the recurring theme of the media policy.
From this point of view I should like to thank Commissioner Schreyer for attending.
I hope that, through her, the managers responsible more specifically for the administration of the Structural Funds, both in the Commission and in the Member States, will be made aware of the content of our report and of our conclusions, since this matter concerns the Structural Funds, which, as we know, are generally managed by the Member States directly.
So, to the four distinct reports: one report on the principle of additionality, one report on the development of industrial sites, a third report from the Court of Auditors on the European Social Fund and the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (Guidance Section) - Measures to assist the employment of young persons, and a fourth report on the International Fund for Ireland and the Special Support Programme for Peace and Reconciliation.
It must be said that the same criticisms are also made of Member States.
I hope that Parliament, which has always believed in the myth of the zero growth of officials despite the multiplication in their duties, will accept the Commission' s proposals and objectives and will also step up its monitoring tasks and its role.
The final criticism that may be made concerns the delays in payments, a recurrent problem which the Commission does not appear to be capable of resolving or putting a stop to.
Secondly, a major criticism that I would like us to emphasise in our dealing with the Member States is the poor use of appropriations, often due to a lack of cooperation between the Member States and the Commission, and the reluctance of the Member States to make better use of the funds.
The Member States should not forget that these are public funds and, as such, the concern of all the citizens of Europe.
In order to remedy such inefficiencies, a new regulation was adopted in June 1999, which I hope will enable us to make progress.
This would prevent the funding of projects that were not viable and the 'rag-bag' projects that are often seen in the Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the European Union is making considerable resources available for the reconstruction of democracy in Bosnia and Herzegovina and for its consolidation fully justifies the seriousness with which we are now addressing the motion for a resolution on Special Report No 2/2000 of the Court of Auditors.
I say this because it was only at the beginning of 2000 that the Court was able to complete and approve its report on Community aid granted between 1996 and 1998, in other words, between four and two years previously.
The obvious consequence of this regrettable delay is that many of the observations in the report are out of date, since, in the meantime, major changes have taken place in the legal framework and the political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In the first case, one problem that stands out is the inadequacy of support for actions designed to protect human rights, support for civil society and support for the media.
The difficult environment in which the Funds have had to operate, their role as a pump primer, the approach in giving priority to disadvantaged areas and the unique role in pioneering the joint management and delivery of cross-border programmes have all been given the recognition they deserve.
I understand that the International Fund for Ireland has produced a comprehensive response to the issues raised in the Court of Auditors' report, which can be made available to Members.
That response includes a number of specific actions that the Fund is taking to address matters raised in the report.
The Fund is, in fact, an international organisation with its own governing body, rules, audit procedures and so on.
Furthermore, the European Union is just one of five donors involved in its financing.
The European Union's annual contribution constitutes 35% of the total.
The International Fund for Ireland was established by the British and Irish Governments in 1986 with the objective of promoting economic and social advance and encouraging contact, dialogue and reconciliation between the Unionists and Nationalists throughout Ireland.
I am certain that the interest evinced by us and the critical spirit which exists cannot but lead in the right direction and, if you like, we can take the results of the practices applied to this sort of cofinancing and adapt them in other directions.
Mr President, I would like to start by giving my thanks to the Court of Auditors for its very useful report this time on a range of issues.
We were very critical of it at the time of the annual report but I think these special reports are very valuable.
Certainly, in my country, this is one of the areas where the European Union can visibly claim to be making a difference, and there is a recognition that Structural Funds and the attempt to increase wealth, and improve social conditions and employment rates in an area give a positive image of the EU.
In the case of additionality, we must remember that European Funds are intended not to finance but to cofinance operations and must not take the place of public expenditure by national authorities.
That is all very well, but even the new regulations only allow for assessment of additionality at a national level and not at a regional level.
On the issue of the development of industrial sites, the Commission should not wring its hands but say that this should only be seen as part of a wider policy to assist SMEs.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reports from the Court of Auditors have been given a whole new relevance by the current BSE crisis.
This is very clearly borne out by the McCartin report.
Not only is control called for, but also political co-determination for Parliament in all areas of the agricultural policy.
Even after the Nice Summit, it is clear that the Council is incapable of actually solving these problems, and so to conclude, I would like to stress once again, and this will be a matter of concern to the whole of Parliament, that Parliament needs full co-determination and codecision rights in agricultural policy.
Mr President, in the report of the Court of Auditors for 1999 we can read that Great Britain, Belgium and Holland have been huge net payers into the EU budget.
These three countries have rendered account in the budget of their customs duties, i.e.
Studies by both the Court of Auditors and OLAF have shown that there is major abuse associated with tobacco imports and transit traffic in particular.
From the Union' s point of view, we are talking about a project costing billions of euros.
Regarding the first of these reports, the French Members of our group cannot endorse its comments on butterfat, which challenge the Council decision to maintain guaranteed prices until 2005.
Similarly, we do not think that the fact that 92% of appropriations available in 1998 under the disposal measure "butter for non-profit organisations" was spent in just three Member States, none of which is among the poorest in the European Union, as the resolution points out, is worth including as a serious argument.
So, unless we are seeking, once again, to renationalise the common agricultural policy on the quiet, there could be no question of accepting this proposal.
Our group also notes the request for the OHR and the Commission to provide information detailing the reasons leading to this confusion of interests.
Commissioner, perhaps you could even use this receptiveness to new ideas, which you displayed in the delegation in Sarajevo, as an example for other delegations in other countries to follow.
Mr President, despite the resources that the Structural Funds have been devoting for years to furthering territorial balance in the European Union, the 25 richest regions still have a per capita income two and a half times higher than the poorest, and despite the many needs put forward by these least-favoured regions, not all the appropriations earmarked as development funds are actually used each year.
I believe we should think about the real causes behind this incomprehensible fact.
But it is also possible that what is happening is that from our more developed and more technocratic positions we are being too perfectionist and demanding, imposing too many regulations and conditions, and thus preventing and stifling the appearance of valid ideas in keeping with the level of development of the regions addressed by Community policies.
The Court of Auditors' report concludes that the Commission' s control over funds for the High Representative' s Office and the UN, for example, has not, by any means, been good enough.
The Court of Auditors proposes that, in future, the EU should give organisations such as the UN, the OSCE and the High Representative' s Office a sum of money which they can administer themselves.
At the same time, the Court of Auditors would like to see tighter control.
The issue of cooperation between the EU and the organisations will become part of the 1999 discharge.
The UN system is unfortunately becoming more and more bureaucratic, inefficient and corrupt so, in spite of everything, I have much more confidence in our own EU system.
Mr President, this debate covers ten special reports by the Court of Auditors on subjects of such varied kinds and importance that they range from a study of the principal of additionality in structural actions to a specific and thorough analysis of the Community cereals policy.
Between 1993 and 1997, overcompensation in the cereals sector amounted to over EUR 13 billion.
Every European citizen contributed more than EUR 37 to the cereals budget in 1997.
The Court of Auditors concluded from this analysis that the current system of support for farmers' incomes, which is based on factors such as price, yield or area farmed, needs to be replaced by a system based on a standard net income per farm household or working unit, with farm support only being triggered to make good any fall in that income.
The thorough political remodelling that has been applied to the structure of Germany' s federal government is a clear sign that, even at the heart of Europe, where this CAP was conceived and where it has always found its greatest support, it is becoming increasingly difficult to sustain an agricultural policy model that was designed to protect an industrial approach, based on large-scale farming.
We must come up with a rural policy geared towards regional needs and fairness between farmers if we are to preserve Europe's cultural heritage and the environment.
The measures to assist young farmers setting up in business are inadequate, since in far too many cases the target group exceeds the age limit on the date of receiving aid even though it was eligible at the moment of presenting an application.
Given the difficult situations experienced by a large number of these young people and the hardship faced by people working in that sector, a situation where some of them cannot receive European and national aid due to inaccuracies and delays is not acceptable.
As regards the measures to assist the employment of young persons, we would need a precise assessment before being able to consider the impact of this policy.
In conclusion, one of the major objectives of the European Union is to combat unemployment, which is a priority of the Member States but also of the Commission.
I would advise other regions with serious problems of unemployment to study the work of the International Fund in Northern Ireland and the border counties.
For example, it has funded some 4 600 projects, creating 38 000 jobs, and almost 90% of these jobs are in areas of high unemployment and in deprived areas.
Some 9 000 people from cross-community groups have been involved in these projects for creating jobs in Northern Ireland and some 5 000 people have been involved in the cross-border projects.
At grass-roots level in Northern Ireland it too is bringing together people from both sections of our community, in particular with projects for young people - young men and women.
There are shared-city initiatives to promote community; there is development and training for unemployed women - I am just singling out some of the very successful operations that are going on - the development of the food industry and, of course, the new housing development.
I should like to express my deep gratitude to all my colleagues in this Parliament for their unanimous support for this peace project because it is making such a very positive contribution to the development of peace in my country.
As was pointed out previously, the EU makes a major contribution together with the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.
There will certainly be a great deal to do in that area.
EUR 14 billion is raised annually in customs duties, for the purpose of financing the EU budget, and a substantial proportion of this amount is accounted for by securities and guarantees.
Over the last few years, the Commission has endeavoured to substantially improve the legal provisions in this area.
Parliament initiated a great deal in this area through its committee of inquiry, which produced some very practical results that are now being worked on by the Commission.
There are two ongoing sets of infringement proceedings against Germany relating to the consequences of impropriety in respect of customs procedures, and the question as to whether this should attract interest payments, and consideration is being given to invoking similar proceedings against Austria, Belgium and Denmark.
It ought to be the Finance Ministers' first priority to want to change a system of this kind.
I will now turn now to the extremely important report on agriculture by Mr McCartin.
I would like to express my gratitude for these reports.
The criticism raised in the Special Report prompted the Commission to improve on and simplify four aspects relating to skimmed milk.
This was a necessary measure though, because the vehemence of the Court of Auditor' s criticism on this point meant that steps had to be taken.
In the motion for a resolution, Parliament, and yourself, Mr McCartin, call for direct payments to be differentiated, in a bid to redress the currently uneven distribution of incomes between prosperous and less prosperous regions, but also between large and small farms.
You also address the important issue of cofinancing of direct aid in the report.
In the period from 1996 to 1998, which is the period the Court of Auditor' s Special Report relates to, the Commission - and you acknowledged this - operated under extremely difficult political conditions on the ground.
You mention the extraordinary circumstances, particularly with regard to the financing of the open broadcasting network.
On the subject of the repatriation of refugees and the construction of housing in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which also features in the report: the Commission was able, with the aid of projects financed by the PHARE and OBNOVA programmes, to achieve similar successes where rehousing is concerned to those of other donors.
A criticism was raised in the 1999 Annual Report to the effect that there were shortcomings with regard to the repatriation of refugees, but this situation has now improved.
The structural funds regulation of June 1999 now includes new provisions regarding the principle of the additionality of measures, which will hopefully help to ensure that, in future, there will be no more cause for the kind of criticism raised by the Court of Auditors about the previous support period, and the criteria will be clearer.
I have this to say about the Court of Auditor' s report on industrial areas: one of the key aspects of the 1999 reform of the structural funds has been the strengthening of the monitoring and assessment instruments, which will enable us to establish more effectively where the money goes to.
The regulations now provide for a clearer distribution of responsibility between the Commission and the Member States.
Parliament has expressed its profound concern at the often slow-moving materialisation of the PEACE programme in Northern Ireland and has called for a transparent budget.
As the Court of Auditors report shows, it was still able, in the end, to play a part in supporting the peace and reconciliation process in Northern Ireland.
Mr President, I would firstly like to acknowledge the work that the Court of Auditors did in producing the report that my report is based on which contained lots of detailed work.
I would also like to thank the services of our committee which helped me a very great deal and indeed the ECB itself which kindly entertained me in Frankfurt for a day and told me where my report was going wrong.
The president was still the same person and 402 of the 407 staff that were working in the EMI changed also to the ECB.
The European Central Bank replied to the report, but its replies were certainly short, I would say 'terse' , and the Court of Auditors found them quite inadequate since they did not give any indications of actions that the ECB intended to take to remedy the shortcomings exposed by the Court of Auditors' report.
There are equally two areas in which Parliament, and in particular the Committee on Budgetary Control, took a great interest.
The Committee was obviously interested in the Bank's relationship with OLAF, and this is summarised in my report's Conclusion 4 which, if will allow me, I will read.
However, I am sure these problems will not occur in future.
I am responsible for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs' opinion on this matter, and our conclusions are simple and succinct.
Today, if the truth be told, quite a few of our partners are not overly keen on the euro.
The debate is closed.
There are at least 16 million businesses within the EU, 99.9% of them are micro to medium-sized.
There are 100 million people working in the EU in the private sector and, of these, 32 million people work in micro-businesses, which is businesses of less than 10 people; 33 million people work in small to medium enterprises, with less than 249 people.
So a total of 65 million workers in the EU are in the small and medium sector, which shows that it is very important for us to be discussing the growth of such a sector.
In particular, it is absolutely right that this specific initiative - growth and employment - should be discussed within the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, although it is clearly also of interest to other committees.
However, there are some controversial elements in the report, essentially because of the Commission timetable in issuing its report.
It shows that whereas the initial draft proposal from the Commission came out in November/December 1999, it literally took a full five months before the report came before Parliament.
I speak not only on behalf of this report but also, I am sure, of other reports that need to go through the same system.
There are too many managers involved and, as a result, the project ends up not being fully managed.
Finally, I have made a few comments about the European Investment Bank taking a controlling interest in the EIF.
In conclusion, may I say that the Commission has apparently already written the draft report for the year 2000.
Here we are in January 2001 debating and voting on a report that was issued back in 1999.
We therefore endorse the rapporteur' s conclusions, particularly his comments on delays, which should be avoided in future.
The Committee on Industry perhaps emphasised to a greater extent the importance of SMEs for employment, the need to facilitate access to risk capital, the need to simplify bureaucratic and administrative procedures and regarding improving the coordination between the various Commission programmes of interest to small and medium-sized enterprises.
We therefore tabled a number of amendments and, as the rapporteur has just explained, due to an unfortunate combination of circumstances, the rapporteur did not receive the amendments in time.
The SMEs feel the effectiveness of union-wide initiatives for growth and employment, which are designed to underpin the measures introduced by the Member States.
One of the first things to come out of this programme is that EUR 450 million is to be made available for growth-orientated SMEs.
We need clarification on which of the three facilities - start-up capital, guarantees, or joint ventures - have achieved the best results, in which States and which sectors companies were set up, whether the small enterprises had access to foreign capital too, or whether statements originating from SME circles are correct, according to which, more than 50 000 new jobs were created simply by means of interest subsidies to the value of EUR 100 million, which age groups are especially required, and to what extent women were involved.
Mr President, let us seize on the initiative emanating from Mr Bushill-Matthews' excellent report.
The more detailed the information, the sooner confidence in EU initiatives will grow.
Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I very much support this report and in particular the initiatives behind the ETF Start-up Facility and the Small and Medium-Sized Enterprise Guarantee Facility.
I am sure there is a shared opinion across this House of how important small businesses are.
In my own country, the United Kingdom, the small business population has actually increased in size by one half since 1980 and there is now one small business for every 13 adults in the population.
Small businesses are important not just for jobs but also for trade in this European Union.
I would have liked to see more on the social economy.
We in this European Union should follow that lead and ensure that every Directorate-General, every service of the European Union puts small businesses first.
We cannot, of course, get away from the fact that, in general, there is less willingness to take risks in the EU than in the United States, something which is reflected in less dynamic new business development.
I therefore also think it is important to ensure that these programmes which, through the European Investment Bank, provide small and medium-sized enterprises with new financing opportunities operate as efficiently as possible in the eyes of the enterprises concerned.
The growth and environmental initiative has not received any more funds.
In many cases, these SMEs are not dealt with directly; instead the application procedure is handled by middlemen, usually traditional risk capital and investment funds, which receive the credits and guarantees from the EIB, and which the SMEs have to go to with any complaints.
That is why hitherto, when assessing the effect these programmes have on employment, rather than providing concrete figures, the EIB has performed a simple macroeconomic model estimate.
More detailed information will be available on the outcome of the whole exercise in 5 to 10 years' time.
Rumour has it that essentially, the ASAP serves to strengthen the European risk capital market for information and communication, genetic engineering and starting up new businesses, and that the job creation aspect is not actually examined in greater detail or assessed.
Secondly, the strategic importance of small and medium-sized enterprises in this area is quite clear and crucial, as was stated in the definition of the initiative for greater employment, which was strengthened recently by the guidelines laid down at the Lisbon Summit.
If we are to fulfil our responsibilities in this area, we must have good information in good time.
I agree with the rapporteur' s criticisms and I also call for the draft 2000 report to be submitted to us in time, by March of this year, otherwise the harsh criticism that we have refrained from making this year will have to be made with even greater severity next year.
In conclusion, I think that we must improve our commitment: I agree with the rapporteur when he advocates that our interest in high technology and knowledge-based industries must not mean that we forget the more traditionally structured businesses involved in tourism, trade, crafts and in services in general.
I therefore find the assessment presented here of the effects of the programme on actual job creation particularly interesting.
The great majority of them are firms employing at most 10 employees.
Similarly, the aid programme should not be reserved for the large SMEs using or producing leading edge technology.
The traditional sector should also be able to benefit in full.
From this point of view, I support the programme of start-up facilities for smallSMEs.
There are plans to create a single European structure for risk capital investment funds operating in parallel with national structures.
Europe must, therefore, make it a priority to support businesses, create a favourable climate for their establishment and development, encourage research and, above all, encourage the leading sectors.
It is also of primary importance that the European Parliament succeeds in monitoring both the projects and the results made possible by European funding.
Although SMEs now employ two-thirds of the workforce in the whole of the European Union, there is still employment potential in the SME sector.
Support and venture capital while a company is being set up are enormously important for the creation of jobs, as, according to certain studies, SMEs use as much as 80% to 90% of venture capital market resources in taking on staff.
I fully agree with the rapporteur that the Commission should, in future, provide information more promptly on how this important initiative is progressing.
Small companies often work as subcontractors for our European mammoth organisations, and, as a result, the position of small businesses is more important than ever for competitiveness throughout Europe.
The very word BSE ought to inspire us to reflect on what kind of young enterprises we could establish in order better to guarantee food safety, carry out blood tests, develop treatments and so on.
I would also like to stress that it is important for young entrepreneurs to be given a commitment they can rely on as speedily as possible.
This initiative aims to provide financial assistance for innovative and job-creating small and medium-sized enterprises as a step towards the development of a business climate conducive to investment, innovation and entrepreneurship.
I would like to address the main points raised by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs' report prepared by Mr Bushill-Matthews.
On the other hand, feedback information from small and medium-sized enterprises concerning a given year is only available for all the instruments in the last quarter of the following year.
This leads us to the following point: streamlining the initiative is an objective shared by both Parliament and the Commission.
To be realistic, Parliament should not expect any substantial result before 2003 or 2004, although preliminary indications in particular from guarantee schemes might be available earlier.
Let me add as the Budget Commissioner, that the Commission has welcomed Parliament's decision for the 2001 budget to increase amounts for loans and grants available to SMEs.
This was an important signal to the small and medium-sized enterprises and an important step to achieve the aims of Lisbon to create a knowledge-based modern economy in the European Union.
The debate is closed.
It fascinates me not only because I am faced daily with problems which frontier workers experience when they live in one Member State and work in another, but also because the mechanics behind it are quite considerable, mechanics which have to be adjusted annually.
Mr President, neither the Member States nor the Commission have ever submitted any notes to Parliament on this matter.
The position of active frontier workers, but also that of post-active frontier workers is at stake here.
As far as Kohll-Decker is concerned, it applies to all people who live near the border.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Oomen-Ruijten for highlighting the situation faced by frontier workers in an own-initiative report from Parliament.
These are problems which cause the people to question the raison d' être of the European Union.
Those who look for a job over the border within the European internal market need legal certainty in a united Europe, particularly in the sphere of social legislation.
We MEPs from the border regions in the European Union call upon the Commission and the Council, to provide for more cross-border social justice.
The internal market must also be completed within the labour market if we want to make Europe an integrated whole.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Ria Oomen-Ruijten for the sound cooperation we enjoyed within the framework of this report.
We have often said that border regions are good barometers for European integration.
They often work in one country and live in another, and pay taxes in one country and their social contributions in another.
First of all, the Oomen-Ruijten report is right to breathe new life into the EP requirement on compulsory frontier effect reports on the part of the Member States in all legislative changes which pertain to social security and taxation, with compensation for frontier workers to balance out any drawbacks, a practice which, in fact, is already being implemented in some countries, albeit with some reluctance.
What I have noticed is that the regulation on social security, No 1408, also applies to workers who decide to move to the country of employment and actually live there.
I share many of her criticisms and frustrations about the scope, implementation and speed of change to Regulation 1408/71.
As a member of the Committee on Petitions, it is clear to me that there is a considerable and growing number of residents, including third-country nationals and frontier workers, for whom the current arrangements are not working satisfactorily.
It is also clear that as more countries integrate their taxation and social security systems, we need to take action to tackle the resulting anomalies, which can result in double payments.
However, the key issue is that Member States need to prove their commitment to free movement by tackling problems openly and in a spirit which favours residents of the European Union.
Thank you, Mrs Banotti, for looking after the interests of non-smokers.
Mr President, on a point of order.
I hope now that all Members and all members of staff observe the no-smoking areas across the whole of the European Parliament building.
Mr President, on a point of order.
Slight changes in the wording are also necessary in order to ensure consistency with Article 20 of the directive.
I myself advised against the amendment, because we are not out to score any additional points in this discharge, but if the Commission could confirm this, we could then all vote against the amendment with a clear conscience.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, Amendment No 5 to the draft directive on the reorganisation and winding up of credit institutions has received majority support.
Employees bear no responsibility in the difficulties of banks or credit institutions since they have had no part in taking decisions.
We voted against this recommendation which is concerned only with capitalist creditors, and not with the employees who do the work of running these credit institutions.
Sanders-ten Holte recommendation for second reading (A5-0375/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Sanders-ten Holte report.
Even in those countries, however, there is a tendency to cut back on the resources allocated to education and, more generally, to public services in favour of other budgetary expenditure, mainly aid and grants given to corporations or, rather, their owners.
If the resources allocated to education are not increased throughout the European Union, especially in those that have the lowest levels of funding, the European recommendation on quality of education will remain a pious hope. .
EU leaders in Portugal last year laid down a framework of proposals whereby training in the use of the Internet would be extended to all primary and secondary schools across the European Union.
Cooperation in the field of education has been a proven success within the European Union in recent years.
Currently, 18 countries participate in the Erasmus programme, including countries from Eastern and Central Europe.
While I welcome the proven success of the Erasmus initiative, I would recall that there is certainly room for improvement in the manner in which this scheme is administered now within the European Union.
I do not support a system of inequality between the levels of funding available to students from the various Member States participating in the Erasmus programme.
I would strongly urge the Education Ministers from within the EU to put in place a system which eliminates any element of inequality with regard to the administration of the Erasmus programme.
De Veyrac report (A5-0382/2000) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of Mrs de Veyrac' s report, not just because I feel it is very positive and thorough, but because we are going to have to devote a great deal more attention to this theme in future.
Mr President, I voted against this report.
We all know that our cultural and natural heritage risks being wiped out by activities which damage or destroy the urban and local fabric in which priceless examples of our cultural and natural heritage are to be found.
We could cite numerous other examples in connection with the destruction inflicted or which it is planned to inflict in order to stage the Olympic Games in Athens in 2004.
Not only does the European Union do nothing to check and deal with these incidents; on the contrary, it is the main advocate of this policy.
The Greek Government is repealing Article 24 of the Constitution as we speak, thereby abolishing what little legislative protection there was for forests and without the slightest objection on the part of the ÅU.
The ELDR Group considers that the de Veyrac report is a very important contribution to better protection of world cultural and natural heritage.
The ELDR amendments to the de Veyrac report reflect this position.
Therefore, to protect, preserve and promote our heritage, we must save our architecture, support our arts and craft industry, preserve and enhance the value of our countryside, but I would like to stress that we must not wrap it in cotton wool or exclude the cultural traditions and customs which are practised there.
Therefore, to come back to the report, it is, of course, important to protect the heritage of both the European Union and third countries, but it is equally important and vital to protect the heritage of our own countries and regions.
Since 1972, when the UNESCO General Conference adopted the Convention Concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, which has already been signed by 158 countries, including the 15 Member States of the European Union, 630 sites have been added to the world heritage list, 30% of which are in European Union countries (188), and of those 10 are in Portugal.
As the rapporteur highlighted, there is an imbalance between European countries and the rest of the world with regard to recognised natural and cultural sites, and therefore third countries must be supported and encouraged, in a wide-ranging approach, to add to the list of natural and cultural heritage, so that they can be afforded protection.
It is also important for Member States to comply with existing directives, and in particular the environmental impact assessment directive on assessing the impact of specific public and private projects on cultural and natural heritage, as the report states.
The de Veyrac report is a laudable contribution towards this.
Doorn report (A5-0351/2000) Mr President, I am sure you will listen carefully to my explanation of vote in support of this report.
I therefore stress that, in this operation of simplifying and streamlining Community legislation on the social security coordination sector - to which this report refers - we must bear in mind that it would be appropriate for workers who work in more than one State of the European Union to receive a single pension from a single pension office rather than part of it from one State, part of it from another State and part of it from yet another.
van der Laan report (A5-0397/2000) Mr President, I voted for the van der Laan report.
I was prompted to do so by the representatives of the Pensioners' Party in Israel - for the Knesset includes representatives of the Pensioners' Party in Israel - one of whom said to me: "I am glad you are helping the Palestinians.
Indeed, I sincerely hope that this issue will very soon be the subject of a genuine debate in Parliament.
I have voted in favour of the report and especially of Amendment No 1 from Mr van Dam.
Both the rapporteur and the ELDR Group share the sentiment expressed in Amendment No 1 regarding concern at the possible use made of EU financial support for inciting racial hatred amongst Palestinians against their Jewish neighbours.
The Budgetary Control Committee is strict in the remit of a discharge follow-up report to restrict itself to the contents of the original discharge resolution for the year in question.
We in the EU must respond to this problem as a matter of urgency.
I mention that because we use education and health programmes to combat cancer and the Anderstown News recently revealed the deep involvement of the IRA in illicit cigarette smuggling.
Mr President, I voted for this report but with great reservations.
Paragraphs 15 and 16 pave the way for introducing a single corpus juris in the EU and for harmonising criminal law and the administration of justice in the Member States.
Secondly, we are not in favour of harmonising criminal legislation and the administration of justice in the Member States.
What we do support is establishing the necessary instruments for combating fraud involving EU funds more effectively.
McCartin report (A5-0396/2000) Mr President, although I have mislaid my notes, I seem to remember that I voted against the McCartin report, which deals with agriculture and powdered milk.
This report is deeply contradictory in its assessment of various aspects of the CAP.
For example, the approach adopted in its reflects exclusively budgetary concerns, for example, when the report expresses satisfaction at the reform reducing institutional prices and surplus produce, and insists on a greater reduction of compensation payments, without even mentioning the consequences this will have for farmers' incomes.
The report also expresses satisfaction at the Commission' s decision to carry out a thorough assessment of the COM in milk, which closely reflects a Court of Auditors' opinion questioning the system of milk quotas and increases in these laid down in Agenda 2000, forgetting that, despite some unfairness in the allocation of quotas, such as that suffered by Portugal, this system still manages to guarantee a degree of protection as regards prices and incomes.
Nevertheless, I agree with the rapporteur when he raises a very important issue affecting the system of arable crops, which is the concentration of aid amongst major producers and in the most prosperous regions.
What is needed is an improvement in the situation of small producers, differentiating support according to the size of the farm.
Staes report (A5-0389/2000) President.
With regard to my declaration of vote on the Staes document, which concerns the Committee on Budgetary Control and, in particular, the way in which the aid to Bosnia and Herzegovina has been spent, I have to say that I have had a meeting with the representatives of the pensioners of that region.
Moreover, the rapporteur, a member of the Conservative Party, must work within his own party to secure support for his proposals in the House of Commons.
We shall not be voting in favour of the Staes report, despite the fact that it contains numerous accurate findings and proposals, because its general perception is bereft of any notion of resistance to the presence of imperialist forces and its only concern is how to embellish that presence so that it is easier for the people to swallow.
This in itself constitutes a valuable contribution to agricultural policy.
At the same time, we have to say that in many European countries the requirements for animal welfare are among the world' s most stringent.
For this reason alone, it would be desirable if a specific policy were set up for young farmers which is focused on the future.
In that sense, it would be desirable if both Commissioners Monti and Bolkestein were more critical in their assessment of this area in terms of competition.
Mr President, nobody can survive for one day without food; it is life requirement number one.
Heaton Harris report (A5-0395/2000) Mr President, the Heaton-Harris report, which I voted in favour of, is a report on the efficiency of the European Monetary Institute and therefore on the situation of the euro.
We learn therefore that "the European Central Bank has stated that it will not allow the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, to conduct internal investigations" and that "in its first report to Parliament, Council and Commission, the supervisory committee of OLAF called for legal proceedings to be brought against Community bodies that have not implemented Regulation 1073/99, before the end of 1999" and that "the Commission initiated legal proceedings at the European Court of Justice against the decision of 7 October 1999 of the European Central Bank regarding the non-application of Parliament and Council Regulation 1073/99" .
We believe that this whole issue is extremely important and we support the paragraph of the report which "regrets clear incompatibility between the public commitment assumed by the ECB in its 1999 annual report to establish close cooperation with OLAF and the decision by the ECB itself to prevent OLAF from carrying over internal investigations, pending the ruling by the European Court of Justice" .
Bushill-Matthews report (A5-0335/2000) Mr President, I could not fail to give an explanation of vote on my friend, Mr Bushill-Matthews' report, upon which I have already spoken during the debate.
From this point of view, the concern about small enterprises expressed in the parliamentary report is well-founded. 2.
We shall therefore be voting against the report in question and the relevant Commission proposal.
I can speak from personal experience, having spent 25 years commuting between Denmark and Sweden.
We have a habit in this House of lauding to the skies the issue of free movement of persons and, hence, of workers.
Yet, while there are still obstacles to this, particularly in terms of tax and social security, there are also other matters to be considered.
We must remind the Member States of their responsibilities and ask them to undertake a thorough evaluation of policies which result in upholding systems which have an adverse affect on the situation of frontier workers.
I think it only right that we in Parliament make efforts to reduce the problems experienced by frontier workers.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to make a few observations following on from this dossier.
It is good that we should not forget frontier workers and their problems.
Regulation 1408/71 concerns the coordination, and not the harmonisation, of social security arrangements, and it is important to make this clear.
I should also like to thank Parliament for the support given to the Commission's proposal to extend the scope of Regulation 1408/71 to third-country nationals, the proposal to modernise and simplify that regulation, and for the encouraging support given to the Eures network.
The Commission fully supports your concerns as regards the problems encountered by frontier workers.
First, on social security and the labour market, the report calls on the Commission, before the end of this year, to organise an international conference for the Member States and applicant countries concerning the position of frontier workers.
Such a conference could identify best practices and initiatives that could be launched both at Community and national level, and the European Parliament will be involved in its organisation.
On the idea of coordination provisions for supplementary pensions, I would remind you that the Commission has committed itself in its social policy agenda to propose in 2002 a directive on the transferability of supplementary pensions.
This initiative will complement the already existing directive in this field, which was adopted in 1998.
As the proposal will be based on Article 42 of the EC Treaty and rely on the codecision procedure for its adoption, Parliament will be fully involved.
Furthermore I can confirm that a study covering the extent and nature of frontier work is already planned to be carried out under the Eures auspices in 2001.
On the initiatives taken by social security agencies for closer cross-border cooperation in order to facilitate access to health-care benefits, I am very much in favour of such initiatives and can confirm that it is the intention of the Commission to encourage such initiatives and to promote exchanges of experience and best practices.
With regard to the follow-up of the Decker and Kohl judgments, there are important legal questions currently being debated in new cases before the Court.
On obstacles to the mobility of stagiaires, students, volunteers and researchers, the Commission has already taken the initiative and presented a proposal for a recommendation of the European Parliament and the Council on mobility within the Community for students, persons undergoing training, young volunteers, teachers and trainers.
On 9 November 2000 the Education Council adopted its common position on this proposal.
I wish to thank Parliament for its support on this matter and I hope that the final discussions will enable Parliament and the Council to adopt the recommendations shortly.
On the idea of a proposal for a directive on the introduction of frontier effect reports, whereby Member States would be required to test their legislation as to the effects for frontier workers, I should make it clear that it is already the Commission's task to ensure that all provisions of national legislation are compatible with the Treaty and the secondary legislation of Community law.
The Commission will certainly continue to use the powers laid down in Article 226 of the Treaty and to launch infringement proceedings against Member States when they violate Community law.
However, I understand that the suggested proposal for a directive aims to provide for a more general socio-economic impact assessment of the consequences of national legislation, that is in itself compatible with Community law but might cause further difficulties to frontier workers.
It seems to the Commission more appropriate to stimulate cross-border cooperation of the partners involved in the different regions and at Community level in order to prevent any negative consequences of national legislation on frontier workers.
Therefore, there is little chance of the Commission being able to secure successfully the adoption of measures by Member States, as requested in the report.
Thank you Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Environment directives The next item is the oral question (B5-0556/2000) by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy to the Commission, on the poor implementation of certain environmental directives (PCB/PCT, habitats, nitrates).
Putting it bluntly, we believe that the Council of Ministers, the Commission and the European Parliament are complicit in a deception of the public.
In fact, in all too many cases, environmental laws are ignored, targets are not met, reports are not sent in to the Commission on time and those countries which break the law go unpunished.
The purpose of this debate is to highlight what is going wrong and to try and do something about it.
We hope firstly that in the environmental action programme, which the world is eagerly awaiting, the Commission will key in adequate resources for following up what has happened to legislation.
There needs to be a much more honest debate secondly - nationally and at the European level - about the real possibility of achieving the environmental objectives set out in draft legislation.
And did the German Government, in fact, vote against that directive originally?
We were not demanding an EU inspectorate but simply that Member States should agree to bring their national inspectorates up to a common high standard.
This was thirteen years after the Commission received the first complaint about the dumping of that waste and no less than nineteen years after the directive concerned came into force.
It is absurd that a poor country should get itself into a situation of paying back money to Brussels, but equally absurd that the case should have taken so long.
Finally, let me say that we in Parliament are not daunted or diverted by the idea that the European Parliament should only be concerned with the adoption of legislation and not with its follow-up.
MEPs, as we will all know, are on the receiving end of public criticism of poor implementation.
The public tends to complain to us, not to the Environment Council.
I would remind all the Members of the European Parliament that implementation of European Community law covers both the transposition of directives into national law and their application to individual decisions.
The Commission, and not least the Environment DG are aware of these difficulties and have for some time devoted efforts to improve their performance in this field and I can assure you that next week when the Commission discusses the Sixth Environmental Action Programme the whole implementation issue will be a very important point in that programme.
We can develop tools to aid in the analysis and evaluation of progress in implementation.
Since 1997 specific initiatives have been pursued on a number of fronts including environmental liability, which of course will put pressure on the Member States to follow the existing rules and regulations; complaints and investigations procedures at national level where we have been involved in playing a consultancy role; access to justice, magistrates' training courses - also very important because this is also about education - and the publication of this annual survey on the implementation of environmental law.
All these initiatives are intended to increase the level of knowledge of and compliance with European Community and environmental law.
Of course, I acknowledge that there is still much to be done.
We have to look for new ways to encourage the proper transposition and application of environmental legislation.
For example, we need to work to improve the involvement of people at the local and regional level.
Greater public awareness at these levels would lead to closer scrutiny and to public demand for effective implementation of environmental legislation.
We must remain vigilant and active to ensure that the situation improves and I would like to confirm to the European Parliament my personal commitment and that of my services to ensuring the highest possible level of compliance with European Community environmental law.
To this end I will apply all means available, including the formal infringement procedures set out in Articles 226 and 228 of the European Community Treaty and 141 and 143 of the Euratom Treaty, which may lead to imposing economic penalties on non-complying Member States.
Today we have about 45 to 50 staff working full or part-time on implementation, and, of course, we would need more than that.
But I also think that it is for every civil servant here to actually look at the implementation part of introducing new legislation.
I hope that you will agree with me that we are starting to make progress on improving implementation and if both the Commission and the European Parliament continue their efforts to highlight the problem and act on it, further progress will surely be made during this parliamentary term.
The problem lies, on the one hand, in the slowness with which directives are transposed into national law and, on the other, in shortcomings in their implementation.
There is little point in our having approved the directive on habitats and the creation of the "Nature 2000" network in order to protect sites of Community importance, when the Commission has been waiting since 1995 for all the Member States to present a definitive list of these sites, as well as their plans, rules and management mechanisms.
The same problem applies to the directive on PCBs.
And there is little point in our having stipulated the ban on PCBs and the decontamination of all equipment containing PCBs and PCTs with a view to protecting public health, if five years on, the overwhelming majority of Member States have not only failed to implement the directive, but have also failed to take the most simple action, which was to catalogue PCBs and to produce plans for decontamination.
We therefore have widespread non-compliance and for that reason, these directives have not produced the environmental results hoped for.
And, quite apart from the technical considerations specific to each of the three directives, this is a serious situation which must lead us to reflect on the reasons behind it.
In order to facilitate the monitoring operation, but also comparison between the different situations, I feel that it is also even more important to continue to develop research on common indicators in the field of the environment.
The protection of the environment crosses national borders and is a field of Community action par excellence.
The natural world is a common legacy, and our commitment to pursuing goals must serve as an example to the candidate countries, who are in the throes of remedying often extremely serious incidents of deterioration.
If this situation is to improve, each of us, as a representative of Community, national or local institutions but also simply as a citizen, must do our part.
Mr President, my assistant, Vikki Phillips, has just handed me a note which says that Denmark spends 15 times more than Greece in carrying out environmental inspections and making appropriate assessments.
I am all for being realistic and for making sure that new legislation makes sense but the problems we face both throughout the European Union and across the world are too great for us to lower our sights.
And I think some of the progress made by the United Kingdom in implementing the habitats directive over the past year demonstrates very clearly that it is very often not the fault of the legislation but the lack of political will which is to blame for the failure to deliver the goods we all wish to see.
And they usually refer to the habitats directive, the environmental impact directive, the wild birds directive and the right to information directive, which together with those discussed here today on nitrates and PCBs are probably the ones most often infringed.
Mr Sjöstedt too, in his report, mentions those Member States that have repeatedly infringed the habitats directive.
The Committee on Petitions and I, myself, know that what often happens is that Member States either do not respond in time or, as we say in Spain, and I do not know if there is a good translation, they "make the partridge dizzy" [try to deceive one].
It is essential that we respect the legislation that we ourselves draw up, and the proof that there is a lack of political will is that some Member States obey it and others break it.
In my opinion, there are three fundamental questions.
Secondly, suitable penalties must be found; it is very hard (I am from a region that badly needs European subsidies), but even if it is very hard to freeze certain subsidies, if it is not done the Member States will not understand.
But I know that this lies in the hands of the courts, this lies in the hands of the governments, this lies in the hands of us all.
Mr President, the aim of these directives is to protect the environment.
This means that not only do the Member States transpose the directives into national legislation, they are also the ones who actually implement this national legislation.
Unfortunately, experience has shown that Member States often fail to implement European directives correctly.
Given this attitude of the Member States, I fear that in future, problems will arise at the implementation stage of other directives too.
We need only call to mind the many warnings issued by the Commission to the Member States, which in some cases have led to infringement procedures.
The problem lies in incorporating and applying this legislation.
I should particularly like to draw your attention to Directive 92/43 on Natura 2000 areas.
We should not allow projects to go ahead in these areas with a light heart, because Article 6 of the directive says that only in the absence of alternative solutions should a project be carried out for imperative reasons of overriding public interest in Natura 2000 areas.
They are very positive and clear commitments to do something about this very serious problem.
Well, these three reports before Parliament today are a start.
That toxic chemical is slowly but surely accumulating in the human food chain, reaching levels which are already beyond World Health Organisation levels in certain fatty substances, typically butter, and in some cases fatty fish, such as salmon.
How is it possible, if you want to maintain 50 milligrams of nitrate in groundwater, to apply the same stocking density per hectare across the entire European Union, from Finland to Italy?
I do not dispute the standard of 50 milligrams of nitrate in groundwater, but I do want clear guidelines on how it should be measured and how these measurements should be carried out.
When the directive is called into question, it is important to remember that what is happening is important, even if progress is slow.
Mr President, I very much welcome the fact that we as Parliament also fulfil our monitoring competences and that we take a look at directives which meet with a great deal of criticism in the Member States.
The same applies to the habitats directive.
Mr President, poor compliance with environmental legislation is a huge problem.
For that reason, I believe we should stand by the result, a maximum of 50 milligrams, in the nitrates directive.
An example of sound legislation is the habitats directive.
The habitats directive prescribes a clear goal.
As long as the result - caring for the protected species and their habitats - remains paramount.
It would be useful and necessary to provide clear information, but I am taken aback by the large number of MEPs who have requested a review of the bird and habitats directive in order to work out in further detail certain concepts in the habitats directive.
Commissioner, you have gone to great lengths to try and ensure that these laws are transposed in the European Union in a purposeful manner.
However, in the case of the habitats directive, Parliament highlighted the shortcomings quite clearly last year, namely that the directive was complicated and unclear in parts and so it cannot be transposed in the Member States.
Speedier sanctions and careful drafting of laws will enable us to solve this problem.
However, I would just like to point out that something needs to change in the Member States too, because the Environment Ministers are, no doubt, sometimes too cowardly to promote the initiatives they adopt here, in their own countries, if this could lead to conflict.
The Council has, of course, been rather irritated about the fact that Parliament is looking over its shoulders, but I think that the work on the reports has revealed how slack the majority of the Member States are about implementing EU legislation.
It is also interesting to note that those countries which are often regarded as rather reluctant and critical in relation to certain aspects of EU cooperation are in reality those countries which comply best with EU decisions.
In doing so it, in turn, must rely on information supplied to it by the Member States.
I am the person responsible in our group for the water framework directive and the rapporteur for the groundwater action programme, which is still pending, and the nitrates directive is therefore a matter of particular concern to me.
Finally, I should like to mention one more point, namely the candidate countries.
They are stalling for time and they know perfectly well that nothing will happen to them, because it takes so long for the Court to do anything.
I can name and shame myself because Austria is one of the countries which has failed to comply with the habitats directive, but I must also protest, Commissioner, because Austria has not been at all remiss as far as the PCB directive is concerned.
Sometimes, but rarely, there can be genuine reasons for delayed transposition of a directive and the nitrates directive has come in for particular mention in this regard here today.
But to fail to provide information requested by the Commission under Article 10 of the Treaty in a timely and proper manner is inexcusable.
Article 10 requires Member States to actively cooperate with the Commission in dealing with complaints, to clarify facts and to state official positions.
It very quickly became apparent that the trampling of the pilgrims' feet and not divine intervention had, in fact, been essential to protect that particular ecosystem.
Changing the essential balance between human activity and our environment led to the loss of this precious ecosystem.
Mr President, I should like again to thank all the Members of the European Parliament for their statements.
May I remind you that, as of today, 45% of all the complaints are on environmental issues and cases - 700 complaints, 30% of the infringements - about 400 - are on environmental cases.
So there is a heavy burden on us and we are trying to do our best but also look to the future.
We could do more on that.
We could do more with the use of indicators because we have to measure.
We have to be better at assessing the results of compliance with environmental legislation.
We cannot do that unless you give me another 500 people.
What we have to do is modernise legislation.
But this cannot apply in other far-reaching directives of a broader scope, such as the habitats directive.
They are ambitious directives and in some cases it means the Member States need to review fully their agricultural practices.
We know this from some of the Member States.
What we have done, which is very effective, is to establish the link between European funding and compliance with environment legislation.
We can do more on education and information.
We have started activities like this.
We try to use all these available instruments to improve implementation.
I hope for the European Parliament's support and backing in our further attempts to improve the implementation of our European Community environmental legislation.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to be able to present to you today the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development' s own-initiative report on the situation and perspectives of young farmers in the European Union.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank the European organisation CEJA for its help and cooperation in enabling me to produce this report.
Last but not least, I would like to express my thanks to Ross Gordon Consultants who produced an excellent study on the situation of young farmers in the European Union last year and whose publication has been of great help in producing today's report.
I am fully aware that it is not an easy task to come up with one solution covering all the different conditions facing young farmers in their respective countries in a Community of 15 Member States.
I do not have the time to go through all the recommendations made in the report, but I will list some of the measures which should be given priority: the continuation of start-up grants of up to EUR 40 000, in combination with subsidised interest rates for start-up capital of up to EUR 120 000 for eight years.
It is in our best interests that young farmers are well prepared to anticipate and to manage these future challenges.
With the emphasis in the CAP on giving increasing importance to rural development schemes, it is crucial to recognise the young farmers as the key players and main executives responsible for the implementation of such new rural redevelopment policies.
With the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union, I would strongly advise the applicant Member States to start creating supportive measures for their young farmers already at present, especially in view of the introduction of production controls required by the Commission.
As I have already mentioned, this report is an own initiative report of the Committee on Agriculture, and I hope all parties will be able to sign up for this report and make sure positive practical help is given young farmers in the future.
It is 32 years since Sicco Mansholt, the Commissioner responsible for agriculture from the time the Commission was formed until 1972, presented his draft reform of the common agricultural policy, the Mansholt Plan.
We have created a major common policy based on support payments per hectare, per animal or even according to production achieved; we have limited production rights and established quotas; we have imposed complex mechanisms for standardising production and we have created intricate systems intervening in international markets.
The results have been varied, with some positive aspects but with many other negative aspects.
Amongst the latter, I would highlight the effect this policy has had in creating major problems for young people wishing to establish themselves in farming.
The alternative to this model of agricultural policy will necessarily require a policy focused on farmers and their incomes and not on the produce, the land or the livestock by means of which the income is obtained.
It will require an agricultural policy that is defined in regional rather than sectoral terms and will require priority for the environment, rural development, vocational training and early retirement.
Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of the European Liberal Democrats I would like to extend my sincere thanks to the rapporteur for his excellent work.
Young farmers are very skilled and are not prejudiced about using modern technology in their work in the fields and in rearing cattle.
Bureaucracy must not become a barrier to improving the position of young farmers.
Mr President, Commissioner, first of all I should like to give Mr Parish my thanks, congratulations and support for his report.
We must put into practice the principles and actions proposed in this own-initiative report so as to make rural life more attractive to young people, thus preventing depopulation of the countryside.
All this will be thanks to the development of new products of regional interest, such as agro-tourism and rural tourism, or through repopulating these natural spaces with animal and plant species, contributing to the sustainable and lasting development of the area.
Mr President, the first part of the motion for a resolution in the report repeats the now familiar findings on the poor situation and prospects of young farmers in the European Union.
However, no mention is made of why this should be so, given that the previous two Community support schemes promoted two programmes for the benefit of young farmers, which the European Union vaunted as a panacea which would solve all the problems faced by young farmers and reverse the negative trend.
In other words, the Community requires young farmers to have a large farm and large-scale production, but nigh prevents them from producing anything with the quota system.
That is why we cannot vote in favour of this report; it is because it conceals the real reasons.
Even these grants, when they are given to poor, medium-sized farmers, are meted out in drips and drabs and Greece is a typical example here.
In the context of Agenda 2000, very credible efforts were made to deal with the serious problem of succession in European agriculture.
A re-vamped farm retirement scheme, installation aid and other measures may not, however, achieve our desired objective and in my view the problem must be revisited as a matter of urgency, otherwise the continuity of family farming will be put at serious risk.
I believe we must do more to assist those interested in a restructuring programme - and the rapporteur made reference to it in his report - through the pooling of land and human resources, which would lead to greater efficiency and improved competitiveness.
Likewise, the opportunity of rural development and new technology in terms of creating farm and part-time employment for both women and men must, in every case, be vigorously pursued.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we realise that 55% of European farmers are over 55 years old and only 23% are less than 44 years old, we must inevitably conclude that the future of farming in the European Union is under threat.
The situation is even more serious in my own country, where these figures are 66% and 15% respectively.
Furthermore, it is well known that many Member States have not implemented measures that in any way address the concerns of young farmers.
I shall give the example of my own country where, after an initial phase of enthusiasm when we joined the EU, in recent years we have become more sceptical and the activities of the organisations most representative of young farmers have even been penalised.
The Commission must now urgently table proposals for measures for action and the Council must adopt them.
Mr President, the report deals with a most difficult subject: the prospects for young people in the farming industry, as the rapporteur has indicated, are probably worse than at any time since the creation of the CAP and their prospects cannot be separated from those of the industry as a whole or from the prosperity of the rural communities.
Now that the rural development programme is in place it is important to examine how this programme can be used to strengthen training and re-training facilities in our agricultural colleges.
I hope that the Commission and the national governments will take note of the many excellent suggestions in this report and thus give a boost to the future prosperity of farming in the rural areas.
After all, young farmers hold the key to the future of all our rural communities.
I stress that farms are also important employers in our rural communities.
European rural development regulations allow a grant of EUR 16 500 to be made available for people under 40 years of age to establish themselves in a viable farm holding.
The farming industry needs young blood in order to inject a new vibrancy into an industry which at present is aged and disillusioned.
Young farmers are the future of the farming industry and vital components in urban communities.
Mr President, there has been endless discussion of the role of young people in agriculture, but even today their situation gives little cause for optimism.
From this point of view, it is then essential to stipulate that incentives should be provided in the form of reductions in the relevant interest rates for investments made by young farmers.
In this way, we would be implementing the provisions of Regulation 1257 of 1999, which encourages the combining of several actions when they are aimed at bringing about greater use of the resources provided by development plans for rural areas.
I feel that, if this debate were to send out these sorts of signals, we would be able genuinely to start building the framework for a new European agriculture structure based on young people which, most importantly, would certainly not mean abandoning and forgetting those who are seeking possible alternatives in the new environmental and multifunctionality opportunities.
First, because we must support our young people in all areas of activity, and secondly because it is in our interests to keep the rural population, most of whom are connected with agricultural activities, in the countryside.
In approaching this issue, we have to appraise elements that lie at the roots of our social structure, our territorial organisation, our economy, our culture and our civilisation itself.
Many of the problems that affect these farmers are substantially concerned with one of the bases of the dominant economic model in Europe; private land ownership and the forms of land transfer.
This report contains an appeal for institutional action benefiting a specific group and also for the implementation of concrete measures to give rural land ownership a meaningful social function.
A distinction must be drawn between students at agricultural schools and colleges, young people who wish to set up in rural areas as an alternative to the urban environment, and the children of farmers.
While accepting that measures should be taken to reduce charges on inheriting property, I would highlight other actions also mentioned in the Parish report to help make holdings viable, which are based on socio-economic formulas.
I should like to stress another aspect of the report: we must try to ensure that when our future co-Members of the Union incorporate the acquis communautaire they do not bring in hidden habits that hinder the development of the rural environment in their countries.
Moreover, the rapporteur, a member of the Conservative Party, must work within his own party to secure support for his proposals in the House of Commons.
This in itself constitutes a valuable contribution to agricultural policy.
At the same time, we have to say that in many European countries the requirements for animal welfare are among the world' s most stringent.
For this reason alone, it would be desirable if a specific policy were set up for young farmers which is focused on the future.
In that sense, it would be desirable if both Commissioners Monti and Bolkestein were more critical in their assessment of this area in terms of competition.
Mr President, nobody can survive for one day without food; it is life requirement number one.
a model whereby farmers are not just responsible for producing food and a large part of their work benefits society as a whole, a society which can take pleasure in seeing nature unspoiled and enjoy rural areas which are worth living in.
Setting-up aid and investment grants are essential for young farmers, but modern technology has an equally important part to play.
This means that training and further training for young farmers are becoming more and more important and I, for one, support lifelong learning in farming and among farmers.
The number of farms in the EU has fallen constantly over recent years.
The Parish report may help to improve the overall image of young farmers.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank you, Commissioner Fischler, for repeatedly highlighting the multi-functional task which farming fulfils.
But no one bothers to mention, for example, that consumer associations in my country have been wantonly campaigning for food at rock bottom prices for years now.
With the current BSE situation, it is quite out of order to pillory our farmers and young farmers.
Essential services in the production of foodstuffs and raw materials, the development, further development and preservation of the countryside and the protection of the natural bases for life are all areas in which Europe will need farmers and young farmers in the future.
It is an indication of the concern of this particular group for the problem we are discussing.
However, we should not imagine that this was an ideal world in which to live.
Over the years, as the number of farms was reduced and farmers became more efficient, food obviously became more available to the poor who could buy it at a lower cost.
Since Ireland joined the European Union - I only mention Ireland because I am very familiar with what happened obviously, but you can draw lessons for other areas - our many small farms were reduced gradually in number.
It was a good thing that the number of farms was reduced and that we had the common agricultural policy to ease that.
Today we need more quality and we need to consider the environment.
I know very well that he put a lot of time and effort into it and I am happy it can be debated by Parliament today.
Of course, everybody likes to say we must help the young farmers.
You have to address the problem within the situation in which young people find themselves today.
Nowadays those young people have many other options open to them.
But the young farmer will work seven days a week for very little money.
But, if you are going to bring this scheme in it has to be mandatory and it has to be introduced in every Member State.
The current unfavourable economic climate for farming in general and young farmers in particular, the obvious lack of prospects for young farmers, the decline in the number of full-time farmers and the consequent ageing of those who remain - these are all general trends which underline the problem.
Up until now there has been little evaluation of EU assistance measures either by the Member States or the EU Commission.
Mr President, honourable Members, I should like to start by thanking you, Mr Parish, for your earnest report on the situation and perspectives of young farmers in the European Union.
I should also like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for its work.
We have endeavoured in Agenda 2000, especially by developing the second pillar, to take account of the concerns of young farmers.
But, without doubt, the real issue here is the future of farming per se, because if young people are no longer prepared to take up farming, then any further debate on agriculture is superfluous.
Measures to promote rural development are particularly important here.
Agenda 2000 increased the maximum setting-up grant by 66%, meaning that up to EUR 25 000 can now be paid in aid, and loans to finance setting-up costs qualify for interest rate subsidies.
The Member States are responsible for deciding what priority should be given to promoting young farmers.
But we must not forget that the young and women are priority target groups under the LEADER + Community initiative and that the assessment system which the Member States need to work out in order to select pilot projects needs to take account of this focus in Community policy.
However, despite a great deal of criticism, the Commission will examine the conclusions of the Parish report within the limits of its powers and right of initiative in a bid to help improve the conditions of establishment for young farmers and revive the countryside.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission gave a commitment to respond to the request made at the Tampere European Council to draw up legislative proposals to replace the formal extradition process with a simple procedure for transferring persons who have been convicted and who try to escape justice.
On that occasion, I announced that in the course of 2001, the Commission would submit proposals on three essential points for the Council' s consideration.
The Commission has already called a meeting of national experts in these fields, which will be held in the next few days, on the basis of a working paper that is being drawn up to present the proposals that I have just mentioned.
Urgency is indeed crucial in this matter.
I can guarantee that 2001 will be a turning point in the fight against terrorism, which is a fight shared by all European countries, not as a problem for a single State but as a threat to freedom, security and justice throughout the European Union.
Question No 26 by (H-0975/00): Subject: Women persecuted without asylum or refuge In some countries women suffer cruel persecution and punishment, basic human rights violations which may involve mutilation and may cost them their lives.
I wish to say in response to Mrs Izquierdo Rojo' s question that refugee status is governed throughout the world by the 1951 Geneva Convention and the 1967 Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Union now has, following Tampere, a mandate to adopt common minimum rules in the field of asylum and refugee protection, with a view, in the medium term, to adopting a common European asylum system.
An example of this is the proposal for a directive on providing temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons, which we presented on 24 May last year.
In this proposal, under the terms of Article 11(4), Member States are obliged to provide appropriate medical assistance or other forms of assistance to women who have been victims of torture, rape or other serious forms of psychological, physical or sexual violence.
The Commission also intends to propose measures concerning persons with special needs in its proposal for a directive on reception conditions for asylum seekers, which will be presented in the first quarter of this year.
With regard to the specific issue of gender-related persecution forming the basis of the asylum request, the Commission has already embarked on extensive consultation on this matter and we hope that in the course of this year we will be able to draw the necessary conclusions to present to Parliament and the Council a proposal for subsidiary protection that would also cover this type of situation.
Thank you, Mr Vitorino, because I understand that the Commission intends to submit proposals.
Question No 27 by (H-0969/00): Subject: European chemical industry The carbohydrates industry employs some 8 500 people.
However, these products still receive enough compensation to be able to compete with similar products on the world market.
In any event, we can only support the agricultural aspect of this whole question with our organisations of the agricultural markets.
I do not think that there is a difference of opinion on the question whether we would like to see a chemical industry subsidised on the basis of the agricultural policy.
Question No 29 by (H-0003/01) Subject: Coordinated approach to the financial repercussions of the BSE crisis According to Commissioner Franz Fischler, the European ban on meat-and-bone meal will cost approximately EUR 4.5 billion.
This means that the financial measures due to expire may create distortions of competition between the 15 EU Member States.
Does the Commission support a coordinated European approach to the financial repercussions of the BSE crisis, given that the financial measures taken by the national and regional authorities that are now due to expire are leading to the distortion of competition between the 15 EU Member States?
Both aid for private storage and public intervention have been introduced and are being funded 100% by the Community.
Any Member State wishing to grant aid in order to mitigate the consequences of the BSE crisis must notify the Commission of the aid arrangements in accordance with Article 88, paragraph 3, of the Treaty - as I have already mentioned - so that they can be checked to ensure that they comply with Community framework arrangements.
Your response in this matter is somewhat disappointing, in my opinion.
In other words, Member States must not only announce measures taken at national level; they must make known and report all measures taken.
This revision incorporated the provisions of the 1989 Basle Convention on movements of hazardous wastes into Community legislation.
The issue of Boliden' s liability in this case therefore remains a national issue which must be resolved through national environmental legislation.
Thank you for your answer.
Nonetheless, what we have here is an example of an unusually cynical trade in which hazardous waste that causes serious illnesses, especially among children in the area, is exported to a country which is unable to deal with it.
The answer to that question is yes.
Question No 31 by (H-0973/00): Subject: Spanish national hydrological plan: citizens call for the Commission to intervene More than 80 000 objections to the draft national hydrological plan have already been lodged during the consultation stage for those affected.
The plan remains a draft document and at the request of the Spanish Environment Minister my services are currently examining the draft plan.
You have already identified some of the directives affected by this.
We plan to stay in touch with the Spanish Government to make sure that their plans are in line with the existing directives.
I believe that the Spanish hydrological plan - at this stage there cannot be the slightest doubt of this - is an essential project for our country.
In fact, in 1993, the Socialist government was already aware of this need and drew up a proposal which at the time it either could not or did not know how to carry forward.
I can only repeat that the Spanish Minister of Environment has confirmed his commitment to this consultation process and I know that this is what is going on at the moment and that there is a debate - as I understand, a heated debate - on this issue.
Question No 32 by (H-1002/00): Subject: Action being taken by the Commission to increase coordination of fire protection in EU Member States The EU's strategies for fire safety are inadequate.
Increased integration between the Member States means that common strategies need to be identified in these areas of fire safety as well.
The Commission also regrets the environmental and economic damage caused by fires.
This issue is particularly important in the present situation in view of the fires which occurred at Christmas in the Netherlands and in China and in which many young people died.
Improved fire safety within the Community, especially fire prevention, is a high-priority issue in the programme of Community measures in favour of civil protection.
Nevertheless, this is an all-embracing problem of which Community policy takes account in a variety of areas with a view to complementing measures adopted in the Member States.
There may still be certain weaknesses when it comes to coordinating fire safety issues.
I interpret the Commissioner' s statement here to the effect that there is now just such a coordinating working party as a step in that direction and, that being the case, I should just like to thank her for her answer.
Consequently, it can be difficult to issue recommendations and still more difficult to issue a directive which would, as it were, be applicable everywhere and clarify all these various aspects.
As the honourable Member points out, these issues of civil protection and civil defence are very important.
It is now also a question of allocating enough resources to make the plan really work in practice.
Question No 33 by (H-0001/01): Subject: Control of the primrose willow The primrose willow, a plant native to South America, is proliferating alarmingly in all parts of France.
You may for example be aware of the initiatives taken by the Mediterranean Environment Agency or by the Landes general council, Acquitaine region, which recently organised a meeting on how to manage the primrose willow.
Secondly, Community funds, in particular the Structural Funds, and the LIFE instrument could be used to aid the management of the primrose willow in respect of Natura 2000 sites.
It would, of course, be up to applicants to propose actions in accordance with the normal rules of eligibility.
I would also have liked to know if it would be possible to grant this plant 'harmful' or 'of no market value' status because the problem with the primrose willow is that it is sold widely for use in aquaria and when people get rid of their tanks it escapes into the environment, causing these problems.
Any action and any plans have to start at local level.
Mr President, we are always so surprised when the balance of nature is upset.
I can say that the right way to deal with this problem of the Ludwigia grandiflora, which is its Latin name, is to discuss this during the technical days which are being organised on 23 and 24 January.
In February 2000 the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate, the British regulatory body, published a report on aspects relating to the activities of British Nuclear Fuels Limited at the Sellafield Plant.
In addition, the Commission knows that, since the revised report was published in November the British regulatory body has been satisfied with the way in which BNFL has dealt, for example, with the 15 recommendations in the report specific to the demonstration plant, and that these recommendations have been closed, as they say in the nuclear industry, which means they are considered to have been complied with.
The Commission observes that the British regulatory body appreciates the effort and commitment displayed by BNFL with respect to its concerns and also that significant progress has been made (I am quoting directly) regarding its other recommendations in the February report.
Much still remains to be done, however, since in November 2000 only 3 of the inspection team' s 28 recommendations had been formally closed.
Nevertheless, the British regulatory body has recognised that many of the measures already introduced by the company will still need time to take effect fully.
In the words of the Nuclear Installations Inspectorate, British Nuclear Fuels Limited has made a good start, but it must keep up the spirit of change while it continues to operate its plants safely.
However, I cannot agree that compliance with 3 out of 20 recommendations is progress.
I hope Mrs de Palacio that you will state here today that you wish to see compliance in full with the recommendations and swiftly, because that is what I want to hear.
I must remind you that what I can undertake to do, as I have already said, is to keep a very close watch, but competences in this field are still national, and I know that the British authorities are taking a very firm stand on this whole question.
The question on British Nuclear Fuels Limited is not relevant and not supplementary and therefore lapses.
Question No 35 by (H-0960/00): Subject: Modal shift from road transport to rail transport and climate change Transport is of enormous relevance to the debate on climate change, as it is the source of 26% of the current CO2 emissions where road transport accounts for 84% of all transport.
At the beginning of next month the Commission expects to approve a White Paper on the common transport policy, which will be accompanied by a review of guidelines on the trans-European transport network and possibly other initiatives to promote less polluting and more efficient transport systems.
The Commission is drawing up a set of economic measures regulating infrastructures to favour greater use of those transport modes that still have available capacity and are less harmful to the environment.
The intended aim is to give a boost to new technologies and to encourage greater cooperation between transport modes.
The Commission' s guidelines concerning the Structural Fund programmes for 2000-2006 recommend that priority should be given to intermodal transport.
That part of my question has not been answered.
Secondly, I wanted the Commission to indicate the share of investment per mode of transport in the framework of the Structural Funds programme period 2000 to 2006.
Mrs McKenna, I must tell you that with regard to trans-European networks right now priority is being given de facto to rail projects, if that is what you are concerned about.
The major part - the investments - corresponds to large rail projects.
Secondly, what is intended in this White Paper - in which we shall have the opportunity to discuss all these issues in great depth, and in which problems of charging and the competitiveness of the various modes of transport, etc., will also appear - is precisely to make progress in sorting out bottlenecks, which does not mean that in some cases we shall not have to think about enhancing certain road infrastructures.
What is also intended is a greater use of transport modes such as river or coastal transport, and what is intended, above all, is to facilitate the integration of the transport system, because in the end, sooner or later, roads always seem to come into it to guarantee the 'door to door' factor, which is a decisive element.
What I can tell you is that at the moment more than 50% is already being earmarked for projects that have to do with the rail sector.
Question No 36 by (H-0963/00): Subject: Supply of energy and nuclear energy The Commission has just adopted a Green Paper on the security of energy supply.
Secondly, the Green Paper also puts forward the possibility of using some kinds of compensation or crossed subsidies from the usual or traditional energy sources - coal, oil, gas, nuclear energy, or all of them together - to provide support for renewable energies.
Lastly, in any case, in addition to this aid for renewable energies, which I believe is essential and is put forward not just as a statement but as an objective - and remember that for the first time concrete objectives tailored to each individual Member State are being proposed, and this is being done in the green electricity directive - I consider it vital to maintain support for research in the nuclear sector, especially into matters of safety, storage and waste treatment (because burying it is not a solution), or into alternative issues such as the fusion system.
The Commission is beginning to incorporate it, but renewable energy is apparently continuing to be viewed as a back-up supply rather than as the energy of the future.
On the other hand, nuclear energy and nuclear-based electricity, which does not produce any greenhouse gas, were widely promoted as part of the fight against the greenhouse effect, and it was basically asserted that nuclear energy could be seen as an alternative to combat the greenhouse effect.
Therefore, this is why we asked the question, to see if the Commission is still on the same wavelength, in wishing to continue to develop renewable energy in both the European Union, and elsewhere in the world, and not just as a backup energy source.
Mrs Isler Béguin, I should love to be able to say that we could supply all our energy requirements from renewable energies, but, unfortunately, at the current stage of technological development this is not true.
Our potential for renewable energies in the European Union is limited, both for physical reasons - because, apart from solar power, where we could have a greater margin, the others have clear limitations - and for economic reasons, because it is true that we have to grant aid to the renewable energies - and I have already said that I have taken concrete, positive initiatives in this respect - but even so, we have to maintain some level of competitiveness and balance.
Obtaining 12% of our basic energy from renewable sources seems to me to be a very ambitious target, and I am prepared to make every effort to reach this target by 2010.
Finally, I must say that the nuclear problem is a very serious problem, but it is under control.
At the moment, unfortunately, the problem of climate change is absolutely out of control.
I share your concern.
Not only the Green Paper on energy but also the White Paper on transport - because transport has a lot to do with this subject - take a clear line of trying to minimise the effects from a climate change point of view and from an environmental point of view, while maintaining development, growth and the quality of life.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The Green Paper clearly states that renewable energies need aid and support at the moment, as was the case some time ago with coal or nuclear energies, for instance.
At the moment, renewable energies need backing and to be given a similar level of support, at least - and I think they need even more.
Secondly, waste as such is not renewable energy.
But in the case of the appropriate incineration of waste from renewable organic components, then yes, we are in the field of renewable energy.
It is the Member States that take their own decisions according to their own options, within the general framework, of course, which does not mean that I do not believe we should think carefully about it, because I believe Europe needs a common energy policy.
As the time allotted to questions to Commissioner de Palacio has elapsed, Questions Nos 37, 38 and 39 will be replied to in writing.
Furthermore, may I point out that in Question 36 there were three questions in one, which took up over 20 minutes.
There are three questions in one in Question 40, which will take another 20 minutes or so.
I therefore expect you, Mr President, to accord me the respect of the House and the answer to my question.
I have been here for the last 16 years and I am at least entitled to the respect of the House.
Each Commissioner answers for 20 minutes.
If you have anything else to add, please do so in writing.
Question No 40 by (H-0959/00): Subject: NGOs and reform of development services and policy The Commission has embarked on the process of reform in the field of development policy, in the context of which the role of NGOs will need to be defined.
The Commission has elaborated specific programming guidelines on the role of actors such as NGOs in the EU partnership with the ACP countries.
In addition to contributions to NGO projects, projects that actually reach people in the developing countries, the CLONG is also financially assisted by the Commission.
In accordance with its financial rules the Commission received the preliminary results of an audit of the CLONG in December 2000, which shows poor financial management within the CLONG.
The Commission will draw the consequences of this audit in order to put its relationship with the CLONG on a sound basis.
Finally, many of the staff with experience of NGOs in the Development DG have now been transferred to the EuropAid Cooperation Office - our new implementing body.
I still remember the very loud applause I received at my hearing in the Committee on Development and Cooperation a year and a half ago when I said that I and this Commission would take the line of a zero tolerance policy relating to mismanagement and all these problems.
For the time being I am very careful not to stipulate what the outcome ought to be because it is very much in the hands of the owners of CLONG and the many different NGOs all over Europe.
Question No 41 by (H-0971/00): Subject: Aid to Christians driven out of the Molucca Islands Particular attention should be drawn to the persecution, violence and terror perpetrated against the Christian population of the Molucca Islands in Indonesia by Jihad militants, especially on the island of Ambon, which has resulted in the desecration and burning of churches, Christians being forced to flee en masse, and a large number of deaths.
Two further emergency operations with a budget of EUR 1.5 million began in March 2000 because the number of displaced persons continued to rise.
These operations covered the distributions of foodstuffs and first aid and the operations also ensured medical aid and a supply of drinking water to the displaced persons from the archipelago.
As the conflict has reached the north of the Molucca islands and particularly the island of Halmahera the two NGOs financed by ECHO in Ambon, Medecins sans frontières, Belgium, and Action contre la faim, France, have extended their action to include displaced persons from this island.
Question No 42 by (H-0981/00): Subject: Situation of Burundian refugees in Tanzania The food situation in the camps for Burundian refugees does not appear to have improved, according to reports received from the Lukole camp (Ngara), and there are also signs that preparations are being made to repatriate Burundian refugees currently in Tanzania.
In the year 2000, ECHO's budget for aid to Tanzanian refugees was EUR 26.85 m.
The key partners in Tanzania are the International Federation of the Red Cross and Red Crescent, the UNHCR, UNICEF and the World Food Programme.
The main objectives of the humanitarian aid are multi-sector care of refugees, feeding, education, health care for children and finally, public health, water and sanitation in the camps.
The WFP recently alerted the international community to potential problems of supply, which would be due to delays in funding from sources other than the Commission, and daily rations were temporarily reduced to 80%.
In 1999, FAO joined the international relief operation by introducing a programme to improve nutrition standards among the most vulnerable households.
Training was given and FAO estimates that more than 50 000 people have benefited directly from the project.
I have seen this programme and it is in fact so well-organised and so neat that the alternative that we can offer the refugees when they return looks much less organised.
Concerning the possible repatriation of Burundian refugees in Tanzania following the signing of the peace agreement at the Arusha Summit, the Commission is maintaining a state of readiness for this eventuality.
I was myself present at the Burundi donors' conference chaired by Nelson Mandela in Paris in December, which endorsed the peace agreement.
To the same extent as you are reassured, I think, because there is no doubt that the problems of these numerous refugees in Tanzania are severe.
There is also the need to provide for the training and education of all these refugees, even though they are in an anomalous situation in their lives, precisely so that these years should not be wasted years.
Therefore, not only is it essential to give humanitarian food aid, but education programmes and health programmes are also needed so that these tragic years for this people will not be wasted years but can be the starting point for better times and especially for the permanent reconciliation of the Burundian people.
Peace and democratic stability are indispensable preconditions for economic and social progress.
Conflict prevention is an integral part of the EU's external policy objectives.
The EU's contribution to conflict prevention is greatest where we can use or adapt our different instruments, especially trade and cooperation agreements, development assistance and social and environmental instruments, to tackle causes of conflict.
Let me again repeat that the HIPC initiative alleviating the debt of the poorest countries is also a very real contribution to conflict prevention.
The Commission has already had numerous discussions with the Swedish Presidency and we share their concerns.
It was, for example, decided to have a policy debate on conflict prevention in the General Affairs Council on 22 January.
We agreed that we needed to incorporate the concept of conflict prevention in existing policy instruments to strengthen cooperation with the United Nations, the OSCE and other regional organisations and to find common approaches to cross-border phenomena of destabilisation such as the trade in narcotics, weapons or diamonds.
The Commission will present a communication on conflict prevention this spring.
We will work closely with the Swedish Presidency to maintain conflict prevention and peacekeeping at the top of our agenda.
Mr President, Commissioner, the answer is, of course, very satisfactory but I wondered if you were aware Commissioner that the strategic policy planning and early warning units in the Commission has 20 staff, 11 of whom are responsible for the Balkans and only one responsible for Africa which is your responsibility.
Definitely with the new structure the more cross-cutting, general handling of relations with the ACP countries for instance, the Development DG will be given more emphasis as the division of labour changes between the Development DG and the new cooperation office.
This is part of our own adjustment to these priorities, and that is definitely the way I will try to improve our efficiency, even on the basis of the given resources.
What I think is totally inappropriate is to have merged a debate on four resolutions that the Committee on Fisheries considers highly important for the future of the common fisheries policy with a debate on the Morocco question, which will inevitably take over from the other debates planned.
Mr Nogueira, our working conditions are lamentable in general.
Thank you, Mr Cunha.
As you probably already know from the media, negotiations on a new form of collaboration in the fisheries sector were started with the Kingdom of Morocco following my visit to Casablanca in October, when the King of Morocco agreed to begin serious negotiations.
As a result, a total of six rounds of technical negotiations took place between 30 October and 22 December.
I took great pains to ensure that both sides understood the main aspects of future fisheries relations, especially with regard to fishing possibilities, the term of the agreement, technical fishing conditions and, most importantly, financial compensation.
Negotiations were held nearly every day between the first and second political meetings this year, more recently at technical level.
We have stated from the start that we are prepared both to take account of Moroccan interests and to support the development of the Moroccan fisheries sector.
Unfortunately, the Moroccan side suddenly took a very intransigent stance during my second visit on 8 and 9 January, especially on the important questions of fishing possibilities and technical terms, and made excessive demands for financial compensation.
If our Moroccan partners are now prepared to return to the negotiating table and show willing to negotiate, then I am sure that, in the end, we shall broker a solution which is acceptable to both sides.
Finally, I should like to point out that the question of cooperation with Morocco in the fisheries sector was one of the main points on the agenda for President Prodi's visit to Morocco, when both sides took the opportunity of reaffirming their wish to conclude an agreement.
I wish to thank Mr Fischler for his statement on the fisheries agreement with Morocco, and I also wish to thank him for all the effort he is putting into these difficult negotiations.
I should like to remind you here, as he too has said, but I want to stress this, that it is the first time that a President of the European Commission has been personally involved in negotiating a fisheries agreement.
It must be clear both to the citizens of the European Union and to Morocco that all the institutions in the European Union - and at the highest level - want this agreement: the European Council wants it, and it said so at Nice; the President of the Commission, who has been to Rabat, wants it; and the European Parliament in Strasbourg wants it.
As has also been said here, I do not want Morocco to draw our attention away from the extremely important debate that we have here today.
We have been summoned to debate four major reports to do with the common fisheries policy and its future.
I want to point out in relation to the report for which I am the rapporteur that I think it is the first one that a Community institution has drawn up on globalisation in fisheries, and therefore I think our Committee has hit the nail on the head with the two own-initiative reports it has decided to produce; the other one is still in progress.
We are becoming more and more dependent on imported fish; we have our own fleet on all the seas and we have enough technical knowledge of our own not to leave this strategic sector in the hands of third countries.
The 2002 reform, therefore, must not serve just for us to carry on staring at our own navel in the form of our own Community waters, our own problems and our own misfortunes.
We must involve fisheries - and this is also shown by the fisheries agreement with Morocco - in the European Union' s foreign policy and commercial policy.
Our Union' s foreign fisheries policy has to earn credibility and an image, which it does not yet have, standing before world public opinion as it really is: the policy of a fishing power as compliant as any other with the United Nations principles, that is, the development of the international law of the sea, the conservation of resources for all, cooperation for development, etc.
Let us therefore make it an active policy, both in fisheries agreements with third countries, adapted to each individual situation, and in the regional fishery organisations, in which we must play a leading role, as we have often said, and let us not resign ourselves to a situation in which the 15 states that today make up the European Union - tomorrow perhaps 20 or 25 - must forever have as much weight as, for instance, Estonia has now.
The Council of Ministers of the European Union or the United Nations Security Council are examples to bear in mind of voting systems weighted by the specific weight of territories and populations, and we should bear this important example in mind.
If we total up the processing and marketing industry, subsidiary industries, investment in other countries and specialised shipbuilding, EU fisheries-linked economic activity is the most substantial in the world.
After all they deal with the same subject, and I would like to think that the same spirit will prevail in the House when both reports are voted on tomorrow.
Under the regulation establishing a Community system for fisheries and aquaculture, the Commission is obliged to report at least every three years to Parliament, the Council and the Community bodies representing the sector on the implementation of measures and developments in the common fisheries policy.
The report covers all aspects of the CFP, including conservation and management of resources, structural policy, external fisheries policy, market policy and monitoring and control.
In the conclusions to its communication the Commission lists among its priorities: better coherence between the various objectives pursued by the CFP, such as conservation of resources, the economic efficiency of the fleet and securing employment in fisheries - dependent areas, taking account of the economic dimension of fisheries management, better integration of environmental and fisheries policy, improvement of management tools such as multi-annual management objectives and strategies, management of fishing effort, and full integration of the Mediterranean into the Community management regime, a more accountable decision-making process and maintaining the external dimension of the common fisheries policy.
I regret the present unsatisfactory state of fish stocks in relation to technical conservation measures.
I believe that fishermen must be more involved in the work of scientists in order to establish mutual confidence.
I have strong suspicions that multi-annual programmes have operated in a discriminatory fashion without producing any major benefits to the fishing sector as a whole.
I am strongly in favour of a greater regionalisation of the common fisheries policy through the creation of a comprehensive series of regional management units and regional advisory committees based on the use of ICES areas and sub-areas to define the boundary lines.
I believe that it is necessary to define the application of the CFP in a clear and consistent manner, setting out a coherent system of regionalisation.
I am convinced that this must entail such factors as closer links between fishermen, scientists, the recognition of the socio-economic factors in areas highly dependent on fisheries, flexibility and simplification.
As I have done on so many occasions in the past, I repeat my call that in order to ensure an appropriate policy of decentralisation it is essential to maintain access to the territorial waters of 12 miles as the exclusive sovereign preserve of the coastal States and to extend this preserve to 24 miles, as previously agreed by this House in February 1999.
I believe that the utmost respect must be paid to the need for social, economic, regional cohesion, and that the highest priority must be given to the defence of the populations of regions highly dependent on fisheries.
The fact that there are no amendments tabled is a clear indication that we can all agree on this text.
I also want to congratulate my colleague Mr Cunha on his report.
Everyone in these regions knows that 31 December 2002 will be crucial, since this is the deadline for the common fisheries policy, as in 1992 and 1982, as if we produced a new one every 10 years.
With a view to forming as rounded an opinion as possible in order to prepare for this deadline, which I believe was a good idea, the Commission organised a systematic consultation process involving everyone associated or involved with this activity, sending out questionnaires and arranging meetings.
We debated the matter at great length within the parliamentary committee and, in the end, the Committee on Fisheries went along with the opinion of the rapporteur - as, in my view, there really was no other option - with everyone able to argue their own corner on the subject, just as usual.
The common fisheries policy is the European Union' s management tool for regenerating the fisheries industry and aquaculture.
This policy was drawn up in order to manage a common resource and to respect the commitments laid down in the first European Treaties.
The report, therefore, expresses views on the four aspects of the common fisheries policy, which are conservation and management of resources, structural policy, market organisation and relations with third countries.
The protocol governing fishing arrangements between the European Union and the Republic of Guinea­Bissau was signed in June 1997 and came into force in December of that year, remaining valid until June this year.
Following an armed conflict in that country in 1998, the Commission presented to the Council and Parliament a proposal for a decision requesting that this agreement be suspended.
The purpose of this new text, as with the previous one, but using a different legal formula, is to grant the legitimate authorities of Guinea­Bissau a sum equivalent to the unpaid part of the financial compensation laid down in the agreement currently in force, which totals around EUR 6.5 million and which is intended solely for supporting local fishing activities, for improving monitoring measures and for reconstructing fisheries infrastructure damaged in the intervening period.
On the basis of a programme of actions proposed by the Government of Guinea-Bissau, the Commission will pay over 50% of the compensation that has been provided for and will pay the balance when the government of that country has submitted a detailed report on the progress of the actions it has proposed and the results that have been achieved.
Mr President, Commissioner, I trust that we have not bitten off more than we can chew this late in the day because this first fisheries debate of 2001 really is a far-reaching debate.
I need only mention the reform of the common fisheries policy and the Commission's eagerly awaited Green Paper.
I think that is a crying shame because I want an agreement although, let there be no mistake, I do not want an agreement at any price.
We are looking forward, at last, to taking a closer look at the study on the cost-benefit analysis of the fisheries agreement and drawing the necessary conclusions.
But first I should like to thank Pat Gallagher for his excellent report.
I am looking forward to a stimulating and controversial debate in the interest of the future of European fisheries.
Fourteen months later it is the Community fleet that is getting wet, but the water is up to its neck.
The Union would like to have fair cooperation with its partners, and now we all realise that we would have gained a lot if the Moroccan Government had responded in time to Community appeals.
The result will be that the next Austrians - like yourself - or Swedes who negotiate in Rabat will think that what the Moroccans want is exactly the opposite of what they are thinking or saying.
Here we spend days on end discussing the Union' s democratic deficit and good governance, and then, when we have a subject on our hands that directly affects more than 4 000 fishermen, we pretend not to see what is obvious and not to do what any government would do to stand up for such an important part of its productive fabric.
With regard to the Poignant and Gallagher reports, which bring forward many points for debate on the forthcoming reform of the CFP, I think that if a number of amendments are approved we shall be able to achieve two balanced resolutions and correct some contradictions.
But a balanced agreement - such as the one we should reach on the Green Paper - does not mean that it is a compromise between various extreme positions but rather a coherent report endorsing the future of the whole sector and the viability of fishing as an economic activity throughout the European Union.
The balance that we socialists desire can only be achieved through a fisheries policy based on scientific criteria and adapted to the market, with the suppression of the political discrimination that still persists.
The reform process must be participatory, in the words of Mr Poignant, whom I congratulate on his work, performed under difficult conditions.
His report reveals many of the problems that we are going to have to discuss during the process of reforming the common fisheries policy.
He has supplied many solutions, for instance the socio-economic aspect of fishing, the development of the social aspects of the CFP, and the updating of criteria that define regions as fishery-dependent.
The Gallagher report is also interesting in that it refers to social aspects or regards agreements with third countries as a fundamental part of the CFP.
Our amendments support keeping the current 6/12 mile zone.
The international side of the CFP, our ever more necessary participation in multilateral organisations, is a challenge that still awaits us.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on the excellent work that they have done.
A great deal of work has been done locally, both in Scotland and around the North Sea, on conservation measures in general and on cod recovery in particular.
I hope that the Commission will take the results of this work very seriously indeed.
I challenge the Commission and the Council to look seriously at zonal management within a framework of Community-wide objectives, of course, but so that interested parties can participate more fully and so that the new CFP, once agreed, can actually achieve its purpose, namely the long-term sustainability of European fisheries.
The problem is that the amendments emphasised this view, and generally in some respects they have even come to approve contradictory points.
I hope that in tomorrow' s votes these issues may be calmly corrected, because my group would like to vote for both these reports.
Finally, on the subject of Morocco I want to point out two things: first, the negative effects that the lack of agreement is having and will have in disadvantaged areas of the Community both on the fishermen themselves and on fishery-related dependent activities.
The second point is that the attitude of the Moroccan negotiators hardly squares with that of a state linked with us through an association agreement.
What the media is saying is that if there is agreement, it may even be highly detrimental to the interests of the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to draw your attention to a point that I believe constitutes an omission in the common fisheries policy.
It is important that this should be considered in the reform to be initiated in 2002, since it concerns the situation of fishing in the outermost regions.
In general terms, we have maintained an attitude of prudent optimism towards the revision of the common fisheries policy in 2002.
We hope that maintaining the quotas, which was decided on this year, is a first positive sign for the future.
We cannot fail to recognise the effort that has been made a posteriori to try to unify viewpoints, but the European People' s Party believes that in some fundamental areas there are still some clear contradictions.
We have therefore tabled a series of amendments above all to try to eliminate the impression that Parliament does not have a definite attitude towards the future of the CFP, because that is not the case.
It may be that we do not agree on specific measures, but if something comes out of these reports it is that Parliament is in total agreement with the fisheries sector in that the CFP requires some fundamental changes.
If there were no clear need for this, the Council of Ministers last month would have given some indication that this were the case.
The CFP is in need of very far-reaching changes that will provide solutions for a fishing industry which, unlike the rules which govern it and even despite them, has managed to survive and has done everything it can to evolve and continue to provide coastal regions with wealth and jobs.
If the Commission really believes that the future of European fisheries depends not on the simple modification of a regulation, but on the proposal of measures already contained in current regulations, if the Commission' s great proposal and great discovery for the future CFP is to be multiannual TACs and the encouragement of aquaculture, perhaps the moment has come, Mr President, to ask in all seriousness for it to make room for other people who can bring in new ideas and the tiniest sense of responsibility.
I therefore feel that it is crucial to at least preserve exclusive access to so-called "territorial waters" , particularly given that activities involving small-scale fishing have a considerable effect on the coastal resources of every Member State.
The principle of relative stability is a fundamental pillar of the common fisheries policy.
I am very grateful for the Commissioner' s speech and I urge him to use the power of all 15 Member States in negotiations with Morocco and not simply to argue the case for Portugal and Spain.
Mr President, the common fisheries policy, as many have pointed out, has failed to conserve fish stocks at adequate levels to support a viable industry.
In other words, the current pillage of certain types, certain deep-water stocks by some EU countries would not be allowed to happen.
It means that any new fishing gear or any significant modification of existing gear must be evaluated for its potential impact on the target stock as well as any species caught as by-catch or any impact on the marine habitat.
The use of maximum sustainable yield or any of a number of other reference points is quite simply wrong, for they lead to over-fishing and stock collapse.
A number of things have been said already about Morocco and I just want to say that we would insist that it is entirely up to Morocco, as a coastal state with sovereignty over its fish and its exclusive economic zone, to decide what it wishes to do with these resources.
We are therefore opposed to any kind of political or economic pressure being brought to bear on Morocco in order to encourage it or to coerce it to sign an agreement with the European Union.
Secondly, we are adamant that no potential agreement with Morocco should involve any access to waters of Western Sahara.
We do not recognise Moroccan sovereignty there and so Morocco has no right whatsoever to discuss access to EU vessels there, nor for that matter has the EU any right to enter into such negotiations with Morocco or to allow EU flag vessels to go there as has happened in the past.
Mr President, the socio-economic importance of the fishing industry is well known, not only for the jobs that it creates directly and indirectly, but also for the economic development of many fishing regions and communities, including the small coastal fishing sector that ensures the European Union' s supply of fresh fish and the preservation of its traditions and cultures.
What is needed, therefore, is a thorough review of the common fisheries policy, involving fishermen and other interested parties in the decision-making process, to ensure that their experience and knowledge can contribute to the creation of a more workable and realistic system.
With regard to current negotiations in the World Trade Organisation, it must be emphasised, as it is in the Varela Suanzes­Carpegna report, that Community fishing activity cannot be analysed from a purely economic angle based on trade in goods.
Fishing in the European Union is multifunctional in nature; it contributes towards the integration of the social and economic fabric of coastal areas, representing a way of life and a factor for cohesion in large areas along our coastline, while at the same time guaranteeing food supply.
What is of particular concern, however, is the information that we have received not only on the delay in the fishing agreements with Angola, but also on the difficulties in renewing the fishing agreement with Morocco.
Mr President, 2001 is the year in which the Commission is to draft a new common fisheries policy.
A bad example is the recent catch restriction imposed on Dutch fishermen for plaice and sole, which will set them back EUR 35 million.
That means that in the case of the Netherlands, it will develop the policy for the North Sea in conjunction with other North Sea countries.
If the Union insists on other ships having access to the North Sea, the quoting of as yet unquoted fish species would be a real way of keeping additional catches of quoted fish within limits.
As we contemplate the radical reforms of the CFP, which are clearly necessary and long overdue and which are highlighted in these reports, we do so in the knowledge that fish stocks are in spiral decline.
The situation in the North Sea is of particular concern.
The Poignant and Gallagher reports have attracted some amendments, which seek to do away with the 6/12 mile limits and break open the Shetland Box and gain free access to the North Sea.
I hope that this debate may bring them to their senses.
Mr President, how should and how will the European Union's common fisheries policy look after 2002?
The Poignant and Gallagher reports are important milestones in the preliminary debate.
We should confine ourselves, within the framework of these two reports, to addressing the problems and discussing various possible solutions.
We have a common fisheries policy in the EU and that is how it is going to stay.
This is the only way we shall be able to ensure that the new common fisheries policy is well accepted by those whom it affects.
Mr President, European Union fisheries policy is a vast subject.
As far as the Group of the Greens is concerned, I would remind you that we are in favour of a fisheries policy that respects the natural balance, in favour of developing offshore and inshore fishing, which creates jobs, and in favour of selective fishing, which takes account of available stocks.
We therefore request that the Commission present appropriate proposals, both on the issue of the future direction of the subsidised sectors and on social aspects to the other members of the WTO.
Furthermore, we are, generally, not particularly in favour of the bilateral fishing agreements between the European Union and third countries, often small countries, whose entire budgets are occasionally no larger than the subsidies granted them.
Now we must work to ensure that a common policy is genuinely achieved in this typical sector, but in order to do so we must respond to those who are complaining - namely the operators - that there is insufficient participation or backing for the choices made, therefore that there is no cooperation in the decision-making process.
If we do this, we will be able to prove - and I am convinced that we are capable of doing so - that it is possible to achieve a sound common policy, valuing differences rather than penalising them and involving the operators of all the Member States, particularly the fisheries operators in all their diversity.
The reform of the CFP and the forthcoming launch of the Green Paper mark a critical time for the fishing industry.
On the one hand all of us here in this Chamber want to see the existence of the fishing industry, not least because we enjoy eating the product; but on the other hand we are faced with grave scientific evidence of depleting fish stocks, so much so that certain species may no longer exist in the future.
Some say that even before the launch of the Green Paper there could be little left of the Scottish fleet because of cuts in TACs, quotas and the proposed cod recovery proposals.
Others say that in order to have a fishing industry at all we need to conserve, they hark back to the 1996 article in Nature warning of the collapse of cod stocks.
In Scotland, the Scottish Fishermen's Federation and the WWF have joined forces and suggested a better way of working.
The proposal for zonal management and greater regionalisation of the CFP is a serious one that has the support of fishing and conservation groups alike.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, President Prodi was decorated by the King of Morocco and at the same time signed a cooperation agreement with that country, which excluded fishing.
The Commission is not facing up to its responsibilities and is willing to sign a limited and ill-judged agreement that can only lead to the destruction of our fleet in two or three years' time.
Mr President, first of all, I should like to congratulate both MEPs, Mr Gallagher and Mr Poignant, on the way in which they have set the tone for the new Green Paper, for it feels like this debate forms part of the groundwork for this paper, and we could say that we are using these reports for our own ends in an appropriate manner in order to adopt a position on this.
To begin with, there is the issue of control, especially quota control, within the EU.
The second important point for the future policy is a restructuring programme which needs to be developed to replace the present multiannual orientation programme.
The third point is the so-called set aside scheme for regions which are hit hard by the dwindling fish stocks.
Mr President, we are faced with the total inability of the Commission and the Council to negotiate on behalf of the citizens.
All the funds poured into this agreement should be used to finance alternatives in the areas affected.
Meanwhile, the Commission Presidency is trying to settle a very long-standing problem at the last minute.
We are concerned that the solution proposed is just a makeshift solution for the sake of the media and not a real solution to the problem.
I fully agree with Mr Varela when he describes globalisation as a phenomenon whose repercussions vary according to specific cases.
Adaptation to a global economy has had varying effects on the fisheries sector.
We must, therefore, uphold a tariff policy based on reciprocal trade, taking into account the fact that, in many countries, imports from Europe are subject to non-tariff barriers which hamper the smooth functioning of the free market.
It would also be appropriate to revise the system of existing trade preferences, for sometimes the level of development of third countries no longer justifies the granting of these preferences.
Finally, we must uphold the European Union policy which makes access to the Community market for products coming from third countries dependent upon access for the European fleet to the fishing waters of the countries with which we are negotiating.
Mr Varela, you make it quite plain in your report that it is impossible to discuss the future of the common fisheries policy without taking account of the broader economy surrounding fisheries.
We shall have an opportunity to discuss Community solutions to this burning issue.
This may lead, in numerous cases, to a reduction in the status quo, but when regions are affected by such structural adjustments, then the Community must, of course, help.
The most efficient form of help we can provide is by giving young people a future and offering them alternative employment to fishing.
To summarise, Mr Varela, your report makes an important contribution to the continuing debate on the future of the common fisheries policy.
The fisheries sector in the Community is under equal pressure from several quarters.
Fish stocks are declining, there is excess capacity in the fleet and it is becoming more and more difficult to access third country waters.
It is true that some progress was made - I need only mention the flexibility in year-to-year stock management or the new TACs in the North Sea for non-regulated species or the regulation on technical measures or the introduction of the VMS - but we still have to admit that we have failed to reverse the negative trend in numerous important stocks, such as cod or hake.
Both rapporteurs also highlight the following serious shortcomings, as identified in the Commission report: effort limitation has either not worked or has been unsatisfactory, the regulation on technical measures in the Mediterranean has been patchily implemented, the fourth MAGP is not nearly ambitious enough and control arrangements have not been made stricter, as we proposed in 1998.
The Commission will publish its Green Paper in a few weeks' time, together with the reports under Article 14 paragraph 2 of Regulation 3760.
On the evidence of the motions for resolutions, the main objectives of the reform process identified by all three rapporteurs are as follows: to reduce excess capacity and improve coherence with environmental policy measures in order to maintain and re-establish stocks; to ensure that the people directly affected are more closely involved in decision making and to resolve local or urgent problems more efficiently in order to ensure that the rules are adhered to and applied and fisheries management is improved overall - in other words, everything which qualifies as good governance.
Then, to create a fisheries sector which is both sustainable and economically viable and internationally competitive - while at the same time helping those who are forced to look elsewhere for work; to develop a modern foreign fisheries policy which is closely coordinated with other Community policies in order to achieve responsible and rational use of resources, and, most importantly, to redevelop the Mediterranean dimension.
The remainder, in other words the second half, will be paid out once Guinea-Bissau has filed a detailed report on the implementation of individual activities under the action programme and the use of the funds earmarked for them.
As far as the contributions to the debate on the current state of negotiations with Morocco are concerned, I should like to thank Parliament for its obvious confidence in the Commission's work.
Negotiations were held practically every day in Rabat between 2 January and 9 January.
Both the main countries affected and the presidency have supported us in our efforts and I think that, at the end of the day, the meeting between the King of Morocco and our Commission President was a useful one.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, Bangladesh is rich and poor at the same time.
The government as well as the opposition, but also academics, journalists, industry and non-governmental organisations look up to Europe and expect a great deal from us, more than America, for instance.
The following recent trends can be cited as favourable: economic growth by more than 4%, a fall in the population increase, falling illiteracy and greater participation of women in the political and social arenas.
There is a deep historic distrust between the two major parties, despite the fact that you can hardly tell them apart in terms of content.
The European Union should not fail to send observers, including members of this Parliament.
In principle, the European Union can provide valuable aid to help alleviate all of these problems.
The state is functioning ineffectively in very many ways, especially in the finance and education sectors.
The delegation is not sufficiently involved in defining the programme.
The shortage of personnel leads to a lack of supervision in projects.
In short, this is a good, practical example which illustrates the need for reforms in the management sector.
The many non-governmental organisations which are present fulfil a key role in the implementation of programmes.
Premier Hasina assured us that the Chittagong Hills peace agreement is being implemented to the letter.
The development of Bangladesh hinges on the good governance of the country' s own leaders.
Europe cannot offer anything but aid.
It remains a problem if you realise that 60 million people live under the poverty line, and you have economic growth which cannot keep up with the population growth.
Mr President, Commissioner, today, at last, we have an opportunity to express our opinion on the new cooperation agreement concluded with Bangladesh.
Our fellow Member and rapporteur, Mr van den Bos, with whom I visited that country last year, has already stated that we have approved this.
But he also outlined some of the central thoughts of the Committee on Development and Cooperation as to what the Community' s future action in Bangladesh should be.
We also saw the problems and delays in resolving the conflict with the people in the southern part of the country, specifically the Chittagong Hill Tracts.
The European Union has also provided Bangladesh with a considerable amount of external aid that has been earmarked for it and on which, in fact, the country is heavily dependent.
We also know that the current agreement carries on from the 1976 agreement, and can be extended according to future needs.
The question we now face now with regard to the circumstances I have just described is to know what real objectives and priorities this new agreement hopes to achieve and in general, what effects we hope to have on sustainable development in the field of administration and on the participation of the public and public organisations in national life.
We agree on your report and we welcome it very much and this is not just nice, it is also really valuable for Bangladesh and other partners.
It is very useful that we in Europe should profoundly agree on how to work with our partners.
There are big problems to discuss with the Government of Bangladesh, notably its inefficiency: it performs as badly as the Commission, so the two of them have a lot to talk about, but we know that and we are clear about it saying "our delivery problems are clear and well-known, but please do not add to them by also being slow and unclear in your decision-taking process".
This is why the new agreement that we are now deciding on is so important, because it, in fact, brings cooperation one step further forward and clarifies priorities.
We will go from one country to another across the world and bring what we are doing up to normal standards concerning the basis of cooperation and priorities.
Bangladesh has done quite a number of valuable things in recent years: regionally, agreeing more with her neighbours and approaching solutions to very old problems.
What Mr van den Bos has mentioned concerning donor coordination and the many NGOs in Bangladesh is interesting and important.
Microcredit is a great achievement and it is not only one very famous organisation that has been successful.
Their ability to change the life and the situation of families is extraordinary, but I would, in fact, point to the many young women and girls in the textile factories who in a strange way represent the chaotic way of modernisation.
The alternative - not having jobs - is quite problematical, but the kinds of jobs they have are also very problematical.
Mr President, I am very pleased to be able to speak in this debate on European Union cooperation with Bangladesh, a country I know well, a country I was proud to visit with the European Parliament's delegation in the autumn of 1998.
Yet in many ways I think that Bangladesh is amazing for the way that it does work.
It does work despite its turbulent and violent history, despite the political problems, despite its other difficulties and despite the poverty.
I believe that this is fundamentally a credit to the people and indeed to the Government of Bangladesh.
A poor or developing country cannot sustain a birth rate above two children per woman.
Furthermore the European Union has the expertise to help with other problems in Bangladesh - the flooding that we have heard about, that destroys great swathes of the land on a regular basis is not inevitable.
We have the knowledge and experience, for example in the Netherlands, to help improve low-lying land and land susceptible to flooding.
We, as a European Union, already help Bangladesh with grants, with least-developed country status, and with the preferential access to markets that this brings with it.
Just as the last part of the twentieth century belonged to the countries of south-east Asia, the Tiger economies, I believe that the first part of this century can belong to the countries of south Asia.
With help from this Parliament, Bangladesh can share in that sense of belonging, in the wealth, the prosperity and ultimately the success that will bring.
Mr President, like others in this Chamber, I am one of the fortunate group of people who has visited Bangladesh, not several times like the Commissioner but in such a way as to be able to form some modest impression, and it is against that background that I wish to emphasise how important it is for cooperation between the EU and Bangladesh to be continued and developed further.
Bangladesh can only hold its own if we are willing to help the country, and that means both the EU, as the Commissioner mentioned, and also the Member States, among which I can call attention to my own country, Denmark, which is one of the largest providers of aid in the area.
I come, then, to my third point, which the Commissioner perhaps takes a rather different view of.
Mr President, we very much welcome the cooperation agreement which is an affirmation of the good relations between the European Union and Bangladesh and provides a framework for their further expansion.
Article 7 of the agreement deals with regional cooperation, and I would firstly like to touch on two points which relate to Bangladesh's regional situation and her relationship with neighbouring countries.
The two countries have also recently begun talks on fighting floods which have deluged both countries with tragic consequences.
I have to say I do not see the same positive approach on the part of the Burmese authorities.
A particularly regrettable aspect of this activity is that anti-personnel landmines have reportedly been laid along the border by the Burmese.
On a separate matter, the report describes the impact of population growth in Bangladesh on food security and economic development.
It is important that the Government of Bangladesh should take early steps to enter into negotiations with those Member States that so wish and to conclude mutually acceptable re-admission agreements.
There was no agreement between our Member States to do what we in the Commission would have liked to do, which explains the phase that we have been going through with this organisation.
The good news, however, is that the need has been accepted for a special effort, based in Bangladesh I hope, to promote the use and new uses of jute as a raw material, so perhaps it is now possible to continue with the substance of what the old jute organisation could do.
This is very good because the International Jute Organisation is the only international organisation of this kind that is actually based in a least-developed country.
As to the role of IT in Bangladesh, yes of course we will try to be useful and do something but I do not honestly see it as an easy shortcut, so we will stick to the basic priorities of our agreement with Bangladesh.
As to what you say about focusing specifically on women in this respect, I would say that Bangladesh may be one of the places where it would be possible to experiment with this.
That is a large number in a European context, so from the point of view of stability, democratisation, orderly elections and so on, it really is facing quite some challenges.
I look forward to working with Parliament on our relations with Bangladesh.
This will be a big opportunity for Bangladesh and the other least-developed countries to present themselves not as patients on a sick bed in hospital, with the rest of the world looking at them like curious doctors, but as partners in the global society, representing cultures and potentials which are important in keeping alive the diversity of globalisation.
I have received a motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to Article 42(5).
