&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 14 October 2004. &#160;&#160; Before moving on to our agenda, I would like to make a few comments in relation to the fact that yesterday was United Nations Day, and the last winner of the Sakharov Prize – Kofi Annan – made a speech in which he stressed that we can and must do more to achieve the objectives of peace, human rights and development which were the basis for the creation of the United Nations 59 years ago.
I would like to communicate this message to our institution because we all share the responsibility for promoting the multilateralism created at the end of the Second World War.
Our participation in terms of development aid exceeds 60%.
I was immensely surprised to learn, Mr President, that, firstly, you did me a great disservice during the press conference attended by Mrs&#160;Leyla&#160;Zana; secondly, you wrote a that attacked me personally on 14&#160;October, and thirdly, you referred to a condemnation on the part of the Bureau on 13&#160;October, which in fact appears in point 15 of the Bureau’s summary of decisions and which calls on you to condemn my allegedly, I quote, ‘revisionist statements’.
If he had actually said the words that are being ascribed to him, we would have been the first to condemn them, but it so happens that we cannot make him say the opposite of what he said’, and he published my press conference in full.
I admit, however – with respect to you as a person and in your role – that I cannot understand how you, as President of this House – an informed politician and guardian of the freedom of debates and of the rights of the Members of this House – and the Bureau of this House, which never stops offering advice to the entire world on human rights, were able to condemn me without hearing, or even seeking to hear, me, and without even notifying me of your condemnation, and this following a hasty denunciation by two or three of my political opponents.
The third area of discrimination is that all the secretarial staff from the new Member States have been employed in the lowest category.
The total number of Aids sufferers worldwide has now reached 40&#160;million and continues to rise.
It makes sense to have a coordinated EU policy on combating Aids, under the responsibility of a single Aids ambassador/envoy, and I urge Parliament and the Commission to move forward with this proposal and add impetus to the effort to put Aids on the top of the EU development agenda. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to call upon the European Commission to act on an issue which has given rise to concern among the citizens of Poland and of the other new EU Member States for the past few months, namely the suspension of food exports to Russia.
Russia’s decision was therefore directly linked to our accession to the European Union.
If the European Commission fails to provide assistance or adopts a neutral position on this issue, it will amount to discrimination against the new Member States in the EU’s internal relations.
I would therefore like to call upon the European Commission to maintain solidarity within the EU in internal relations, and to provide assistance to the new Member States on this issue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in a year and a half’s time, on 18 July 2006, it will be seventy years since the fascist led by General Franco, which was the prelude to the Second World War and the beginning of a savage civil war and almost four decades of dictatorship.
Mr&#160;President, I propose that a debate should be held in Parliament on this matter.
Parliament’s seat in Strasbourg must be done away with. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, a meeting of the PPE-DE Group in the Committee of the Regions was held in Athens on 15 October at the initiative of the Mayor of Athens, Mrs Bakogiannis, on the subject of 'Cities' Safety and Security Policies'.
The Greek Prime Minister, Mr Karamanlis, referred in his welcoming speech, among other things, to the need to further promote the civil protection of the European Union.
Our hearts and souls tell us you will be an outstanding Commissioner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, during Commission Question Time at the last part-session 34 questions were tabled by MEPs but only eight received answers, which is a new record.
Sooner or later there will be a new Commission and your concern will be duly passed on. &#160;&#160; – In 1957 Albert Camus wrote that the downtrodden and shackled Hungary has done more for freedom and justice in the past twenty years than any other nation in the world.
Even with the hindsight of 48 years, we are proud of the fact that we, Hungarians, were the first to defy the Soviet dictatorship and protest against the Communist tyranny and occupation.
The fact that we can be here with you as a free and independent member of the European Union family is largely due to the self-sacrifice of many thousands of heroes of the Hungarian Revolution who gave their lives for freedom. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, I wanted to protest at discrimination against Catholics.
It is for this reason that I should like to protest strongly both at Mr&#160;Barroso’s attitude towards Catholics and at the European Commission’s funding of the exhibition held in a tent on the Place Schuman in Brussels.
Surviving relatives, including the relatives of the Dutch victims Roel and Lisette Arendshorst, have made repeated appeals to both the Senegalese President Wade and European politicians to take action in order to recover the victims of .
I would therefore make a fresh appeal to the Commission, the Council and President Wade of Senegal.
Respect for human dignity requires support from the European Union ... &#160;&#160; The Romani population is the largest minority in the EU.
It is time to continue in the steps of the few who already recognise, here in the European Parliament, the crisis of the Romani population.
Therefore, I am extremely determined to stand up for Roma rights issues and to address social inclusion and human rights to ensure the fundamental rights and freedom of our people. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, there is an issue I should like to bring to the attention of the House.
With regard to the free movement of persons, it is also apparent that the countries that opened their labour markets after 1&#160;May, such as Great Britain and Sweden, are not experiencing ... &#160;&#160; The problem of asylum seekers and illegal immigration in Europe is urgent, serious and worrying.
I hope Parliament can send a message that Nato and the Bosnian Serb police need to try a little harder. &#160;&#160; Mr President, very recently, two MEPs from the Netherlands, my own country, were refused entry to Cuba.
My response to that would be that it is serious incidents of this kind that should lead us to persist in the common policy as it stands at present. &#160;&#160; I have received 22 requests.
The question before us, Mr President, ... &#160;&#160; Mr President, in 1993, the European Parliament adopted a resolution commemorating the victims of National Socialism.
Last year, ten years after that event, an exhibition was also mounted on the subject in this House.
Twenty-five years ago today we Basques went to the ballot box in that Spanish Autonomous Community in order to endorse and approve this Statute by a majority as a legal and political framework stemming from the Spanish Constitution, and it has given us Basques the greatest degree of self-government there has ever been in that region.
These are two distinct notions, because, according to econometrics, monetary decisions have a delayed reaction on actual developments of something in the region of 12 to 18 months.
What we are therefore discussing here today is, in some respects, the policy of 2002 and its orientations in 2003.
It is therefore with this information in mind that we must analyse the orientations given in 2003 by the ECB, which were both practical and doctrinal.
I feel that the next step is to develop this dialogue further, and in our report we make proposals to this end.
I have the honour, as has just been mentioned, of presenting to you today the 2003 annual report, which is one of the main instruments available to the ECB to present monetary policy, and the activities that fall within its competence, to Europe’s citizens and to you, the representatives of Europe’s citizens.
The ECB attaches the highest importance to regular dialogue with the European public and with its elected representatives.
Mr President, the ECB's monetary policy operated in a rather uncertain and challenging environment in 2003.
Nevertheless, overall GDP in the euro area increased by only 0.5% in 2003.
The persistence of inflation above 2% was mainly caused by increases in a number of volatile components of the HICP, in particular oil prices, and, in the second half of 2003, food prices.
Rises in indirect taxes and administrative prices also added to inflation in 2003.
This expectation resulting from our economic analysis was in line with our monetary analysis.
Much of the strength of monetary growth in early 2003 was due to the high level of economic and financial market uncertainty prevailing at that time, which prompted portfolio shifts into safer, short-term liquid assets included in M3.
In view of the moderation of medium-term inflationary pressures in the first half of 2003, as was said by Mr Lipietz, the ECB's key interest rates were reduced by 25 basis points in March 2003 and by 50 basis points in June of the same year.
Since then, this interest rate has remained unchanged at this historically very low level, whilst the preservation of inflationary expectations in line with our definition of price stability has contributed very significantly to the low level of medium and long-term nominal and real interest rates.
By and large, output growth in the last 12 months was close to present estimates of potential growth in the euro area.
Some moderation is expected next year, but euro area exports should, nevertheless, continue to benefit from favourable global demand conditions in 2005.
If oil prices were to remain high, or even to increase further, they could dampen the strength of the recovery, both inside and outside the euro area, despite the fact that the oil intensity of the euro area is significantly lower than in the 1970s.
We also need to keep in mind that part of the oil price increase is due to strong global demand, which was not the case in the first and second oil shocks, but it remains true that the oil price increase constitutes an adverse supply shock for the euro area economy as a whole.
Following an annual rate of 1.7% in the first quarter of 2004, inflation reached 2.3% in the second quarter and 2.2% in the third quarter.
However, I should stress that, over recent quarters, we have seen several upward risks to the outlook for price stability emerge, and these call for ongoing vigilance.
This reflects in part the fact that the historically low level of interest rates in the euro area continues to support monetary expansion.
The average fiscal deficit in the euro area increased from 2.4% to 2.7%.
Moreover, the fiscal situation remained of great concern in countries that had already recorded significant imbalances in 2002.
The aggregate euro area fiscal deficit-to-GDP ratio is not expected to improve in 2004 and the average debt-to-GDP ratio is expected to deteriorate further.
On that particular point we are in full agreement with Ecofin.
On a more positive note, both 2003 and 2004 have seen some progress towards structural reforms in several euro area countries.
While implementing these reforms has not always been easy, I am confident that we will be able to see their positive effects in the years ahead.
The year 2003 was also marked by the final preparations for the enlargement of the European Union by 10 new Member States, with effect from 1 May 2004.
As far as the ECB is concerned, the integration of the central banks of the 10 new Member States proceeded smoothly.
Last week, the ECB, like the Commission, published the first Convergence Report dealing with these countries, together with Sweden.
The picture that emerged varied significantly from country to country, but many share similar challenges with regard to price stability, fiscal sustainability, exchange rate stability and interest rate convergence.
The ECB very much appreciated the favourable comments contained in the European Parliament's draft resolution on the ECB's monetary policy strategy in 2003.
I do not want to dwell further on that, but I will stress the challenge of solidly anchoring medium and long-term inflation expectations – of key importance for delivering price stability and for consolidating an exceptionally favourable yield curve, because, on a medium to long-term basis, these inflationary expectations are incorporated in the market rates.
I have noted that on the most important issues the views expressed in the draft resolution are very similar to those held by the ECB.
We would very much appreciate it if Parliament could accept the argument that the publication of the votes of individual members of the Governing Council could trigger national public debates on whether national central bank governors have taken due account of national interests, whereas the Treaty calls for all of us to focus on the euro area as a whole.
By adopting this procedure during 1999, the ECB contributed to improving the global state-of-the-art in central bank transparency and became the first central bank to release a comprehensive diagnosis explaining monetary policy decisions immediately after they are taken.
The information conveyed by the ECB this way is, in essence, similar to what other central banks publish in summary minutes, as it reflects properly the overall discussion in the Governing Council.
The report thus makes the ECB’s policies more accessible to the readers, that is, the public, so we see the ECB as having done a good job of work with the whole thing.
When those are in place, the important conditions for economic growth and employment are created, and, although that is of course not enough, we should not make the ECB responsible for full employment or economic growth; to do so would be to lay far too great a burden on it.
The Lipietz report was successfully rewritten by the adoption, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, of the amendments tabled on these points, and so we still wonder why the rapporteur has not dissociated himself from it.
We do not believe that it needs to be amended. &#160;&#160; – A debate such as the one we are having today is very important as it affects millions of people throughout the whole continent.
At times, we end up talking in such a complicated way that I honestly believe that there are people in this House, let alone those who voted for us and to whom we are responsible, who do not even know what we are talking about.
I believe that, in the future, the main task of new Member States of the European Union must be to put their economies on strong foundations.
In my opinion, it would be a mistake if any country, simply to satisfy its desire to introduce the single currency as soon as possible, were to introduce superficial but harsh measures affecting its middle and lower classes, measures that might perhaps result in satisfying the convergence criteria, whatever these might be, but at the expense of sacrificing the social achievements of recent years.
The new Member States of the European Union and the European Union as a whole have a great deal to learn from the experience of those Member States that have already adopted the single currency.
It is a time when we need leadership and vision. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by warmly congratulating Mr Trichet on the way in which he has done a good job of continuing the work of his predecessor Mr Wim Duisenberg.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe in the European Parliament not only accepts this as a core task for the ECB, but, moreover, emphasises that it has priority.
The European Central Bank needs no lectures on what its interest rate policy should have been like in the past or what it must be like in the future.
The euro zone’s economic weakness is attributable neither to any lack of confidence in the euro nor simply to a lack of demand that might have been avoided by aggressive cutting of interest rates.
The determining factor is, instead, a general lack of confidence on the part of the public and the business community in their own countries’ economic policies, and the sluggishness of reforms, particularly in the large euro zone countries.
This would enable the public to have first-hand and readily-accessible information on the economic positions of their own country and of all the countries in the euro zone.
We look forward to your feedback, Mr Trichet, and to continued close cooperation with you in the future. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are economic theories that are astoundingly impervious to reality.
Monetary policy does, however, bear its share of responsibility as a result of cuts in interest rates that have been too late and not enough.
To the ECB, those who look at the world from this angle ... &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, by setting up a currency union with a common currency, twelve of the EU Member States have taken considerable risks with employment.
The risks involved in the euro are already clearly seen, above all in Germany which has been subjected to an unduly restrictive monetary policy in recent years, with hundreds of thousands of German workers forced needlessly into unemployment.
These problems will increase when industrial activity shifts to Eastern Europe and Asia, badly affecting each of the eurozone countries to varying degrees during the next five years.
Unfortunately, the policy of the European Central Bank has exacerbated these unemployment problems in quite a few Member States.
In common with most modern central banks, the European Central Bank operates mainly with an inflation target.
The central banks in Great Britain, Sweden, New Zealand and the United States have higher inflation targets.
The ECB and its top people should therefore increase their inflation target to an average of at least 2.5%.
I would just ask my conservative friend Mr Lauk to re-read to himself the speech he has just delivered, this time with reference to American conditions; it would then, probably, become clear – even to him – that price stability and economic growth are always something of which a central bank must not lose sight if its actions are to be effective.
So I really do ask you, in the interests of all those in the euro zone who believe in the euro – and, being an Austrian, I include myself – to be much more critical, and much more vigilant, than your predecessor.
We urge you to champion the abolition of one- and two-cent coins and the introduction of one- and two-euro notes, and to ensure that transparency is not at odds with independence. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, leaving aside the uncertainty caused by movements in the price of oil, the European Central Bank (ECB) has succeeded rather well in its quest for price stability.
In the first paragraph of last year’s resolution about the annual report 2003, Parliament asked the ECB to set up a working party to investigate the need for introducing the EUR 1 note.
That has, in particular, become apparent in the events of recent months, in which the euro’s problem has been with the Finance ministers, and in which some of us in the European Parliament have seen with great sorrow the Commission’s failure to take a stand in the way, and with the clarity, that you have done today in this House with regard to how the Stability Pact is to be handled.
It is in fact you who guarantee the Stability Pact in the euro zone!
That would be a first step, and we expect to have to debate and decide, within the life of this Parliament, whether more currencies are to be added.
I entirely agree with the aspects of Mr Lipietz’s report providing a favourable assessment of the European Central Bank’s reaction during 2003: low interest rates, clarification of the concept of stability and enlargement of the eurozone.
Nevertheless, the need for structural reforms must not become distorted through erroneous signals; the link between weak economic activity and low working time must therefore be excluded from the resolution.
I also agree with those who have stated that macroeconomic stability, healthy macroeconomic policies, price stability and low interest rates are a necessary condition, but do not by themselves explain the state of growth in the European Union, particularly in 2003, referred to in the report we are debating today, but also during 2004.
The revitalisation of the Lisbon strategy; new impetus for structural reforms, in accordance with the objectives and guidelines agreed in March 2000, are essential to achieving sustained and stable growth in a European Union which must not only grow, but which, furthermore, must do so in stable conditions, promoting social cohesion and the sustainability of our growth and of our model of growth.
Firstly, the Stability and Growth Pact remains fully in force and there are certain phrases in the report’s explanatory statement which could give the impression that the serious political conflict in the Council in November 2003 had mortally wounded that Pact.
But as we discussed here last month, the Pact is in force; the European Constitution has just ratified the broad stability objectives in terms of deficit and debt, the framework for economic governance is still the one decided upon at the beginning of Economic and Monetary Union.
What we need to do is improve its application, as Mr Trichet has said and, in any event, discuss whether on the basis of our experience and application of the Stability and Growth Pact over recent years, there are possibilities for improving its implementation, not in order to change the objectives of stability and growth, but in order to turn it into reality in a more effective and consistent manner than we have managed so far.
Finally, a comment on the economic situation mentioned by Mr Trichet.
This was all that I wished to say, Mr President, and I have abided by your request. &#160;&#160; That concludes the debate.
The vote will be tomorrow at 12.30. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the last speaker but one, who spoke on previous points of order, was celebrating the fact that it was the 25th anniversary of the approval of the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, and on the occasion of this anniversary, he has proposed that this Parliament congratulate the Basque Parliament on this day, 25 October, 25 years after the approval of that Statute.
I would like to point out that he forgot to mention that, following a quarter of a century with this Statute in place, 37 transfers remain outstanding and we are talking about an Organic Law of the Spanish State which has not been fully complied with. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Basque Parliament on what happened 25 years ago, regardless of the course that Statute has taken, which I believe has been highly satisfactory.
But Mr Ortuondo’s speech strikes me as somewhat grotesque, since what he suggests would be like not congratulating the French on the French Revolution because some of the subsequent laws have not been complied with. &#160;&#160; I would like to focus on one of the points in the Lipietz report – the possible abolition of the 1 and 2 cent coins.
This does alleviate concerns.
The Commission fully understands the worries and sympathises with the workers in Rüsselsheim, Bochum, Trollhättan and elsewhere.
Competitiveness, economic reform and new industrial policy are now high on the political agenda of the Commission and will receive even more focus in the new Commission.
In order to be able to better assess the competitiveness of the car industry the Commission has launched a study that we will publish in a few weeks time in the context of our annual competitiveness report.
The study shows that the automotive industry contributes 6% to our manufacturing employment and 7% to manufacturing output in the Union, making it a major driver in the European economy.
Its added value and employment have, however, declined between 2000 and 2002.
Compared to the current level of productivity in the Union, the level of labour costs presents a serious challenge for the car industry in some Member States.
Labour costs per hour in the European Union are still somewhat below those in the United States but significantly higher than those in Japan and especially Korea.
Future regulation must therefore take into account the long-term competitiveness of the car industry and the need for manufacturers to be able to sell their products and similar products in Europe and on the whole world market.
Commissioner Verheugen, or rather Vice-President-designate Verheugen, said at his hearing in front of you in the European Parliament that he is considering setting up such a group.
Moreover, we must revise the Lisbon strategy of growth and employment to revitalise economic dynamism and to strengthen consumer demand on our continent.
In order to save EUR&#160;500 million, the American General Motors group is seeking to cut up to 12&#160;000 jobs in the EU.
If it is now being manoeuvred into a crisis, the only thing I want to point out is that in Germany, since 1990, a hundred thousand new jobs have been created in this sector – or has Germany failed as an industrial location?
At Opel, in Rüsselsheim, 4&#160;500 jobs are to be cut back.
The people affected live in my electoral district, and I have met them.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats can only hope that the management and the workers’ representatives can get together and hammer out an agreement on their future in Europe.
It has been said, and rightly, that industrial policy must be put back on the agenda for the European institutions.
We are only just beginning to get to grips with the future of European industrial policy.
You, ladies and gentlemen, have some lessons to learn! &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, both for myself and on behalf of my group, I wish to express our solidarity with Opel’s workers throughout Europe, but I particularly want to support the workers in Bochum who went on strike.
My colleagues have already said what needs to be said about the management’s mistakes; let us talk about the work that has to be done in this field in the future, including by the Commission.
Mr Rehn spoke about research and development policy.
I very much hope that the new energy crisis really will move European research policy towards enabling us, to have, at some point in the foreseeable future, 1-litre cars, that is to say, the cars of the future, built in German and European factories.
It so happens that the Volkswagen Group is a living example of an innovative business culture.
These are ideas from which other businesses could well learn, but this ongoing attack on the VW Act, which, in our view, does not constitute an infringement of internal market rules, is also an attack on this exemplary business culture. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I believe I am the only car worker in this Parliament.
We must demand that companies accept their social responsibility.
Our prime concern should be to maintain the competitiveness of the European automobile industry.
Those within the Commission who support an unbridled liberalism should therefore be made to see sense, and our industry must be able to pursue its efforts to modernise and to improve competitiveness without others gaining from the fruits of its labours, in so doing jeopardising jobs in European industry. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I do not intend to repeat what many of the other Members of this House, including Mr Mann, have already said about the automotive industry being one of the most important in Western Europe and the need for it to stay that way.
It accounts for the direct employment of 1.2 million people but, as the Commissioner stated, is under enormous pressure, not only pressure from growing competition in Asia but also from increasing competition in the ten new Member States.
The events in Bochum are not an isolated phenomenon; Opel’s sister company in Antwerp is also being hit hard, and, before this, Flanders had been affected by other serious streamlining measures.
You will be familiar with what happened with the Ford factory in Genk and the closure of Renault in Vilvoorde.
Commissioner, I should like to conclude by saying that we should not forget that the automotive industry is still an industry that excites many young people.
In our concern for social responsibility, we always risk being pushed into a corner, and sometimes we allow that to happen, but there are points here that have to do with the economy in the traditional sense of the word.
Despite that, there are a number of mistakes on the part of the management to be added to the list, to which it had been alerted by the workers’ representatives on various occasions, one such mistake being the fact that, unlike Volkswagen and the Japanese, Opel does not sell its cars outside Europe, in the USA, for example.
It is only embarrassing that your party colleague in Bochum should raise the question of whether the crisis might have been resolved if the regional or local promoters of trade and industry had been able to do something different.
Those are narrow-minded answers – what we need now is something different! &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing new about this: the managers of businesses operating on a global scale always react to crises by laying off workers, but, instead of that, where management has made mistakes, it is those responsible who must be called to account!
If the crisis is a result of over-production and problems in accessing the market, it makes no economic sense whatever to give in to demands for wage cuts.
That is why we need a demand-led economic policy and, at the same time, a different structural policy.
We did not want a resolution about this issue, the reason being that, in a resolution, we would be forced to write: ‘We want all Europeans to trade in their cars straight away and make sure that they buy new Opels and Volkswagens’.
What is happening, quite simply, is that consumer demand is stagnating in our society.
What the cutbacks at Volkswagen and Opel actually illustrate is the need to opt for another route.
It is mainly the indirect labour costs that are proving pernicious in Europe.
Credit where credit is due, Commissioner – and I say that also on behalf of our group. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the restructuring in the car industry has been going on for a long time.
That is the case in Trollhättan, where GM now owns the Saab factory.
Six thousand people are employed by this industry and a further 6&#160;000 people are dependent on it in a town with a population of approximately 50&#160;000.
A high-level group that draws up guidelines for industrial policy is a good idea, but we also need the other dimension, namely a review of the European Works Councils Directive and the Collective Redundancies Directive.
It is absurd if we are to have a competition policy within the European Union that makes it difficult for European companies to compete globally in a market in which competition is global.
Not one of the proposals presented in this debate in the House would lead to more cars being sold or produced in Europe.
That is what Europe needs, not a European automobile industry policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to begin by expressing our firm commitment and solidarity to the workers of General Motors and subsidiary companies who today fear for their jobs, the future of their families and the future of their regions.
Furthermore, in the case of GM, these workers – and I am well aware of this, since this has been the case in the Figueruelas plant, in my region of Aragón – have just signed an agreement in which they have demonstrated a great capacity for negotiation, dialogue, foresight and adaptation to the demands for flexibility, specifically with a view to anticipating cycles, but despite that, the management – not the management in Aragón, but the European management – has once again abandoned them.
We therefore call on the Commission, as well as the study group, to apply the required social and economic measures which this Parliament has proposed on many occasions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a number of colleagues have said, this is nothing new.
There are over ten major manufacturers producing cars in Europe and spending billions on research and development.
It is likely that in the United Kingdom this year we will produce a record number of cars.
That record was last broken in 1972.
The message to the many people who are facing uncertainty in Rüsselsheim, Bochum and Trollhättan – and I have been to some of those plants – is that there is life after restructuring.
We should be reflecting on why General Motors tells us that it needs to save EUR 500 million a year in costs to make itself competitive.
That is the change that is needed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the errors of management have been sufficiently described, and, rather than enlarge upon them, I want to talk about what we – the Commission, the Council, and also this Parliament – can do.
I believe that we can gain some optimism from what Mr&#160;Rehn and Mr Verheugen said in the hearings.
Management decisions have also played a role in the current situation in the European car industry.
Our conclusion, which I think is a very common view in this House and in the Commission, is that we need a new approach to industrial policy.
I therefore appreciate your support for the consideration of the high-level group, which would, in my view, work in the same way as in the textile sector.
This is a very worthy focus for the high-level group, and I trust we will have good cooperation with the European Parliament on these issues. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; We are appalled by the restructuring just announced by GM&#160;Europe aimed at cutting 12&#160;000 jobs in the short term in all of its European factories and at reducing structural costs by around USD 600&#160;million per year.
As stated in the motion that was recently approved by the workers at Opel Azambuja, in Portugal, GM’s consolidation measures cannot be allowed to continue to damage the workforce.
GM Europe’s economic success cannot depend solely on importing American brands and American strategies.
It is essential that production be maintained in various countries in Europe.
We therefore wish to show our solidarity with and support for the GM Europe factory workers in their fight against redundancies, against the closure of factories and against the violation of collective working agreements.
According to the ECOFIN Directorate-General’s econometric simulations model, if the price of a barrel of oil stays at 50 dollars – and today I believe a barrel of Brent stands at over 51 dollars – the effect would be an accumulated growth loss over three years of almost one point of gross domestic product, if the price of a barrel remains at 50 dollars throughout that period.
In fact, the economic forecasts the Commission will present tomorrow have been based on the assumption of a higher oil price than in the spring, although it is also the case that, with regard to the estimates of the macroeconomic model, our forecasts for the evolution of the oil price for 2005 and 2006 are slightly more optimistic.
Even so, despite this negative impact, the European economies are in a position to endure this price increase, thanks, in particular, to two factors.
Not only is it no higher than that of 2000, but it is also very much lower than the high reached in real terms in 1981 and is also noticeably lower than that reached in 1973, more than 30 years ago.
Furthermore, the European economies, over the intervening 30 years, have considerably increased their energy efficiency, reducing their dependence on oil when compared to the eighties, which makes us less vulnerable to increases in energy prices.
Before ending my first speech, I would like, if you will allow me, to stress two elements relating to the European economy in a more general sense.
Our Parliament has decided not take any action either, preferring a mere Commission statement to committing ourselves to a resolution, as proposed by our political group.
The oil price crises of 1993, 1994, 2002 and 2004 show that this is not a problem specific to the current situation, but a cyclical problem, and we must work on the basis that cycles will become shorter and shorter, since we are talking about an exhaustible energy source.
First, we should stress that nearly all the budgets of the Member States have been prepared on the basis of an oil price of USD 29.
Secondly, we should stress the need to configure a stable and effective European framework for dealing with upward trends and sudden fluctuations in oil prices.
Thirdly, we should stress the need to develop and activate a plan for dealing with the crisis and creating an efficient framework for preventing any crises which may affect the new stability pact.
I should like in closing to stress that any delay in taking immediate initiatives will contribute to the emergence, as we have seen in the Council, of isolated national measures, and I should like to stress here that different national economic and political approaches must not be allowed to affect the degree of application of unified Community policies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, during the past few months constant increases in the price of a barrel of oil have deepened the crisis affecting the European fisheries sector.
For example, does it intend to put forward proposals to allow measures to be taken under the existing Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance, or under the future European Fisheries Fund, or under any other mechanism, to improve the economic situation and to thus preserve the future of regions which have no real alternative? &#160;&#160; Mr President, many communities, many families in Scotland are highly dependent upon the fishing industry, an industry which has had massive economic and social pain inflicted upon it as a direct result of political decisions made in Brussels under the common fisheries policy.
The rocketing cost of fuel could be the final straw for many businesses – and a fishing boat in Scotland very often is a business, a family-run business – which have been forced by the CFP to operate this year for only 15 days each month.
Some EU governments apparently recognise the exceptional economic pressure which rising fuel prices puts upon the fisheries sector.
Recently France, supported by at least four other Member States, saw it as a long-term Community mechanism for granting public aid to the sector.
However, the rise in oil prices places a burden on low incomes and increases the tax revenue of the Member States.
Rapid measures should be taken to amend and accelerate the 2000 programme in the same way that America has done in the case of biofuels, with the country now using 10% biofuels in petrol and producing 70&#160;million&#160;tonnes of them every year.
In other words, there is a need for both measures taken at European level during crisis periods and national measures adapted to local situations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, what I have noted today in this House, in particular, is the absence of the Commissioner responsible for the two sectors – agriculture and fisheries – who should be taking the initiative to propose measures to alleviate the negative impact of the rise in oil prices on two sectors which are unquestionably his responsibility.
Last week a draft was presented in this House calling for a parliamentary resolution in favour of long-term measures aimed at reducing the farmers’ dependence on diesel.
The increase in the price of oil has resulted in general price rises in our country too.
All this is planned for the future by László Kovács, Commissioner-designate, whose expertise has been called into question by some people in this House. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the continual rise in oil prices is again bringing home to us our economic dependency on third states.
So, equipped with new and smart energies, let us go on the march into the future! &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the price of oil is still lower now than it was at the beginning of the eighties, but that has not taught us to conserve.
Unfortunately, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats overturned the report on emergency supplies in this House a little under a year ago.
Perhaps the present energy problems in the United States and Europe have woken us up.
The unstable situation in Africa, the Middle East and Russia has resulted in problems in the supply of oil.
It is obviously necessary for us to reduce our dependence on oil and develop new energy sources. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rise in oil prices is having an undeniable impact on the European economy, agriculture and fisheries.
The long-term rise in oil prices is not just the result of recent events, but of strong economic growth in China and the countries of South-East Asia, which in itself is a positive thing.
Low stocks in the United States and political instability in the Middle East have also had an impact.
The only means by which we can have an effect on the price of oil or any other form of energy in the long term is to ensure that European energy policy is sufficiently diverse in scope.
Dependence on oil is also a very difficult issue from the point of view of relations with Russia, as Mr&#160;Paasilinna, for example, has just said.
It is true that some economists are talking about 60 and 70 dollars, but it is also true that the futures markets are operating on the basis of a reduction of the current level of 50 dollars per barrel and that the market operators are, therefore, not anticipating further rises in the petrol price, but rather a tendency over the next two years for the market situation to moderate, given that, as some of you have said, the proportion of the rise in the oil price over recent months does not correspond either to the objective situation of supply and demand in the market nor to the other geopolitical factors influencing the situation, but to speculative operations which cannot be maintained permanently over time.
We therefore need to be prudent and realistic when assessing a situation which, in any event, is not a positive one and which, as I said at the beginning, and as many of you have repeated, has a negative impact on growth and on the evolution of prices.
Thirdly, I entirely agree with those of you who have insisted on the need to continue moving ahead in relation to our energy efficiency and on policies to reduce our dependence on oil as an energy source.
I believe that the European Union has made significant advances in this respect over the last 20 or 25 years and that we must continue to make progress in this direction and intensify where necessary – and I believe it is clearly necessary in relation to certain aspects – common actions at European level in relation to energy policy.
By way of example, while I said earlier that, if the price of a barrel of oil remains at 50 dollars over the next two years, until the end of 2006, this would have an impact on the European Union’s economy of a reduction in growth of around one point, the impact on the United States’ economy would be much greater, because their level of dependence on oil as a primary energy source is much greater than that of the European Union countries.
And of course, given that the impact of oil prices is negative, but is not spread equally across the different sectors of our society or the different production sectors, as many of you have pointed out, it is clear that we need to redistribute our efforts in order to deal with the situation of the sectors suffering most from the rise.
In addition to the Commission's initiatives, however, a consensus must be created at Council level both in terms of coordination, which is the responsibility of the Ecofin Council when it comes to measures of a fiscal nature, and in terms of any measures which may be adopted at the level of the production sectors, which were discussed during the first debate on the 18th.
This rise is the result of a complex series of factors, including the invasion of Iraq, political and social instability in some of the big exporting countries, natural disasters, increased demand in countries with large populations and strong economic growth, and also speculation.
The International Monetary Fund says that a USD&#160;8 per barrel rise will cause a 0.5% fall in economic growth.
