Equality between women and men - 2008 (debate) The next item is the report by Iratxe García Pérez, on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, on Equality between women and men - 2008.
rapporteur. - (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin my speech by expressing my thanks to the Commission for its 2008 report on equality between men and women, which takes a comprehensive approach both to policies to mainstream the gender dimension and towards specific positive discrimination measures.
Accordingly it is necessary to encourage laws in Member Status to combat this social plague.
Also in this report we propose that the Community institutions and the Member States should declare 22 February as International Equal Pay Day.
A woman would need to work 52 more days a year to earn the same wage as a man.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes the report and motion for a resolution on equality between women and men in the European Union.
Acceptance of the plan to achieve equal status between women and men emphasises the Commission's willingness to use all means to bring Europe closer to real equality between women and men in all areas.
This approach complies with the Commission's policy in this field and includes topics which were emphasised in the report for 2008.
The Commission shares the rapporteur's view that a central role is played in the achievement of equality between women and men by the work-life balance.
The Commission intends in the near future to present a package of initiatives relating to the work-life balance, in particular a report on childcare, a draft directive amending the Directive on maternity leave and a draft directive amending the 1986 Directive on 'assisting spouses'.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - Mr President, first of all I would like to say that this is a very comprehensive report and highlights many of the issues that must be dealt with in order to ensure equality between women and men.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Education. - (ES) Mr President, firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the apt approach she took when drafting this report on equality between men and women.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (HU) Thank you.
According to the 2008 report on equality between women and men, there has been some progress, but unfortunately it also mentions some frozen areas where there has not been any perceptible movement.
I would like to congratulate my colleague on her work; she has presented an excellent report.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Mr President, I would obviously like first to thank my friend and colleague Iratxe García for the work she has done for this report, which I view as an important and complete piece of work.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report and I support it in full.
I will also support the amendments on the labour market tabled by Mrs Figueiredo.
The problem in Europe is not the struggle between men and women.
As a woman I would prefer that equal rights did not result in equality with men in every respect, but rather led to arrangements that protect women and alleviate their burdens.
No longer being treated as an impersonal workforce, they could then make a creative contribution in many areas of the economy. (SK) This 2008 report on equality between women and men summarises a European Parliament report which has already been adopted and which created a great stimulus that needs to be applied in practice.
I view it as a reflection of the work of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality and I should therefore first of all like to thank Mrs García Pérez for producing it.
In some countries, including Portugal, this figure rises to over 25%, a situation that has actually become aggravated in recent years.
What I do want to say is that this excellent report has raised very many important issues, and I thank the rapporteur for that.
As a representative from London - and, indeed, a woman representative from London - I have had a particular interest in this subject, because London is one of the places very much affected by trafficking in women.
Ensuring equality between women and men in all the fields of action of the European Union's policies is still a current issue in Western society. (SK) The report begins with a paragraph stating that equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the European Union, a principle which has been in place for more than 50 years.
The second part of the report, however, continues with 46 paragraphs containing recommendations, invitations or requests for this principle to be observed.
There is a request to combat violence against women, a request to combat trafficking in women and much more.
Such reports are certainly important and I congratulate the rapporteur.
Nevertheless, over 50% of women want to have access to the European labour market, as well as to obtain a qualification that would facilitate their employment in public administration, agriculture, social assistance or education.
The fact that today male colleagues have participated in this debate may, I believe, be a reflection of the fact that men must also stand beside women in the fight for equality.
Europe is confronted with a demographic problem resulting not only from the economic problems affecting our continent but also from the failure to provide young mothers with proper support.
Out of the 331 Members of Parliament, only 37 are women, just above 11% of the total.
Also, in Romania, almost a third of women work part-time, as compared with only 7.7% of men, for a remuneration on average 15 percent lower than that of men.
Unfortunately, gender inequality and the related prejudices are present not only in the family environment, but also in the education environment of Romanians.
in writing. - (FR) Equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of the European Union.
Yet the figures in the 2008 report show that there is still no equality.
These mentalities can be seen in all countries, but in particular in disadvantaged regions.
in writing. - (RO) I would like to congratulate the Rapporteur and emphasize the importance of the content of this report for the achievement of the economic growth objectives undertaken in the context of the Lisbon Strategy.
According to a national study conducted in Romania, in 90% of the cases, the victims of sexual harassment were women and 1 out of 9 people in the urban environment have dealt with a sexual harassment situation.
in writing. - (RO) Time has come to give up stereotypes and act firmly in order to provide real equal chances to women and men.
Over the last ten years, progress has been unquestionable as regards the increase of women representation in European top politics, but still insufficient.
The Romanian society has the duty to fight mentalities, gender discriminations in all its daily forms.
