&#160;&#160; The next item is the statements from the Council and the Commission on the Members' Statute. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the opportunity to participate in this debate on a Statute for Members of the European Parliament.
Mr President, the Council fully respects the primary role played by the European Parliament in drawing up the Statute for its Members.
It is therefore clear that the European Parliament cannot introduce the Statute without the consent of the Council, and the Council cannot approve the Statute unless Parliament puts forward proposals it can accept.
Mr President, I know that many of you are keen to know what the Council's position is on the Statute in general and, more specifically, on a number of proposals which have been made at different levels in recent weeks.
When Parliament forwarded its proposal for a Statute to the Council last June, it was clear that substantial differences existed between our respective positions, thus preventing the Council from giving its approval.
I regret to say that Parliament's June proposal was too far removed from the Council’s positions and that made it impossible for us to give our approval.
The Council welcomes the measures recently adopted by the Bureau of the European Parliament on the reimbursement of expenses.
On taxation of Members of Parliament’s salaries – a point which requires unanimous agreement in the Council for it to be able to give its consent – the provisions regarding the Community tax to be applied to the salaries received by MEPs must not prejudice the entitlement of the Member States to subject these salaries to their national tax system, provided that the salaries are not taxed twice over.
As regards retirement age, while there was a clear preference in the Council for a retirement age of 65 years, we would, in a constructive spirit of compromise, be prepared to accept a limit of 63 years.
I would draw your attention to the fact that all the positions I have just outlined are the result of lengthy, detailed Council debates that took place a long while before the Parliament approved its Statute on 3 June 2003.
As regards some recent initiatives put forward in Parliament, the Italian Presidency has witnessed a positive initial response from all the delegations in the Council.
Should these initiatives secure the support of Parliament, we would be closer than never before to agreement on this longstanding issue.
I sincerely hope that, after such a drawn-out debate over so many years, we will be faced with the real possibility of reaching an agreement on this issue which has been dragging on for such a long time.
At that time the Commission issued an opinion which contained two general observations: firstly, in relation to the provisions of the Statute which are governed by primary law; secondly, with regard to the financial implications of the Statute.
In the first case we said that the provisions of the Statute cannot be modified by means of a fundamental act, on the basis of Article 190 of the Treaty, and in the second case, we indicated that the sums in question would represent a significant burden for category 5 of the financial perspectives.
Another reason why we feel ill at ease is that it seems strange that, four days after the collapse of the Intergovernmental Conference on ‘The future of Europe – a European constitution’, we find ourselves, in a request for urgent debate, calling on the Council to agree on a Members’ Statute, even though it has hitherto not done so or shown any desire to do so.
We do it because a statute for Members of the European Parliament is not about party-political, national, or individual interests or game-playing; on the contrary, the procedure and content should remain a matter of common concern.
The fact is that we are not meant to be engaging in dialogue with one another; it is for you to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to what we have adopted as a proposal for our Members’ Statute, and because we want to abandon this shared path.
It is because we want to make it clear that it is the Council, which represents the national governments, and not this House, that must bear responsibility for this unsatisfactory state of affairs.
That is our final offer; our new message to you is that you must, by 15 January, say ‘yes’ or ‘no’.
Taking discussions at national level on pensions into account, we are raising the pensionable age by three years.
At the beginning of this legislature, after the adoption during the last one of the Rothley report, we created a working group in order to be able to define the most controversial elements of the Statute and I would like to point out that an ex-Secretary of the Council and an ex-Secretary of the Commission participated actively in that working group, as well as other important personalities, because we wanted to deal objectively with an issue with a constitutional dimension.
We must therefore resolve this issue.
In other words, we do not want to do it against your will or in confrontation with the States and that is why Parliament is now stretching out its hand to you in order to be able to resolve this thorny issue.
On the three issues raised – which I hope will be approved in the resolution – which my group advocates, I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council has been very clear and explicit in relation to primary law, with the reimbursement of expenditure and with taxation.
He has also talked about the level of remuneration and I also believe that he has made an interesting observation on the problems it can prevent.
I therefore believe that before 15 January we may have a positive solution for the Statute, which I believe is one of the most important advances we can achieve in terms of dignifying the work of MEPs and the resolution of one of the Union’s most difficult and complex constitutional issues. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am running short of inspiration about what to say on the subject of the Members' Statute.
Perhaps I should begin where I left off in this Chamber in June when I offered an explanation of vote on behalf of the ELDR Group's abstention and my own national delegation's vote against the then resolution.
Next summer when we face Europe's citizens in elections we could have a Parliament with its own House in order, its Members across Europe treated and respected equally and on a transparent basis, or we could continue with the current disgraceful mix and muddle which leaves us all open to ridicule.
I have said it before, and I will say it again.
Council, you have the chance to get us out of this ridiculous situation and thereby enhance the Union in the eyes of its citizens.
Please, please do not mess up this time. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, our parliamentary group is totally in favour of a Members’ Statute.
We feel that the principle of equality between MEPs is a necessary element of justice and transparency for our citizens.
The issue that is still a matter of disagreement is the age of retirement.
The current proposal is to give MEPs a pension at the age of 63, while the Confederal Group of the European United Left believes that the age should be lowered to 60.
This proposal does not aim to protect the privileges of MEPs; we are putting forward the proposal because we are convinced that all European citizens should retire at the age of 60, at the very latest.
At the same time, however, we realise that, in certain Member States of the European Union, this could give rise to untenable situations, where an MEP receives a salary several times greater than that of their President.
Perhaps we could close the gap between differing remuneration of MEPs by basing it on the monthly salaries of senior State offices in that particular country; but, for us, the principle of the single across-the-board salary is an irrevocable one.
Finally, as regards the payment of the travelling expenses of MEPs, we would like to remind you that the Bureauof the European Parliament has drawn up a proposal that a majority in my group has asked to see put into practice when the Statute comes into force &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what our group now endorses with the utmost modesty is what we could have done months ago if we had listened to the smaller groups, but history is history and the future belongs to us all, and so we believe it to be a very good thing that we have ended up in our present situation.
One thing that this means is that we want to adopt a basic resolution to the effect that the same provisions apply to all Members of this House, since we all do the same work.
At the same time, though, we will, by adopting this, be taking a decision to put an end to the rules on billing for travelling expenses, which are far from transparent and, in my – our – view, quite simply not right and proper.
By adopting the single statute, we are also voting to do away with reimbursements of travel costs that are utterly absurd.
Secondly, we are also making it clear that we are intelligent enough to make transitional arrangements possible, so that the enlargement countries will indeed have time to join in this joint arrangement, for it would be absurd if someone, on becoming a Member of the European Parliament, were, overnight, to start earning more than the Prime Minister of a country.
Precisely when these states’ MEPs join in, will have to be laid down by the Council in the form of intelligent rules – in other words, by an opting-in arrangement.
When one is in place, then the future of our statutes will be guaranteed.
I am, therefore, firmly opposed to the idea of reducing the figure adopted in this resolution.
Many thanks to all those who have lent a hand in this. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we shall shortly be celebrating a silver jubilee: this Parliament has now been a directly elected body for 25 years.
At the same time, travel expense reimbursement is running into figures that are increasingly out of proportion to the actual expenses, particularly owing to competition in air transport.
At the Amsterdam Summit in June 1997, a legal basis was incorporated into the Treaty enabling Parliament to draft a statute, which was to be adopted by the Council.
A common statute for the Membersfrom all the Member Statesdoes justice to the ideal of equal pay for equal responsibility.
Year in, year out, our group submits a budget amendment to the effect that reimbursement be based on the travel expenses actually incurred, and every year a majority in this Parliament rejects that proposal.
Indisputable as that last point may be, it leads my Dutch fellow Members and me to the conclusion that reimbursement of travel expenses cannot be achieved on its own, but only in combination with a statute.
For that reason, we think that the Statute should have been in place long ago.
The third is national taxation.
The present national figures include extremes of high and low.
The Italian Prime Minister yesterday expressed pride that last weekend’s summit took so many decisions with great energy.
The Irish have demonstrated their capacity for hard work, and therefore I sincerely hope that they will be able to give the green light to the Statute by 15&#160;January. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to state once more, on behalf of my colleagues in the Movement for France delegation in the European Parliament, that we are absolutely opposed to Members of the European Parliament being paid their main salary out of the Community budget.
Governments therefore need now to resist pressure from the federalists who want to detach Members of the European Parliament from their respective countries on the pretext of a principle of equality between MEPs that exists nowhere in the Treaties and that is entirely invented.
In order to bring Europe closer to its citizens, we must, on the contrary, strengthen the link between MEPs and their nations.
Income tax must be levied on a national basis.
Finally, and by way of a compromise, it could be accepted that daily allowances should be considered as a supplementary income paid by the European institutions and subject, therefore, to Community tax.
The Council accuses this House of taking the Statute as an opportunity to interfere in issues primary legislation, but the Council itself evidently sees nothing problematic in the way it seeks, in this Statute, to deal with such primary law issues as taxes.
This is also about what can be expected of our future colleagues, whose nomination processes are currently underway in the Member States.
They, too, have to know under what conditions they will be working in future in this Parliament.
The deadline, then, is 15 January.
After almost a quarter-century of direct elections to the European Parliament, we still have the structure of a parliamentary assembly, but we have to develop into a real parliament, and that is what this Statute is for.
I have been rapporteur several times on privileges and immunities under the existing protocol.
Therefore, although this matter is not going to be brought home at this stage, I would echo the proposition that we must work hard in the near future to get the whole issue of privileges and immunities put on a proper footing as well. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, as you can see from this Chamber, the feeling is unanimous: after 25 years, it is time for the European Parliament and the Members of this Parliament to have a single Statute or a single set of rules.
Furthermore, after 25 years, it may well also decide on our place of work.
Perhaps unlike my colleagues, however, I personally think that it is just fine.
The basic idea was to incorporate into the Statute a genuine charter for MEPs, which would also include the prerogatives of MEPs, a common package that would have given a meaning to the word ‘statute’.
This seems to me to be the correct meaning of the ‘Members’ Statute’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe that when substantial problems exist, as in the case of the Statute, we simply need to be patient because, in the end reason will prevail, awareness will emerge and everyone will act responsibly for a moment.
Ladies and gentlemen, we could have achieved a result even before 9 December, but this was not fully understood when I convened the committee, on 9/10 December, to force the Council to face up to its responsibilities.
We still have time, though, and I believe that, if we are to attribute a fundamental significance to the date of 15&#160;January, we must act now.
Personally, I see no problem, if you agree Mr&#160;President with convening the committee now for 12 January, in that it would be, Mr Antonione, a clear, transparent and specific act by Parliament.
The first part gives autonomy, guarantees, visibility, transparency and unanimity to the rules governing the Members of the European Parliament and to Parliament as a whole.
The second part is the necessary organisational section, where we have achieved a balance by way of a compromise that I think does credit to Parliament.
It is true that small sacrifices have been made, but the issue now looks fairly clear and acceptable.
In our proposal there is a modification of the exceptional fiscal status, taken up in the so-called ‘Belgian compromise’, which only makes sense in so far as it is a delegation, a kind of opting out with regard to general law, but which cannot be interpreted as a general power before the States to establish taxation on the sums paid by the Community institutions.
With this exception, the proposal that the various political groups are now presenting in the European Parliament could effectively represent a step forward in the establishment of unitary status with regard to the European Union.
I do not believe that now is the time to invoke the subsidiarity principle, but quite the opposite: we are building a European Union which must be based on common institutions with a common operation, and this is what explains the proposal for European parliamentary statute and a statute for European political parties.
It is not a question of granting privileges of any type, but of establishing a situation of equality amongst all the Members of the European Parliament.
The current version of the Members' Statute is not perfect – far from it.
Let us get the whole matter done and dusted in double quick time! &#160;&#160; Mr President, today we have a chance to remove the barriers which have held back meaningful discussion on the whole question of the Statute of Members.
We can certainly support the principle behind it: to give every MEP the same dignity and, above all, a constant reminder of a single point of reference for the exercise of their mandate, with the same common rights and responsibilities.
Nevertheless, it has not been uncommon, especially recently, for the Community institutions to adopt legislative provisions and with many expressions of regret acknowledging the need to involve the future Member States only in the conciliation phase.
There is, however, more and it concerns points that are, if you like, less noble, but that also call the concept of dignity into question.
Similarly I cannot imagine how other Members could contemplate receiving a lower salary than the one they receive today, especially in consideration of the higher salaries received by national MPs, if not, indeed, by regional advisors, in the same State.
The overwhelming majority of the Member States currently set retirement in public organisations at the age of 65 or over.
Thus, either we have the courage to ignore the fact that, because the pension scheme for MEPs is practically self-financed, it falls outside the pension costs of each Member State and, for the sake of pure political consistency, we opt for a retirement age limit of 65; or we show similar courage in admitting that the fund is, in substance, of a private nature and that the only valid rules are those dictated by actuarial statistical calculation.
The first observation relates to the difficulty raised by certain Members regarding the difference, in their scandalous judgment, between the pay of an MEP and that of certain political posts in candidate countries.
Mr President, I believe that this difficulty makes no sense, because, within the fifteen current Member States there are also differences in income, and we are not for that reason going to establish different pay for each of them.
And within each Member State there are regions with different levels of income and, as far as I know, national Members of Parliament are not paid differently according to the region they come from.
Mr President, this is absurd as well, because if our function is European, our pay should come from the European budget, or are Members of Parliament in the national states paid by their constituency within the State?
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, all the factors for resolving this problem are on the table; the ball is in your court.
Resolve them once and for all, because this problem has gone on too long. &#160;&#160; Mr President, many things have already been said and, in the minute at my disposal, I will not even be able to cover the most important aspects.
I believe that there is no doubt as to the need to adopt a statute, even from the point of view of the role and legitimacy of this Parliament.
The debate is closed.(1) The vote will be at noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the role of the Union in conflict prevention in Africa, particularly in the implementation of the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement in Côte d'Ivoire. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a number of points on the issue of conflict prevention, management and resolution in Africa, a matter which has been at the heart of the Italian Presidency’s work regarding the African continent throughout these six months.
The United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, made this quite clear when he said at the African Union Summit in Maputo that a comprehensive approach is needed which focuses in turn on peace and security, human rights and democracy, reconstruction and development.
The first people to become aware of this were the African Governments themselves, which, already in the programme document for the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, stated that war and underdevelopment are two aspects of the same problem and fuel each other.
The new political element which must be stressed is this new determination on the part of the Africans to shoulder their responsibilities in the field of peace and security too on the basis of the principle of ownership.
Côte d’Ivoire is the real driving force of the region’s economy and it is in this country that the most important battle is being fought out.
The creation of a national reconciliation government, the adoption of an amnesty law, the agreement of 4 July 2003 between the national armed forces and the rebels, are significant stages in a process which needs to be completed by the quartering and disarmament of the troops and the extension of the State’s administration to the whole territory until the presidential elections scheduled for 2005.
The declarations of 22 September and 9 December, the mid-October visit of a European Ministerial Troika and the work of the European Union representative in the Monitoring Committee are evidence of this.
This is the request made by ECOWAS at New York, and this request must be supported by the European Union.
These references to specific conflict situations make one appreciate the determination displayed by the Africans to manage their conflicts, on the one hand, and, on the other, the huge amount of work which needs to be done in order to strengthen operating capacities, particularly those for which subregional organisations are responsible.
This could be the case in Burundi, where the first wholly African peacekeeping force is currently operating, which could be replaced by the United Nations within a year from now.
The most remarkable innovation is, however, the creation of a Peace Facility – allocated EUR 250 million and financed by the EDF&#160;–&#160;decided by the Council of the European Union on 18&#160;November 2003.
In this way, the European Union is giving itself a dependable rapid-intervention instrument which ties in with the strategic partnership relationship linking the European Union to Africa and with the principle of African ownership.
If wisely implemented, the Peace Facility could prove to be one of the most important instruments for the future of relations between Europe and Africa.
We are trying to establish these developments through the revision of the base document, on which the overall action of the European Union in the sector has been based thus far: I refer to the European Union Common Position concerning conflict prevention, management and resolution in Africa of 14 May 2001.
This is an ongoing operation, which we entrust to the future Irish Presidency and which will firmly establish the European Union’s overall approach to the major issue of conflict prevention, management and resolution in Africa. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Commission shares Parliament's concerns on the political situation in Côte d'Ivoire.
The new forces have been boycotting the Council of Ministers for two months and this boycott, as well as the mutual lack of trust, makes it impossible to launch the demobilisation, disarmament and reintegration process which is a prerequisite for the reunification of the country.
Since the outbreak of the conflict in September 2002 the Commission has provided EUR 7.24 million for emergency relief operations in Côte d'Ivoire and it will continue to provide humanitarian assistance in 2004 in the framework of the global plan for coastal West Africa.
The 10 signatories of the agreement recommended the creation of its international committee in order to ensure its implementation.
Since its first meeting at the end of February it has met more than 50 times, but still its action has been criticised by all 10 political forces apart from President Gbagbo's party, the FPI.
Discussions should quickly take place between all members of the committee on how to improve its efficiency.
To restore its credibility the committee should undertake a thorough rethinking of its current role, not only to act as an arbitrator but also primarily to work in a more open manner in order to create more confidence as to how its work is viewed.
But what is most important is to ensure that the political players in Côte d'Ivoire really understand the need to create a spirit of coexistence and compromise.
All this is something we are directly engaged in and we do what we can in all these relations.
I find it quite correct that Parliament is looking at these aspects in this kind of situation.
The Commission has suggested extending the fisheries agreement for one year, taking into consideration that, with this agreement, Côte d’Ivoire will continue to benefit from targeted actions for scientific research, control and surveillance.
The activities and the training of the Fisheries Ministry and investment in the Côte d’Ivoire economy, mainly through the three tuna factories, are guaranteed only if the agreement is extended.
There is no doubt that a failure to extend the agreement would have far-reaching negative consequences and could only deepen the current crisis in Côte d’Ivoire, so I would not recommend pulling this element into a situation which is already problematic enough. &#160;&#160; Mr President, unfortunately the crisis in Ivory Coast means that today we have once again to deal with this country – which was not very long ago a good example of political stability – its economic progress and the living conditions of its inhabitants.
Six political groups in this House are sponsoring a resolution, which we will certainly approve this very morning, in which we essentially call for the strict application of the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement as the surest way of re-establishing the Rule of Law and the peaceful coexistence of all the parties in conflict.
A few months ago this Parliament visited the country and spoke with representatives of the whole of civil society, the authorities and the opposition.
There are other examples, such as the ethnic issue, which, as we say in the resolution, is not at the root of the conflict and is probably not its only cause.
But I must say that this issue of ethnicity and Ivory Coast citizenship was brought up in all our conversations – several dozen of them – during which every one of our interlocutors spoke about the problems caused by the thousands, hundreds of thousands of people originating above all from Burkina Faso who create problems and who are victims – themselves, in many cases – of violence.
Having seen what we have seen, and in view of what I have summarised briefly, I cannot be very optimistic about the immediate future of that country which is so in need of peace. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since that mission to the Côte d'Ivoire by ACP and European Parliament parliamentarians in May 2003 it has become increasingly clear that the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement is a rather imperfect instrument.
My understanding is – and I would like clarification on this because it was not clear from what the Council said – that certain Member States want to use the peace facility, which is well worked out, to fund directly sub-regional organisations, apparently without consulting the African Union, or even seeking the endorsement of the African Union.
I would appreciate some clarification as to where we are at the moment on the extremely important proposal for which Commissioner Nielson was responsible. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, for a long time the future of Côte d’Ivoire looked bright.
It was one of the countries in Africa held up as an example of stability and economic growth.
The international community must no longer stop at lip service.
Commissioner, the European Union must consider all possible initiatives and instruments, including deferring aid to Côte d’Ivoireuntil the government is prepared to implement the Linas-Marcoussis Agreements consistently and in their entirety.
It is only by taking account of all the political forces in the country and of the balance between these forces that it will be possible to find a peaceful and democratic solution, leading to the relaunch of a peace process that must include the disarmament of the militias, together with free legislative and presidential general elections under international supervision.
Alongside this, the EU must adopt a coherent trade and development policy in order to guarantee aid to the African economies and, in particular, to the African population.
To conclude, we would signal our commitment to respect for minorities, which is an indispensable basis for the peaceful settlement of these conflicts in Africa. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there can be no doubt that the role of the Union, together with the United Nations and the African Union, is very important in conflict prevention and peace-making on the continent of Africa, which continues to be torn apart by quarrel and armed conflict.
The situation in Côte d'Ivoire is a typical example of tension based on social and ethnic differences.
The murder of the French journalist Jean Hélène, the correspondent for Radio France Internationale, reveals the depth of the crisis and disdain for the Marcoussis agreement.
This agreement, together with the Cotonou agreement, offers a very good framework for crisis settlement and respect for human rights and the rules of democracy.
Nonetheless, generally when we talk of democracy and peaceful coexistence in an area in which violence is a daily reality, we need to take account of two serious factors.
Experience has shown that solutions based on local values and mediation techniques have far more potential to bring about lasting peace.
The Council and the European Commission therefore need to take account of this factor and to reinforce the initiatives of women in peace processes through the budget; EUR 250 million would be a respectable sum.
This is an organisation, consisting of women from the three countries of Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea, which played a crucial role in preventing hostilities between the three countries by forcing the political leaders to return to the negotiating table, thus earning the praise of the Secretary-General of the UN in April 2002.
I mention this in order to stress the importance of the role of women, which is often disregarded. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, during the night of 11 to 12 December, murderous new confrontations hit Côte d'Ivoire.
These events are suddenly taking place at a time when the ex-rebellion forces had decided to announce their imminent return to the institutions of the government of national reconciliation.
Unfortunately, we observe how the proliferation of militias is a very dangerous consequence of the conflict.
At a time when the country was preparing to take a decisive step towards peace, this new eruption of violence – and this in an extremely troubled context – is again preoccupying the defenders of the Linas-Marcoussis agreements.
Let us therefore be prudent, rather than naive or complicit in a further genocide. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, let me start by reacting to the last contribution.
There is always the problem and risk of indirect consequences of supporting a government in a difficult situation like this.
But we are very cautiously doing the right thing by not turning our backs on the country, but instead finding areas where we can do something meaningful, also bearing in mind that there is a legitimate government in the country.
We have used the Cotonou system to organise dialogue and to establish benchmarks along the way leading back to normalisation, and we are linking and conditioning our support to the Marcoussis Agreement and the process there.
It was clearly stated in these conclusions that the Council recognises the importance of this peace facility and it also makes the point quite clearly that the financing of these peace operations will create a noteworthy and important impulse in strengthening the capacity of the African people to create and preserve peace on the whole continent.
It is very important that this facility should only cover those actions relating directly to peacekeeping or peace-building activities which cannot be funded by other sources.
In fact, the country strategy paper and the national indicative programme, totalling EUR 298 million, were discussed by the EDF Committee on 20 November and we will try ensure that the implementation of this is linked to the implementation of the Marcoussis Agreement.
This is a very sad case, but we have to be stubbornly optimistic. &#160;&#160; To conclude the debate, I have received six motions for resolutions pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure(1).
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the removal of the EU embargo on arms sales to China. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the embargo on the export of weapons to the People's Republic of China was adopted by the European Union in 1989 following the events in Tiananmen Square.
China believes that the embargo is now out of date and that the level of cooperation in all sectors between China and Europe, as well as the rapid changes underway in the People's Republic of China, are such as to justify it being lifted.
This fact is being more and more frequently and vehemently stressed on every possible occasion, both multilateral and bilateral, by our Chinese interlocutors, who have recently pinpointed the lifting of the embargo as a short- or medium-term priority in China’s relations with the European Union.
The European Union acknowledges that, between 1989 and today, the political situation in China has evolved significantly and that important changes have taken place in the European Union's relations with China, including the quality of political dialogue.
Nevertheless, from the standpoint of the European Union, whose public opinion still vividly recalls the events in Tiananmen Square, the issue is considered highly sensitive since serious problems relating to respect for human rights persist in China.
Indeed, economic liberalisation and the country's gradual integration into the international community are not being accompanied by similar political liberalisation and China still has a long way to go before reaching the human rights standards considered normal in our societies.
In any case, the necessary conditions for lifting the embargo are not yet in place in the European Union: this was clearly explained to our Chinese counterpart during the recent European Union-China Summit.
The Commission fully supports an in-depth political discussion of this matter.
We are naturally interested in Parliament's views on that question so the Commission welcomes the discussion here today. &#160;&#160; – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats firmly rejects the latest attempts by the German Chancellor, Gerhard Schröder, to lift the arms embargo on the People’s Republic of China.
You described the situation, Commissioner, but I urge you to be cautious.
The 1989 European Council was right to impose the arms embargo after the peace demonstrations in Tiananmen Square were put down in such a bloody fashion.
Commissioner, we too believe that there have been improvements in the human rights situation in China since then, but they have not been sufficient.
Only recently, on 13 October, the Council reconsidered the situation in China and, just as Parliament had done in the same month, noted that the current human rights situation in China, as regards fundamental civil, cultural and political freedoms did not meet even the international standards recognised by China.
On the contrary, we should be telling our Chinese friends that they need to make perceptible progress where human rights in China are concerned.
You will be aware that presidential elections are to be held in Taiwan on 20 March next year, and the People’s Republic of China has, over recent weeks, been adopting a positively hostile stance towards Taiwan.
That is the second reason why lifting the arms embargo makes no sense whatever.
A society developing in this way also needs a political system capable of handling this.
There is clearly an enormous tension between that economic freedom on the one hand, which leaves insufficient room for shaping at the social level by the social players such as the trade unions and others; and the political level on the other, which leaves no room for political democracy.
We are, of course, all watching that whole process with bated breath.
The lack of respect for human rights is, for me, the main reason why we should not here and now remove the European embargo on the sale of weapons to China.
It is of course true that there has been progress in China since the massacre in Tianamen Square in 1989, and it is also a fact that the political dialogue between the EU and China has improved, but there is still cause for considerable concern about the Chinese lack of understanding of human rights and of the state governed by law.
The arms embargo is an instrument of political pressure, and what that means is that any response to the question as to what has changed in China must be political in nature.
China still has Tibet under military occupation; it is still threatening Taiwan; it is still failing to respect human rights.
What I am getting at is that it would not only be wrong to express a desire to lift the arms embargo, but that it is also wrong to say at all that there is at present any question of doing so.
That would be terrible.
Let me say, in conclusion, that President Chirac and Chancellor Schröder have said that they want the constitution, that they want to be Europeans, that they want simply to strengthen the European Parliament.
It is a proposal which, indeed, should not even be on our agenda at all; I am glad to say that the decision does not have to be taken today, but it appears to be almost implied that it will have to be taken tomorrow or the day after.
The promotion of democracy and the rule of law are not points of reference for this Europe, they are not points of reference, most importantly, for the Europe which sets itself up as the Europe of peace, the Europe of Chancellor Schroeder, the Europe of Jacques Chirac; it is the Europe of shame over China, Russia and Chechnya – this is the Europe that can debate this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is essential that the EU engages constructively with China as the most populated country on earth and – in terms of certain purchasing parity measures – as an economy that is due to overtake my country, the United Kingdom, and perhaps even Germany in the next two decades.
It is trying to enable its people to have a share in the world’s growing prosperity, and the greatest danger lies in whether China will manage to maintain the political structure of a common state and to meet people’s social needs.
The fact is that China’s biggest problem has to do not with arms but with increasing hunger and poverty in sections of its population.
At times when crises are brewing, there are courses of action that may perhaps be justified from an objective and abstract point of view, but can nonetheless play a part in making hostilities or a crisis situation more likely.
That, I believe, is the one important message that is, lamentably, absent from this resolution.
Given that logic, we should not, in the first place, sell weapons to the United States, but not to China either.
My ‘no’ to arms exports to China is not only directed against China, but is the expression of a general principle.
Everything that has been said in this House about China is true, but there are also positive things.
For example, a dialogue has been opened with representatives of the Dalai Lama, about which the Dalai Lama himself is very hopeful.
It would therefore be quite wrong to remove the arms embargo against China, but do not forget that there are also other countries to which we should not sell weapons. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, let me start by saying that my criticisms, coming as they do from a member of the German opposition, cannot be more trenchant than those uttered in this House ten minutes ago by a Member belonging to the same party as the German foreign minister, who stated that, on this issue at least, the German Federal Chancellor was suffering from delusions.
We are dealing here, unfortunately, with another Franco-German initiative, but not one that is intended to restore these two countries to their position as the engine of Europe in a positive sense; instead, where this issue – like others in the recent past – is concerned, it leads other Member States to suspect something that is more and more a Franco-German conspiracy rather than a Franco-German partnership.
The situation there is not set in stone; instead, particularly in the political sphere, the leadership is already endeavouring to give some thought to how, on the one hand, to maintain the country’s stability – and that is a legitimate objective – and also, on the other, to how the dynamism that is present in the economic sphere can also find a political expression, for it is in politics that little progress has as yet been made.
In any case, it is not Taiwan that represents a threat to China; rather, the reverse is the case.
Both these considerations – human rights and the threat to Taiwan – should cause the Council to pause for a moment before even considering removing the arms embargo.
To do so would send completely the wrong message. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, if they are not to be in breach of the principles of our European community of values, those who seek to remove the arms embargo on China must first have clear evidence of a change in the human rights situation.
Chancellor Schröder wanted to curry favour with the Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao.
All those who have addressed us, and all those of our guests who know China well, leave us in no doubt that, where human rights are concerned, there has been hardly any progress.
I find it very worrying that in certain areas France and Germany seem to prefer the idea of a strategic partnership with countries such as China, rather than the United States.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on a point of order before the voting starts, I had occasion to speak on this very point last time.
Together with the Council we shall take this issue forward. &#160;&#160; .
We call upon the Commission to submit a new proposal and withdraw the current one in order to have a text more in sympathy with the recently adopted energy tax directive.
At all events, we can say that, whatever happens, today is a real ‘E-day’, an ‘environment day’, because now, for the first time in the history of the European Union, we are adopting legislation that gives us a legal basis for making polluters pay for the damage they cause.
I think that that is one point we have scored. &#160;&#160; . – In my capacity as rapporteur, I would like to make a brief statement for the benefit of Members.
Today, we are voting on the compromise package on medicinal products legislation, a compromise influenced by a lot of different ideas from this House.
I therefore ask Members to support Blocks 1, 2 and 3, but not under any circumstances Block 4 or parts thereof.
The Commission agrees with the compromise package in this field too.
It became evident that the common position had already foreseen in Article 39 the fact that the Community regulation procedure has to be applied to these kinds of products, so the common position has already gone beyond the objective.
Compromise Amendment No 20 clarifies the legal situation establishing that the Community regulation procedure will apply to registered homeopathic medicines and that it should be accepted.
This compromise package would essentially improve the common position accepted by the Council.
On that basis, I understand that the Commission is in full support of all the amendments and the presidency has indicated its support.
Block No 1 will effectively subsume three other amendments. (2) (3) That concludes the vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yet again we have been giving our attention to the Members’ Statute, at a time when Europe has been unable to resolve the issue of the constitution, at a time when, only a few weeks ago, the European Union’s Stability Pact proved a failure, at a time when, facing economic problems in the European Union, we are trying to banish unemployment from Europe.
The Members’ Statute was back on this House’s agenda, and – quite apart from the question of whether we need rules that apply from Finland to Sicily – I think it a poor show for us to again attempt to resolve the issue before the Central and Eastern European States have joined the European Union, and before new Members of this House have been able to share in reaching a decision.
That is what I criticise, and for that reason I have voted ‘no’ to the statute question in its present form. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I supported the Members' Statute because we need urgent reform of our travel expenses system in time for the new Parliament next July.
Now that we have this resolution, we can open negotiations with the Council on the Members' Statute.
I hope that when we look at the salary level we will look again at the report of independent experts, which gave an excellent way forward for looking at the salary issue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my Group asked me to give an explanation on its behalf.
As I said in the debate in the morning, we are very strongly in favour of reform of the Protocol concerning Privileges and Immunities.
However, as we said in the debate leading up to the decision on 3 and 4 June, the text that was approved then is unduly extensive in the privileges and immunities it prescribes.
So we voted against paragraph 2(b), not because we oppose reform but because it is too generous a model for reform. &#160;&#160; – The reasons why I voted against the Statute are as follows.
Let me say straightaway that I think it important and right that our travel costs should be the real ones, but everyone here in this House knows that that has nothing, nothing whatever, to do with the Statute.
We could change the link between travelling expenses and real costs tomorrow; it has nothing, nothing whatever, to do with the Statute.
I would have thought it more proper if we had taken the average income of all MEPs as a basis, which I would have thought would be the more appropriate approach, and I still do not think it right that MEPs should be allowed to have other sources of income while judges are not.
Perhaps I may be permitted a final point, which is that I hope that further improvements will be possible in order yet to change the imbalance that has resulted from the Statute, especially its social dimension. &#160;&#160; I do not know what has gone wrong in the Verts/ALE Group, but the Rules of Procedure state very clearly that you are supposed to give notice of explanations of vote.
This will not go down well in the individual Member States. &#160;&#160; .– The European Parliament's retraction on the proposals for the Members' Statute blew out the possibility of a solution to the problem during the Italian Presidency.
With the system of travel expenses in particular, every effort must be made to improve this before the European elections. &#160;&#160; We would emphasise the importance of our finally getting closer to obtaining a Members’ Statute that would mean the end of the system of covert compensation that has so far existed in Parliament.
Despite this basic approach, we now wish to make it clear that we consider the salary level recommended by Parliament’s report from June 2003 to be too high and that we shall continue to press our government to argue in the Council for a more sensible salary level. &#160;&#160; For the reasons of principle mentioned in my speech in the course of the debate, I voted against our Assembly’s resolution which calls once again for a unified Members’ Statute.
In particular, it is hard to imagine how, in the name of a principle – which does not exist – of equality between MEPs, profound and very real inequalities could be created in each country.
The June Movement abstained from voting because Amendment No 1, which would have meant fully regulating the way in which travel expenses are reimbursed and have entailed far greater transparency, was voted down.
The present system, involving non-transparent and tax-free reimbursement of travel expenses, together with reimbursement of general expenses, is unacceptable.
The present draft Members’ Statute does not, however, solve the problems satisfactorily.
As we have stated, the Members of this House are elected to represent national constituencies.
This means that the salary of a Member of the EP must be based on the salary paid to the Members of the national parliaments of the country in which they were elected.
By the same token, we cannot ignore the existence of very different social realities in the countries of the EU.
Providing a parliamentary salary that is the same for all EP Members will create situations of profound inequality and disparity in various countries, such as Portugal, between the salaries earned by workers and those earned by political representatives and holders of public office.
The present system, involving non-transparent and tax-free reimbursement of travel expenses, together with reimbursement of general expenses, is unacceptable.
The present draft Members’ Statute does not, however, solve the problems satisfactorily.
Since then, I have had, time and again, the experience of seeing how the Council, when it came to the issue of a Members’ Statute, allowed us to run round in circles.
The second attempt at one that I have experienced was this summer, and when we had at last adopted a Statute full of concessions and willingness to compromise, I thought that we were out of the woods.
The chosen solution to the issue of the taxation of MEPs’ salaries is botched and temporary, but, above all, there are no rules on the legal status of MEPs.
Under no circumstances can I vote in its favour while the issue of immunity remains unresolved, nor can I accept the curtailment of rights that guarantee the exercise of an independent mandate, such as are accorded to our counterparts in the national and regional parliaments.
In the immediate aftermath of a failed summit, and facing all the problems of European integration, we in this House must limit ourselves to what is essential and necessary.
The importance of a common statute means that a solution must be sought together with the Council and without pressure of time. &#160;&#160; It is incredibly important quickly to bring about open, clear and unambiguous common rules.
We have therefore chosen to vote in favour of the resolution, but not for those proposals that demand a reduced pensionable age.
We also believe that salaries should be more in line with those of members of the Swedish Parliament and that salaries should be taxed on a national basis. &#160;&#160; . – The introduction of astatute for the Membersof the European Parliament has been advocated for years now as a miracle cure for self-enrichment of MEPs.
At the same time, it would bring to an end the equality of pay between MEPs and the members of national parliaments in their country.
Consequently, I have always supported the endeavours to bring about such a statute.
However, earlier votes revealed that no majority support for this could be obtained without tax cuts and enormous salary increases for MEPs from a large number of Member States, including my own country, the Netherlands.
The current proposal is based on the resolution of 3&#160;June&#160;2003, which I voted against for that reason.
All along we have supported the concept that MEPs should be treated no differently in the area of taxation from other residents in their Member States.
For too long the expenses issue has dogged the Parliament, and we now have the opportunity to put this to rest. &#160;&#160; . – I voted in favour of the proposal because if we want a change to the present system this is it, or there will not be one.
I voted for this proposal on the assumption that the travel expenses system will be reformed in such a way that travel expenses will be paid on the basis of actual costs incurred. &#160;&#160; Today, the European Parliament agreed upon a resolution that may bring to an end this year’s debate concerning MEPs’ salary, pension and travel conditions.
With this agreement, the European Parliament has gone so far towards accommodating the Council that there is now finally the prospect of a Members’ Statute.
Parliament’s compliance is based on an agreement that all Members of the European Parliament should receive the same wages.
The amount is a weighted average of the remuneration received by MEPs in the four largest countries.
Finally, the pensionable age for Members of the European Parliament is to be raised from 60 to 63 years.
The Commission proposed ‘introducing a graduated tax on transport infrastructure use and making the tax system more consistent’ and creating within ten years, a European-level tax system that includes registration and road taxes, an ‘intelligent’ system for levying duties on infrastructures and harmonizing fuel taxation.
Compensation should be limited solely to the Natura 2000 areas and exclude non-profit-making activities, such as leisure pastimes, from professional activities.
The directive does not, however, draw a distinction between these two types of activity.
If liability is to be applied, it must be based upon objective and quantifiable criteria: the nature of the damage and its impact, the state of the environment at the time of the damage and, above all, local circumstances.
The Council common position rejected some of the European Parliament’s proposals, only some of which have now been accepted at second reading.
We will see what the final outcome is, but everything suggests that it will fall short of what is needed. &#160;&#160; . – The ‘polluter pays’ principle is currently widely accepted.
I therefore believe that making operators adopt the necessary measures to prevent imminent threats of environmental damage and to establish compensation mechanisms for damage caused is justified, necessary and useful.
The balanced and realistic solutions that we are able to provide in this field will help to attain the objective of preventing and remedying environmental damage and protect the economic and competitive interests of the companies in question, and also constitute the right way of attaining the objectives declared by the Community to achieve sustainable growth and development. &#160;&#160; The European Parliament has today voted on a proposal for a directive aimed at standardising the rules that apply to environmental liability in the EU.
The overarching principle must be that ‘the polluter pays’.
The idea is that companies and other actors throughout the EU must be subject to the same legislation when it comes to their obligations to prevent, attend to and pay for the environmental damage for which they are responsible.
I have chosen to follow a more environmentally friendly line than the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and have therefore voted, for example, for stricter requirements regarding nuclear pollution (Amendment No 42) and the issue of genetically modified organisms, or GMOs (Amendments Nos 43 and 44).
On this basis, I voted in favour of all the amendments which aim to: - supervise the market independently of the pharmaceutical industry; - protect the public from medicinal products which have expired; - reduce the period of commercial secrecy demanded by the large pharmaceutical companies, the result of which is to prevent cheaper drugs from being marketed; - limit advertising of medicinal products; - set up databases independently of the pharmaceutical companies. &#160;&#160; The Grossetête report on the introduction of a Community code relating to medicinal products for human use is basically intended to protect the interests of the pharmaceutical industry.
Although we have supported the amendments in favour of better labelling or informing the public about the effects of medicines, we have, on the other hand, voted against the amendments protecting the monopoly of pharmaceutical laboratories.
At second reading, some of the original proposals were accepted and whilst the compromise that has been voted on today in the European Parliament does not accept all the proposals that we put forward, it significantly improves the Council position, specifically as regards defining generic medicines, as regards the request for a distinction to be made between advertising and information and as regards the invitation to the Commission to undertake a study of current practices in the field of information, with the aim of improving quality. &#160;&#160; . – The compromise is a step forward for the competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industry, the knowledge-based economy and the availability of medicinal products in the EU.
I therefore call on the European Commission to present a proposal as quickly as possible regulating the registration of homeopathic medicinal products at European level; only then will the European market in medicinal products be complete.
The overall compromise that was reached with the Council under the Italian Presidency, including on the Agency covered by the Müller report, is extremely important. &#160;&#160; We have just expressed our opinion on the revision of pharmaceutical legislation.
The modified directive will allow a greater degree of harmonisation between the Member States when it comes to the rules governing medicines.
We have voted in favour of the amendments that could resolve a number of problems caused by the legal vacuum in which certain homeopathic medicines still exist.
This is the current situation and has proved reliable in terms of protecting public health.
Guaranteeing a high level of public health protection in the European Union necessarily requires general provisions to be adopted on placing these veterinary medicines on the market.
There has been an increasing awareness that modern medicines do not always provide relief for all possible conditions and many people have found herbal medicines to be an important element of their health regime.
However, we must pay due regard to long-established practices in an industry that has been largely self-regulating in many countries.
This demand is, in the context of a common market such as the European Union’s, more than justified.
I fully agree with the rapporteur when he states that ‘if intra-Community trade considerations are taken into account, then national legislation should notbe incompatible with each other, nor with EC legislation’.
It is also important to remember that this report adopts a Commission proposal that should be seen in the context of amendments to 1974, 1976 and 1977 Council directives on enhancing road safety.
It is regrettable that the draft European constitution encourages it in this belief, whereas it ought to have been made into a subordinate body. &#160;&#160; .– This is a resolution that not only fails to question any of the European Union’s fundamental pillars and policies – its neoliberal capitalist policies, federalism, its increasing militarism – and fails to condemn the harmful consequences of these for the workers and communities in the various countries it actually confirms these guidelines and priorities, and masks their true nature by introducing some social concerns.
In short, it gives the Commission yet another role.
There is no analysis of the worsening economic and social situation in the various EU countries or any criticism of the policies that have caused this situation.
It is completely unacceptable that, in relation to fisheries agreements, EU fishing vessels take priority over the rights of people in other countries.
It is completely unacceptable to let EU vessels continue fishing undisturbed regardless of the fact that there is a conflict there. &#160;&#160; .– The role of foreign forces is particularly evident in the military conflicts which are tearing the Côte d'Ivoire apart, with tens of thousands of innocent victims.
The European Union has no business in Côte d'Ivoire.
These positions turn any positive elements which the resolution contains into nothing more than a wish list. &#160;&#160; . – Even though it is impossible to disagree with the condemnation of the concept of ‘’ and of the political murders committed in its name, we have not voted to approve this report.
Even today, the French army maintains a presence in Côte d’Ivoire to protect, not the people, but French capitalist interests.
This at once weakens many of the points in the Linas-Marcoussis agreement.
The best policy for preventing conflicts is to eradicate their causes, and, in this instance, those who started the fires are no good at putting them out.
I therefore abstained from voting on a resolution that does not get to grips with these problems. &#160;&#160; . – Once again, this House has responded to the disastrous situation in Cote d’Ivoire by adopting a mediocre resolution which does not distinguish between the prime cause of the situation and factors of secondary importance.
In view of the scale of robberies such as these, France and the European Union must, as a matter of urgency, start to talk tough and establish a clear link between aid and respect for rights, or else they will give an impression of indifference or complicity. &#160;&#160; That concludes the explanations of vote. (4) &#160;&#160; – Mr President, over the weekend of 6-7 December 2003, the number of innocent victims of the criminal invasion of Afghanistan by the American armed forces was increased by a further fifteen children, murdered during bombings by the occupying forces.
Incompatibility between national toll systems could have no other result; it creates problems for international road traffic and interferes with the smooth functioning of the internal market.
We have been told by the users – the operating companies in the various Member States in which electronic toll-charging systems are in use – that this can be done.
By the present proposal, as now amended, we insist on this; technical interoperability must be achieved, and what this ultimately means is that the technology currently in use must be changed only as and when it cannot be enabled to communicate with other systems of technology.
The basic decision on whether or not to charge a toll, on what vehicles and what stretches or types of road, must remain a matter for the Member States.
As regards tomorrow’s vote in the plenary, though, I am working on the assumption that this House will endorse this unequivocal vote in favour of Europe having its own satellite navigation system, one that will make us Europeans independent of others.
By way of conclusion, I want to say something about the effect that distorted competition between road and rail has on society.
The Directive has the following three objectives: firstly, the interoperability of electronic road toll systems; secondly, the establishment of a European electronic road toll system; and, thirdly, the introduction of satellite technology.
The European electronic road toll service we are proposing, like the interoperability of systems, responds to genuine need for users, in particular lorry drivers, who want an electronic means of payment as soon as possible, a single one for the whole of the network.
The service we are proposing, based on the principle of a single contract, offers both users and operators the protection of a clear legal document which can be used in the event of a dispute.
It is a question of implementing in this field what already exists, for example, in the fields of mobile telephones and bank card systems.
Mr President, the lack of a firm commitment in favour of satellite technology would not be coherent with the decisive policy being maintained by this Commission and this Parliament in particular, as well as the Council and the European Union as a whole, in favour of the Galileo system.
We propose that the timetable be postponed from 2005 to 2007 for buses and lorries, because we consider that two years are needed so that everyone who has to adapt can adapt and the system can start operating.
Secondly, will the new satellite positioning system be applied exclusively or not?
I believe that in the final analysis this directive is very important, on the one hand because its purpose is to make life easier for all those road-transport operators who of course pass through toll stations and who often need to change the system or method of payment, but also because it is a directive which is very much open to the prospects of future technology, in particular as regards the implementation of the Galileo system.
We in the PSE Group believe that this directive was initially a little inflexible and very restricting for the motorway-transport sector.
In effect, it required that sector to ensure, very rapidly, the interoperability of current microwave systems, in other words to invest very heavily, only to switch very quickly to another system two years later.
In other words, we also have to ensure that certain microwave systems can be interoperable with GPM/GPRS technology.
I think that the timetable proposed by the Commission was quite simply unrealistic, because it did not take into account the time needed for the legislative work and the fact that we were unable to require that the European electronic toll system be brought into line so rapidly, that is, by 1 January 2005.
London, in fact, has just implemented its own system.
By contrast, we are fiercely – that is no doubt too strong a word – opposed to the amendments tabled by our Italian fellow Members, namely Amendments Nos 19, 23, 26, 27 and 29, which aim to propose a system of contractual rules rather than a European electronic toll system.
By contrast, we are entirely in agreement with Amendment No 39 which seeks to protect privacy, since we are proposing a switch to Galileo.
It seems to us that these precautions are necessary.
Finally, we shall approve and support Amendment No 40 tabled by the Verts/ALE Group, because we believe that a toll cannot amount to nothing more than a tax or an additional charge.
Nor can a toll be simply a means of covering the depreciation of our road infrastructure.
A toll must also be a transport-policy tool, and must be able to guarantee modal transfer and cross-financing, so as to encourage people to switch to other alternative modes of transport in future. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to begin by praising the rapporteur for a really good piece of work.
In connection with the German system, there was also another problem, namely that there were not enough boxes available, with the result that hauliers in different countries did not have the opportunity to have these boxes installed.
There is also something else we must avoid in the future.
I think that, in order to be focused upon its users, the system must also ensure, at a purely technical level, that hauliers and their drivers only have to install a single box in each vehicle.
It is also important that users be guaranteed access to a coherent network through a single contract relating to the overall network of roads involving tolls.
We know that there is a considerable shortfall of funds in the railway sector.
I am, on the one hand, referring to the technical aspects that are being discussed and whereby it is intended to achieve interoperability of electronic toll collection systems across the Union.
It seems rather logical to me that in a peripheral or insular state, such as Portugal, or Malta, which is due to accede in the near future, the economic and political considerations there are different from those in, for example, Flanders, which, being situated between Germany, France, the Netherlands and Great Britain, forms the EU’s central traffic intersection.
When it comes to making political and economic decisions in this respect, this Parliament and the Commission would do well to show a little more respect for the subsidiarity principle, to which often only lip service is paid. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly I would like to add my congratulations to those that have already been made to the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job in revising some of the more unrealistic parts of the proposal.
One of my main concerns centred on the familiar subject of subsidarity, already mentioned by the previous speaker.
The notion that a satellite technology system would be our sole system is to me quite ridiculous.
Indeed, it is the proposal to use satellite technology which irks me most.
On a more positive note, the committee's decision to put back the Commission's implementation dates was very much welcome.
The original request was both highly illogical and unrealistic.
Unfortunately, I have to add, the Commission’s staff have perhaps been insufficiently energetic or enthusiastic in pleading the technical merits of this proposal.
I started by describing the Commission proposal as bolder but rather more risky – the latter insofar as we are dependent on a satellite system, Galileo in particular.
I should like to revisit the objective of this directive, which is, of course, the interoperability of electronic toll collection systems.
It is, however, abundantly clear that the real objective goes deeper than this, namely the internalisation of the external environmental costs.
Amendments have been tabled to that effect.
I urge the transport ministers in any case to speak out about the way in which we use the money, whether we transfer money or not, what we collect for, for example, improving rail systems and so on, in other words ‘cross pricing’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Sommer, whom I would like to thank for your work, I feel that our debates would sometimes be simpler if we were a little more with the order of business.
I agree that this proposal for a directive will serve to simplify and, therefore, to some extent to promote the widespread use of systems of charging by means of tolls, rights of use and other means, but the subject of the directive is not so much charging as the interoperability of the different systems.
I have no objection to resolute investment in pioneering technologies or the satellite sector as set out by the rapporteur.
Legal, fiscal and other barriers make the obligatory reference to a single-contract system more complex. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the British Labour MEPs fully support the polluter pays principle and, with this in mind, believe that the cost of motoring in general should better reflect the real costs to society and, in particular, the environment.
Congestion charging plays a key role in combating congestion, pollution and global warming.
The successful and popular Central London charging scheme is an example of this new approach and represents the most ambitious urban road pricing scheme in Europe.
For lorries, Labour in the UK advocates the introduction of a lorry user charge, which is to be introduced in 2006 and, incidentally, is strongly supported by the main haulage-trade associations.
Therefore, whilst we fully support the principle of interoperability of toll systems, it is essential that these pioneering British initiatives are not in any way prejudiced.
However, it would be wrong to prescribe the type of technology.
We therefore welcome the Sommer report and would like to thank the rapporteur for her work, which fully addresses these concerns, seeking compatibility rather than rigidly prescribing the type of technology, which should rightly be left to the market or, under the principle of subsidiarity, to Member States.
One area where there could be clarification is the role of regional and local authorities, and we urge Members to support Amendment No 45, which makes it clear that is the appropriate level for decision-making in some cases.
Finally, let us all make it clear that if we adopt this report tomorrow we are not forcing Member State or local authority to charge motorists or hauliers.
Like the rapporteur, I believe that the Commission proposal must contribute to the smoother operation of the internal market.
From the users’ point of view, then, the directive could facilitate toll charging in the various Member States, eliminating waiting times and consequently increasing capacities for infrastructure use.
The current system, specifically as regards international freight hauliers, who might be obliged to acquire separate devices, each with its own contract and to install them in their vehicles, makes no sense at all.
The directive only covers the charging system and does not include road-charging policy as such.
Looking further ahead, it recommends the introduction of a satellite-based toll system and, at the same time, calls on the Commission to submit, by 2009, a strategy for the conversion of the services.
I would be happy if we could complete this directive within the life of this Parliament; after first reading would be best of all. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have, in Europe, been talking for over twenty years in terms of what we call the new approach.
As an MEP representing London, I obviously have concerns about the way that this report may affect the very successful congestion charge scheme that has been operating in London for the past year or so.
Good though it might be that we standardise these systems, we must also make sure that we keep costs at a reasonable level and do not voluntarily place ourselves in a straitjacket. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Mr President; Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done and also the willingness to engage in dialogue that she has constantly demonstrated while dealing with a portfolio that certainly was not an easy one.
In conclusion, then, I hope that, whatever system is introduced, we will not repeat the experience we have had only recently.
Haulage operators sacrificed thousands of working hours in installing systems, only for a country and a region to then decide to do without them.
There is neither point nor purpose to such an exercise, which, I believe, completely fails to achieve something that I regard as a very good thing. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Commission proposal deserves Parliament’s support.
Secondly, the committee still seems to think that road tolls should cover the costs of road maintenance.
The only sustainable solution is for the system to apply to all road transport in the same way right from the start.
It is essential to take the external costs of traffic into account so that with any road toll imposed the marginal cost matches the ceiling amount charged.
I refer to Article 174 of the Treaty on European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, I agree with the rapporteur that it is not the legislator’s task to impose on the market a particular technology to the exclusion of all others, but, at the end of the day, our interest is in being able, one day, to use the best of the toll charging systems on offer in Europe.
We have already heard how, in the sphere of satellite positioning the European satellite navigation system Galileo, which is currently under construction, will, from 2008 onwards, provide information of superior quality to that provided by the present-day GPS and will be ideally suited to telematics services in road traffic.
This is about using the opportunities opened up to us by Galileo in the area of toll charging.
In other words, for example, just as the charges for the use of a mobile phone or a credit card in any part of the European Union are subsequently charged to our bank accounts, we are trying to create a similar situation for road tolls: that the use of an infrastructure in a third country is charged to our bank account.
In recent times, in relation to the problem of overlapping of frequencies, we have now fully resolved – in a way which is satisfactory to both parties – the overlapping of code M of the American GPS – which is the maximum security code – with our own signal – the closed security signal, reserved for public authorities within the Galileo system – and we have found formulae which have in no way prejudiced the quality of the Galileo system and which at the same time offer the security guarantees called for by the United States.
It remains for us to resolve the overlapping which occurs – according to the Americans – between our open signal and one of their signals.
We have made it very clear that what we cannot accept is the United States’ initial proposal – which means moving from 1&#160;5&#160;1&#160;5 (which is what we would like) to 1 1 (the Americans’ preference) – because we believe the quality of our service would be greatly reduced.
To this we should add the interest expressed by countries such as China, India, Brazil and other third countries in participating in this project.
The next issue I would like to mention very briefly is the case of London, although we could consider other cities.
The debate is closed.
However, these provisions have expired, which is why the European Parliament took the view even at first reading that 2006 should be the last year during which there should be specific arrangements for Austria, especially as there has been an improvement as regards environmental protection, which has also been recorded in the statistics given to us by the Commission.
The views of the two institutions moved closer together during the conciliation procedure.
I have to say, both as a member of the conciliation committee and as representative of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, that the result was balanced, the agreement which we reached was ultimately a good agreement and this is, if you like, also proven by the fact that the various directly interested parties voted against it, some because they considered the measures lenient and others because they considered them strict.
In all events, after such protracted and difficult negotiations, I cannot but recommend today to all the honourable Members, Mr President, that they vote in favour of the result which we achieved in the conciliation procedure, because these measures must apply until the cut-off date in 2006.
Mr President, we the Group of the European People's Party will vote by a large majority in favour of the result of the conciliation procedure.
We could not move any closer to the Austrian positions, because then we would have had problems with Members from other representations.
Let me point out to you, Mr Martin, that I am obliged by Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure to call you to order.
If this warning is of no effect, then I will, with regret, have to order you from the Chamber, so I ask you to desist from your disorderly conduct. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I did it because I was, until this morning, on the list of speakers, and was then ‘deselected’ by the parliamentary business manager of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, thus being deprived of the right to speak.
For the time that I would have spoken, I wanted to show, symbolically at any rate, what an independent in this House can stand for, even when someone from his own group prevents him from speaking.
I do, though, thank you for your understanding, Mr President. &#160;&#160; Mr Martin, that is of course a matter for your group alone, and has nothing to do with this House.
But I would like to say once again, ladies and gentlemen, that this compromise improves the conditions for traffic via Austria, for the simple reason that Protocol 9 of the Act of Accession of Austria to the European Union lays down, in Article 11(5), that, at the end of a series of extensions – all of which have been completed – the Community acquis in its entirety will be applicable.
I would therefore insist that all the most polluting and least efficient lorries will be travelling throughout the rest of the European Union.
It is crucial that Parliament votes for it today, since the current system expires on 31 December.
Nevertheless, operators will stop having ecopoints from 1 January 2004 and it is therefore necessary to adopt a decision with regard to the immediate application of the future provisional points system and allow the circulation of lorries in transit through Austria in a clear and decisive manner, with those limitations which, once again, I am pointing out.
Today we have adopted the system of electronic road tolls, which comprises the technical elements which will facilitate the establishment of a Eurovignette system and, if we all manage to agree and show flexibility, we could adopt the Eurovignette over the next three or four months, with this same Parliament and this same Commission, during the Irish Presidency.
It is a balance between two requirements, which I would like to set out: on the one hand, the need to ensure the free movement of goods and compliance with Treaty, and, on the other&#160;–&#160;something to which Parliament, just like Austria, attaches great importance&#160;–&#160;the need to protect the environment and people’s health.
That means striving for sustainable development which, to address the problem earlier on in the process of pollution, must be achieved through intermodality, the development of rail tunnels and favouring rail transport over lorries.
The Commissioner pointed out that, while the most polluting lorries will continue to circulate throughout Europe, Austria will be preserved from a situation which other countries continue to suffer.
Indeed, a great deal of energy went into striking a compromise and into changing the transitional system that was put in place upon Austria’s accession, to a more general system.
No matter how much I appreciate Austria’s specific problems and the way in which that country is trying to find an answer to them, I do believe that it is impossible for any one Member State to have a permanent derogation in this field.
It is clear, though, that there should be a balance between general environmental problems and the geographic situation in Austria on the one hand, and the free movement of goods, on the other.
I do not believe that the balance between those two elements is easy.
We should also examine this problem in the context of the Cocilovo report on the Eurovignette.
I think that statements of that kind are more likely to complicate matters than to contribute to a solution. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, we now have a result from the Conciliation Committee concerning transit through Austria.
The proposal means that the ecopoint system can continue throughout 2004, with the option of extending it both in 2005 and 2006.
Before we reach that point, however, there are still a number of problems of which both opponents and supporters of the compromise are required to take account with regard to Austria.
It is the first time in the Union’s legal history that the vital interests of a Member State have been treated in this way.
It is the danger that the right to the free movement of goods, with which we all agree, is becoming a religious right violating the human right to health and protection of the environment and that we are only taking accompanying measures but not guaranteeing people their basic right to health and environment.
You are turning an environmental conflict, an ecological disaster, into a legal conflict that is unique in history.
On 31 December next, the exceptional ecopoints agreement expires.
The report at first and second reading clearly addressed this issue.
Parliament wanted nothing but a transitional system from the current ecopoints system to a situation in which foreign lorries would also gain free transit through Austria.
The compromise embraces a regime in which the most polluting vehicles are barred and clean ones encouraged, while the available number of points are deducted annually.
This is a realistic balance in the light of the conflict between the need to protect the Alpine region – which is indeed vulnerable – and the principle of the free movement of goods – which is, after all, a reality in the European Union.
That is why we were bitterly disappointed when Austria announced its intention to abolish the ecopoints system as of 1 January 2004.
Thirdly, I should like to call on my fellow MEPs to review the Eurovignette directive without delay.
I am pleased with the compromise that has been struck with the Council, and we therefore warmly support it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, tomorrow we shall be voting on a report that no longer deals with the original problem, namely the reduction of atmospheric pollutants by means of a qualitative and quantitative restriction on transit traffic through Austria.
The outcome of the Conciliation Committee is that far more ecopoints are available for vehicles remaining in the ecopoint system than are actually required.
In view of this, the fact that the arrangement will apply for three years and not only for the Alpine passes but for the whole of Austria is completely irrelevant.
With every yes vote on this report we, the European Parliament, will be making ourselves a mockery six months before the elections. &#160;&#160; The discussion and resolution on the Costa report is a black day for one Member State, namely Austria.
It was after all the European Parliament that amended the Commission’s original legislative proposal by a large majority and pushed its position through.
Europe’s voters will express their gratitude on 13 June. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I stand here as an Austrian Member of Parliament, but above all as someone who has always stood up for the environment and as a Vienna city councillor with responsibility for transport who believed that economic and traffic growth should not come at the expense of the environment and health.
This transit rule has brought about a change in the heavy goods vehicle fleet in the whole of Europe.
The rapporteur, who is unfortunately not present – it is interesting that this is the second time we have discussed the ecopoint system here without the rapporteur present; his predecessor was not present either; which shows how seriously it is sometimes taken – at least at one stage made a proposal that still gave an incentive to change.
But when this Parliament and certain groups and certain Members in particular cut it back even more and do not want even to accept the Commission’s proposal for a minor diversion from road to rail, then in my opinion there is no longer much point to it.
Austria has consequently noted that, in the next couple of years, partly caused by the accession countries, transport through Austria could well double, if not quadruple.
Ultimately, it decided unilaterally to abolish the ecopoints system on 31 December.
As this confronts us with the question of what we will do next, I would ask the Commissioner how she sees things developing in the Council on 22 December.
After all, if Austria stands by its view, I do not know what we should do with this decision. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, points in life are generally good things, but these points are unfortunately incongruous.
The directive on the introduction of Euro 3 and Euro 4 made provision for this, for using tax incentives to encourage modernisation of the HGV fleet.
I hope that the compromise will be given a large majority here tomorrow. &#160;&#160; After eight years of heated debate, a solution to the ecopoints issue is, at last, on the horizon.
However, given the circumstances in Austria, I consider it to be an acceptable compromise between the principle of free movement and the protection of environmental interests.
During the most recent conciliation meeting, Austria’s Transport Minister dampened my delight at the agreement.
Up until a year ago, your own Austrian planning envisaged that the Brenner base tunnel should be completed in 2021.
And in response to pressure from this Parliament and others, Austria has now decided to bring forward the construction of the Brenner base tunnel to 2012.
The Commission's only capacity is to try to facilitate an agreement. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
I will now summarise the key points of this conciliation, which focused on what had not been resolved at first and second readings, but I would also like to stress the essential and fairly simple concept underpinning this compromise: in other words, we have to consider the rights of air transport passengers as part of a more general context, as part of the whole system of air transport.
A system in which all the players on the field, including control authorities, management authorities, airlines and the passengers themselves, are interdependent.
Thus, the best way of guaranteeing effective passenger rights is to ensure the smooth running of this system: to make sure that none of the rules we want to introduce hampers this extremely sensitive, large-scale mechanism.
Parliament attempted to address them by adopting 40 amendments.
They were those which concerned procedures for implementing the various levels of assistance to passengers in the event of cancellation or long delay of flights.
Now, as regards these two points, long delay and cancellation of flights, I believe that the result we have achieved reflects to a great extent what the best airlines already offer to passengers voluntarily and only introduces one new element, namely the certainty of these rights for passengers, certainty which is not limited, even though extraordinary circumstances are not excluded.
Indeed, we convinced the Council, and Parliament is pleased to have achieved this, that there is just one message we have to send out: ‘Dear passenger, we cannot guarantee you many rights, we can only guarantee you a few, but those which we guarantee are certain, they are not subject to conditions’.
I am talking about even the most basic rights such as, for example, the right to be able to have a drink, to be able to make a telephone call, to be able to contact friends or relatives.
We have therefore produced a mechanism which introduces a tier-system for services which have to be provided to passengers, and, most importantly, a full range: from minimum service&#160;–&#160;on-the-spot assistance in airports in the event of cancellation of flights or excessive delays of over five hours&#160;–&#160;to some sort of compensation for damages, specifically financial compensation, which is the highest level of protection we have provided.
I feel it is important to mention the agreement on mutual right of redress: this was an important point of the conciliation text because it allows, for instance, tour operators who have to comply with these regulations to claim from the air carrier operating the service where the air carrier is responsible for the provision of bad service.
As you know, the other points are of minor importance, such as, for example, coherence with everything we had introduced at first reading.
One of these practices consists of passengers with perfectly valid tickets, who fulfil all their conditions, not being allowed to fly when the time comes to use it.
The provisions being proposed here are intended to establish compensation which will mean that air companies do not have incentives and are dissuaded from carrying out these practices and furthermore to restrict as far as possible the inconveniences and problems caused for passengers and citizens who find themselves in these situations.
I hope that, with the entry into force of the Regulation, there will be a drastic reduction in the number of passengers prevented from flying and that, if this happens, that thanks to the use of the auction system or volunteer system – which is implemented with this system – there will be few difficulties and problems for citizens.
I know that some of the honourable Members are concerned, and also that representatives of certain airlines have talked at length with some of you, in defence of their legitimate interests.
I understand this concern, but I would like to say to you that companies are now clearly getting through the rough patch they have suffered over recent years.
I would remind you of one of these measures: the ‘Single Sky’ initiative, which is going to mean a reduction in costs and better rotation of the fleet, the authorisation of alliances, the combating of distortions in competition conditions – specifically, the issue of support for our air companies in the face of anti-competitive or predatory practices on the part of third countries – and the support we have given them in relation to issues such as insurance when there have been difficulties in the past.
I would also like to say that serious and responsible companies are already applying the majority of these measures on a voluntary basis.
Our rapporteur, Mr Giorgio Lisi, who has done an excellent job, which was ultimately crowned with success during the conciliation procedure, also personally took this line.
I personally was in favour, including during the conciliation procedure, and I shall also vote in favour of the result of the agreement with the Council tomorrow, because I think that, without damaging the airlines, it provides a good framework within which to protect the consumer, the passenger.
My group therefore welcomes the regulation.
It will give us a uniform European legal framework, probably from 2005.
The reference to extraordinary circumstances reduces carriers’ responsibility to a reasonable level.
I therefore anticipate that the Council will follow Parliament in agreeing to the outcome of conciliation.
I get the same amount if I am left behind because of overbooking.
One side effect of the regulation will be to reduce the gap in the terms of competition between budget and traditional airlines.
We are now setting standards for passenger rights in aviation which sooner or later ought to apply for other modes of transport as well. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we have, then, finally obtained a compromise proposal concerning compensation for air passengers, and we in the European Parliament, in particular, should be pleased about this proposal.
Of Europe’s assemblies, ours is probably the one whose Members travel most as part of our daily work.
We are therefore only too well aware of overbooked, delayed flights and poor service, as well as the resultant frustration.
The problem is just that it can often be difficult to discover the correct price of an airline ticket that is part of a package trip.
The proposal is important because improving the conditions and criteria under which passengers should be reimbursed and assisted in the event of being denied boarding, cancellation or long delays is something that must be welcomed.
Nevertheless there have been many cases where passengers have been denied boarding because of overbooking – something which many in this Parliament will have experienced regarding some airlines in Europe – and people have been left high and dry, whether it be in Brussels or somewhere else.
Another constituent got as far as London where he was then refused boarding on a continuing flight out of London to Europe.
Airlines need to take responsibility for their passengers.
Furthermore, as Vice-Chairman of the ‘Handicap’ Intergroup, I am glad that Article 11 refers to giving priority treatment to persons with reduced mobility.
However, the list could have been extended to cover people travelling with young children.
I also welcome the provision concerning the obligation to inform passengers concerning their rights, by means of a notice in easily legible characters displayed in the check-in area, giving special attention – more explicit than that laid down in the regulation – to providing information, by appropriate means, for blind or partially sighted persons.
Some Member States have recently been having doubts about the compromise, thinking it places too heavy a burden on the airlines.
The European Parliament has clearly reduced the rates of compensation in the airlines’ favour.
The European Parliament has introduced clear rules for cases of so that airlines do not have to act if they are not responsible for the circumstances leading to a cancellation or overbooking.
So these entire arrangements will not come into force until 2005.
If a budget airline offers a flight for EUR 50, then it is still obliged to make the flight, despite the low price.
Because the rights of the citizen who wants to go somewhere at a particular time, be it for business or tourism, have been violated and he must be compensated if he is left standing or can only fly a day later.
Let us be honest: air travel will double in Europe in the next 30 years, so it is not as if the airlines cannot afford to provide a glass of water and a biscuit if there is a delay.
This is a great breakthrough for all airline passengers and also for the airlines, because it will not affect good airlines which look after their passengers.
In the last 30 years I have been flying round the world an average of twice a week, which is perhaps more than many others here in this House.
We cannot provide passengers with better service by increasing legislation and putting a strain on the airlines, because even today’s system works excellently in the countries which apply it.
We live in a world of open competition and this will only mean that third countries will have the competitive edge.
The European consumer deserves as many options as possible and the cheapest tickets possible.
It would be very difficult to evaluate that harm, but I am absolutely certain that it is a harm which goes much further than the compensation which we are establishing here, at times without any possible comparison.
I believe that this Parliament has carried out a very important and interesting exercise with this report.
Parliament has moderated – and even reduced, in some cases – the proposals presented to us by the Commission and the Council.
Sadly this regulation, in its present state, will badly damage our airline industry and, in particular, our regional and low-cost carriers, thereby threatening jobs and reducing the opportunities the consumer has come to expect in terms of choice and a competitive level of airfares.
The exclusion of extraordinary circumstances places an unacceptable financial burden on the carrier.
Therefore to include full reimbursement, as well as a return flight to the first point of departure, is wholly unacceptable.
Secondly, referring to Article 5 on cancellations, I echo my previous points.
The impact of this regulation has taken no account of Parliament's support in strengthening our regional airports.
In conclusion, at the beginning of this process I criticised the Commission on its ill-timed, badly drafted proposal.
The irony is that none of these rules would apply to third country airlines flying into the EU.
If the Commission wanted to give our business away to the rest of the world, then it has done a jolly good job. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, we shall of course be voting in favour of this regulation.
It is clear that passengers’ rights are sacred.
I hope that we have achieved this sort of balance in this report.
The pendulum had to swing back in favour of the consumer to a more reasonable, balanced position.
Over recent months I have been subjected to every kind of doom-and-gloom scenario from some airlines and even certain Members of Parliament.
We would not need a regulation of this kind if it were not for the fact that every year in Europe over 500 000 passengers are affected by cancellations and the denial of boarding.
This regulation demonstrates the added value that the European Union can provide in terms of rights for European citizens.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 11.30&#160;a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B5-0416/2003).
Turkey is actively involved in international measures to prevent the channelling of heroin from Afghanistan into the European Union.
I can only say that the information available to the Commission shows that Turkey is cooperating fully and that the undertone in your question is unjustified.
The reason for this is that the international drug traffickers have changed their routes as a result of the strict controls in Turkey.
It goes without saying that in its cooperation with Turkey the Commission presses for full compliance with all agreements and provisions relating to the fight against drugs. &#160;&#160; That was a very full and helpful reply, Commissioner.
I am therefore in the happy position of being able to give you a very precise answer.
The Dublin Group is the grouping of industrialised nations, that is all the EU Member States, the USA, Canada and Australia, which coordinates initiatives to combat drugs and drug trafficking.
In view of the importance of such decisions and the doctrine to which they have given rise, does the Commission not think that, before its term of office comes to a close, it should draw up a Communication on the way in which the rules on competition and areas of responsibility apply to sport, so that those rules can be used to provide guidance in future cases and to assist sports organisations in drafting their own regulations? &#160;&#160; . – Honourable Member, the Commission is not at present planning a communication on the application of the competition rules in sport.
The competition rules of the EC Treaty apply only for economic activities in connection with sport; they do not of course apply for genuine sporting activities.
But those problems are best dealt with on a case by case basis because account can then be taken of the particular nature of the sport in question. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, thank you for your reply.
Coming back to the issue of competition policy, the Commission does not for the future rule out a definition that would then be embodied in a communication.
And I can inform you that the question of human rights and thus of respect for and protection of minorities have been key elements for the opening of accession negotiations since the introduction of the accession process by the Copenhagen European Council over 10 years ago.
The Commission has always followed developments affecting minorities in all applicant countries closely for the pre-accession strategies and the Europe agreements.
The regular reports on progress in the applicant countries have dealt with this question in detail every year, and they have not only reported on improvements and advances, but have also, as you know, always been very clear about shortcomings.
Apart from the Commission services’ regular contacts through EU delegations visiting a country or administrative centre, the Commission has sponsored or taken part in many committees and seminars on various questions affecting minorities.
These contacts will continue to be cultivated in the months ahead even after accession.
My competence for relations with the accession countries is complete and undivided up until 1 May 2004.
The situation is unacceptable.
One third of the population in two of these three states does not have the right to be a citizen or, of course, to take part in the referendum on the accession of these countries to the European Union, and has no opportunity to study at university in their language and a series of other things.
We have had no satisfactory answer from you or from the European Union in general and I really cannot understand how it is that you can show such sensitivity, for example, to the rights of Albanian speakers in Kosovo and can bomb Kosovo and bomb Serbia; how you can talk about the rights of a few opponents of the establishment in Cuba and have not the slightest interest in the policies, which I have no hesitation in calling dreamed-up neo-fascist policies, of the governments of the Baltic states.
And I have to note to my horror – I have to say I really am horrified – that the publications of some non-governmental organisations, which are made with the best of intentions and draw attention to serious problems, have resulted in dramatic and sensational reporting in the media, especially in those countries bordering on the Czech Republic, with dire consequences.
This problem is not simply a question that lies within the sole competence of the Czech authorities and has nothing to do with us; it is a problem that belongs in the realm of police and judicial cooperation and, I am firmly convinced, also in the area of respect for human rights.
In the 2002 progress report, the Commission notes that the Czech Government has taken important steps to combat the trade in human beings.
These included in particular improving the legal framework with an amendment to the penal code in 2002.
This will require quite close cooperation between the competent police forces, both internally and across the borders.
The Czech Republic has received EUR 5.5&#160;million for this purpose in the last four years.
Non-governmental organisations from the Czech Republic will also be able to apply for similar funding from the Daphne programme for the years 2004 – 2008. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, thank you, Commissioner, for your answer.
As the voluntary organisations say, there is every cause for feeling very concerned about the trade in women and children in the border region between Germany and the Czech Republic, but also in other parts of Europe.
This is a major and common problem which also exists in the regions bordering on the other countries that share a frontier with the present and the enlarged EU but that are not members of the EU.
I live in northern Sweden, and we have this problem in the region of the Barents Sea.
I also believe that legal prostitution promotes the trade in women and children.
Now so far as the specific problem in the Czech Republic is concerned, I can tell you from my contacts with the German and Austrian Governments and also from direct contacts on the spot, with police stations in Bavaria, for example, that our assessment is that cooperation with the Czech police and the Czech judiciary now satisfies the requirements.
In the UK, the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children has produced compelling evidence that shows that paedophiles are moving from one Member State of the European Union to another to take advantage of differences in the law.
In light of what the Commissioner has said about the need for greater judicial and police cooperation, would the Commission consider taking an initiative to create a European-wide sex offenders register, so that these people can be monitored? &#160;&#160; . – I do not know, honourable Member.
I am sometimes slightly surprised that the Commission is asked questions that give the impression that we are responsible for all possible circumstances in the future Member States, as though we had powers in areas where there is definitely no Community competence.
All the same, we have been able to do something, because the Copenhagen criteria do apply for the future Member States and the Copenhagen criteria help us to take action in such matters.
So far as the problem of caged beds is concerned, which you raise in your question, the an international organisation for the promotion and protection of the rights of people with mental disabilities, presented a report to the European Parliament on 17 June.
On the strength of that report’s findings, the Commission immediately contacted the countries concerned in order to investigate the present situation precisely and called on the authorities of the countries concerned to inform the Commission of the existing circumstances.
The Commission then received the information requested and it appears that the situation has already improved by comparison with the report simply as a result of the Commission’s enquiry.
The Slovenian authorities informed us that caged beds are no longer used in Slovenia.
The countries concerned have however conceded that efforts to introduce more modern methods of psychiatric care may for the present be hampered by insufficient staff resources.
The Commission has information that the Slovak Government has taken relevant measures and is at present working on a plan to phase out caged beds.
The Czech Government has assured the Commission that it is investigating the matter in detail in order to provide us with more precise information about the occasional use of caged beds.
If I may make a brief assessment, I think we are faced here with a phenomenon that gives us a glimpse into the sometimes horrifying past of psychiatry and that we really must be shocked at what we see.
The Commission will therefore be using every means at its disposal to pursue this matter further and we shall not cease until the last caged bed has vanished from each of these countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wholeheartedly welcome the Commissioner's last statement, which is absolutely right.
If he does not know, I can tell him that there are no caged beds in any existing Member State.
There are no caged beds in any other accession country apart from these four.
That is why I very much welcome the pressure that the Commissioner is putting on these countries.
If you receive information about individual or recurring cases of this kind, please do not hesitate to contact me directly and in person.
There are provisions in the Nice Treaty meaning that once these countries are full Member States of the EU, they can be sanctioned.
I agree with you, Mrs McKenna.
I agree with you except on one point: the European Union has never implemented sanctions against Austria.
Consequently, if we identify human rights abuses relating to psychiatric treatment, we have to address the issue in all Member States, both new and old.
Obviously, this can still be done after accession, since the relevant Treaty provisions will remain in force – the provisions that refer to the need to obey and respect the fundamental values on which the European Union is built.
The elections held last Sunday therefore have to be seen as a political move which will have repercussions that could certainly be significant for us.
The Commission’s initial response is that, three days after the elections, there is still potential for achieving a fair, lasting and viable solution to the conflict in Cyprus by 1 May 2004.
The Commission continues to urge all parties to use the Annan Plan as a basis for seeking a comprehensive solution to the Cyprus problem.
The Commission also noted that failure to find a solution could seriously impede Turkey’s efforts to join the EU.
Of course, the underlying message still remains the same and shows the Turkish Government that not only the Commission but also all 15 Member States together with the 10 incoming States consider the two subjects politically related, without wishing to create a new condition or a new requirement.
Let me remind you that, in the event of a solution being found, the Commission has offered to organise an international donor conference in order to find international funds to help correct the economic and social imbalances in the northern part of the island.
To close, let me say that I fervently hope that the Turkish Government in Ankara will understand that it is in their own interest and to their advantage to support the current move to resume the discussions on Cyprus and to use the window of opportunity while it is still open.
That window of opportunity is limited, but it is still available.
In your opinion, does this constitute acknowledgment of the victory of the opposition in northern Cyprus and do you think this marks a change in Ankara's position?
Finally, I should like to raise another issue: there was a team of observers from the law faculty of the University of Oslo, which sent an announcement today, saying that what they saw was the production of voters to increase support for the governing parties during the last elections.
He did not tell me what might be contained in the compromise his government is currently seeking with the Turkish Cypriots.
Having spoken to him, however, I had the impression – and he went on to state this publicly, as did Prime Minister Erdogan – that, following the elections in Northern Cyprus, the time may be ripe for relaunching discussions on the basis of the Annan Plan.
It shows that they want both a solution to the conflict based on the UN plan and also to accede to the European Union.
As for the Sixth Framework Programme, on the one hand no project has to date received funding for this type of research and, on the other hand, only one project involving an aspect of research using a line of human embryonic stem cells is a possible contender for selection following the initial call for proposals.
The European Parliament, in its resolution of 19 November this year, came out in favour of Community funding for research activities using both embryonic stem cells and adult stem cells. &#160;&#160; Once this funding has been decided, it would be useful to have a breakdown in the way I requested, because it is very important, considering that in some Member States embryonic stem cell research is forbidden, yet some of those countries – for example, Germany – will be the main funders of this kind of research.
The kind of breakdown you mention is not normally done in Community research projects, but I can forward your remarks to Commissioner Busquin. &#160;&#160; Several Members have requested the floor for supplementary questions, and furthermore they are all sitting together.
It comes to an end on 31 December 2003 and after that, in the absence of any new legislative text, the Commission is legally obliged to implement the Sixth Framework Programme which authorises this kind of research.
It will do so, particularly since it has received a very strong political signal from Parliament, which is in favour of this type of research. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, it is not only Parliament that is divided over this issue, but also the Council.
There are even divergences in the criminal law provisions in different Member States.
Some have to confront the negative impact of noise emissions – being located in residential areas and given the density of traffic – circumstances which do not arise in other airports, or to a lesser extent.
Bearing in mind that the introduction of the prohibition of night flights has repercussions for the economy and employment, we must carefully consider the balance between the various elements, which obliges us to carry out a case-by-case cost-benefit study for each airport, before imposing such a prohibition.
Secondly, unilateral measures may isolate Europe from the international aviation network; the night-time closure of all European Union airports may constitute a serious obstacle to the normal functioning of that international network.
The Commission therefore has insisted systematically, within the international context of the ICAO, that decisions should be adopted allowing us to provide solutions to deal with the specific needs of the Union in relation to noise at airports.
By means of a preliminary analysis and consultation procedure, this Directive allows for the imposition of prohibitions of night flights in Community airports in which it is justified in accordance with objective criteria. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, I wonder where you live when you stay in Brussels; probably not in the northern part of the city.
That possibility exists and there are several airports in Europe which are doing so.
And if Brussels has problems, it must adapt to these situations and, possibly, suspend night flights, but what you cannot ask is for the suspension of night flights in Athens because there are problems in Brussels.
I am sorry, Mr Staes, but it will not be me who presents that proposal. &#160;&#160; I must inform you that several Members have requested the floor.
Routes and flight paths are extremely important, as well as ways of taking off and, as you say quite rightly, it is true that sometimes, when trying to save fuel, much more noise is produced than is necessary in normal conditions.
Virtually all underground mining operations have been closed down, so that a major part of coal production now comes from the opencast Fonfria and Feixolin mines.
In accordance with this idea, the Commission has proposed and the Council has approved – with the prior opinion of the European Parliament – Council Regulation (EC) No 1407/2002 of 23 July 2002, on state aid to the coal industry.
The objectives included in this regulation differ from those mentioned by the honourable Member in relation to the company .
Coal companies which receive state aid have always been obliged to pursue economic viability.
Furthermore, an important innovation in the new Council Regulation is that the contribution of autochthonous coal to the objective of energy security must be carried out within the framework of sustainable development.
The Commission therefore believes that both opencast and subterranean mines can respect the principles of sustainable development in so far as they comply with Community legislation. &#160;&#160; Mrs de Palacio, for months now I have sometimes had difficulty following your arguments, and that is still the case as regards your reply on the subject of coal.
The growth initiative has also considered that the cross-border Vigo-Oporto line fulfilled the conditions for being included on the so-called ‘quick start list’ for which, as the honourable Members are aware, as well as being part of the trans-European networks, it must have a cross-border component and work on it must begin immediately, that is to say, in the next three years (2004-2006).
The decisions relating to the granting of total aid of EUR 87&#160;million for the Nine-Braga-Lousada-Nine lines will be adopted in the coming days.
Since 1987, studies on the Galician Atlantic Ferrol-Portuguese border railway line have received Community aid, which in 2003 amounted to a total of almost EUR 6 million.
For the period 2004-2006 it is intended to allocate another EUR 5 million to fund studies on this rail axis, in response to a new request from the Spanish authorities.
With regard to the Spanish railway line between Ferrol and the Portuguese border, several technical studies have been completed and many are still in the process of being produced.
Work has already begun to the north of Vigo.
The application of the rules on the crew of the host state for island cabotage is intended solely for regular services.
Therefore, any requirement imposed by national legislation with regard to the crew may not introduce restrictions which are not justified by urgent reasons of general interest and the restrictions must be proportionate to the intended objective.
As it pointed out in its recent communication on the interpretation of Regulation (EEC) No 3577/92, the Commission believes that, with regard to the rules in the field of safety and training, any condition which goes further than the rules contained in those Conventions would constitute a disproportionate restriction of the free provision of services. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I think that there is a contradiction in the Commission's positions and I shall ask a question so that the Commissioner can resolve my doubt: apart from the question of cruise ships, I should like to ask the Commissioner, in relation to other passenger ships, if she believes that the host state can regulate the manning of cabotage vessels not just for the deck and engine crew, but also for the cabin crew and catering personnel.
Furthermore, Mr Alavanos, we are talking about the crew as a whole.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 37 to 72 will be replied to in writing.(3) That concludes Questions to the Commission. &#160;&#160; The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0457/2003) from the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, on the Council common position with a view to adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of cogeneration based on a useful heat demand in the internal energy market and amending Directive 92/42/EEC (10345/2/2003 – C5-0444/2003 – 2002/0185(COD)) (Rapporteur: Norbert Glante). &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, a very good evening to you.
Cogeneration can be used in many different ways, from district heating, mainly in northern Europe, to production plants, as in the ceramics and paper industries in other countries.
This directive has been under discussion since September 2002 – nearly 18 months.
The first reading in Parliament was very controversial.
The second reading was much more consensus-oriented.
The compromise solutions were eventually adopted not because I as rapporteur was completely happy with the result, but rather because the Council put pressure on Parliament – there being no longer enough time for a conciliation procedure if the Council was to keep to schedule.
The aim of the directive is to promote cogeneration technologies, which can help to improve energy efficiency and security of supply.
Classification as high-efficiency cogeneration is determined using a two-stage process as defined in Annexes II and III of the directive.
Based on this method and taking into account the results from a CEN/CENELEC workshop currently in progress, the Commission is to devise a standard calculation for cogenerated electricity and the necessary guidelines for using it.
Secondly, in order to qualify as high efficiency cogeneration, the process must provide energy savings of at least 10%, as laid down in Annex III.
The Member States are required to compile statistical data about national generation of electricity and heat using cogeneration.
The Commission is required to evaluate these reports and, if necessary, submit an action plan for developing cogeneration in the EU.
National instruments and financial support should focus on primary energy savings.
At the moment, existing calculation methods have not been harmonised – in fact, alternative methods are valid until 2010.
But at least this directive establishes a common understanding of cogeneration and lays a foundation for the promotion of cogeneration in Europe.
This places cogeneration policy on the agenda at EU level, which represents a great success for the European Union.
As I conclude, let me thank my co-rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, all those colleagues who have contributed, and also the Commission.
In our discussions I repeatedly emphasised my understanding of a compromise as a solution that is slightly painful to all sides.
The directive on the promotion of cogeneration is a step forward, which is intended to help to resolve the problems faced by our energy sector in Europe, such as the need to save energy and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
We are also considering cogeneration with renewable energy sources, at a time when this helps us to increase the security of supply and to reduce the vulnerability relating to the transport of electricity, sometimes across long distances; in fact, cogeneration normally means greater proximity between the production of electricity and the demand for it and therefore brings generation closer to consumption.
The establishment of objectives in relation to the promotion of cogeneration has been one of the fundamental issues in the debate between the Council and Parliament, and I believe that ensuring that the Member States are prepared to determine and notify their potentials is a very important step forward, and is the correct one.
Perhaps we could have included a few more items that way, but I consider that the main points of our general approach are already present.
Our aim is to improve the security of our energy supply.
The blackouts have taught us all that there is often a great difference between the electricity traded and that which is actually supplied, and consequently that we need a lot of points in the grid to provide grid stability.
Micro-cogeneration provides an opportunity for householders to obtain more efficient and cheaper energy along with greater energy security from the energy industry as domestic users.
The Union really must set an example in this area.
I am in favour of the Council’s support for the amendment in the report which states that it would be the Commission’s task to assess the effects of a harmonised calculation method and propose further action to promote harmonisation.
This directive can create a framework for increased cogeneration.
The potential for cogeneration can be optimised when the various operators are aware of the opportunities that are available to exploit the technology and find compatible systems.
Accordingly, it is particularly important that there is cooperation between different operators and that they can exchange information on good practices. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, we have added another floor to the building of the Union’s energy policy which the Commission – and in particular Vice-President de Palacio – have been promoting since the beginning of this legislative period.
The well-known cornerstones of this energy policy are security of supply, reducing our energy bill and the preservation of the environment.
What we have done through our work together has been to try to ultimately achieve a balanced approach which establishes the foundations for the promotion of cogeneration, dealing objectively with all the interests involved in this significant activity.
I would therefore like to end, Mr President, by expressing my satisfaction with this achievement.
The Council has acknowledged our compromise.
With the latest compromise proposals the directive has indeed progressed in the right direction.
Biomass should become a more frequent option as a fuel in cogeneration.
It is expected that emissions trading will in any case lead to a rise in energy prices, putting a strain on users in the market as a result.
It is important to promote cogeneration, as it is a good solution both economically and environmentally.
There will be another legislature and I hope that all of you will be sitting here – if you wish to be – but I believe it is important to assess what we have done.
We have also worked in other areas, such as security of supply and effective operation of the market, issues which raise problems in relation to this vital element of energy, not to mention issues such as security in the nuclear field, which I referred to a moment ago.
That concludes the debate.
The objective of our proposal is primarily to extend the legal basis for the decentralised cooperation budget line for an additional period of three years.
The latest evaluation of the implementation of this budget line which was sent to Parliament in July insisted on the strong added value of the concept of decentralised cooperation as a complementary tool for the actions implemented under the national indicative programmes in favour of the local civil society.
The proposed amendments by the Committee on Development are mainly intended to clarify the eligibility of some decentralised cooperation agents to ensure better coherence with the comitology used and to guarantee better reporting on the implementation of actions financed under this budget line.
I understand Parliament's concerns that greater emphasis should be given to strengthening the role of local actors, and in particular southern civil society, in development cooperation.
We are making a considerable effort in this direction.
In other areas the geographical instruments may be used.
We have adopted the wording used in Recital 11 on the status of churches and ideological groups in the Annex to the Treaty of Amsterdam to ensure that the ministers could accept it without any difficulties.
And this consensus has been reached not just in Parliament, but at interinstitutional level, which means that, as soon as possible and for the next three years, we will have a renewed legal basis for implementing this policy.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists therefore enthusiastically supports increasingly improved decentralised cooperation.
Decentralised cooperation looks more towards the actors than towards economic resources or the sectoral contents of cooperation.
It is made explicit that local public powers are also considered municipal authorities and we are happy with the extension of the Regulation and the modifications which have been introduced, bearing in mind the references to the Gemelli, Carrilho and Howitt reports and we hope that the Commission will henceforth comply with the time periods for assessment and presentation of results established by Parliament so that we can analyse the effectiveness of this instrument in terms of development. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for the Greens, decentralised cooperation is an essential element of cooperation and development policy.
The Howitt report had already opened up some interesting lines of action, and this new report improves even further the collaboration with non-governmental organisations.
It is particularly important to us that account should be taken of the organisations of the indigenous populations.
The fact that this viewpoint was retained before the vote in committee may have looked like an oversight.
Now, however, when the Committee on Development and Cooperation has rejected this word, and by a large majority, its re-insertion through the intervention of the Council Presidency, which has used a version of the Treaty of Amsterdam – minus its philosophical elements – leaves me somewhat puzzled as to the final objective of this text.
It is vital that as many representatives of civil society as possible can make their opinions known, and can have recourse to funding which is independent of their state authorities, so as to strengthen the independence of social movements which are campaigning for sustainable development, for human rights and for social rights, for democratisation or for cultural pluralism.
In other words, it is not enough to create a good policy: it is even more important to provide it with adequate financial resources. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the best way of providing development aid is by doing justice to the local context in developing countries.
Unfortunately, I cannot find this consideration in the report.
According to the assessment report, however, the selection process is not transparent at all.
Moreover, follow-up and assessment are inadequate; in fact, according to the assessment report, they are absent.
Finally, the Commission has proposed an increase in the budget; the Zimmerling report goes further and proposes a huge increase, but neither the Commission document nor the report adduce convincing arguments for this increase.
In short, there is no reason for great faith in the correctness of the approach adopted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, decentralised cooperation should be seen as one element of sustainable development, which values the role of local operators, provides incentives for consolidating civil society and promotes partners, not only .
Issues relating to the financial framework must be emphasised: predicting an increase undoubtedly sends out a positive message, perhaps the only one possible, but is still far from adequate, mainly because we cannot confine ourselves to making funds available.
I agree with everybody who has said that this is an important and interesting area of activity.
In general, the average money available is between 5 and 10% of the country envelope, when we look at the whole group of ACP countries.
This is for funding local NGOs, non-State actors and civil society in a broad sense.
What we have here is a budget line managed out of Brussels which we decentralised cooperation – a somewhat bureaucratic approach reflecting a time when we did not have the Cotonou agreement's new dimension of directly funding partners in civil society in those 78 countries.
That is not to say that this budget line and this instrument are becoming irrelevant, because they cover the whole geography, not only the ACP countries.
However, there is – like the iceberg – something bigger below the surface of this budget line, and it is important to keep that in mind.
Let me again thank you for a constructive reaction by Parliament. &#160;&#160; That concludes the debate.
The vote will be at 11.30 a.m tomorrow. &#160;&#160; ,. – Decentralised cooperation is a form of intervention that complements the EU’s development policy.
Its main characteristic should not therefore be the amount of funding.
The development, moreover, of the legislative framework does not appear to have resulted so far in a greater take-up of appropriations, while the financial reference amount in the European Commission's proposal for 2004-2006 makes provision for an average annual sum which is higher than that of the previous period of application of the action and which, in my opinion, corresponds to the objective set.
Our proposal for a regulation on promoting gender equality in development cooperation is very important in providing a clear political goal and in emphasising that the achievement of gender equality is crucial for development in general.
However, even if the process is on track in setting the priorities, much remains to be done in terms of delivering results, such as improving the conditions of women in developing countries within a definite time perspective.
It is therefore vital that the catalytic and strategic role played by the present regulation is reinforced.
In fact there is a need for this regulation to fund innovative actions which are cost-effective and have the potential to be replicated in other areas or scaled up using other funding sources.
As I explained in a letter to the chairmen of the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on Development and Cooperation and to the rapporteur, we cannot meet the relatively small increase.
We made great efforts earlier this year in the fight against the major poverty-related diseases and in promoting sexual and reproductive health.
I need therefore to confirm to you that the Commission, fully supported by the Council, cannot accept the proposed increase in the budget.
I hope that this is also the response we will see tonight from Parliament.
The existence of this special budget line and regulation makes a lot of sense because this is where we find the inspiration and the impetus to inject a sense of direction into the mainstreaming effort, but we will never be able to do what needs to be done on the gender issue by a special budget line.
I hope that will be reflected in the way Parliament reacts.
In the same way, we believe that the consolidation of democracy and of the rule of law, as well as respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, are objectives that we should strive to achieve.
For this reason, all the strategies that we implement and all the projects that we want to develop must make it possible to contribute towards the emancipation and action of women in every field and in every country.
Women must participate in a very practical way in the development of their country, because each woman is a potential agent of success, change and development.
The report that we are discussing today is, I hope, one of the fundamental steps in this approach to cooperation, because it makes provision for a number of measures to promote, to develop and to support practical projects in this area.
I believe that there are hundreds of people out there who are waiting for our decision and, if we equivocate, the consequences will be damaging to all those involved locally who want to participate and act, in practical terms, in order to achieve equality of opportunity.
In this report, it seemed to me vital to consider, before anything else, access by women of all ages to all resources and services such as health, education, training and infrastructures.
As a woman, but above all as a democrat, I hope to be able to encourage such participation in all the countries concerned.
I also hope that the main beneficiaries of our aid will be the local agents and women’s organisations who work tirelessly in order to bring about a change in mentality in favour of gender equality.
For this regulation, the European Commission has given us EUR 9&#160;million.
Perhaps that is not very much to us, but it represents a veritable fortune for those involved at the coalface, enabling them to undertake specific projects.
However, as Commissioner Nielson has just explained, it seems that this is impossible.
I therefore accepted the report at first reading, with the support of my fellow Members, in order to encourage practical action, in other words in order to get this regulation adopted as rapidly as possible, in fact tomorrow, so that it will be in force in January 2004.
I should like, however, to ask all those who are due to speak in the debate that we shall be holding in this House tomorrow to give due thought to the fact that in doing so we are taking on a clear and precise responsibility to start a second reading procedure and that we do not know how long that procedure will take.
I also think that all the organisations which are affected by our failure to reach agreement are entitled to expect from us, and from the Council and the Commission, mature behaviour and a practical indication of our desire to see these objectives attained.
As far as I am concerned, if I still have any decision-making powers as the rapporteur, I would argue once again that this text should enter into force in January 2004.
Whatever happens, if the negotiations that we shall be holding this evening and tomorrow make it necessary for us, at any given moment, to reconsider our position, I can only regret it, but in that case I shall immediately seek a meeting with the Council and the Commission so that we can reach agreement as quickly as possible. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union sets great store by equal rights for men and women and also by development cooperation policy.
I think it is somewhat disappointing that the Commission, during the review of the regulation – which lapses at the end of 2003 – presented a proposal that seeks only to act as a catalyst.
From reports of the results of previous actions, it transpired, in fact, that these were not very impressive, while moreover, the planned budget is only partly being used.
Commissioner, the budget for this regulation is small, too small according to my committee, even if the Commission wants the objectives to be achieved by synergy and other actions and programmes.
It should give gender equality in development cooperation policy an extra shot in the arm.
The countries where there is great inequality between men and women are also the poorest.
There is less poverty in countries where inequality between men and women is not so pronounced.
This is not, unfortunately, common knowledge, and so I was pleased with the publication of research by UNICEF on 11 December last, which clearly underlined this.
The report describes that gender discrimination stops developments in their tracks.
These are three important points, particularly the last one: a change of mentality is needed, not least in the bodies of the European Union itself.
In the light of the urgency and opportunities, I am backing the amendment to increase the budget from EUR 9 million to EUR 11 million.
The policy of equality between men and women is one of the best allies in the European Union’s commitment to combat poverty.
Since the nineties we have made a lot of progress with regard to these policies, but we have not yet achieved the desired results.
As the Commission's document argues, it is necessary to explore new avenues and, above all, to achieve the effective application of the measures we approve at national level, which is where we face the greatest difficulties.
It is necessary and urgent to adopt this regulation without excessively extending the time limits.
Our fellow MEP, Mrs&#160;Martens, also mentioned that UNICEF’s report, ‘The State of the World's Children, 2004’, published last week, really does make frightening reading.
Today, we know that more than 120 million children have no schooling.
In South-East Asia and in the countries south of the Sahara, the situation is particularly painful.
Under the World Bank’s fast&#160;track initiatives, the developed countries approved a USD&#160;326 million funding plan last year, but, to date, only USD&#160;207 million has been given by way of appropriations.
The developing countries have put forward their plans and done what they should have done.
Among the EU countries, Italy allocates only 0.3% and Germany only 2.1% of their aid budgets to development.
I believe that the EU and the Commission combined should get their act together and fulfil their pledges made, for example, within the World Bank. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in relation to promoting gender equality in developing countries, it is clear that poverty is one of the issues that has to be tackled.
They are hoping to browbeat this Parliament into accepting what two male-dominated institutions have decided.
I hope that Parliament tomorrow will vote an increase, as the committee did, from EUR 9 million to EUR 11&#160;million.
We talk about gender equality in the European Union, but we have to prove this by saying that we are willing to pay for promoting it in developing countries, to pay for supporting women in developing countries who in many cases have been persecuted and who are the ones who have been pushing to try and progress gender equality and also to alleviate poverty.
The money there is well deserved and you cannot begrudge this EUR 2&#160;million. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the efficiency of development aid remains a problem.
Moreover, it is a fact that misplaced feelings of guilt about our colonial past have made discussion of this problem taboo, a taboo in which, fortunately, cracks are starting to appear.
Gender equality, the topic of this report, is a very important element in this.
As long as people refuse to accept this, this regulation will at best be a source of employment for gender experts and other development workers from Europe, but nothing more than that. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as everyone knows, the main aim of the European Union’s development cooperation policy is to combat and ultimately eradicate poverty.
Consequently, the specific measures intended to promote equality between men and women, women’s independence and their role in the economic, social and environmental spheres make significant contributions as well as being a matter of fairness.
To conclude, I wish to emphasise that promoting gender equality in development cooperation for the 2004-2006 period must be given a budget that matches the needs.
I understand the reasons that the Commission has put forward in this debate and by the rapporteur, whom I congratulate, but, taking account of the measures that still need to be implemented and the efforts that still need to be made, the corresponding budget line must be increased to EUR&#160;11&#160;million. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by thanking the rapporteur for producing this report.
The report concentrates primarily on strengthening existing local organisations, because they have the experts on the ground, the experts on the underlying structures, who know what is really needed there.
I therefore ask Parliament to approve these EUR 11 million tomorrow.
However, it is extremely important to devise modern legislation that creates equal rights on land ownership and, for a country like Kenya which decided to go for free primary education in one big step, to provide budget support that makes it possible for girls to benefit from that opening.
The budget support of EUR 50 million for Kenya was not labelled gender support but, in reality, this is hard-core, big-money, gender-relevant policies.
I could understand the discussion here if this was about the distinction between 9 and 200 million euros, rather than about the distinction between 9 and 11&#160;million euros.
Then I would see some sort of logic in what has been said here tonight.
But the budget line on this specific activity is a catalyst for moving forward good new ideas, innovative approaches, etc., to inspire the more general work on mainstreaming.
If we had more equality both in the Commission and in the Council in relation to the number of women, things would be a bit different.
That concludes the debate.
tomorrow. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A5-0465/2003) by Friedrich-Wilhelm Graefe zu Baringdorf, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the coexistence of genetically modified crops and conventional and organic crops (2003/2098(INI)). &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, this is an own-initiative report tabled by Parliament at the request of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
It is therefore not a response to a legislative proposal from the Commission.
The reactions to this legislation indicate that some regions want to declare themselves GM-free, because they are concerned about the possibility of contamination between small plots – this relates to Article 26 of the release directive, introduced as a result of Parliament’s efforts, which states farmers must have the right to establish a GMO-free region provided they have established that food and feed with over 0.9% contamination will be labelled as genetically modified.
I hope that a large majority in this House will approve this report tomorrow, that the Commission will then meet our expectations and that these questions about coexistence will be dealt with using the codecision procedure, as happened with the legislation on genetic modification.
This will allow us to be included and use our expert knowledge – which is evident in this report – to come up with reasonable legislation that does not allow coexistence to become a Trojan horse.
I hope that the Commission will take our work seriously and that we will soon have a legislative proposal on this subject for this House to discuss.
One last thought: a key factor in this area is whether non-GM seed lines remain free of genetically modified organisms.
With the new GMO authorisation procedure and the legislation on traceability and labelling, the European Union has created a comprehensive regulatory framework that should clear the way for the introduction of GMOs in agriculture.
By establishing the conditions for coexistence we must ensure that farmers who want to use conventional and organic farming methods should be able to do so.
The report comes at a time when several Member States are in the process of preparing national and regional approaches to coexistence.
It also comes at a time when the Commission is seeking to further clarify how it can best engage with the Member States in supporting this process, following the publication of the Commission recommendation on guidelines for coexistence last July.
Concerning thresholds for seeds, we would agree that information on the presence of GMOs in seeds is necessary for the proper implementation of the GMO legislation, especially regarding labelling and traceability.
Scientists have repeatedly supported the subsidiarity-based approach, also at the preliminary hearing on coexistence organised in September 2003.
Moreover, with the insertion of an Article on coexistence into Directive 2001/18/EC at the request of the European Parliament, Member States now have the possibility to adopt measures for coexistence.
With this clause for national coexistence measures in place and the Commission guidelines available, we believe that the framework for national solutions to coexistence is sufficiently elaborated.
I do not share the opinion expressed in the report that Member States should be obliged to put in place legislation to ensure coexistence.
In fact, the Commission guidelines state that the farmers who introduce a new production type should bear this responsibility.
The question of liability cannot be dealt with in isolation.
Liability is conditioned by the overall approach to coexistence taken by the Member State.
It should therefore be addressed as an integral part of the package of national coexistence measures.
It therefore supports scientific studies conducted by the joint research centre and under the sixth framework programme for Community research.
These studies will cover cost analysis, good farming practices for coexistence and liability issues.
However, a comprehensive report covering all economic aspects of coexistence under the different cost conditions in the EU will only be possible once the Member States have more practical experience.
The Commission will ensure a coordination role and facilitate the exchange of information concerning best practices and concrete experiences with coexistence among Member States, including cross-border aspects.
I also think that the section in which we state that the pollution value for seeds is determined by the proximity value is extremely important.
The fact is that opinions on coexistence vary from one country to the next, and even within my group we cannot agree on the subject.
Our own-initiative report calls for comprehensive regulation at Community level, since the guidelines proposed by the Commission are a collection of non-binding recommendations.
Another important feature in our report is the call for the Commission to submit a proposal for Community-wide liability and insurance.
In addition, GMO contamination in seed must be established using technically viable and accurate threshold values, in order to ensure that agricultural production complies with the existing labelling threshold of 0.9% for food.
An own-initiative report is one way in which Parliament can send a clear political signal.
As MEPs, we need to ask ourselves whether we really want to send out a political signal with no actual content.
I therefore join the rapporteur in hoping that this own-initiative report will be adopted tomorrow with a genuinely convincing majority, since it has already received so much support in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Affairs. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, we are not concerned here with the continued existence, or otherwise, of genetically modified organisms.
I am among those who believe that neither humanity as a whole nor its merely European component can do without this knowledge and technology.
I think that the report is very well balanced, but I have some comments to make.
It is not sensible to have one rule apply on one side of a national border and another rule on the other side.
I actually agree with paragraph&#160;9, but I consider that it perhaps goes a little too far.
I am not prepared to vote in favour of that paragraph.
It is the only paragraph in the report about which I take a different view.
When it comes to regional renunciation, the Commissioner says that it can only become a reality if it is voluntary.
In my simplicity, I had imagined that democratic decisions were always voluntary.
I believe that a region or country is entitled to say ‘we do not want this’.
It is very important that we give out this signal and that we can be in relative agreement tomorrow when we take a decision.
We certainly have different views on the continued existence, or otherwise, of genetically modified organisms, but we wish to be cautious.
We must not allow our hand to be forced by a powerful lobby consisting of an increasingly limited group of huge multinationals that market genetically modified crops and which seek to control agriculture and food production against the wishes of European farmers and consumers who, in countless opinion polls, have already expressed their reservations and even fear about genetically modified organisms.
I therefore welcome this own-initiative report by Parliament, which is all the more important because the Commission itself was delaying this debate.
The report also opens the way for the moratorium that has existed since 1998 to be lifted.
Consequently, despite the risk of dissemination varying according to the type of genetically modified crop, their management cannot be efficiently and viably contained.
A farm that opts for a genetically modified crop cannot then revert to conventional or organic farming.
Furthermore, the Community provisions established cannot jeopardise every Member State’s right to ban genetically modified crops throughout their territory or in geographically limited areas.
What is obvious in this entire process is that, if coexistence is not possible, the moratorium should remain in place in order to observe the precautionary principle.
We should consequently support at least item&#160;9 of this report and I personally hope that Parliament will tomorrow adopt the report in its entirety. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I have added two amendments to the report.
It must, however, be possible for a Member State to be exempted if a decision to that effect is taken at a public national parliamentary sitting in the Member State concerned and is presented by the Head of Government to an EU Council meeting.
The rapporteur is right to emphasise the proven insufficiency of our knowledge in a series of crucial areas, which should encourage us, admittedly, to continue the research, but also to behave with great caution.
It is up to the person who introduces a high-risk crop to assume responsibility for all the consequences of that risk.
If, for example, elected representatives, farmers and others involved at regional level in a certain area want that area to be GMO-free, they must be able to decide that in complete freedom, without the Commission putting obstacles in their path in the name of heaven knows what distortion of competition which may be to a greater or lesser extent imaginary.
Therefore, Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of this initiative report, which asks some valid questions on a subject which is vitally important to our society. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, first of all, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on having drafted an excellent report by way of good cooperation, the urgent need for which is evident from the Commissioner’s reaction.
Commissioner, Parliament is on your side and, in the discussion about the European Constitution too, it would be very beneficial if the Commission and Parliament could reach sound agreements in good cooperation.
He mentioned organic farming.
But, Commissioner, the European Union’s own knowledge centre has calculated that in the event of the uncontrolled use of this genetic technology, also in traditional farming, costs would rise from 1 to 41% depending on the crop, because we have no idea how the consumer will react.
This is also why, before we obtain further legislation, we should examine the implications more closely, not only on the farm but also in the sale of the products.
Not only do we need to know what the impact on organic farming is, but also on traditional farming, and also how the consumers will react to this.
After all, we have a House with a common agricultural policy that boasts many regional products and a large diversity in Europe, greater than anywhere in the world.
This means that the risks involved in using this technology will also be greater than anywhere in the world.
Not only for the movement of genetically modified organisms, but also for their free cultivation in the European Union.
I should like to state from the outset our categorical opposition to the cultivation of genetically modified products and to point out for the umpteenth time the hypocrisy of the Commission which, at a time when it is implementing the reform of the CAP, supposedly with the basic principle of improving the quality of agricultural produce in order to guarantee healthy and safe food, environmental protection etc., it is, on the other hand, promoting the cultivation of modified products.
The objective of the report by the European Parliament is essentially to get the idea across that genetically modified organisms can coexist with conventional and ecological products, raising certain questions concerning the preconditions and arrangements for coexistence, while it knows full well that numerous studies point out that it is exceptionally difficult, impossible if you like, to protect against contamination when these crops coexist.
Finally, Mr President, the European Parliament has just one obligation European farmers, consumers and the environment – to say a categorical and overall ‘no’ to the cultivation of modified crops.
Unfortunately, due to the difficult political situation in the autumn 2002 and spring 2003, it was not possible to proceed with negotiations.
Because of the previous protocol, European businesses have made investments in Côte d'Ivoire.
The one-year extension of the protocol provides fishing possibilities for 71 tuna vessels and some demersal fishing as well.
If I were a Member of this House I would look at this with some scepticism.
However, I am happy to know that on 24 November you received an evaluation report on the implementation of the protocol, which answers some of your requests for future negotiations on the renewal of the protocol.
However, the Commission already forwards this kind of information, in line with the current interinstitutional arrangements and, in particular, with the framework agreement between the Commission and Parliament of 5 July 2000.
Therefore, the Commission considers that these two amendments are not necessary.
However, the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and the financial contribution is only valid for three years and will have to be renewed after that period.
Concerning Amendment No 4, considering the importance of the fisheries agreement for Côte d'Ivoire – in terms of the 30&#160;000 jobs generated by EU canneries in Abidjan, and the fact that the financial contribution goes mainly to scientific research, control and surveillance – not extending the agreement would be a disaster for the country.
However, this evening's debate on Côte d'Ivoire has been provoked, not on the usual matters relating to third-country fisheries agreements, but by the Verts/ALE and ELDR groups, who have expressed quite legitimate concerns over the current civil war in that country, and their fears that Community funding should not be sent to a zone of conflict lest it pour petrol on the flames.
As the House will know, the main rebel army in Côte d'Ivoire, who call themselves the New Forces, signed a French-brokered peace deal with Prime Minister Seydou Diarra last January.
Sadly, this peace pact partially crumbled in September when the New Forces walked out of the government, accusing President Laurent Gbagbo of hoarding power and refusing to implement the conditions of the peace pact.
It is against this rather unfavourable background that my report on the Commission's proposal seeks to extend the current fisheries agreement between the Community and Côte d'Ivoire for a further year, although the period actually commenced last July – as Commissioner Nielson pointed out – before the Parliament had even been consulted.
This agreement will be the sixth successive protocol between the EU and Ivory Coast.
However, inevitably – as Commissioner Nielson said – the political instability in the region resulted in our inability to take up some of the demersal fishing opportunities which we had negotiated in 2002.
Tuna fishing, which is the other major resource covered by this agreement, was never affected by the civil war and, in terms of the uptake of opportunities negotiated under the agreement, we have continued at a level of around 85%.
As Commissioner Nielson pointed out, there are 71 licences available for tuna vessels, although as always in these partnership agreements, over 70% of the financial compensation goes to targeted actions ensuring the continuation of a sustainable fishery and underpinning conservation measures, scientific research and control and surveillance.
Commissioner Nielson highlighted that there are three large tuna canneries in Abidjan, funded by EU investment.
Indeed, Abidjan is the focus for much of the tuna landings in West Africa and if, as the Verts/ALE and ELDR Groups suggest, we pull out of this agreement, 5000 direct jobs – and up to 30&#160;000 indirect jobs – would disappear.
Such an outcome would have catastrophic consequences for the social situation in Côte d'Ivoire and would seriously destabilise the country, plunging it into further conflict.
On behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I am disappointed about the amendments on this subject tabled by the Liberal Group.
I would have preferred to see more of a social component in them, and I back anything that can improve the situation in the African countries in relation to fisheries agreements.
I have also noticed that these are widely supported, and I would ask the Commission on the one hand, for an all-out effort for the African countries, including a wise spending plan of the money from the fisheries agreements, but on the other, we consider it essential for the social components also to be taken into consideration.
I am therefore looking forward to the Commission’s reaction, as well as Parliament’s. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today we in this Parliament have adopted a resolution on the Union's role in the prevention of conflicts in Africa, and in particular, in the application of the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement in Ivory Coast.
In this resolution the European Parliament calls on all the conflicting parties to scrupulously apply the Linas-Marcoussis Agreement.
The European Union has a responsibility in terms of preventing conflicts, and its various policies aimed at promoting commercial relations between Europe and developing countries represent a form of preventing this type of conflict.
Commercial and human relations bring peoples closer together, contribute to their development and the development of their different economic sectors.
My group therefore supports the fisheries agreement, because commercial agreements and relations between peoples promote peace and, in the case of fisheries agreements, also the development of the fisheries sector in the developing countries.
Ivory Coast is a country at civil war which we must help so that it can achieve peace and economic progress.
I believe that this is a good agreement illustrating how, in the case of a country which is faced with serious difficulties, fisheries agreements can operate well for both parties, the European Union and the developing country which is signing it with us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since I first raised this question it has been interesting to see, in terms of language, how the approach of Members of Parliament and the Commission has actually changed.
Members indicated that the aim of this was to allow EU vessels to continue fishing despite the conflict.
This is a country in a state of conflict and it looks like the EU's approach is to allow our fleets to continue undisturbed, despite the fact that there is a conflict going on.
The old generation of these agreements, however, really deserves a black mark, and it is thus extremely important to change this situation.
The current conflict in Côte d'Ivoire is not a very good background for stopping this agreement.
