It is also true that the 'Space' Council of 22 May 2007 was in line with the political continuum of this framework agreement.
On 26 September 2008, the Council participated in this act and we want to make our mark on this policy.
Made sacred on 21 July 1969, this step was, without a doubt, in the technological history of our civilisation, the most fabulous catalyst for progress for all space-related and even everyday industries.
It is in this spirit, therefore, that the French Presidency organised, last July, with Valérie Pécresse, the first informal meeting of European space ministers at Kourou which, as you know, is the European spaceport.
Therefore the Union, the European Space Agency and the Member States will ensure that we benefit from an access to space that is autonomous, viable and at the best price, which is necessary with regard to our biggest partners.
This same Council of 26 September underlined the importance of increasing the coordination between the Commission, the European Space Agency and the Member States in the sphere of research and development, notably for satellite navigation systems.
And so, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this renewed vision of European space policy demonstrates a new commitment from the Member States, a commitment that, in the interests of unprecedented European ambition, I have no doubt will resonate across your House.
We have to decide whether or not we want to be dependent on others in the long term.
Space-based technology is completely indispensable to our civilisation, our security and our economy.
Of course, our two flagship projects - GMES and Galileo - are making an important contribution to the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy by ensuring that there is a strong industrial and technological basis in Europe for space-based applications.
GMES is a European infrastructure project and this is how we need to look at it in order to ensure that long-term funding is available.
In summary, in 2009 the Commission will present a proposal for financing the initial deployment of GMES in 2011 on the basis of a detailed impact assessment and cost-benefit analysis.
Furthermore, we have to strengthen our role in research and development.
Today, we see that this central project was bogged down due to the omnipotence and technocratic inertia of our institutions.
The possible inclusion in the budget of a specific chapter will show the European Union's commitment to this policy and increase its clarity and transparency in anticipation of the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty provisions. (PL) Mr President, I am very pleased that we are developing our space programme in cooperation with the Russians.
We must remember that this programme can and should be extremely important to our military operations and our military missions as well.
Before handing over to the Council, may I bring to your attention ladies and gentlemen the fact that there are three Members of this House born on 5 August - that is to say, the birthday of Neil Armstrong.
If we cannot identify new projects and develop new technologies, we will not be able to retain our leading position in the field of space-based applications, because we will simply not have the necessary foundations in science and research.
