EU strategy for the Baltic Sea area (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the EU strategy for the Baltic Sea area.
This proposal was largely inspired by the initiative taken by the European Parliament back in 2005 in a cross-party working group led by Christopher Beazley.
Naturally, Sweden and the other countries neighbouring the Baltic have a great interest in the strategy for the area, but we also believe it could serve as a model for other regions and other regional strategies that would be useful to the entire EU.
The aim of the strategy is to improve the environment in the Baltic Sea area and to increase integration and competitiveness in the area.
The strategy addresses four challenges in particular: ensuring a sustainable environment, increasing wealth, improving accessibility and attractiveness, and guaranteeing security and certainty in the area.
Naturally, our objective cannot be achieved overnight, but our goals are ambitious.
I would like to express my thanks for the positive cooperation of the Commission on this matter, and not least the European Parliament - which is, after all, the institution that originally took the initiative and has been a driving force in connection with cooperation in the Baltic Sea area throughout.
The first formal assessment of progress made will be presented under the Polish Presidency in the second half of 2011.
I would also like to express my special gratitude to Commission President Barroso.
His understanding and support since 2007 were crucial in preparing a practical version of the strategy, which resulted in the Commission communication last June.
Mr President, Mrs Malmström, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted that the Swedish Presidency has put cooperation in the Baltic Sea area at the top of its agenda.
I therefore ask - and I would ask the Commissioner to take this on board - that not only the Council and the Commission participate in the Baltic Sea Strategy, but also that Parliament is properly involved in this cooperation and in the implementation of this strategy, because we would like other regions to profit as well, as with the Black Sea policy or with cooperation between the states bordering the Danube.
Mr President, my group is very happy that the Commission has drafted the EU's first Baltic Sea Strategy document.
We now need a Baltic Sea action plan to end this.
In exactly 2564 hours, the reactor at Ignalina nuclear power plant in Lithuania - the last remaining independent energy source in Lithuania - will be shut down.
This is an area with 100 million inhabitants and an investment budget of EUR 50 billion.
This policy is now being continued by Commissioner Samecki, to whom I also extend my heartfelt congratulations.
The Baltic Sea Strategy is a good example of how we can use the instruments of Community policy to materialise political will over a large macro-regional area of the European Union.
Let us hope that this one works well. (SV) Mr President, I am delighted that environmental issues are a main priority in the new strategy for the Baltic Sea area.
The Baltic Sea is suffering two major acute environmental problems.
Researchers are entirely unanimous on this.
It would therefore be very good if a pilot project - a fast track project - could be established within the new Baltic Sea Strategy involving regional fisheries management in the Baltic Sea area.
It would also be useful to clarify how the Baltic Sea Strategy will affect the planned application of a territorial cohesion policy. (DA) Mr President, we are discussing a 1 200 km gas pipeline beneath the Baltic from Vyborg in Russia to Greifswald in Germany through an ecologically sensitive inland sea where there is a large difference in sea bed levels, through an area where undetonated explosives from two world wars, as well as poisonous chemicals from the paper industry, are constantly being found.
Around EUR 100 million have been expended on an environmental analysis performed by the company that is to lay the pipeline, namely Nord Stream - a gas supply agreement between Gerhard Schröder and Vladimir Putin.
I will not even mention the security issues surrounding the great increase this will bring to Russia's influence in the Baltic, but instead I will stick to the environmental problems this will bring.
Speaking of priorities, I should first wish to mention the development of a common European Union energy policy, including a competitive Baltic energy market.
Innovation-driven prosperity, the environment, accessibility in terms of transport and energy connections, and security and safety are the four major areas for joint work by all partners who are involved in preparation of the strategy: all three European institutions - Parliament, the Commission, the Council - but also national governments, regional and local authorities, business and academic communities and non-governmental organisations.
Development challenges increasingly do not respect administrative or political borders.
The European Parliament's Committee on Regional Development, which is the leading committee on this project in Parliament, will give high importance to it in its work.
We will hold the debate on 6 October with the Commission and the Council; the own-initiative report will be prepared in the months to come.
Minister Malmström says how it will change because the change to the Cohesion Policy will result, for example, in the danger that, when we speak of the Danube Strategy and the Black Sea Strategy, part of Europe, including northern regions, will be ignored and, in fact, Arctic areas right now are undergoing the world's most rapid changes, and this is important to see. (FI) Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, the Baltic Sea as a region is special in many ways, and so I am very pleased that Sweden has made this strategy one of its priorities during its Presidency.
During its presidency, Sweden has also integrated these regional policy matters closely with this Baltic Sea Strategy.
The Baltic Sea Strategy must therefore be made part of the common European agenda.
I think that the strategy must be more ambitious and seek to attain all the objectives of the European Union. (FI) Mr President, I wish to thank the Commission and the Swedish Government for the very active role they have played, and I believe that the Baltic Sea Strategy is a good and important one.
So I would like to ask the Swedish Presidency when such a strategy for the Black Sea region will be delivered, and when Parliament will be informed and involved in this issue. (DE) Mr President, Mrs Malmström, Commissioner Samecki, as a newly elected member from Mecklenburg-Western-Pomerania, I very much support the development of a Baltic Sea Strategy and the associated action plan.
The Commissioner referred earlier to the flagship projects, 80 in total.
That raises the question of how we deal with offshore installations in the Baltic Sea.
That is why we also need to be clear on where the energy routes will be for Nord Stream, for the supply of electricity, and on many other things. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members for the great level of support that you have given us for our continued work on the Baltic Sea Strategy.
We have had a very broad foundation process and I would like to thank the Commission - first Mrs Hübner and now Commissioner Samecki - for the work they have put in.
EUR 55 million has been earmarked for the region under the existing budgetary framework.
Mrs Hassi and Mrs Lövin mentioned the matter of the marine environment, agriculture and fisheries.
It is a commercial project that has been examined in accordance with current international environmental conventions and relevant national legislation.
The responsibilities of Member States, of the Commission and of other organisations involved in the management.
The future is not in fixed means of delivering natural gas - via pipelines - but through liquefied natural gas.
The Baltic Sea Strategy announced in June 2009 aims to establish it as a region which is environmentally friendly, prosperous, easily accessible, attractive and secure.
