As has been said already, the renewed social agenda was discussed by Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs at an informal meeting of the Social Council held in early July at Chantilly.
I have already had the opportunity to present this package to the Conference of Presidents and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
This complex package is the result of two years of joint efforts.
In excess of another 20 relating to a wide range of topics are also under discussion.
The renewed social agenda is based on three main principles: opportunities, access and solidarity.
Europeans' faith in equality gives rise to a shared belief in social solidarity: solidarity between generations, between regions, between those at the top and those at the bottom, between wealthy and less wealthy Member States, and also with our neighbours and friends in other parts of the world, since solidarity is an integral part of the functioning of the European Community and of our relations with other countries throughout the world.
A horizontal directive will provide Member States, economic entities and citizens with the greatest degree of clarity and legal certainty.
This draft is a response to repeated calls from Parliament and meets the political undertaking which the Commission made upon taking office.
It is a flexible instrument based on principles already adopted in Member States and embedded in existing regulations.
The directive covers the supply of all goods and services and relates to both business and private individuals, but only insofar as the commercial supply of goods and services is involved.
The draft directive prohibits discrimination, but at the same time respects the other fundamental rights and freedoms, including the protection of private and family life and acts undertaken in this context and also the freedom of religion and the freedom of association.
The package contains a declaration of our renewed undertaking to ensure equal opportunities and to fight against discrimination and also a Commission Staff Working Document on Community Instruments and Policies for Roma Inclusion.
It is a response to the request from the European Council in December 2007 that the Commission should review existing policies and instruments and submit to the Council a report on the progress achieved.
It is a balanced draft which should guarantee that employees' representatives are kept adequately informed and consulted prior to decisions relating to circumstances affecting them and should also allow businesses to adapt to globalisation.
I really hope that Parliament will bear in mind the practical proposals made by representatives of workers and employers when they come to the first reading.
Now I must say a few words about the impacts of globalisation.
So far the Fund has helped 7 250 employees to find new jobs.
The report contained in the social agenda package states that, of the EUR 500 million available annually, just 4% was used in 2007.
As regards workforce mobility, I should like to say that the 1996 Directive concerning the posting of workers supports the free movement of services and also offers protection against the abuse of workers and guarantees them observance of fundamental rights in the Member States to which they are posted.
Recent rulings by the Court of Justice on this matter have thrown up a whole series of questions.
I am convening a forum to discuss this topic on 9 October, when this complex problem will be discussed with political bodies, representatives of workers and employers, representatives of European institutions and experts in the fields of law and the economy.
Ladies and gentlemen, this new social agenda affirms the undertaking of the European Union to promote a strong and real social dimension for Europe, a social Europe, which will meet the expectations of our fellow citizens.
In this context, I should like to mention the following three documents: 1.
Council Recommendation on mobility of young volunteers across Europe; 2.
It is our joint wish to strengthen and deepen the social dimension of Europe.
The 18 measures contained in the package represent the first step in our efforts in this direction.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to talk about social Europe.
I have said it before and I will say it again now: 2008 is to be the year in which social Europe is re-energised.
Those values are social dialogue, intergenerational solidarity, action against poverty and discrimination, equality between the sexes, social protection, occupational mobility, and the importance of services of general interest in guaranteeing social cohesion and social responsibility in business and industry.
Observed from Beijing, Washington, the Cape, New Delhi or from Brisbane even, these values give the European social model its originality.
Because workers too are more productive when they have good terms of employment and social protection which cushions them against the hard knocks that life delivers.
And things are moving.
It is time we joined forces to prepare our societies better for this demographic change, strengthening intergenerational solidarity and ensuring that people have access to high-quality social services of general interest.
Especially - and I say this in all honesty - since the upcoming elections mean that the second half of 2008 will be our last shot at securing results in this parliamentary term on a number of issues.
The present directive applies to more than 14 million workers and 820 employers.
Parliament will be consulted on this matter but I should point out that the Commission's proposal, covering four grounds for discrimination, took account of the resolution which Parliament adopted last spring on the report by Elizabeth Lynne.
But adoption of the Protocol to the Lisbon Treaty and evaluation of the Altmark package gives us an opportunity to think about the contribution which these services make to social cohesion in Europe, the need to ensure that they are of high calibre and the importance of giving them a sound legal framework.
The French Presidency needs the European Parliament's support on these various issues in order to achieve concrete results.
Those results - you know this, but I will say it again - are keenly awaited by the people of Europe, who expect us to pursue our European social vision to the benefit of their everyday lives, to make Europe more a part of everyday existence.
Upholding European social models is one of our priorities in an increasingly globalised world.
And for this reason, as Chairman of the EPP Group, I welcome the Commission's proposal on the new social package.
This text offers some answers to questions of fundamental importance to our societies, such as demographic change, globalisation and poverty reduction.
Alleviating poverty, getting population groups who are excluded from the labour market into employment, promoting worker mobility and improving workers' education and training - these are things that call for a specific programme, concrete measures and strong commitment on the part of the European Union and its Member States.
That is something which ought not to exist in the Europe of 2008.
We must also encourage a competitive environment for our businesses, giving special support to small and medium-sized enterprises which are the leading creators of jobs.
The EPP-ED Group is determined, now more than ever, to achieve results here.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the speeches delivered by the previous speakers - by Commissioner Špidla, by the President-in Office of the Council, Mr Bertrand, and by you, Mr Daul - one has the impression that all is well.
You are progressing nicely, and 2008 will be remembered as the year when the European social model was relaunched.
That all sounds very fine, but the reality is harsher.
The real picture is one of gross social inequality in the European Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, we shall be dealing in detail with our views on the various proposals.
But what line did your government take in the Council on the Working Time Directive? (Applause) Your governing party is a member of the European People's Party, whose member parties provide the vast majority of the heads of government in the European Union.
The European social model is one of our priorities, you said.
My honourable colleague Paul Nyrup Rasmussen has presented us with a very good report.
We shall therefore have to ensure that a general change of political direction takes place, a change of direction that will actually put the European social model back where you want it, Mr Bertrand, so that every economic advance achieved by the European Union will also have a beneficial impact on the lives of all citizens of the European Union.
But the reason why we want it is to create wealth that accrues to everyone, not only to investors in major corporate groups, in large joint-stock companies and in the big banks.
As long as we have this philosophy in Europe that awards European prizes to people who boast, when presenting their companies' performance figures at press conferences, of having made billions throughout Europe on which they do not pay any taxes in Europe, because their profits are European and not national and are therefore exempt from national taxation, and as long as we continue to put tens of thousands out of work to perpetuate this state of affairs and maintain our shareholders' profits - as long as this remains the reality of the European social model, we can talk here as much as we like, but the people will never identify with this Europe.
The same applies to you, Mr Bertrand, in the Council and to you, Mr Daul, here in Parliament.
Our people want to know what kind of European Union we are building.
There is much to praise, as Commissioner Špidla says, in the European Works Council Directive and, of course, in the proposal on patients' rights in cross-border health care, for which my group has fought so hard.
In February Mr Barroso brought to us a major package of measures to fight climate change.
It provided a valuable social model for the new Member States upon their accession to the European Union in 2004 and 2007, since in many of them, after the recovery of political and economic independence at the end of the 1980s, capitalism sought to assert itself in its worst form, violating workers' rights and showing no respect for human dignity.
In the 21st century we all have to contend with globalisation, which can be an opportunity but also a threat to humankind.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I very much welcome what the Minister has said this morning, and hope that much of it will be echoed by the Council, although the evidence so far does not give us great cause for confidence that it will.
We are invited in this package to consider the impact of the recent European Court of Justice rulings.
Well, many of us have indeed considered them and consider them extremely worrying, when we are constantly being asked to justify measures on the basis of their not disturbing markets rather on the basis of their delivering a high quality of services and quality of workers rights etc.
We obviously welcome the horizontal directive on equalities.
We also welcome many of the proposals on the Roma.
We welcome the Commission's commitment and want to see all Member States responding positively, rather than entrenching prejudice and bigotry.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, three points from the present discussion stick in my mind.
The first is the desire expressed by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Bertrand, to make 2008 the year when the European social model is relaunched.
I believe that all three statements require critical analysis.
Firstly, how can the representative of the French Presidency declare the aim of making 2008 the comeback year for the social model when the French Government declined even to refer to social policy as a priority of its Presidency?
Nor is there any answer to the question whether those who play an important part in defending social rights within the European Union are to be given more instruments and more powers in the European Works Council Directive.
But if we read the Deutsche Welle of 2 July, French President Nicolas Sarkozy has made it clear that social policy will not be a top priority.
Unfortunately the European social model is now no more than a myth, because the social reality in our country of France, and my own region in particular, Nord-Pas-de-Calais, is that we have a state of social decline, despair, social precarity and working conditions, mass unemployment and - something else that is altogether alarming and huge - a falling birth rate.
We also need an inter-regional balance, and that is why we provide the European Social Fund, the Regional Fund and the Globalisation Fund.
We in the PPE Group reject the horizontal directive.
If the social agenda in its entirety is to succeed, primary responsibility must remain in the hands of the Member States.
Then there would be a good chance of achieving the social and economic change we want and need and of bringing the European social model to life. (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this new social agenda comes late in the day and it is a feeble response to the precarious situation, inequalities and effects of recession currently plaguing the workforce and many of our fellow citizens in Europe.
And as you said, Minister, 2008 was supposed to be a come-back year, the year in which social Europe was re-energised.
One is the response to recent judgments by the European Court of Justice in the Laval, Rüffert and Viking cases, which weaken our resistance to social dumping in the European Union.
So we want the revision of this directive to be placed on the agenda and we want a social safeguard clause guaranteeing that in future no directive, no Union policy, no treaty principle can be applied to the detriment of workers' rights; so that where one country has a higher standard of workers' rights than another, that higher standard can never again be lowered by invocation of the country of origin principle, as we saw with the first version of the services directive - the Bolkestein directive.
Secondly, Mr Bertrand tells us that social services of general interest, operations in the general interest, should be encouraged for the wellbeing of our social model.
But we have had no proposal for a directive on services of general economic interest.
So the ball is back in our court and above all perhaps in the Council's.
We shall make sure that the workforce is consulted in advance of any restructuring and that works councils are able to give their views on matters which are often highly technical.
There is huge legal uncertainty, damaging the quality of services that are essential to cohesion in our societies.
We must resolve to go for more cooperation but also more harmonisation, wherever possible. (PL) Mr President, the Council representative called for a more social Europe.
The European Union can of course propose a great deal, but it must be stressed that social policy is an area in which Member States have sovereign powers of decision.
In short, what we need is less rhetoric and more concrete action.
The European Union is proposing as many as 19 interesting initiatives, of which only three are legislative proposals.
The question is whether the money is well spent. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to have taken the 'no' vote in Ireland, the victory of the opponents of a communal Europe, to shake the Commission out of its lethargy.
Parliament will have to make numerous improvements to this draft.
It is clear that a majority of Parliament will support this directive too.
It will likewise need improving in many places, however, especially as regards the rights of people with disabilities.
It is true that right-wing governments have contributed much to the demolition of the European social model.
The directive secures an entitlement to treatment in another country at the cost of that same treatment in the patient's home country.
This also creates the risk of having A and B countries.
The intention to facilitate access to health care in other European countries, for example, is to be welcomed.
It is a travesty that the EU decrees, on the one hand, that public contracts must be put out to public tender and that the clause requiring successful tenderers to pay at least the statutory minimum wage is then revoked by the European Court of Justice on the grounds of incompatibility with the directives on services in the internal market and on the posting of workers.
Mr President, let me start by thanking Martin Schulz for reminding everybody that the centre-right is the largest grouping in this Parliament, that the centre-right has the largest number of Commissioners and, indeed, that the centre-right has the largest number of governments in the EU Member States.
The people have decided this because they have recognised the growing gulf between the rhetoric of the left and the reality, and they have rejected it.
I would also remind him, as a good democrat, to remember that the people are, of course, always right.
Turning to the social package in general, on our side we welcome the thoughtful comments of the Commissioner and his initiative regarding the revised Social Agenda, in particular the theme which reminds all of us that the EU is about people, about giving people more and better opportunities, and in particular equipping and empowering them to cope with the challenge of change.
I would just like to pick up three points very briefly from the excellent contribution from my colleague, Joseph Daul.
Many Member States have different approaches, but all of them should take heart from the themes and the direction that he has outlined.
The second point is about the importance of jobs.
Harlem Désir talked very appropriately about the rights of workers.
We respect the importance of the rights of workers, but my political group would also highlight the rights of non-workers - those people who currently do not have a job, who have been frozen out of the job market for whatever reason, and who want to have a job.
The point I would make is not a UK point, but there is a genuine problem - and I say this to the Commissioner - of really involving SMEs in the consultation process, because SMEs are not only the largest number of employers but they also have the largest number of employees.
Every country has its poor people, and the amount and quality of poverty is different in individual Member States, but we know that it hurts in the same way.
However many of the eighteen or so documents indicated in the social roadmap are drafted, the identification of European citizens with the Union can only be reinforced by what is specific and obvious and offers the opportunity for common progress instead of reciprocal tension between rival poverties.
I am pleased that, after many requests from the Council and the European Parliament, the Commission has prepared an assessment of the situation of Roma and of the practices relating to them.
The Parliament and the Commission were divided about having to regulate the prohibition of discrimination in a comprehensive directive, and in accordance with the social-liberal viewpoint we ultimately failed to classify the groups that are discriminated against.
We can expect the directive to enable the comprehensive protection of people and groups who are threatened in many ways.
You will not be surprised to learn that I find it unfortunate, on a matter as fundamental as this, that the European Parliament is merely to be 'consulted', but my distinct impression is that the Presidency is amenable to any proposals or suggestions which the European Parliament might make.
So we shall get to work straight away, Commissioner, and I myself can see three aspects of the text which we shall try to improve.
Secondly, the directive must not be stripped of its substance by the overhasty inclusion of notions like public safety or public order, as I think is currently happening in one big country in the south of the European Union, which shall remain nameless.
When you write in Article 14 'Member States shall lay down the rules on sanctions applicable to breaches of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive', Commissioner, that does not get us very far.
In short, I trust that this directive, the repository of so much expectation, does not turn out in reality to be a big mini-directive, big on principles but very small on details. (PL) Mr President, economic growth should serve to improve the material situation of our societies.
Mr President, following on from my colleagues I would like to speak about the fight against discrimination.
First of all I would like to thank the Commission for its courage in coming with a horizontal approach in the draft directive on equal treatment outside the workplace.
We have to take into account that some Member States keep blocking the adoption of this necessary document.
Unfortunately, multiple discrimination is also not appropriately addressed in this draft, so I hope that we will all work on this directive further. (FR) Mr President, 51 years into their lifetime, the EU institutions are only now discovering the social dimension.
Yes, the Commission and most of this House find themselves obliged to recognise that the Union is populated not only by shareholders and consumers, but also by the workforce, whose labour creates Europe's wealth.
Yes, Europe urgently needs true social democracy to prevent bad moves such as raising working time to almost 70 hours a week.
We should do that before we try to regulate centrally how the social partners should behave in 27 different countries.
In my own country there is great anger over the fact that the EU and its judges can take the liberty of controlling the establishment of a labour market system other than the one which has grown up amid considerable national unity over the past 70 years. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment, which prohibits any kind of discrimination outside the workplace, is a superfluous regulation which we should not discuss at all.
However, human capabilities, either innate or developed through education, are individual and different in every person and thus logically unequal.
The directive on equal treatment should therefore not come into being at all. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this social package will only be able to bear fruit and be effective if we are able to agree the substance of the key initiatives.
We must move right away from the false dilemma between solidarity and competitiveness because they are not incompatible.
Therefore our social model needs to come to terms with the new reality.
In short, ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to abandon our social model, but renew it, giving it greater flexibility, greater mobility and greater security so that the most vulnerable are not left by the wayside.
If that is what we need to do, I am sad to say that this package simply is not up to the task.
The horizontal directive to combat discrimination is a good example.
The European works council directive proposal is another example.
All in all, I see this as a belated attempt by President Barroso to persuade the Left here that he has a social conscience, and that he is worthy of support for a second term as Commission President.
As I have said, it is much too little and much too late - much too late, in fact, to guarantee safe passage of the sparse worthwhile elements before the election next year.
President Barroso is insulting the intelligence not only of the Left in this House but also of the millions of citizens out there who deserve better.
We must ensure efficient use of the European budget. (PL) Mr President, I am pleased to see that the new social agenda includes the revision of the directive on European Works Councils in the package of future activities.
The directive on part-time work and combating poverty among workers in full-time employment is also exceptionally important.
The professional mobility of future workers is their chance in life, but it is also a chance for the economy.
However, the green paper on health sector employees which we are awaiting will be important for the implementation of these measures. (PT) Mr President, this so-called social package merely sows illusions regarding the seriousness of the social inequalities affecting the 80 million or so people who live in poverty, including the ever-increasing millions of poorly paid workers with insecure jobs and the millions of unemployed, while the scandalous profits of economic and financial groups and multinational relocations continue.
The real causes of this situation have been overlooked - the perpetuation of the neoliberal policies the proposed health services directive would intensify, the job flexibility the working time proposals would exacerbate, and the attack on public services and production sectors strategic to development.
There will be no discrimination in the EU over democracy and subsidiarity, no jingoistic verbiage about who is in power, or about right- or left-wing affiliations, as has been heard here.
We cannot therefore blame the global crisis; we must see things positively.
We must face our own, demographic crisis, in the best possible way.
Poverty must be fought, so we shall devote the year 2010 to the struggle.
Debating social problems is not only our ambition.
A European Union in which some Europeans are more equal than others has failed in its mission.
It is a shame that the Commission seems to be condoning this.
Finally, I would like to add that, ironically, this package seems to provide a higher level of protection against discrimination on all grounds apart from gender discrimination.
At the same time, the Commission's proposal on cross-border health care is leading to class-based health segregation: the rich and educated are being given the option of shopping around for health care wherever it is in their best interests.
I understand the European Union as a response to globalisation.
In a globalised world, a certain social framework at European level provides essential protection.
On the other hand, however, we must also succeed in international competition.
It goes without saying that I am opposed to discrimination, but in my view, and in the view of another 261 Members of the European Parliament, a comprehensive framework directive is not the right way forward; in particular, it is not the right way to protect the victims.
Commissioner, the social package contains very interesting working documents and statements, but only four legislative initiatives.
As if protecting social rights, creating a social level playing field, is no longer a European responsibility in the Europe of 27.
Together with the EPP and the social organisations, we expect, on top of this social package, at least stronger legislation in regard to posting that protects social rights, better legislation to eliminate the wage gap between men and women, a framework law to protect social services and binding commitments in the fight against poverty.
What we need is a real social pact, with a coherent vision and a serious commitment to a social Europe, so that at least we show citizens that Europe is more than just a market.
I hope, Mr Bertrand, that we can for now count on the support of the French Presidency in this fight.
I would like to thank the Commission for bringing this forward and Commissioner Špidla in particular for his tenacity.
But, having said that, I am delighted to be able to stand here and say that we are at long last on our way to seeing all EU citizens treated as equals.
The Council has decided to partition working time into active and inactive segments.
This obliges employees to work 65 to 77 hours a week.
I must point out that we had a Social Democratic Government in my own country, and five million people were unemployed when it left office.
Secondly, as a Member of this House, I personally feel angry when we ourselves speak so badly of our European ideal.
When I think that the single market is creating millions of jobs and is giving people prosperity and good prospects and that our cohesion policy, our European Social Fund, is providing us with billions to practise solidarity on a European scale, to be a model of European solidarity, I must urge everyone, in spite of all our problems, to refrain from denigrating our own project.
That question has to be asked before any new directives are created.
All Member States of the EU are democracies, and they all have structures built on the rule of law.
The European Union and the Member States must respond to real needs, create real opportunities and new hopes in the interests of all the citizens of Europe.
The new package of Commission initiatives in the field of the European social model is a long overdue and incomplete supplement to activities undertaken at national level in the struggle to improve the standard of living of European citizens, reinforce their rights and combat discrimination.
I am hopeful that the new directive on equal treatment, which as a socialist group we have long been demanding, will enable us to say we are really combating all forms of discrimination.
Revision of the directive on European Works Councils, which is at present fulfilling its role as an instrument for social dialogue, is a positive element in the social package.
We still have to contend with incomplete protection of workers in the drastic restructuring processes imposed by globalisation.
Legislation on social policy is also of enormous importance for the political awakening of Europe and Europeans and the restoration of faith in a common project, especially in view of the institutional crisis and the imminent elections to the European Parliament. (FR) Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, the long and lively debates we have had on the European Globalisation Fund ring in my ears to this day.
I urge you Commissioner, on this Globalisation Fund, not only to revise the criteria but also to look at the very purpose of what we are doing here. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot conceal my disappointment at the statements from the Council and the Commission.
What the Council has done, however, in virtually reversing the ruling of the Court of Justice and even ignoring the improvements that the Commission's proposal had made to some aspects of the previous legal position is unacceptable.
We need a compromise, and this Parliament pointed the way at first reading with proposals such as the use of a quotient.
In this context, the renewed social agenda represents a step forward in the field of social legislation after a long period of inertia.
The intentions are good, as can be seen from the new draft directive against discrimination.
This represents an important success for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, since it supported the proposal for a horizontal directive in order to end the hierarchical system of Community protection from discrimination.
For this reason, clear policy measures, a halt to rapidly increasing inequalities, and the improvement of living and working conditions are required. (HU) Mr President, the Commissioner summed up his expectations beautifully in his speech, but the documents available to us do not reflect that.
We want, in at least four resolutions, a Roma integration package with legislation and a budget, and a group to coordinate the Committees in the interests of implementing any future programmes effectively.
Commissioner Špidla cannot resolve this matter by himself.
The package contains measures in the areas of employment, social affairs, education, youth, health, the information society and economic affairs, all fundamental aspects which directly affect the daily lives of us all, as European citizens, and which must therefore be the subject of thorough, coordinated and above all transparent study.
As a member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I would like to emphasise the importance of and the need for this proposal which, in tackling the areas just mentioned, makes a comprehensive attempt to grasp, examine and resolve topics such as demographic change, globalisation and the importance of the human factor.
I am pleased that the Commission intends to review Directives 92/85 and 96/39 in terms of maternity leave as this is a move to improve the quality of family life for all those women who, whilst caring for a family, have to face the world of work on a daily basis.
I would like the Commission to answer a couple of questions in connection with the fight against poverty - and I am not talking here about third world poverty but about poverty within the boundaries of the Community - a problem which looms larger every year, affecting every single member of the European Community.
I would like to thank the Council representatives and once again I would like to stress the importance of this social package in the context of the revised social agenda. (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Commissioner, as well as welcome proposals in the field of anti-discrimination and cross-border health care, the social agenda of the Commission contains the long-awaited proposal on European Works Councils.
The Commission also opposes the review of the directive on posting, a directive that has come under fire after some very controversial judgments by the European Court of Justice.
One meeting a year is not much more than symbolic policy and social consultation in the undertaking is much too important for that.
What was once intended as a directive to protect workers against exploitation and unfair competition in the cross-border supply of services has thus, thanks to the Court of Justice and the Commission, become a threat to the obligations applicable in a Member State in regard to the working conditions to be observed.
We Socialists take the opposite view, namely that the economy is there to serve the people, and we must fashion our policies accordingly. (RO) I was hoping these proposals would stimulate the reduction of social gaps between the European citizens.
Unfortunately, the package only faces us with another gap, the one between good intentions and the necessary instruments for achieving them.
This also happens where there is a European regulation requiring Member States to take action.
For example, it seems pointless at this stage putting questions to the Commission and highlighting cases of discrimination or failures on the part of national or sub-national legislation.
Talking of discrimination and stereotypes, Minister, please thank your President for the tie. (CS) Mr President, in light of the fact that the words 'too little too late' have already been uttered many times when assessing the social package, I shall give my assessment: the mountain has given birth to a mouse.
My question is: 'what have you been doing for four years?' You have been putting forward socially unacceptable proposals, the culmination being the Working Time Directive so highly vaunted by the Council and the Commission.
Commissioner, the lack of a clear position on working hours in a social agenda is further evidence that this Commission does not baulk at the idea of 65-hour working weeks either.
My group will not have any part in this charade.
If Europe's labour force is not to turn its back completely on the European Union, we must afford it better protection from the effects of globalisation and waste no time in paving the way for cross-border collective wage agreements. (RO) I would like to raise for discussion some ideas regarding the legislative package in the Social-European agenda.
At European level, 19 million children and young people are subject to poverty and 6 million abandon high school every year.
This percentage is very far from the European Union's 85% objective of young people who have access to secondary university education.
Consequently, the European Union should fight by any possible means, such as legislation, funds, European policies, to promote the opportunities and access of all young people to education.
The Commission and the Council have nine months to prove their bona fides on social Europe.
The people will then give their verdict. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, we are today discussing very important issues of employment, social rights and health protection.
It is a duty imposed on us by our concern for the future of Europe.
The funds allocated to social policy by the Member States must be better directed, as must the European Social Fund.
We need a new stimulant in this matter, but I equally welcome the reiteration of the idea of solidarity between regions because it is here that we can measure most accurately social cohesion or its absence. (SV) Mr President, I apologise for my late arrival.
It is clear that ambitions in the European Parliament are somewhat greater than those in the package, but I would nevertheless like to highlight three positive elements which we can work on.
Thirdly, the social integration programme, which will be presented in October and the fight against poverty, exclusion, etc.
Mr President, if you have a market at European level - which we do, with the single European market - you of course need common rules for that common market so that it works fairly and efficiently, not least in the social field.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, an impassioned debate, but a debate on social Europe, and the fact that we are having this debate is proof of a meeting of minds.
The clear answer is yes, and, as you well know, on this we shall all be judged not by our aspirations at the outset, our initial ambitions, but purely by what we have achieved.
We know now that there is a greater likelihood of achieving those results, results that are positive, and positive for social Europe.
The social partners must also give their views on the subject, and not necessarily separately.
On the matter of social services of general interest, it seems to me that all Member States are keen to preserve the organisation of the general service remit that is specific to each individual country.
Finalising this, as you know, requires unanimity of the Member States.
First of all, this agenda, since it is so wide-ranging, considers a social agenda and social policy to be a manifestation of a complex political approach and to be the consequence of a complex approach in a whole series of policies.
It is clearly a mainstream concept, in no way a social policy pushed to the side, with a series of undoubtedly interesting and technical aspects, but nonetheless clearly marginalised.
It therefore contains not only legislative proposals, but also, of course, proposed communications and proposals for other documents.
The debate also raised the thought, albeit only partially, and I think I should respond to it, that the proposals in the field of health care are some kind of back door into the Bolkestein directive in the field of health care.
The question also arose about equal opportunities for men and women.
I should like to say that other directives cover equal opportunities for men and women and, in view of this, it was not essential to explicitly include equality between men and women in the proposed directive.
I should like to emphasise clearly that this agenda undoubtedly shows how strongly the Commission and Europe are engaged with the concept of decent work on a global level.
Under these circumstances, we need to undertake the mission of ensuring non-discriminatory living and working conditions for all the Community citizens.
First of all, in this context, resuming discussions on a Community minimum wage seems not only opportune but also necessary.
In the same context, the Commission's initiative to improve the visibility and work methods under the EU Strategy on social integration and protection and to consolidate its interaction with other policies appears to be significant.
in writing. - (HU) One of the most important results of the European Commission's renewed social policy agenda must be the restoration of the appropriate rights of European Roma as European citizens and the halting of their social exclusion.
Lifelong learning programmes that give Roma suitable skills for employment and self-employment could be a useful tool in the fight against unemployment.
I feel it is important that we are able to discuss these topics at the large-scale Roma conference being organised on 16 September, and I hope that the question of social inclusion of the Roma will be put on the agenda of the European Council both separately and as part of the social agenda.
in writing. - (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's social package is a long-awaited reform to the building of the Union's social dimension.
The package does, however, contain many good proposals.
I would especially like to thank the Commission for deciding, after long deliberations, to draw up a horizontal anti-discriminatory directive that covers all grounds for discrimination.
The proposal for a directive on patients' rights in cross-border health care, which received relatively less publicity, will have a tangible impact on the ordinary lives of many Europeans.
In this connection, I would like to urge the Commission to get on with its plans to draft a directive on extending maternity leave from 14 to 18 weeks.
in writing. - (ET) Martin Schultz is undoubtedly right to say that the social package could have been stronger.
Among other things, I would like to pick out the Commission communication on the European Globalisation Fund.
Although it has provided assistance to several thousand people in, for example, Germany, France, Portugal and Finland, the survey for 2007 shows that a fairly large proportion of the Fund was not used.
The Union's population is getting older.
If, in 2007, citizens over 65 years of age represented 17% of the Union's population, in 2030 this percentage will reach 24.6%.
The latest Eurostat statistics show that, as of 2015, the number of deaths will exceed the number of births, thus leading to a decrease in the number of European citizens from 521 million in 2015 to 506 million in 2060.
The social package represents the insurance policy for the future of the Union and it is essential for its long-term development.
in writing. - There is no doubt that the European social model needs to be reformed.
Especially, that the outdated welfare system still dominates in many of the larger Member States.
EU bureaucracy will not stop an economic crisis or a recession.
The top-down measures proposed by the Commission might not only not help our citizens fend off unemployment but may actually hinder employment and economic growth. (The sitting was suspended at 11.40 pending voting time and resumed at noon) (BG) President, I would like to inform Parliament that in violation of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities, on July 30 I was arrested and beaten by the police, and I was also threatened that my throat would be slit.
It is a shame that Parliament still has not voiced any opinion on this crime, which was committed against me.
