Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 30 May 2002.
As you know, colleagues, the principle of transparency is enshrined in the first article of the Treaty on European Union.
This is designed to ensure greater legitimacy, greater accountability and more efficiency of public authorities in the democratic system.
On 30 May 2001 Parliament adopted under codecision Regulation 1049/2001 on public access to documents of Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
I am very pleased today to be able to announce on behalf of Parliament that that register was opened to the public on 3 June 2002 on our website.
This is a crucial instrument for reinforcing our democratic principles, very much in line with fundamental rights as set down in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
However, sterling work has been done, and we should be able to say so once in a while.
I have received a request from 34 Members to postpone every item on the agenda to our July part-session.
Mr President, as all the Members know, we are risking our health in attending this part-session, and we are risking the health of those working for us and the health of visitors to Parliament too.
Only a modicum of common sense is needed to see that we should have held this part-session in Brussels, in complete tranquillity, and if we had done so this speech would just have been a speech on the minimum safety conditions necessary for Parliament.
The problem is that we all go back to our own doctors in our various home towns and therefore any links between our symptoms and this House are perhaps lost.
But if anyone going away from this House this week, Member, staff or visitor, has symptoms, then those that run this House will be guilty of having let us come here this week and it will be their responsibility.
The main cause of health problems and mortality in all the Member States of the Union, in all developed countries, is iatrogenic contamination, in other words, contamination from being in hospital or from taking drugs.
This was discussed last week at the Conference of Presidents in Brussels where we asked Parliament's services to what extent they felt assured, and reassured, that it was within our capacity to suggest that it would be a responsible decision to conduct our work here this week.
The question of guilt or innocence was raised in one of the contributions but those are issues for courts.
I expect the same courtesy from you. (Applause) I have received information this afternoon from the Préfecture du Bas-Rhin, which has a responsibility with regard to health and safety, from the service d'hygiène et santé de la ville de Strasbourg which has a responsibility and from the Mayor of Strasbourg who bears a liability in the terms that I have described to you.
What is outrageous is that, not even in a hazardous situation, is Parliament able to decide in which location we should meet.
It has been raised in my own group whether the trade unions - the workers' representatives here - were consulted and informed in this important process.
The relevant trade unions sit on Parliament's health and safety committee which agreed to the measures which have been taken to try to eradicate the problem.
Mr President, we in Europe have, in the past few years, witnessed a number of food scandals, and the scandal involving nitrofen in Germany has once again gained considerable attention.
This matter therefore merits serious treatment and my group would also like to call for this matter to be discussed at the next plenary in July, together with the respective statements by the Council and the Commission.
I would therefore suggest to the fellow MEPs who are involved in the negotiations about this resolution to include this as part of the resolution and then to hold a regular plenary debate about this extremely serious matter at the earliest opportunity.
I am sure we can act appropriately in the course of the week.
The package of measures which were passed by this House before Christmas and immediately after Christmas on an effective European response to terrorism are still not on the statute book despite the pains that we went to deal with them quickly.
Mr President, I want to raise a different matter - the subject of Zimbabwe.
I would like to first of all express my condolences to the much-afflicted people of Zimbabwe at the awful bus crash that took place near Masvingo in Zimbabwe last night, when over 30 trainee teachers were killed.
I would also like to express my concern at the rather hypocritical presence, or likely presence, of President Mugabe in Rome this week at the United Nations World Food Summit.
The attendance of the President of Zimbabwe is consistent with rights under the UN Charter, even if appears curious.
I presume the presence of the bacteria was detected through a regular check-up, because this is the second time this has happened here and we were promised regular check-ups.
We can then see, firstly, whether this building is being treated in the same way as other buildings would be in France and, secondly, how that compares to buildings in other Member States?
This action for the waiver of immunity has been gathering dust in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for over a year and a half.
It is not only an impediment to us as Members of this House, but also prevents the Members concerned from making statements to justify themselves here in plenary and in the relevant committee.
Mr President, a little while ago you very vigorously wrote to Air France protesting at conditions in which people travel to this Parliament.
It seems that as regards the question raised by Mr Schulz the matter is in hand but perhaps we will write a note to colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market urging that due attention be given to this follow-up question.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Banotti for pointing out that we have had a problem with bacteria of this sort before - two years ago, in fact - and in the days before the Friday plenary sittings were done away with.
But the existence of the bacterium was established scientifically and was not itself a political act.
Allow me, therefore, to draw the attention of all politicians and institutions to this situation, since we have a great responsibility in this field.
That is why I voted in favour of suspending the session.
Mr President, last Monday and Tuesday, 3 and 4 June, I was pleased to take part in the work of the EU-Bulgaria Joint Parliamentary Committee.
The committee adopted the decision to request further information from the Spanish judiciary on the case.
Mr President, you said the trade unions have been consulted.
I would like to know whether all workers have been consulted.
On a point of order, I interrupt the rapporteur to say that I am extremely pleased that you are the first Member to start using that procedure.
I would highly commend it to the political groups as a standard practice for all our debates.
I should like to comment mainly on the general amendment of the Rules of Procedure.
One is that we are facing enlargement and we will soon be a parliament of at least 732 Members.
All this has been drawn together in the committee's report and it is a package of nearly 120 specific changes to our Rules of Procedure.
Over 80 of them are not controversial.
Firstly, there is a whole package of measures to try and streamline our procedures in plenary, to try to decongest plenary, especially at voting time, but also in general.
Secondly, for some own-initiative reports we should have the option of noting the report of the committee as it stands and forwarding it to the other institutions, without trying to redraft paragraph by paragraph in plenary in a drafting committee of over 600 members.
Thirdly, when he or she judges it useful, the President should be allowed to send reports which have attracted a very large number of amendments back to committee for the committee to act as a sort of filter and test which amendments have a measure of support and which do not.
We also propose to scrap the topical and urgent procedure, not the subjects of course, these would be dealt with by other existing procedures or new procedures more appropriate to those subjects.
That would enliven our proceedings.
The same people might speak again in response to what has been said and no doubt Members who have stayed in the Chamber throughout the debate will catch the eye of the President and be able to speak.
Mr President, I see it says seven minutes, but if you remember you interrupted me for at least two minutes at the beginning.
The other report was drafted at a time when we were facing accusations that our Rules discriminated against Members who do not belong to a political group.
Our committee made an inventory of all the places in the Rules where you could imagine that might be the case or where it clearly is the case.
There are some that the House will judge are not necessary and we may have been over-zealous in our work.
You have put in so much work and you have waited so long to speak to us that you can avail of the full 40 seconds available to you to reply at the end.
Nevertheless, what was originally intended to be a precursor to the general revision of the Rules is now seen as something running in parallel with them and, in fact, is substantively part of the overall package.
Secondly, it is suggested that a strict obligation to justify every amendment in this House does not really make sense.
Finally, in the interests of clarity and legal certainty, and also to avoid certain technical problems, the individual justifications of amendments should remain the responsibility of their authors and, consequently, should not be put to the vote.
I hope that we in this House will support this very important proposal and work better on human rights.
If we want to change that, we have to vote on this report and vote for change.
This decision-making power also brings with it a certain responsibility which is expressed in two ways.
Mr President, first of all I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work that he has done, especially in watering down his initial proposals in order to achieve consensus, something that always creates momentum for reform in this House.
Nonetheless we were dealing with the Member States' possibility of making legislative proposals under Article 67 of the EC Treaty and the developments and gaps in that practice.
It actually gives ordinary members of the public a greater right of access to sensitive documents in that any request must be duly considered.
Under these proposals, Parliament is in an imbalanced situation in that we have no right to initiate access to confidential documents.
I consider Amendment No 59 to Article 110a to be problematic.
Let me make a general comment before I deal with three points raised by the Committee on Legal Affairs.
What Mr Corbett and the committee are proposing is going in the right direction.
The second point has to do with the votes to confirm the President of the Commission and the Commission as a whole.
Here, the procedures in the Member States are utterly different.
As a final point, I concur with what has been said about OLAF.
In this report on the general revision of the Rules of Procedure, the rapporteur puts forward proposals that would enable us to simplify procedures and to focus parliamentary work on legislation and on topical and important political debates.
In the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I highlighted some issues that seek, in some way, to optimise the performance of this institution.
Hence, the proposal that I put forward in my opinion seeks to refer the decision on the process to be followed to the committee responsible, which may then propose that a report be drawn up.
Mr President, I would have liked a bit more time to prepare my speech, but that means I will certainly keep to the speaking time.
Parliament must become the Centre Court of European debate.
That, I think, is at the heart of the report that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has adopted.
We have to demand statements by the Commission or the Council in order to be able to express ourselves on the burning political issues of the day.
We need a simplified procedure for uncontroversial reports in order to be able to concentrate on our legislative work.
At the same time, though, we want to safeguard the rights of individual MEPs and those of the groups.
Subsequently, we ourselves must limit the number of speakers on behalf of the group.
We as Parliament, would, pending the forthcoming enlargement by 10 to 12 new Member States, ask for frequent reforms of all European institutions, including the Council and the Commission.
We are concerned for the simple reason that Parliamentary committees do not always reflect the views of the majority of Parliament, and we would be in very great danger of ending up with conflicting resolutions with conflicting content.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I consider a number of the proposals to amend our Rules of Procedure which my group does not go along with, I really must express my sincere thanks to our rapporteur Mr Corbett for the immense amount of work he has done.
The commitment Mr Corbett has shown, both in committee and together with other Members of this House, to bringing about changes in this area is indeed admirable.
Such a special debate would be decided on at the beginning of each part-session on Monday afternoon.
It is not, in our view, acceptable to do without a vote in plenary on the issue in question, above all because our debates on matters of topical and urgent importance have hitherto seen us pass resolutions which express positions especially on human rights violations, which give significant support and encouragement to many who campaign for democracy and human rights in the countries in question.
No, my group does not want us to let this important political tool fall from our hands.
Procedural matters are not just binding rules for our work together, but also have to do with power.
The Rules of Procedure must ensure that groups are treated equally and must not limit small groups' parliamentary opportunities.
Mr President, all MEPs are entitled to be treated equally, whether they are part of a large political group or are here as sole representatives of a group of electors.
A political group cannot have special rights to which MEPs outside the groups do not also have access.
The Corbett report is not a response to the Court's judgment.
I think we are obliged to ensure that all those who cannot form an independent political group are able to have their proportionate rights recognised in the Rules of Procedure and by means of practical and pragmatic arrangements which guarantee genuine equal status.
If a political group is entitled to have proposals placed on the agenda on every occasion, that same entitlement could be given to smaller groupings in turn.
If a political group is entitled to table an endless number of proposals, MEPs outside the groups should be allowed, at least once in a while, to table a proposal and have it debated and put to the vote.
We should give them the same rights enjoyed by those of us who have been fortunate enough to have a sufficient number of MEPs to form political groups.
Mr President, the Corbett report on the revision of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure introduces some technical improvements, but it follows three general political guidelines that we do not support.
In Amendment No 56 for example, the European Parliament takes upon itself the right to call on the Council to implement Article 7 of the TEU on possible breaches of human rights.
Yet, as you know, and as the European Court of Justice has already reiterated, the European Parliament cannot proceed in this manner, as it is not an assembly with full sovereign powers.
Of course, you will say to me that if the Treaty of Nice is not subsequently ratified, these amendments will not enter into force and there will be no legal problems.
This regrettable inclination can be seen in particular in draft Amendments Nos 6, 59, 63, 68, 74, 85 and 101.
Draft Amendment No 59, in particular, makes it more difficult for minority groups to table amendments to a text in plenary if they have not gained more than 10% of the votes in committee.
It is obvious, Mr President, this report, in our opinion, is not fit to be adopted.
Mr President, the first thing I want to specify is that I shall be referring in particular to the second of the Corbett reports, in other words, the Corbett report on balanced rights between individual Members and groups.
As time is short, I would like to specify that the second Corbett report discusses the fact that Parliament will continue to operate on the basis of political groups, or, where appropriate, these political groups will be supplemented by purely functional parliamentary groups composed of Non-attached Members.
We would like a parliament composed of political groups, which were the embryos that became the European political parties and will continue to be their driving force.
The European Parliament is not a technical body, but rather a political assembly in which political decisions are taken, and the citizens have the right to know the political positions of the people making those decisions.
Choosing political groups over technical groups is the most transparent option.
Individual MEPs, whether or not they are part of a group, have the same rights as Members.
It thereby reinforces the rights of Non-attached Members without needing to introduce an artificial mixed group that would be a group only in name.
MEPs enter in turn and read out their two-minute speeches, and the result is Parliament in which there is in actual fact no proper lively debate.
I believe it would be good for the legitimacy of the EU if all school pupils were to have the opportunity to visit us.
It is important for different Member States to have their say, as was enshrined in the previous Rules of Procedure.
Thus, an amendment tabled in plenary may not ever reach plenary session, a report intended for plenary may not ever reach it either, and the procedures laid down for each report are in danger of being distorted with each successive committee meeting, as the previous speakers have said, on the basis of majorities which may or may not change.
With regard to all this, the idea seems to be, Mr President - to misquote George Orwell - that all groups are equal but some groups are more equal than others, and, in any case, the individual Members do not count for anything.
The seven Members of the Bonino List, the seven radical Members, for instance, elected by over two and a half million Italian citizens, have not been able to table even a single amendment to the Corbett report purely on our own behalf, such that we have had to ask two group chairman to grant us the favour of - symbolically - allowing us to table symbolic amendments together with them - and I would like to thank them for this.
I am saying this to illustrate the fact that, as individual Members, we have not been able to table even a single amendment on the report which will decide our fate in Parliament.
We feel that it would be an initial step towards better definition of the necessary balance of relationships between the individual rights of the Members of the European Parliament and respect for national political balances and for the groups in this House.
Our political family - and this is the first time I have been in this situation - is going to hold a last, lengthy debate tomorrow to decide our final position on the voting list.
Therefore, we are currently witnessing a period of great change in our institutional architecture.
This solution seems to be reasonable.
The results of the Convention in these areas will obviously need to be included in a new set of rules.
Next, the report puts across the idea that the European Parliament must involve the national parliaments in drawing up the broad political and economic guidelines.
I already touched upon this issue in plenary earlier and, in the context of the report, I would like to reiterate what I said.
Mr President, I believe the rapporteur when he says that he has carefully searched the Rules of Procedure for any discrimination that could break the internal balance between individual Members and groups.
It goes without saying that we can also focus matters of urgent and topical debate more on human rights, but, as for the monthly urgent matters procedure with at least five subjects - usually between ten and fifteen are submitted, and it is only with difficulty that we can agree on five of them - that should be kept.
Our Rules of Procedure serve to shape our procedures in such a way that we can perform our duties.
In that respect I agree with them that we could have made many good and necessary improvements to this House's procedures even based on the current Rules of Procedure, but these are not the only improvements we are making.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure are the instruments which Parliament uses to regulate its work.
This right, of vital significance for the control of budgets in particular, is enshrined in Article 197 of the Treaty establishing the European Communities and in Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure.
This excludes the possibility of their being examined beforehand by the President or by a body of any kind.
Indeed, many of the amendments I have tabled have been co-signed by her group and mine.
Even then, we can go back to the usual procedures if only two groups or 32 Members make such a request.
Every Member will continue to be able to insist on his or her own language in all instances.
Like Mr Posselt I agree that human rights are very important.
The same applies to other urgent matters.
If the people who have reservations about this are not even willing to try it out for a while at the end of debates, when the President so decides, then really there is not much willingness to compromise at all.
There is no harm in trying it out.
Our national traditions are very divergent on this but it is right that it comes before plenary, and in many groups there will be differences of opinion on this.
Mr President, I have followed this afternoon's debate with great interest.
What is more, given that I was responsible for regulatory issues within my group in the Spanish national parliament for many years, I have followed this matter with the utmost interest and I share the concern over what to do in order to bring a Chamber closer to the citizens and enliven the debate whilst at the same time making it a sufficiently well-ordered working instrument.
I believe that the proposals made by the rapporteur considerably improve the current Rules of Procedure and I congratulate him on this.
The vast majority of the reports and legislative issues are handled directly in plenary by the corresponding Commissioners responsible.
I believe this has changed tremendously in relation to past procedures.
The Commission answers over three thousand parliamentary questions every year.
And we are very satisfied with the functioning of the codecision procedure which, in my opinion, is proving to be a considerable success.
Finally, I believe that the Framework Agreement - even though, as can be expected, there have been a few tense moments in its implementation - is proving a useful instrument in the workings of our relationship.
I hope that between us we shall be able to enliven all the European Union institutions and make the work of these institutions more understandable and more immediate, that is to say, make the European Union more understandable and closer to the citizens.
Thank you very much, Mrs De Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12.30 p.m.
I have been a Member of the House for just under three years and for nearly all that time I have been honoured to be one of the rapporteurs on parliamentary privilege and immunity for the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
One of the earliest tasks assigned to me was a bundle of requests from Members from Italy, or from their lawyers, concerning their concern that prosecutions or other legal actions were taking place in Italy which violated their immunity.
Our Rules of Procedure which will I hope be amended in the light of the Duff report make elaborate provision for the steps Parliament should take in order to decide whether or not to waive immunity on receipt of a request from the proper authorities of the Member State.
The House possesses immunity under two different provisions.
Under Article 9 of the Protocol of 1965, Members enjoy immunity from any form of enquiry, detention or legal proceedings in respect of opinions expressed or votes cast by them in the performance of their duties.
There are other immunities which arise in other circumstances where the immunity a Member enjoys is equivalent to that of a Member of a Member State parliament in their own Member State and in other Member States, an immunity from prosecution except with the agreement of Parliament.
Our Rules of Procedure are silent on what we should do in that case.
I cannot see any sensible reading of a provision concerning opinions expressed or votes cast by us in the performance of our duties which relates to statements we make before we become Members.
Secondly, we concede that there might be more than a single competent authority in some Member States and we permit the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market not only to give a reasoned opinion upon the matter of competence but also to prepare an indicative non-definitive list of such authorities.
Thirdly, the duties of the President of Parliament are more clearly delineated from those of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
The reforms comprise a clarification, as well as a formalisation, of the privileges and immunities system, thereby meeting the requirements of the Court of First Instance in a separate related case.
Mr President, I would like to first congratulate both rapporteurs for their excellent work but my comments will be addressed to the Duff report.
My group will, therefore, be voting for his report but we are still debating paragraph 8 of amendment 2, where we do have a fear that, in essence, it contradicts the previous paragraphs in the report, and where it opens the door to Parliament becoming involved in the substance of a case rather than in whether or not there should be a waiver of immunity.
That wording is one on which we may request a split vote and vote against.
But we are still open to dialogue with the rapporteur on this because we know what an excellent job he has done.
In a situation in which we are asking the Europeans to accept measures such as the European arrest warrant, and therefore to agree to the possibility of being arrested on the basis of forms of evidence and procedures customary in a different State from their own, I feel that it is truly absurd to allow Members to effectively block prosecution proceedings.
Mr President, the Duff report seeks to streamline the procedure for waiving the parliamentary immunity of MEPs and, at the same time, to introduce greater guarantees against its arbitrary nature, which we can only welcome.
In our view, however, it provides a poor response to the specific technical question which sparked off deliberation on this issue, namely how to determine which is the competent national body for forwarding to the European Parliament the request for the waiver of immunity of one of its Members.
Political common sense tells us that it is up to the Member State in question to appoint this body.
Mr President, the autonomy and independence of the European Parliament to which the Members are called are two of the principles on which the democratic legitimacy of the European Union system is based.
This is not so in the case of the Members of the European Parliament elected in Italy.
In the face of this Italian idiosyncrasy, the European Parliament must defend its independence resolutely, particularly when its Members are accused of offences because of opinions they have expressed in the course of their duties.
Mr MacCormick and Mr Duff's reports lay down procedures for making these guarantees effective.
In any event, the competent judge - the Italian judge, that is - must send Parliament the necessary documentation and establish whether the case in question fulfils the conditions for absolute immunity laid down in Article 9 of the Protocol.
In that case, the Presidency of Parliament interpreted the Rules of Procedure in such a way that the request from the Spanish judicial authorities was considered not to be appropriate and was therefore not referred to the competent committee or examined in the European Parliament until the person in question was no longer a Member of the European Parliament.
The proposal to amend Rule 6 of the Rules of Procedure on the need for every request for defence or waiver of immunity made by any authority of the Member States to be announced immediately to Parliament and referred to the committee responsible is therefore appropriate.
Article 9 of the Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Communities states that, as happens in all democratic countries, the Members of the European Parliament cannot be prosecuted in respect of opinions expressed by them in the performance of their duties.
However, in Italy, it has become customary for Members of the national parliament to be able to invoke their parliament's protection in cases in which they feel their privilege has been unjustly denied or misinterpreted, and it was therefore considered that, by analogy with the provisions of Article 10 of the Protocol, this national custom should also be adopted at European level.
This interpretation has now been included in the Duff report as a general solution, and it is therefore proposed to amend the Rules of Procedure to give Members the right to request that their immunity and privileges be defended, thus affording greater protection of privileges and immunity.
To support these proposals is to assert our faith in the dignity of politics, in its capacity and in its will to guarantee democracy in the general interest and not to preserve the privileges of a few against the principle of the equality of all the citizens.
Mr President, I would like to make a few remarks, but, first of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs who, in my view, have done some excellent work on this particularly complicated dossier.
We have discussed every aspect of this issue during the debate, so I shall simply make two or three comments.
The first comment is that we must, in a situation of this kind, always strive to disregard all political considerations, in any case, as far as this is possible, and to give a verdict based on law.
The first is that it is always regrettable, in matters relating to freedom of individuals, to favour a collective approach over a personal approach.
The procedure states that things should be thus and I think that, in relation to issues which concern individuals and their freedom, their situation under the law, we must ensure that the procedures provide for an assessment of each individual case.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In order to meet these challenges, Member States must make significant improvements in the distribution of resources and opportunities in society so as to ensure the participation and social inclusion of all citizens and the exercise of their fundamental rights.
Equally important is the existence of credible and relevant social indicators, also in terms of gender, which enable us not only to observe trends in the social situation in the various EU countries, but also to warn of and monitor trends in the social situation as regards poverty and social exclusion in particular.
Our committee considers that education, culture and sport are major factors of social inclusion.
Our committee feels that measures to prevent and combat social exclusion in education and culture must be firmly anchored in the public sector.
It also considers that the education system should provide young people not only with basic skills, including digital skills, but also with a profound understanding of society that will enable them to become conscious actors of social progress.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate held in the parliamentary committees and concluded in plenary today is without doubt a useful and interesting debate.
The rapporteur has, in my view, written a good report, but has at times passed over these wise lessons.
However, the difficulties in implementing these proposals are one of the crucial points.
Although, having said which, the European Union itself has no clear objectives in its liberalisation policy as to what should stay in the public sector.
So there is a whole series of policies here which have to interlink to deal with issues about social inclusion.
These factors help to explain why my group will not be supporting amendments which seek to remove the commitment to equal treatment for those in precarious or atypical employment.
Mr President, I wish to thank Mrs Figueiredo for a very important and sound report.
That is worrying for, as Mr Pronk pointed out, responsibility for social security and integration lies with the Member States or at lower levels, resulting in a need for governments in the Member States that are concerned to prioritise solidarity and social integration.
We know that there are antagonisms and conflicting interests and priorities in political life.
Mr President, the risk of poverty and social exclusion in the European Union is one of the most serious and urgent economic and ethical challenges facing us in the twenty-first century and I therefore congratulate the rapporteur on her useful and timely contribution to the debate.
Finally, I should like to emphasise the need for the candidate countries to participate, as soon as possible, in the strategy for social inclusion and to draw up their own national action plans to improve this.
I think a great deal has already been said so far on the need for plans in each of the Member States and also on the need for the European institutions to become involved in these plans.
I therefore call on my fellow Members to adopt the report as it stands, because it is a good report that correctly tackles the problems of poverty and social exclusion.
The first point is the importance of this issue being treated on a bottom-up basis rather than a top-down basis, that it is up to Member States as close as possible to the problem to address the problem most successfully.
In particular I draw the attention of the House to Amendment No 20, which talks about the importance of temporary work and agency work as a way of getting people into permanent full-time employment.
Lastly, as happened at the Luxembourg Summit with regard to employment, a similar process of open cooperation and coordination to reach the objectives is starting in the area of social exclusion.
It is important that these objectives are met, not so that we can give gold stars to the different European States but so that genuine added value for the basic objective of social integration can be achieved.
In Europe we are talking about relative poverty but, still, we should not forget that over 65 million people in Europe are dangerously close to the poverty line, nor should we overlook the wider issue of exclusion defined by new demands in the information society.
I think it is clearer now than at any time in the past, both from the conclusions to come out of Nice and the conclusions to come out of Barcelona, that a social policy dimension is needed in European policies and that the impact of European economic policies in the social area needs to be evaluated.
Quantitative targets at national level are vital, distinguishing responsibilities for national action plans at national, regional and local level is very important and, of course, the budget and linking public funds to proposed policies and measures also plays a very important part.
Finally, given that the Commission has been called on to act in the wake of this report, I should perhaps remind you that, since the Commission presented its communication to Parliament last October, the common position on social employment has been approved in Laeken and the programme on social exclusion, a very specific programme on which we worked together with Parliament and which gives the Member States tools to develop action plans on social exclusion, has also been approved.
I should like to refer once more to the repeated discussions with your committee on the importance of social indicators to the policies of the European Union as a whole and how social indicators play a very important part at the spring Council, helping to shape final economic decisions in every country.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Our attempt at finding air transport a place in the logic of optimising transport overall could not, unfortunately, be enshrined in the Regulation on slots.
It is the point that attempts to deal with these proposals, slot definition, market access issues, slot transferability and new entrants, etc., that should have been considered in a second phase.
There are 168 slot-coordinated airports worldwide and many third country carriers operating into Europe.
Our group supports the rapporteur's efforts to adopt the key elements of the Commission proposal: an independent coordinator, priority being given to new entrants, and the legal status of slots specifically as a right of use.
Our group has tabled two amendments.
The purpose of Amendment No 56 is to clarify the Commission proposal regarding the allocation of slots to new entrants.
Amendment No 57 represents the desire of our group to have the Commission commit to submitting a more comprehensive proposal on slots.
The problems in aviation are making themselves felt in the air and at the airports.
If agreement exists in this matter, there is, in my view, no reason to decide on changing the rules of the game at this stage.
This means, Mr President, that we can largely identify with the Stockmann report as it has been submitted by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
I speak for the majority of my group when I say that my colleague Mrs Foster, for whom I have very high regard, has this evening put forward an opinion held by a minority in our group.
The majority in my group, just as in the committee, supports the Commission proposal to unambiguously clarify the legal nature of slots and to finally make clear that trading in slots between one airline and another is illegal and will remain so.
Secondly, I believe that the new version of the slot regulation aims at formulating the rules for the allocation of slots in a way that is more transparent and more favourable to competition.
Airlines have found themselves in difficulties as a result of the general economic recession and of the events of 11 September.
There is still a lot of room in the airline industry for greater efficiency, and that might be said of us here too in the European Parliament, and for that reason I will end my speech here.
Finally, some of you have pointed out something fundamental: the need to define what a slot is and we clearly opt for defining it as a right of use.
We must be aware, however, that this is extremely important if we want to achieve legal certainty and move beyond the current situation in which there is nothing, there is no concrete definition of the nature of slots.
There are slots for taking off, for landing, but also for overflying.
There are no rights of ownership, but rights of use in relation to a public asset such as airspace, the take-off and landing possibilities other than the facilities of the airports or the areas to be overflown in accordance with the support and assistance provided to air traffic from different locations.
With this approach in mind, the proposal intends to guarantee the greatest possible efficiency in the use of such a scarce resource as slots and ensure uniformity in the interpretation of the regulations and the application of the Regulations and therefore in legal certainty.
We particularly appreciate your balanced and pragmatic approach: we believe that, of the 57 amendments presented, the majority (35 in total) add clarity to the proposal and make it more efficient and therefore the Commission can accept them, with modification in some cases.
Firstly, Amendments Nos 53, 54 and 55, which could significantly upset the balance of the proposal, affecting essential points such as the prohibition on creating a black market by means of false exchanges, as well as those relating to penalties.
Furthermore, these amendments have not been adopted by the RETT Committee and the Commission must reject them.
Secondly, we must reject Amendments Nos 1, 7, 18 and 28, which would significantly change the balanced objectives of the proposal we are presenting today.
Amendment No 8 exempts the coordinator from all responsibility, despite their greater obligations and capacities, and the Commission cannot therefore support it.
However, we could accept Amendment No 48 with modifications to the wording in order to guarantee that coordinators are held responsible in the case of serious negligence or wilful misconduct.
Amendment No 20 is incompatible with the definition of a slot and ignores the need to always analyse capacities before imposing the coordination of slots.
The Commission considers Amendment No 23 to be excessively broad and does not agree with it; we feel the same about Amendment No 25, which ignores the procedural rules, which are an operative requirement for the coordination committee if transparency is to be guaranteed.
We must also reject Amendments Nos 35 and 43, since they impact negatively on the recognised Community law on intermodality and public service obligations.
The Commission has just begun a procedure for selecting an expert who will have to produce a report and we will have it in the summer of 2003 at the earliest.
The Commission has committed itself to consulting the air transport sector and the Member States on the results of a study on the market system for the allocation of slots before proceeding to a new legislative proposal on this issue.
Finally, we believe that Amendments Nos 2, 15, 26, 38, 45, 46 and 50 are either redundant or inconsistent with worldwide practices in the allocation of slots and therefore we cannot accept them.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
And we now have a challenge; that that agency should function transparently and efficiently, but that it should not only function in relation to the two important challenges - that of the safety of sea transport, including passenger and coastal shipping, and that of the protection of the marine environment - but also in relation to those small details and areas which are not apparently as essential as the big issues, such as recreational boating - including the issue of jet skis and speed-boats which cause concern amongst the citizens of Europe.
I hope it will come up with fresh proposals where necessary, but in an open and transparent way.
We have confronted challenges and we have cooperated in order to prevent a repetition of horrendous events such as the sinking of the Erika, which not only endanger human lives, but which also pollute the sea with terrible consequences for the inhabitants of coastal areas and for flora and fauna and environmental protection.
If this is achieved, as we hope it will be, within the International Maritime Organisation, it would be the last initiative for the Erika I and Erika II packages and we would have concluded our work.
In this regard, I would like to thank all of you and in particular the various rapporteurs who have been involved in the different proposals - the five of them - which we have debated and worked on, but also the whole House and particularly the services of the Commission, of the TREN Directorate-General, since it is thanks to their effort, their work, their professionalism and the speed with which they have responded that we have got this far.
I would also like to thank the Council for having responded for once to what the citizens are asking us for: that we provide a framework for greater safety and greater protection for the maritime sector in general and for pollution caused by the dumping of oil in particular.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
