February 2001 saw what was no doubt the most serious outbreak of foot and mouth disease Europe had ever known.
The Netherlands lost 285 000 animals and France, where there were four outbreaks, 65 000 of them.
At the beginning of this year, our Parliament set up a temporary committee - not, as some Members unfortunately persist in believing, a committee of inquiry - which had the aim of helping to create an improved policy that would work not only at EU level.
One of our tasks was to use numerous public hearings and on-site visits to analyse the events in the Member States affected, to evaluate them fairly and take what we thereby learned as a means of drawing relevant conclusions as regards a Europe-wide policy on foot and mouth disease.
In our report, we cannot pass judgments, let alone condemn anyone in advance for things we cannot prove anyway.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am quite sure that any other government in the EU would have had similar problems to grapple with had it faced a comparable scenario, with between 50 and 70 simultaneous outbreaks across the whole country, and with sheep being affected as well.
That this has been cut to six months since May this year represents a massive step forward.
Not only must future policy include effective emergency plans for the combating of epidemics, but all the Member States must check how their communications networks and decision-making structures would perform in an emergency, and run cross-border emergency exercises in real time.
It is also important to do everything possible to prevent illegal imports of animal products from countries where foot and mouth disease is endemic.
The Commission has already decided that, for example, travellers from these countries may no longer bring products of this sort into the EU.
But our most important demand in terms of action against future epidemics is that emergency vaccination should be regarded as the recourse of first choice, the object being to allow the animals to live on and assess products from them on a regional basis.
It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that not only the British Government, but also the Council, the Commission, the candidate countries, the OIE and other states, such as, for example, the USA, Australia, Argentina and South Africa should be able to take our report seriously.
It is my view that we, representing the peoples of the fifteen Member States, have achieved outstanding success in discussing this problem area as it deserves to be discussed, and in coming up with final conclusions that point the way ahead.
My services and I followed your work very closely.
I wish to make a very clear distinction between illegal introduction and legal imports.
We have also adopted a decision to introduce tougher rules on the personal import of meat and milk products by travellers arriving in the EU from the majority of third countries.
Our awareness campaign in relation to this measure will begin on 1 January 2003.
I find it difficult not to conclude that protectionist interests are involved here and may lie behind these demands.
As you are aware, most of our animal health legislation is in the form of directives.
This approach provides sufficient flexibility for Member States to implement harmonised measures.
The Commission has devoted much energy towards improving legislation where necessary and to reinforcing official controls in the Community.
The Commission has submitted a proposal to reinforce controls on the movement of animals.
This proposal in particular introduced for sheep - as regards breeding and production - a mandatory residence of 30 days prior to despatch to another Member State.
The Commission has proposed to the Council a major revision of the animal health and sanitary conditions applying to staging points where animals are rested for welfare reasons whilst in transit.
The outbreak of FMD in the Netherlands can be directly linked to such a staging point, in France.
Pending the outcome of the technical working groups in the Council, the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health unanimously supported a Commission proposal to extend the strict measures adopted during the FMD crisis until the middle of next year.
The current provisions and, in particular, their implementation by Member States have proved to be insufficient to enable the veterinary authorities to trace animals.
The Commission is making a new proposal for a regulation to require individual identification of sheep, with the option of future electronic identification.
The outcome of the review will have a decisive influence on the future direction of agricultural production in the EU.
This in turn cannot be divorced from the health and welfare of animals.
I welcome this trend from a consumer perspective.
Regarding vaccination, the huge numbers of animals slaughtered and destroyed during the outbreak last year had a profound impact on public opinion.
Clearly, the rapid slaughter and disposal of infected or susceptible animals must be an important element in our disease control strategy.
Emergency vaccination must also play a central role, as appropriate to the circumstances.
There have been deep misunderstandings over the role of vaccination and the Commission's own position on this issue.
The Commission remains of the view that prophylactic vaccination of the entire susceptible livestock population or even particular species is not advisable for sound scientific, technical and economic reasons.
The situation in the EU cannot be compared with the endemic FMD situation in South America or elsewhere.
The means are now available to detect infection in a vaccinated population and the Commission - now supported by the OIE - actively pursues further improvement of these tests.
The forthcoming Commission proposal for a Council directive on FMD will reflect this position on emergency vaccination in line with the recent modifications made to the FMD chapter in the animal health code.
But we must not be under any illusions: vaccination is not a miracle cure to solve all our problems.
I should like to mention the sensitive issue of compensation for disease-related expenditure incurred by Member States.
I have taken note of your request for harmonisation of the different compensation schemes applied in Member States.
The Commission has now finalised the terms of reference for an external review of the current compensation schemes and the elaboration of possible solutions for the future.
To conclude, may I praise once again the valuable role played by your committee as regards its contribution to the Commission's approach to FMD.
I trust that the assessment of our proposal by Parliament will benefit from the expertise acquired during the work of the temporary committee.
I would also like to thank those people who submitted evidence to the Foot and Mouth Subcommittee.
We covered businesses right across the European Union.
Mr Byrne said that he was against any proposal that would control imports from countries where FMD is endemic.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have come together today having completed several months of work, hearings, visits on the ground, meetings with experts, farmers, with men and women, in fact, with all those who have had first-hand experience of the foot and mouth crisis, who have been deeply affected by it and, who above all, never want it to happen again.
This was very much the aim of our work: understand what happened, analyse events from every angle - economic, social and psychological - in order to learn lessons from this and minimise the risks and the effects of this type of disease in the future.
The very credibility of our work as parliamentarians depends on this and that is why our group tabled a number of amendments designed to restore balance to the report.
Apart from a few petty political digressions, we must acknowledge that our work has been very rewarding and worthwhile, the large number of direct contacts enabling us to gain a better understanding of the problems of managing the crisis and its countless consequences.
We must point out that the epidemic was a traumatic experience for tens of thousands of people, particularly because the memories that we may have of foot and mouth disease are of an epidemic which is undeniably serious, but not to the point of destroying entire regions and leading to the slaughter of millions of animals that individuals had put so much effort into feeding and caring.
Having succumbed to new rearing methods and more movement of animals, we were unable to cope with this crisis and respond as we did 50 years ago when we isolated infected herds, since the number of infections was already too great by the time the epidemic was identified.
Of course, with hindsight, we can always say 'We should have done this or that', but we must not forget that, at the time, we were facing a crisis and that solutions had to be found urgently in tandem with institutions, local communities and populations who were unprepared for this type of situation.
Even experts believe that this crisis would have been of the same tragic proportions had it broken out in any other European country.
Vigilance within Europe's borders is essential, but we must also increase our controls on imports, both at land borders and at ports and airports.
We must also provide solutions in a crisis by anticipating responses with more appropriate emergency plans, by encouraging emergency vaccinations wherever possible, whilst remembering that slaughter is the only possible outcome when livestock has been infected.
Lastly, I would like to thank and to congratulate the rapporteur, the chairman, and all the Members who contributed to the report, as well as the committee and all the staff involved in this work.
I immediately agreed to the suggestion and am still happy that the lists of signatures that subsequently circulated in Parliament included the names of two members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and two members of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
I am, though, strongly in favour of emergency vaccination from the very beginning and at the same time of the consumption of the products of perfectly healthy animals locally or in the European Union.
It is impossible to explain to the public why healthy animals should be destroyed and I am glad that the Commission has announced that it is to change policy on this matter.
The foot and mouth crisis cost almost a billion.
And while we are talking about the Commission: we have heard appreciation from all sides for the Commission's role in the foot and mouth crisis.
One on research into marker vaccines and one on insurance systems, specifically to counter the competitive distortions in Europe, whereby farmers in one country have to pay for the outbreak of infectious animal diseases, and in another country they do not.
As far as I know, not a single contract has yet been signed, despite the fact that today is 17 December and that I had pointed out to all the Commission services back at the beginning of the year that the budgetary authority had already given its approval.
The problem here is that - much as with influenza - vaccination only works if the vaccination is derived largely from the same strain as the disease.
I would emphasise that emergency vaccination is meant to help prevent foot and mouth disease from spreading.
There are circumstances under which the Community must involve itself in national preventive strategies, as each EU country belongs to the common internal market and can maintain important relationships with third countries.
All the Member States must be able to call upon the services of adequately qualified veterinary personnel in the prevention and treatment of animal diseases.
Further scientific investigation is needed into issues associated with emergency vaccination against FMD and the continued use of inoculated animals.
In conclusion, I would like to say that I would like great public awareness of the review of the common agricultural policy, and not only in the most arduous, and bleakest, times of crisis.
Mr President, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his report, which is extremely important.
It is vital that Parliament gives a very strong signal that vaccination should be a tool of first resort in any future outbreak.
For that reason, I am saddened by attempts from the British Government to water down this report, to rewrite history and effectively to whitewash the past.
Amendments by the PSE Group follow closely the briefing that all UK MEPs have received from the British Government, that argues, for example, that there is no evidence for allegations of violations of animal welfare.
The government denies that farmers were intimidated in connection with the culls and it asks for evidence.
We in Ireland were spared the worst because of our geographical location and, in no small measure, because of the extreme exemplary precautions taken by the Irish authorities - a fact referred to in today's report.
The rapporteur has done an excellent job in highlighting these and in showing how to avoid the mistakes of the past.
I seriously hope that the committee's final recommendations will be fully reflected in the forthcoming legislative proposal.
In particular, I would urge that close attention be paid to those areas where resource gaps have been identified.
I await with interest the evaluation report by the Commission as to whether the Food and Veterinary Office in Ireland has the right staff and infrastructure to enable it to carry out its duties effectively in the long term.
In conclusion, I sincerely hope that this lengthy exercise will bring about some very tangible results.
The Member States, as well as the Commission, have clear responsibilities in this area.
The same applies to a major epidemic of a commercially important animal disease such as foot and mouth.
In this context, however, the Commission had assumed statutory responsibility for dictating the nature of planning undertaken by Member States - the so-called contingency planning.
Rightly, the temporary committee had identified this lamentable lack of diligence on the part of the Commission.
Yet what is missing from this report is any indication of why the Commission failed so manifestly in its duty.
I would suggest therefore that, before leaping into the usual role of telling everyone else what is going wrong, the Commission this time spends its time examining why, when the chips were down, it performed so badly.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was essential that we learned from the foot and mouth crisis which struck the United Kingdom in 2001, because it reached such unprecedented levels in the UK, as a result, in particular, of mistakes - on the part of the British Government as well as the Commission - in the area of contingency planning, because it posed such a serious threat to other European countries and, lastly, because it gave us a terrifying reminder of how quickly this disease can break out, how fast it can spread and of the damaging economic and psychological consequences that it can have.
Our committee has, on the whole, done a good job.
We must therefore ensure that we maintain a network of family-run farms of a manageable size; this is the best possible way to prevent foot and mouth disease.
When hundreds of millions of people are starving, it is unacceptable to destroy the meat of millions of healthy animals, which is what happened in 2001.
With emergency vaccination, a pen will be set up near the source of the epidemic where the animals will be vaccinated, animals which could then potentially be destroyed and used for consumption without the pressure of an emergency situation.
On this point, however, I regret the fact that the Commission did not make bolder proposals.
With the progress made in vaccinations - we now have vaccinations with a broader spectrum, longer-lasting vaccinations and marker vaccinations which make it possible to distinguish vaccinated animals from infected animals - it is now possible to give Member States the freedom to authorise or even make compulsory prophylactic vaccination, in other words preventative vaccination, as applied before 1992, where the risks of epidemics are the highest.
This possibility should be left to the discretion of the Member States, which are best placed to assess the consequences of specific risks for their livestock.
Mr President, we are now destined to live under the constant threat of further outbreaks of foot and mouth disease, as new strains are constantly coming to the fore.
The globalisation of the live animal trade can therefore only encourage and accentuate the globalisation of diseases and viruses.
We must remember this, Mr President, Commissioner, when we come to debate the future CAP, if we want to avoid a repeat of the nightmare of 2001.
And the main task of this committee was to prevent situations such as that caused by this disease from reoccurring in Europe.
During this year of intense work, the committee has listened to the opinions of dozens of experts in all fields, from economic to veterinary, dealing with logistical and political aspects, Community and international legislation, as well as tangential aspects such as tourism, goods transport, emotional aspects, etc.
But the committee also gave the owners of farms affected and the local authorities and associations in these areas the opportunity to express their opinions during the various visits organised both to the United Kingdom and to the Netherlands.
The fruit of all this work is the report being presented today for the vote of this House.
One of the essential aspects included in the final report of the committee I chair is emergency vaccination, which is considered to be an essential method for controlling any future outbreak of the disease.
The policy of emergency vaccination must be part of a strategy which allows animals to live.
The current policy of not vaccinating prioritises the political and commercial aspects and this is something that must change on an international level, taking the approach initiated by the International Office of Epizootic Diseases and the FAO.
The future policy must also take account of the social and psychological impact of an epidemic of foot and mouth disease on the public and must not ignore the consequences it causes in all sectors, such as tourism, commerce, social aspects and emotional aspects.
In its report, this temporary committee advocates emergency vaccination and not preventive vaccinations, since, ladies and gentlemen, these could be considered as a backwards step in the policy of eradication for the scientific, technical, economic and commercial reasons which both we and the Commissioner have expressed.
Ladies and gentlemen, another of the most important aspects of the work of this committee relates to the control of imports.
The European Parliament must insist on a policy on meat imports which imposes zero tolerance in order to guarantee that not a single kilogram of unexamined meat originating from a third country enters the European Union.
This House should insist on this issue and must remind the Commission that it cannot ignore the problem of illegal imports.
Furthermore, I believe we must congratulate the Commission on having acted so quickly with the legislative proposals the Commissioner has just announced, with regard to control, identification, the quality of products and vaccinations.
I would especially like to congratulate the rapporteur, with whom I have found it so easy to work; all the members of the Temporary Committee on Foot and Mouth Disease, who have worked hard, and whose work and criticisms have been constructive; I would also like to congratulate in particular the secretariat for its rigour and for its bold work and our interpreters, without whom this committee would not have been able to carry out its work.
Bad farming practice led to a situation where the disease was spreadeagled over 57 farms in 16 counties by the time its presence was confirmed.
No one pretends that there were not mistakes of policy and failures in implementation, but the lessons-to-be-learned inquiry clearly shows that decisions made were justified by the available evidence at the time.
The report is particularly good - indeed it is its main strength - on the measures needed to combat any future outbreak.
That said, regrettably the report contains errors of fact.
Eight amendments have been tabled to correct these errors.
The reality is that the heroic efforts of government officials, veterinarians, farmers, police, the military and many others brought the disease under control more quickly than the smaller outbreak in the UK which occurred in 1966-68.
I would also like to register a note of thanks to the countless people in the United Kingdom who helped organise our visits to the various parts of the UK during the course of our investigations.
The report conveys some very clear messages about what should be avoided in the future and what should be done in the horrific eventuality that another outbreak occurs.
It is simply part and parcel of the independence of a committee of inquiry such as this that there should be some critical remarks.
Frankly, it is an aspect of independence that the government has deliberately shunned by refusing to hold its own public inquiry in the UK.
I pick out arbitrarily an amendment which says that there was no evidence of health or environmental problems arising from some of the burial sites in the south-west.
Finally, I would ask colleagues to pay particular attention to paragraph 128 of the draft report.
The ELDR Group will be asking for a split vote to delete the last sentence of paragraph 128.
The first factor is that animals and products of animal origin can be transported with complete freedom - or should I say unaccountability - throughout the world nowadays, thanks to the globalisation demanded by big business looking for ways to make a fast buck.
This is compounded by a third factor, the abolition of government veterinary services, staff cutbacks and the generally scant importance attached to government control mechanisms, all as a result of the demand by big business for any controls to be minimised between or within countries which might obstruct the need for livestock to be moved quickly, together with the profit generated.
The only long-term solution which will not jeopardise the agricultural economy of the Member States or wipe out entire livestock holdings is to abolish capitalist profit from production and introduce adequate border and other controls, contrary to the demands of the multinationals which have managed to get them lifted.
Mr President, I wish to say at the outset that the committee is very grateful that we secured this inquiry.
That was vital for us to undertake the task asked of us.
On the matter of the three-kilometre contiguous culling, in my own nation, Wales, up to 700 farms were culled of all their animals and only on 60 of those farms were there proven cases of the foot and mouth epidemic.
On the matter of the legality of the cull in the UK, it is quite unacceptable that, based on two court cases alone in Britain, the cull had a legal basis.
In future we must have proper contingency planning.
I also have grave doubts as to whether we have had sufficient consultation with civil society and simulation exercises to ensure that, if there were an outbreak tomorrow morning, we would all know what to do and how to respond to it.
But worse still is the fact that the non-vaccination policy with the accompanying culls where there is an outbreak, fails to meet any ethical test.
Mr President, Noah's ark was filled not with production factors, but with living creatures.
For years prophylactic vaccination protected our livestock.
The argument that vaccination is pointless because of the number of variants of the foot and mouth virus is about as cogent as maintaining that flu jabs in human beings do no good.
If we consider the real costs of the non-vaccination policy, only one conclusion remains, moreover: preventive vaccination is not only the most ethical but also the most economical solution.
In conclusion I should like to compliment the rapporteur on his courageous, lucid and valuable report.
The same also applies to our secretariat, since our work as a temporary committee consisted to a significant degree precisely in visiting people who had been affected.
Without the enormous commitment of our secretariat we would not have been able to do that and that means that this committee occupies a special place in the work of Parliament.
She said that current policy is focused too much on political and economic values, and insufficiently on human values, if one looks at foot and mouth disease, and one must try to change course in that respect.
I wholeheartedly agree with her and I am able to speak on behalf of the inhabitants of the affected areas in my country: the Veluwe and Friesland, who greatly appreciated the fact that parliamentary colleagues visited these areas and listened to them.
At the same time, we must realise that we have been through a disaster in which seven million animals were destroyed, an economic loss of over EUR 10 000 million was incurred, and that in some areas, for example around Carlisle, many more people are presently taking anti-depressants than previously.
That indicates the impact this crisis had on people.
This means that if we are to take European citizens seriously, we must change policy.
It is essential, however, that if we do not adopt general vaccination, emergency vaccination should become standard in the case of an outbreak, as the Commission has said, and that even after emergency vaccination the farms involved should receive the same treatment as if there had been a cull.
As a committee we tried at least to give the crisis a face, to show what befell people, what befell animals and to demonstrate that those things are politically relevant.
They must take this report on board in their policy, or else we shall find ourselves in new difficulties regarding democracy in Europe.
The foot and mouth crisis has left deep scars, the culls have brought unhappiness to countless families but have also led to public indignation and rage, sometimes impotent rage at the authorities.
Yes, we are against the unnecessary culling of healthy animals.
Yes, we want vaccination in the event of foot and mouth outbreaks.
Yes we must persuade supermarkets to sell the meat of vaccinated animals as a matter of course.
Yes, there must be emergency action plans.
We must introduce a global dimension, a clear statement must be issued by the OIE and there must be effective monitoring of imports, including at airports.
We must also ensure good monitoring at all times.
I am in complete agreement with all these points.
In the Netherlands, the 2001 foot and mouth crisis was a kind of harbinger of the political upheaval in 2002.
We must also at any rate learn the political lesson.
I hope that this report may contribute to this process and again thank the rapporteur.
The reactions have been very clear.
When there is an outbreak of foot and mouth disease, the importing countries - or third countries - exclude all imports of fresh meat from the whole of the EU.
The Commission must be required very clearly to ensure that third countries, particularly the United States, accept that the EU consists of Member States and of regions, especially following enlargement in 2004.
If foot and mouth disease occurs in a particular country or region, it is not therefore necessary to halt all imports of fresh meat from the whole of the EU.
If a new case of foot and mouth disease should occur, the agreements must be in place, particularly with the United States, so that exports from those countries that do not have foot and mouth disease can continue.
Export interests have replaced animal welfare and human ingenuity.
For ten years Member States and our farmers have been pressured from above into collaborating in something that is neither sensible nor acceptable.
Vaccinations are seen at most as an emergency measure for healthy livestock that cannot be destroyed quickly enough.
As is often the case government power is more stupid than human society as a whole.
Mr President, foot and mouth disease is a highly infectious disease for our livestock, but completely harmless to humans.
I come from the Netherlands where our cattle were prophylactically vaccinated for over 60 years.
The United Kingdom, Denmark and Ireland do not have this tradition.
After their entry into the European Union they lobbied for 20 years for the abolition of prophylactic vaccination in Europe.
Export interests were placed above all else.
In both Great Britain and the Netherlands, we have seen the dreadful consequences for animals, farmers, part-time farmers, the tourist sector, in short the whole of society.
The proposal of the temporary committee is to make emergency vaccination easier.
There is also a proposal to force supermarkets to sell vaccinated meat in future.
The Netherlands produces far more meat than the Dutch themselves can consume.
What is necessary is a return to prophylactic vaccination.
New techniques, such as marker vaccines make it possible to distinguish between a sick animal and one that has been vaccinated.
Nevertheless, half steps in the right direction are better than no steps at all, and I shall vote in favour of the report.
Nevertheless, we can still learn our first lesson, namely the importance of a policy of proximity, which may mean bringing the activities at all stages of the process closer together or maintaining public services at local level in order to avoid transporting animals, which appears, in this case, to have played a significant role.
The report also puts forward proposals that we shall support such as the revision of emergency plans in conjunction with all partners, a training policy, an effective exchange of information between Member States and an increase in resources for research into marker vaccines.
These prevention programmes should also take into account the conservation of genetic resources while wild species, game and dying breeds must be protected through specific measures.
What we have in this document is a fair and balanced report on the terrible devastation and suffering the disease brought to my country.
This blight could have appeared in any European country and could still hit at any time in the future.
It is vital that we have a workable and effective contingency plan in place.
This report goes a long way to developing a positive approach for the whole of Europe.
I commend Commissioner Byrne's team for their work.
The suffering caused last year by foot and mouth disease was simply unacceptable and it must never be allowed to happen again.
I hope you will all support this report and the measures contained within it.
Europe's farmers and Europe's rural communities deserve to know that they are valued.
Mr President, no one on the temporary committee will ever forget the aftermath of that great foot and mouth plague of 2001.
I would point out to the House that there have been five separate reports in the UK alone, two by local authorities severely affected by the crisis.
There have also been reports by the National Farmers Union and others who were participants in the whole tragedy.
You never know what is going to happen.
I would like to think that we can salute others who have not been mentioned so far in this debate, in the blame culture in which it has been shrouded.
Firstly, the foreign vets, more than 2 000 of whom came to the UK and tried to help us solve the problems with the outbreak.
Finally, I would like to thank the Commissioner.
It is right that it should be this Commissioner with his concerns and priorities who is replying in this debate.
Mr President, as a representative for Cumbria - the area most affected by this disease in Europe - to think back 20 months is to remember the distress of farmers who, in many cases, saw their animals being slaughtered - although there was no evidence that they were infected - and, in particular, the distress of those who made their living from tourism in the Lake District.
I am glad that this report makes clear that the UK Government's policy was wrong, and that we should be thinking about emergency vaccination if this situation occurs again.
I also believe that, in order to take account of the wider considerations and in view of the relatively small role which farming has in our economy these days, we also need to look at preventive vaccination as a long-term solution to difficulties of this kind.
I am not in favour of constant prophylactic vaccination, but we must also make it clear that control vaccination always amounts to prophylactic vaccination.
I would like to concentrate on one point that concerns me greatly and that is the future availability of veterinary resources, particularly in remote regions of the European Union.
Identification of animals, issues of transport, insurance and many other matters came up apart from the vaccination issue.
I urge sensible handling of transport and the individual identification of animals.
I congratulate Joe Walsh and Brid Rogers for their great cooperation, which resulted in the worst of this outbreak being avoided in Ireland.
Finally, I would like to thank the Chairman for accepting our point on the protocol for the movement of non-susceptible animals and, in particular, the promise of a review of the movement of equines during future outbreaks, as horses are not susceptible in this case.
Fifthly, I very much agree with paragraphs 81 and 82 on compensation.
And, finally, Mr President, although it does not fall within the competences of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, nor of this parliamentary report, I would like to draw attention to the annual report of the Court of Auditors for 2001, because it makes some criticisms in relation to corruption and, for the sake of combating corruption in relation to CAP subsidies, very good account must be taken of this.
It is a balanced report and has been a good initiative.
It has been good for this Parliament because it has proved that it could produce a report that the national parliament was afraid to.
He said that the effect was the same as other diseases or previous outbreaks of foot and mouth and we need to act, but the question is how do we act?
Ring vaccination has to be the way in which we look at trying to control it.
I will finish by re-echoing what has already been said on border controls: border controls are totally inefficient.
The truth is that this disease can strike anywhere and at any time.
The loss of considerable numbers of animals as a result of the slaughter of whole herds and the profound disquiet and insecurity felt in society as a whole in the countries affected and also throughout the other parts of Europe, meant great financial loss in the affected areas, not only for farming, but also for the economy as a whole and tourism in particular.
With these things in mind, the Temporary Committee on Foot and Mouth Disease engaged intensively with the whole range of problems associated with epidemics, including their effect on the public and the economy.
I would also like to unambiguously refute the accusations - and there have been some - levelled at farmers, be it in Great Britain or any other country.
We all know that meat from vaccinated animals is completely safe and therefore capable of being marketed.
That addresses, in my view, the issue of the relevance of the European Parliament.
Secondly, I am sorry we had such difficulty in establishing the committee.
All I want to say is this: this is a report that had almost universal support in committee.
I am sorry that some additional amendments have been tabled because we should cling to the consensus that is within the report.
It is the best example, in my view, of the European Parliament addressing the concerns of voters in a practical way.
It is a huge example for the future relevance of the European Parliament.
The committee has shown that, in the light of events thus far, the European Union can no longer get away with not altering its policy and ensuring more effective use of vaccinations, given that our aim is to keep the greatest number of animals as possible alive.
Because of the increasingly disturbing general state of public finances in many of the Member States, we are witnessing a drop in the number of veterinarians, which is totally unacceptable, and we also need the public veterinary services to develop a new kind of relationship with the farmers: we need new forms of cooperation.
If the legislative package you present includes a revision of directive 92/102 leading to a very close relationship between farmers and the public veterinary services, then it may well be that, in the future, we will be able to avoid a whole range of situations that we have experienced hitherto.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Temporary Committee on Foot and Mouth Disease has had some important observations to make on the handling of last year's crisis.
I do believe, though, that public debate must also pay closer attention to the need for a distinction to be drawn between epizootics that endanger human health, and epidemics in which we are exclusively concerned with the health of animals and with their welfare and with the protection of valuable stocks.
If all the participants in the market could agree among themselves that infected farms that wanted, and were obliged, to avail themselves of these new tools, would not be left high and dry and would not end up enduring the scorn of the market if they used this strategy for the future, then we could save ourselves all this bother.
I believe that what is needed is to achieve social consensus on the part of everyone involved.
This loss, which flowed directly from what the government was doing and was entirely foreseeable, was equally real.
Thirdly, the evidence now emerging in Cumbria suggests that the public health consequences of the outbreak are much wider-ranging and much longer-lasting than was supposed at the time.
Our discussions with officials, experts and victims, as well as our visits to affected sites, helped us to engage in depth with the crisis caused by the outbreak of foot and mouth disease and, in general, with diseases and the means whereby they are dealt with and controlled, as well as with their prevention and with vaccination policy in Europe.
Furthermore, I would like to point out that it is the Member States that are responsible for extending the inspections carried out under their veterinary systems and for relevant research.
In terms of the number of animals culled, the course taken by foot and mouth disease in the European Union in 2001 made it, no doubt, the most serious outbreak ever.
Political requirements are important, Commissioner, but real work on the ground, on farms, done by veterinary surgeons and the inspection authorities, using the necessary crisis plans and an emergency room, is an absolute necessity if decisions are to be taken quickly and efficiently.
Perhaps I may conclude by giving the example of my constituency, where many institutions have caused a great stir among farmers by participating in a large-scale test of how they would manage a foot and mouth crisis.
What was called for was the most rapid reaction in case X, and this cross-border cooperation between the Netherlands and Germany achieved a really most impressive result.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that, at this juncture, over and above the measures which need to be adopted immediately, two things will be discovered which are more important than the race to adopt emergency measures, namely how the epidemic started and why it spread so quickly.
It is, however, reassuring to know that the Commission unanimously intends to give due importance to the recommendations which emerged from the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy, of Agenda 2000, as regards animal health, transport and feed, in terms of precautionary and preventive measures to avoid epidemics and, most importantly, in terms of future controls on imports.
At this juncture, at the end of the work of our committee of inquiry and at the end of this debate, it would, in any case, be reassuring to be able to say that we know, most importantly, what to do to prevent a similar scourge occurring in the future.
In particular, I thank them for allowing the committee to visit Northumberland, in my region, where the disease originated.
One of my great concerns is that, although this is well known, we still do not have proper controls in place at our ports and airports to prevent further illegal meat imports.
I would ask the Commissioner to address that in his response tomorrow, because it is a time bomb waiting to go off.
Firstly, on the question of control of imports, many - if not all - of you have addressed this important issue.
With regard to legislation, since 1972 we have legislation in place at EU level in respect of imports of commercial products.
More recently, we have put in place legislation on personal imports, which will be operational from 1 January 2003.
This issue is also addressed in the hygiene regulations before Parliament at the moment.
I repeat that one of the Member States involved decided not to use vaccination at all and the other decided to use vaccination but nonetheless - for trade considerations - went ahead and culled the cattle involved, even in circumstances where it could have allowed those animals to remain alive.
I am very happy that a number of speakers praised the work of the Commission.
We have tried to ensure that what we do here at European Union level - whether in Parliament or in the Commission - has relevance for people.
In this instance, the debate and the report have been of relevance to citizens of the European Union.
I also hope that the legislation that will be published tomorrow will respond not just to the needs and desires of Parliament, but also the needs, desires and the wishes of ordinary citizens of the European Union.
You will see many of the issues you have raised in your report echoed in our legislation which will be published tomorrow, because we have worked closely together on your report and in the drafting of the legislation.
That will also contribute to providing some kind of security against an outbreak of this type in the future.
This is a clear example of the two institutions working very well and effectively together for the benefit of the citizens of the European Union.
The debate is closed.
We have only the three amendments before us that were voted in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Those amendments have been available for over two weeks in translation.
The Danish Presidency has worked very hard to agree these amendments with us, and this would allow us to close the dossier at second reading without going into conciliation.
The Council had refused to give the complainant access to documentation on the grounds that the documents were ephemeral or only reflected the views of individuals. (The President cut off the speaker) In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, you are perfectly entitled to take the floor in your capacity as rapporteur, but you can only do this just before the vote on your report.
I therefore suggest that you wait and I shall let you know when you may take your two minutes' speaking time.
Since no one wishes to speak against this request and since this means a change to our agenda, I suggest that we first vote on this proposal for a change. (Parliament agreed to the change to the agenda) The vote will therefore take place after the vote on the Langenhagen report.
There were 320 000 cases of infection in France in 1952 compared to 2 030 at the peak of the UK crisis in 2001.
Ten years after vaccination was introduced, there were as few as 148 cases, and 30 years on, only 18.
Vaccination is effective and objections based on the cost of vaccinating 300 million animals, like objections from world trade requiring countries to be free from infection, do not hold water.
The costs incurred by the epidemic are greater than the costs of vaccination.
This means that the arrangement we adopted previously will operate still better and that the public will more easily be able to follow the decision-making process.
Thank you very much for this clarification. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Mr President, I wonder if it is possible to get a set of headphones.
on research and technological development activities of the European Union - 2001 annual report [COM(2001) 756 - C5-0286/2002 - 2002/2146(COS)] and 2.
a Council Decision concerning the introduction of some new functions for the Schengen Information System, in particular in the fight against terrorism [9408/2002 - C5-0317/2002 - 2002/0813(CNS)] 2.
on the initiative by the Kingdom of Spain with a view to adopting a Council Regulation concerning the introduction of some new functions for the Schengen Information System, in particular in the fight against terrorism [9408/2002 - C5-0316/2002 - 2002/0812(CNS)] (Parliament adopted the two legislative resolutions by successive votes) Mr President, Amendment No 14 was tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
I propose that we harmonise our English-language terminology with that of the Commission, which would make things clearer all around.
The fact is that it would make the internal market fundamentally null and void, and, when your farmers vaccinate, you would have to explain to them that they were enabling British farmers to eat their own sheep and Dutch farmers to drink their own milk, since these products would no longer find their way onto the EU market or the markets of third countries outside the European Union.
As for the length of working time, the considerable number of pages devoted to exemptions authorised for a transitional period of five years, beginning on 1 August 2004, certainly illustrates the extent to which this is less of a question of organising employees' working time than of allowing bosses a free reign so that they can exploit workers as they wish.
We voted against this report, and against those on Bulgaria and Romania, as they incite, or even oblige, the governments of these countries to 'restructure' their steel production.
Whilst we support the enlargement of the European Union to the countries of Eastern Europe, we are opposed to the fact that enlargement is being used as a pretext for making the living conditions of the working classes in these countries worse.
If the European Parliament wishes to punish war crimes, it should start by putting its own house in order.
France, Great Britain, Belgium, Portugal and Spain, virtually all the States in other words, whose representatives are sitting in this Chamber, have in the past waged shameful colonial wars leaving a trail of crimes against humanity.
The Council text has been amended so that some articles which may have breached rules of subsidiarity (those that are concerned with the regulation of investigations and prosecutions rather than with the exchange of information), in fact are now, in my view, in line with this principle. . (PT) I believe that this Danish initiative, which seeks to promote closer cooperation in the investigation and prosecution of inter alia war crimes and crimes against humanity, makes an effective and practical contribution to the important objective being proposed for the EU, through the action plan adopted by the Council on 20 March 2000, under the title 'The prevention and control of organised crime: a European Union strategy for the beginning of the new millennium'.
I also considered some amendments tabled by the rapporteur and adopted by the specialist parliamentary committee to be appropriate and justified, concerning the protection of personal data, concerning this Council decision not interfering in the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court and concerning the clarification that the authorities responsible for prosecuting these crimes are the national authorities responsible for ensuring that national legislation is complied with, not those responsible for immigration, particularly those established at European level.
The proposal that has been made only proposes the establishment of a system of exchanging information between Member States on disqualifications imposed in the courts, but does not provide for any type of mutual recognition of sentencing for the purposes of its implementation, which means that an individual who is sentenced to disqualification or to the loss of rights in one Member State can still exercise these rights freely in another State of the Union.
We must fulfil the desire expressed in Tampere and Laeken to make the principle of the mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters effective.
The issue of the recognition of judgments in criminal matters is highly sensitive, and raises delicate issues.
As such the British Conservative Delegation supports the rejection of this Council proposal. . (PT) The creation of a genuine European area of security and justice covering the entire territory of the Union can only be achieved through better coordination between the national authorities of the Member States, pursuing a dual approach: on the one hand, promoting a coherent and coordinated policy on combating organised crime - that has been very skilful in exploiting the completion and deepening of the internal market and, on the other, providing a clever answer to what is, as the rapporteur has stated, the third out of Europe's citizens nine greatest concerns - combating organised crime, coming immediately after peace and security and unemployment.
Although this Danish initiative seeks to establish a system of information-sharing between the Member States on disqualifications issued against an individual in a criminal judgment, it does not, however, provide for any type of mutual recognition of sentencing for the purposes of its implementation.
The Commission and your rapporteur believe that this position must be adopted to ensure that Parliament clearly states its deep dissatisfaction with the situation of paralysis afflicting the third pillar, for which the Member States are responsible.
Important Commission proposals both before and after 11 September 2001, primarily the package of measures to combat terrorism, remain blocked in the Council or are still awaiting transposal or ratification by the Member States.
Unable to achieve the consensus necessary in the Council, or to honour their commitments in national legislation, the Member States are using and abusing their right of initiative.
It is the European Parliament's duty to condemn this smokescreen, which consists of apparent legislative hyperactivity, which contributes to disguising the Union's lethargy in a crucial area, especially after 11 September 2001 - and the political inability of the Council and the Member States to bring a single significant measure coming from the Commission and laid out in the scoreboard into force.
We must put an end to this situation.
This is the message that the European Parliament wishes to send to the Council and to the Member States.
We are in favour of the development of scientific research and its applications in all the areas that can help move humanity forward.
The only reason that we are abstaining instead of voting against this report is because it also provides some subsidies which could help researchers and state and university research.
One of the problems that is fundamental but all too often neglected by scientific research in Europe is that of the flagrant under-representation of women.
This is not only a problem of equality and justice - it is also a problem relating to the effectiveness of European research, which therefore demonstrates that the EU is still far from able to harness its potential in human resources.
That is why, in the light of the objective that the Union set itself in Lisbon to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, it is particularly important to vote in favour of this report, which gives the issue of women in research the attention that it deserves.
It is basically a question of supporting the efforts made within the framework of the European research policy, such as the prominence given to 'Women and Science' as part of the specific programme entitled 'Structuring the European Research Area'.
It has been clearly proven that the nature of relations between the various Member States and the countries receiving development aid is quite different.
This is partly a result of historical factors and old ties which, in many cases, such as Portugal, lead to relationships involving very close cooperation.
I disagree with communitarisation and have therefore voted against the report.
The students taking part in these activities are not just increasing their own knowledge and abilities to deal with the ever-changing nature and shape of the world in which we live, they also represent the future building-blocks for a new society and a new understanding and tolerance of the cultural diversity within the European Union.
The number of people who have taken part in the Erasmus programme since its inception will exceed one million during the academic year 2002 to 2003.
I welcome the fact that the European Union is now putting in place a charter for Erasmus students which will be available to all students in 2003.
It is the goal of the European Commission and Parliament to reach two million participating students by 2007.
We must also ensure that, while they are abroad, students continue to receive education grants from their home Member States and that the Erasmus programme is not exclusive to those who can afford it.
It should also be pointed out that the Socrates programme has already been extended to cover the period 2000 to 2006 and EUR 1 850 million has been allocated for this programme.
Finally, as a result of the Court of Auditors' decisions, we must ensure that our accounting and delivery practices are better, to ensure that all students can benefit not only from a tremendous academic achievement but also from a cultural experience.
Mr President, here are some of the statistics from the document: EUR 920 million for the Socrates programme; EUR 126 million for the 'Youth for Europe' programme.
The Court of Auditors highlights design weaknesses (Socrates is excessively complex, resulting in different interpretations and problems between the Technical Assistance Office and the national agencies) and shortcomings in implementation (delays, management shortcomings, suspicions of fraud, seven cases referred to OLAF) and evaluation.
Evaluation reports were delayed and there were so many irregularities that the Court of Auditors found it hard to come to a judgment as to whether or not the programmes' objectives had been realised, while the mid-term report on the Youth programme was produced by a company owned by a former director of the TAO.
The motion contains worthwhile comments and proposals.
Despite the shortcomings highlighted by the rapporteur and by the specialist parliamentary committee, not least the inadequacies of the programmes' development and administration, for which some suggestions have in fact been made, it must be acknowledged that a take-up rate of around 90% enables us to see the great importance and consequently, the considerable success that this type of programme has had, is having and will have in enriching and developing both future generations of Europeans and in contributing to lifelong learning, which is becoming increasingly necessary.
I therefore agree with maintaining these programmes and the budgetary approach that is proposed, because it is of crucial importance that we continue to promote the creation of a European educational area through informal educational experiences amongst young people, including physical mobility in particular, to promote lifelong learning, foreign language learning, greater use of new technologies in education and to promote cooperation at European level between the various Education providers concerned.
The Schengen Information System is an electronic system for recording, identifying and monitoring suspects and is used purely for policing and repressive purposes.
Even though a great many complaints have been made, including by advocates of the SIS, about its lack of transparency and threat to human rights, the European Parliament assented last year to a new, second-generation system, on the pretext of fighting terrorism.
We would remind the House that the Schengen Information System started up in 1995, well before 11 September 2001.
The proposal to collect and exchange information on foreigners applying for residence permits, using the fight against terrorism as an excuse, is in keeping with the racist and xenophobic attitude of the rulers of the ?U.
The rights of citizens are therefore insufficiently guaranteed in this proposal.
We wish to emphasise that, even though we are in principle in favour of extending the codecision procedure and the procedure whereby decisions are taken by qualified majority to include all legislation, we believe there may be a requirement for unanimous decision-making where foreign and security policy is concerned.
We also wish to point out that codecision in connection with the procedure laid down in Article 139 should not mean any restriction in the ability of the two sides of industry autonomously to reach agreements.
The report contains sound proposals for new terminology aimed at clarifying the ways in which the EU's legal instruments work and at making the decision-making process more easily accessible.
The report makes it clear that the EU can only act in areas delegated by the Member States.
Those areas that the Member States choose to delegate are characterised by the clear added value entailed in cooperation as distinct from the Member States' acting individually, especially with regard to the internal market and the joint combating of serious cross-border crime.
The report is unclear regarding whether treaty changes should only be based on the outcome of the Convention and whether future conventions need to approve possible changes by intergovernmental conferences to the conventions' recommendations.
The funding of the EU must be decided upon unanimously.
The Moderates are opposed to proposals that may lead to the EU's being funded by EU taxes. . (FR) In the minority opinion annexed to the Bourlanges report, I criticised, in particular, the proposal in paragraph 5 to allow the Treaties to be revised by majority vote, albeit an extremely qualified majority vote, instead of unanimously.
In the end, the adopted resolution contained a more vague passage on this point, but the intent remains.
In any case, the spirit of this proposal is more widely present in the idea of the report (and the Convention) to make codecision with a qualified majority in the Council the rule, without counterbalancing it with any national veto system.
The resolution also strives to change the method of amending the Treaties and advocates the institutionalisation of the 'convention' method with increased powers, laying down different amending processes - making a distinction between what is known as the 'constitutional' part and the 'policy' part - and opening up the possibility of the national parliaments no longer being able to play their full role in ratifying the Treaties.
Although we welcome the withdrawal of this resolution, as proposed by my group, from the point where it recommends the end of decision-making by unanimity in the Council for any revision of the Treaties (when what is at stake are issues as crucial as the decision to transfer national competences to the EU), the resolution envisages an EU legal system that takes precedence over those of the Member States, thereby increasing the powers of its supranational institutions.
In reality national parliaments are forced to establish corresponding legislation within two years, so that the essence of the decision to be taken there has already been established before public discussion of its desirability can get under way.
He quite rightly wants executive measures of the European Commission to be submitted for the approval of this Parliament if we register an objection within three months.
The answer is clearly 'No'.
The current framework ignores any principle for designating legal acts and is based on terms that are frequently obscure and sometimes misleading.
Nevertheless, I could not support the report when, in political terms, it seeks to take advantage of this need to establish a coherent typology of Community laws and a logical hierarchy of acts - a legislative necessity - in order to move forwards in the 'long march' of the highly debatable federalist and constitutional doctrine, presuming that a 'de facto' sovereign European State with constituent power already exists and goes so far as to omit any reference whatsoever to national parliaments or actually proposing to end the procedure based on the Treaties themselves.
I have, therefore, voted against the report, whilst regretting that the rapporteur - who has produced a technically superb piece of work - should have blundered into what I consider to be federalist opportunism.
It should be remembered that the precautionary principle must always be observed.
The issue is that any technology needs to prove the benefits of its use and take account of the potential risks to health and to the environment, given that food-irradiation technology is highly problematic.
Consequently, the overriding aim of this technology appears to be something else - speeding up the liberalisation of international trade and increasing the centralisation/concentration of the mass production and distribution of foods throughout the world, with consequences for the delocalisation of agri-food production and for the decline of small-scale local farmers, thereby calling sustainable development into question.
Mr President, British Labour Members voted against the report because our amendments to remove errors of fact were not carried.
These errors remain in paragraphs 15, 22, 25, 26, 30, 31, 32 and 33.
Mr President, I voted against this report, not because I do not support the recommendations on the way forward in the event of another unfortunate outbreak of foot and mouth disease, but because of the basic inaccuracies in the preamble.
It has been claimed that over 10 million animals were slaughtered during the foot and mouth outbreak but owners have only claimed compensation for 6.5 million.
There is no evidence of breaches in animal welfare legislation.
Mr President, on behalf of the European Parliamentary Labour Party, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for the fair, open-minded and assiduous way in which he has carried out his task.
This report, when he looks ahead, is an excellent report and provides useful guidelines for future action.
We strongly reject the idea of breaches of animal welfare legislation because there have been no prosecutions as a result of investigations of those claims.
The Community should be able to play a fundamental role in defining the strategy for controlling foot and mouth disease.
Indeed, we support the call for a shift of emphasis in European Union policy away from purely commercial considerations. (Text abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) The foot and mouth epidemic that affected Europe in 2001 was a great disaster, and not only for the United Kingdom, where mass slaughter of livestock was necessary.
The report highlights a number of factors that exacerbated the situation: livestock farming and the agri-food sector were subject to the demands of importers and exporters and the race for world market domination; European sanitary directives were not transposed into national legislation; veterinary border controls were sometimes insufficient, despite the tremendously high value of the interests at risk; and there has been a continuous reduction in the number of veterinary surgeons.
It has to be remembered that on the day the alarm was first raised the disease had already taken hold in over 50 farms in 16 different counties.
As President of the European Parliament's All Party Intergroup on the Welfare and Conservation of Animals, I naturally have a special interest in the Kreissl-Drfler report.
I support measures to prevent a similar outbreak of foot and mouth disease, as proposed in the report.
Whilst very regrettable, the cull was perceived at the time as the most effective measure to end the outbreak.
We need only think of the irrationality of promoting the transport of live animals, with the centralisation of markets and the closure of local slaughterhouses, which increases the risks of these outbreaks spreading, especially in an internal market with no borders between Member States.
Instead, what we really should be doing is promoting the localisation of production, the creation of local slaughter units and veterinary centres with greater decentralised resources and local and regional markets, limiting as much as possible the transport of live animals, and undertaking more thorough monitoring, even at the internal borders of each Member State.
Although farmers are given substantial responsibility in the measure, all too often increases in the amount of livestock for income are perceived as an essential factor in the risk of an epidemic.
I am also pleased that my fellow Members reacted favourably to my proposal seeking to prohibit the introduction of products destined for tax-free warehouses or the provisioning of ships from countries not authorised to export to the EU.
Today, this meat that could carry a risk of foot and mouth disease can be taken to these warehouses within the Union itself. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Foot and mouth disease inflicted a heavy toll in my own East of England constituency, and I had hoped that this European Parliament report would do justice to the losses suffered by farmers, the tourist industry and our whole community.
However, as other Members have indicated, the final report has been subject to amendments put forward by political groups in the Parliament, which suggest breaches of law which did not take place, even deliberately misreporting the numbers of animals killed.
In these circumstances, I am recording my opposition to the final vote.
Though the report contains some useful suggestions for the avoidance of future outbreaks of FMD, it is seriously flawed in a number of important respects.
It is factually incorrect in relation to its references to the legality of the culls, suggested breaches of animal welfare legislation, suggested breaches of environmental legislation and lapses in bio-security.
It also, for example, states that 10 million animals were killed when farmers claimed for only 6.5 million.
Firstly, the culls were carried out in accordance with legal provisions and in full consultation with the European Commission.
Secondly, the number of animals slaughtered should reflect farmers' claims for 6.5 million - not 10 million.
Thirdly, there have been no prosecutions for breaches of animal welfare legislation nor was any environmental harm identified by the Environmental Agency.
As such, this report outlines many of the measures necessary to prevent such an outbreak occurring on the same scale in the future.
The European Commission was informed at all times.
Controls on imports will never provide the same safety guarantees as regular controls and traceability applied to national production and localised production in Europe.
This should further encourage us to apply Community preference effectively and keep as much of our agricultural production as possible within the European Union.
Community preference, which is laid down at the heart of our Treaties, must, in future, be our favoured means of satisfying new consumer requirements in Europe in the area of food safety.
This is yet another reason to defend it vehemently to the WTO and ensure that our right to make imported products bear the cost of the controls we need to carry out on them is respected.
You are repeating a request, and there is another procedure in our Rules of Procedure for obtaining this information.
Mr President, the annual budgetary procedure has passed off unusually smoothly.
The reason, of course, is that all the parties, no doubt partly because they all know how important it is for us to be able to demonstrate agreement prior to enlargement, have contributed to a businesslike and constructive process.
When this process began just over a year ago, one of my objectives was to develop Parliament's own procedures, and I think we have made some progress.
We have developed the new budgetary debate in September, something which it will certainly be possible to develop further next year.
In my opinion, the problem is the long-term budget plan and the interinstitutional agreement that set sector-by-sector budget ceilings for seven years in a row.
We have also developed new, ever more creative methods of achieving flexibility.
We have added the new solidarity fund, which is also a flexibility instrument.
This year, we ourselves have introduced the systematic use of what is termed frontloading, whereby we try to find unutilised resources in the current year's budget in order to bring forward expenditure for next year and in that way give ourselves room for manoeuvre.
This creativity has been of great help, but it is not especially open or transparent.
I would therefore call upon our colleagues in the Convention really to give some thought as to how, in future treaties, we can increase Parliament's influence over the budget as a whole and, at the same time, create in the long term a less rigid model for budget ceilings which is less hostile to development.
If the pace of implementation continues to be slow, there will be a risk in future years of a situation arising in which regions that have received promises of aid and candidate countries that have been given generous promises of pre-accession aid will, quite justifiably, protest when the promises are not fulfilled.
The major new resources in terms of information will have bearing upon enlargement.
We have also launched a new pilot project for cooperation between small companies and involving both the candidate countries and the countries along the EU's new external border - Russia, the Balkan countries, North Africa etc.
Allow me also to mention the EU's efforts in the fight against poverty and disease in the developing countries.
We have, however, done this partly in order to be able to bring forward aid to the famine-hit Horn of Africa, and partly in order to be able to free up resources for Afghanistan next year.
We have prevailed upon the Council to more than double the amount it proposed in its first reading, from EUR 20 million to EUR 42 million.
Finally, we have also achieved a very constructive settlement concerning Parliament's future role in foreign and security policy, and that is something I believe we are all satisfied with.
Ladies and gentlemen, this budget will not be an historic one because of any dramatic conflicts or major new revolutionary budget initiatives.
I am, above all, very pleased that we have, with such broad political agreement, in actual fact come up with those solutions required in order to prepare for enlargement.
Mr President, we are now at the end of a comprehensive process of producing a budget for future budgetary years, and I should like to thank everyone who has contributed to this work.
I also wish to extend a big thank you to both the Commission and the Council for their constructive cooperation, with special thanks also going to the Danish Presidency for having actively helped the EU's two budgetary authorities jointly to arrive at the framework for category 5 at a conciliation on 19 July of this year, something I believe to have been very important.
Throughout the current year, the EU's administrative budget, otherwise known as category 5, has been one of those areas that has posed genuine problems for the budget.
The obvious top priority of all at that time was enlargement.
Through the decisions subsequently made, we know that the Member States, notably through the positive decision taken at the Copenhagen Summit, are complying with their commitments regarding ten new Member States.
If the agreement is signed in March, we shall be able to have 147 observers from all these countries in place by no later than April.
This issue acquires further significance when we now consider the fortunate decision from Copenhagen.
The second priority was to implement necessary reforms.
Parliament's legislative function must also be strengthened.
In a very short time, Parliament has been given significant legislative power, meaning that the basic conditions under which Parliament operates within this area must also be strengthened.
These are key areas for the European Parliament, and it is precisely in these areas that we must stand especially firm.
The third priority is to tackle all this successfully.
It is a question of coping both with the preparations prior to enlargement and with the commitment to the necessary reforms and of doing these things within the stated budgetary framework.
It means that we are now entering a new budget year with a fairly broad margin which will hopefully amount to slightly more than EUR 20 million.
Allow me to conclude by observing that this is the last budget the European Parliament will adopt before enlargement to include ten new Member States.
It has also been important to make a number of decisions during the year to cope with long-term problems in category 5.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the EU's budget for 2003 is indeed a presentable one.
It is now a matter of certainty, ladies and gentlemen, that the 2003 Budget will be the last EU Budget for an EU of 15 Member States.
The financial package did indeed take a long time to prepare, and, as Commissioner for the Budget, I am proud and, of course, glad that what was concluded at Copenhagen is so close to what the Commission proposed in January.
Copenhagen really has now sent out the message that it is time for all the EU's institutions to roll their sleeves up.
On the Commission's behalf, I want to thank the budgetary authority for this decision.
As regards where the Commission will be allocating these posts, 59 of them will be in the area of competition, 53 in agriculture, 56 in the Structural Funds, 10 in OLAF, 69 in the languages service and 60 in the Publications Office.
It has also finally been decided how much by way of funds will be allocated to the new States in the years from 2004 to 2006; these will amount to EUR 10 billion for agricultural policy and EUR 21 billion for structural aid.
Parliament and the Council have welcomed the further policy priorities for the 2003 Budget, which are 'stability and security' and 'sustainable and inclusive economic development'.
This year, ladies and gentlemen, we have set up the new Solidarity Fund for aid in cases of major natural catastrophes in the Member States and in the candidate countries.
A completely new Financial Regulation covers the EU's Budget, as also the European Development Fund and the other facilities.
Today, the Commission adopted in its entirety the rules for implementing this Financial Regulation.
As I have already emphasised, the 2003 Budget is the last for an EU of 15 Member States.
We now have to adapt the Financial Perspective to the Copenhagen conclusions, in order to draw up the 2004 Budget for an EU of 25 Member States.
In the PPE-DE Group, we are very proud of the way we were able to join with our colleagues from the other groups in putting across a multitude of our concerns, and it goes without saying that we are asking you, Commissioner, to support us accordingly.
If you are talking about the budget figures for 2003, with the minimal increase that we all greatly welcome and support, then honesty requires of us that we add that it took a large number of measures on our part in order for these slight growth rates to be made possible, as the 2002 Budget was not passed in the form in which it was drawn up.
Here I am thinking of what our technical jargon so splendidly terms frontloading measures, that is, the use of funds from 2002 to discharge commitments which will be incumbent on us only in the coming year, hence the transfer of resources allocated by way of the Solidarity Fund, from the 2002 Budget to 2003.
What helps to finance next year's low level of increase is the fact that we are transferring funds from the 2002 Budget that were used either wrongly or irregularly.
One thing I consider to have been a great success - something that the PPE-DE played a part in initiating, and which, thankfully, was taken up by other Members of this House - is the marked improvement on the question of cooperation between the Council and Parliament in defining foreign policy measures.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is these speeches that remind us how close together we have been this year when dealing with specialised issues, as I believe that we are almost always discussing the same topics in this House, the very same ones that we are outlining now.
Our budget does not show the rates of increase - let alone the rates of inflation - that were provided for in Berlin.
In Berlin, the precaution was taken of creating a margin in order to make enlargement possible and easier.
We have a budget of less than EUR 100 billion!
What we get for 25% less - in other words, for EUR 100 billion - is cooperation across Europe on environmental matters, in the field of research and development, and on cohesion, so that we do not leave the more vulnerable in the lurch.
I believe that it has to be said loud and clear that we spend substantially less on all of these things, so as to give Europe a viable and peaceful future, than is spent at national level in the area of defence policy alone.
Even though we have this tight budget and even though we have to take on new things with every passing year - as has already been said, there are new tasks in category IV almost every year - we nevertheless manage to set priorities that advance the economic development of the continent of Europe.
Not only do we maintain and sustain a continent full of large corporations, but also the small and medium-sized enterprises on this European continent can make use of the opportunities offered by a shared internal market.
We have managed to achieve a joint declaration with the Council, which makes considerable progress precisely in the area of security and defence policy, making it clear to the public that the European Parliament has no room for manoeuvre on European policies at European level.
Mrs Schreyer, you have already acted as if all of this were already in the bag.
I wish to thank all of my fellow Members of this House, especially the two rapporteurs and the President, who has been patient enough to allow me an extra thirty seconds.
I also want to thank Denmark's chairmen in the Council for their cooperation, which was excellent, and Commissioner Michaele Schreyer for her excellent input.
It also demonstrates responsibility on the part of the EU, while Member States try to meet the requirements of its Stability and Growth Pact.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party supports this aim, although it partly undermines the EU's long-term attempt to balance its economy, as the EU's biggest budget worry this time is outstanding commitments.
At present these stand at EUR 103 billion, which is to say, more than the entire budget for one year.
There has been an increase in arrears of EUR 17 billion since the start of the year, with no limit to this in sight.
The situation is at its most wretched in the area of structural operations, where outstanding commitments have grown over the year by EUR 13 billion.
The most difficult situation, relatively speaking, however, is in the area of pre-accession aid, where EUR 8.5 billion in outstanding commitments has accrued in three years, with just under EUR 2 billion being paid out in actual aid.
We should also simplify legal instruments and procedures, as was agreed in conciliation with the Council in the summer.
This budget is the last to be drafted for an EU consisting of 15 Member States.
Parliament safeguarded the posts needed in the Commission for enlargement by amassing resources partly out of this year's budget.
In this way we were able to meet next year's expenditure in advance and fit administrative expenditure into the tight framework in place for heading 5.
My group supports this.
Our group is worried about the low level of payment appropriations.
The problem has been mainly only theoretical while the Commission has not forwarded appropriations in the budget for payment and while Member States have been able to get back billions of euros of unused own resources, or contributions.
Our group would like to focus on the interinstitutional agreement the previous Parliament made on our behalf.
A new Iraq war might increase the pressure on next year's foreign aid programme, so there are no margins under that heading for initiating new actions.
In the opinion of our group the ceilings in the interinstitutional agreement should be re-estimated.
Our group thinks a positive step has been taken in commencing serious discussions about reducing the transportation of live animals for slaughter and calling into question the treatment of animals in the primate research centre at Rijswijk in Holland.
It has not become clear to me during the debate on the budget how it is intended to organise the auditing of funds that are the Council's responsibility nor how nor to whom discharge is to be granted in respect of the use of these funds.
For the sake of balance, I should like to mention a number of positive and a number of negative points, but I shall begin with the negative ones.
Parliament usually fights the battle over final allocations, that is, over promises, while the Council is mainly interested in keeping payments as low as possible and hence rather less in keeping promises.
Then, by way of adjusting the balance: three positive points: my group is very pleased about the freezing of the funds of KEDO.
My final point, Mr President, concerns the animal experimentation centre at Rijswijk.
And that is just to mention two headings.
The well thought-out result of the joint efforts of the Commission, the Council and this Parliament is commendable.
We are therefore gratified that in this case a start has at any rate been made on the reduction of set allocations and payments relating to structural measures.
That would be a real contribution to a more credible European Union financial policy.
Only if the European Union has added value in the foreign policy field is an operation worth considering.
Other examples abound.
The European Commission should exercise more restraint in such questions.
Surely it cannot be acceptable for the European Union to supplement the development cooperation of the Member States with activities not supported by the Member States themselves because they do not consider them responsible.
Mr President, I too, like Mr van Dam, would like to focus on a specific budget line, not least because, as a member of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, I have been able to follow the matter closely.
The line in question is line B7-6310: 'North-South cooperation schemes in the campaign against drug abuse'.
First the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, then the Committee on Budgets and, finally, the plenary, by a unanimous vote, decided to block the new appropriations and place the payment appropriations in the reserve because, in Parliament's opinion, this budget line did not have a legal basis.
It did not have a legal basis because the Commission should have presented to Parliament an evaluation of the measures financed by the Community under this line as far back as October 2000 and proposed a new regulation.
This evaluation, which ought to have concerned the Regulation of 21 October 1997 and would have been submitted to Parliament in July 2002, certainly never reached the Secretariat of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights.
What is more, the evaluation concentrates on all the measures undertaken in the previous years while still failing to state clearly what happened with this Regulation during those three years.
None of this happened, and now we are blithely refinancing this budget line when we have financed it every year for years, without a legal basis, for dubious operations of which, even now, the Commission is unable or unwilling to provide a proper evaluation.
Mr President, like other speakers this afternoon, I welcome the successful conclusion of this budget process.
It is certainly one of the most peaceful that I have known and my congratulations on the excellent work done by our two rapporteurs.
The first refers to the improvement of the quality of budget execution.
We insisted from the beginning that we should pick up on the Commission, Council and Parliament declaration of December 2000, specifically looking to reduce outstanding commitments to a normal level by December 2003.
As a result, we are now promised a document for the PDB 2004 setting out how we are going to eliminate abnormal outstanding commitments by the end of 2003.
Secondly, so far as appropriate involvement of Parliament in CFSP measures is concerned, what concerned us most was to how to get Parliament fully involved in consultation and information on how the monies will be spent by the Council.
And now we have a joint declaration in accordance with the Interinstitutional Agreement, setting up for the first time a way in which Parliament will be fully involved in consultation and information, including in political dialogue on the CFSP.
We also have put funds into the budget so that the Commission can come forward with a study establishing CFSP priorities over the next five years.
I very much hope that this study will be completed.
For my group, this is an essential point.
Lo and behold, as a result of this, we now have a comprehensive report which I was just discussing with my colleagues - including Commissioner Kinnock this morning - observing that progress has indeed been made.
Therefore, I think that on these three items, the 2003 budget has been a success.
We must be vigilant over the next few months and ensure that progress continues to be made on these three items because none of them has been fully resolved in this 2003 budget.
A former chairman of the Committee on Budgets and a former general rapporteur went on a skiing holiday.
Anyone who has been involved in this procedure knows about the faxes, e-mails, telephone calls and the knocks on the door as attempts are made to lobby for anything that can be gained from this budget.
We have a budget which reflects considerable good will on the part of this Parliament.
In fact, there is so much good will that, as I said in committee, we have too much money in the budget, especially in some areas in category 4 where the money will not be spent.
However, it is there, and it has been achieved through the good work of the rapporteurs and the committee and through our joint efforts with the Council and the Commission.
The very few instances of lobbying we have encountered concern one or two lines relating to category 4.
We do not have the EUR 80 million that was requested, but we have EUR 42 million from the general budget and a guarantee that the European Union will have a seat on the board of the Global Health Fund.
From that point of view, it is quite good.
It is our job as well, and the committees in this Parliament have to ensure that they are monitoring month in and month out.
The last thing we want is a 15% return to the Member States at the end of the day, which is what happened this year when we gave back EUR 15 billion.
The Member States are happy about that, but it is not good budgetary practice. (Applause) Mr President, I too want to join in the delight that has been expressed today in many quarters concerning the constructive way in which the budgetary negotiations have proceeded.
It will be easier for all of us to see the economic and political priorities in the budget.
Without exceeding the agreed financial framework, EU legislation must be translated into the languages of the new Member States, and staff from the new countries must be appointed.
It is important, indeed it is in everyone's interest, that there should be no recesses of the budget outside parliamentary control.
Mr President, as I have already had occasion to point out, the exercises in financial engineering that the current budgetary process has required have once again demonstrated the precariousness of the Community financial framework and, consequently, the need for it to be revised and adapted.
It is well known that the financial framework decided on in Berlin is clearly inadequate for dealing with the costs of enlargement, the increased requirements of economic and social cohesion and, at the same time, for responding to the new priorities arising in the meantime, particularly for internal and external policies.
We are also seeing an attempt to include the funding of the Global Health Fund within the European Development Fund without even consulting the target countries of the EDF and to their detriment.
All of this is happening because the principle of sufficiency of means, according to which new priorities should be given new financial means, is not being observed.
The issue becomes even more clear and urgent, however, if we consider the fact that the volume of payment expenditure being proposed for adoption represents an increase in 2003 of only 1.9%, in other words, lower than the expected level of inflation, which will lead to a real reduction in the payments budget.
It makes no sense to seek to achieve more and more Europe and at the same time, wish to adopt an increasingly low budget.
Having said this, I should like to add a positive note, with regard to East Timor.
I welcome the results that have been achieved, both by maintaining a specific budget line, something for which I have always fought, and by increasing this line by EUR 6 million more than the Council proposal.
This sends a positive political sign to a country and a population that gained independence only recently and which are still experiencing considerable difficulties and this brings together, as a matter of fact, the various decisions that we have adopted on this matter.
I wish lastly, to say a couple of words about Palestine: given the tragic situation currently facing that country, we must respond to the situation next year by establishing a line and sufficient appropriations, specifically to recuperate the investments that the European Union has made there.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are not satisfied with the budget as it concerns agriculture.
We now note with astonishment that the exact opposite happened in Copenhagen, in that funds were, with a stroke of the pen, transferred from rural development in the second pillar in order to make room for funds to be disbursed as direct payments.
We in Parliament drafted a resolution expressing our opposition to direct payments and to their being transferred to the new Member States of the EU, and also stating that we take it as read that payments as a whole will not be affected, but that this is being done by way of support for rural development, that is, in the second pillar.
No cap was imposed on the financing of the second development, and we had hoped that this would mean that reform could include Parliament within the second pillar, enabling it to participate in these areas and enabling progress to be made with the second pillar.
I therefore take the view that this cannot be approved in this way, that we will have to deal with it in the negotiations on the next Budget, and that we very definitely expect the European Convention to make codecision applicable in matters of agricultural policy both as regards its substance and also what are termed the mandatory funds.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs for their work on the EU budget for 2003 which now stands at almost EUR 100 billion.
It is recognition by all the key EU institutions of the political importance of assisting farmers, their families and the rural communities in which they live.
We must continue to invest in ensuring that we have an economically viable European agricultural system.
That is why I am particularly satisfied that in the context of broader EU budgetary policies, the EU leaders are making provision to safeguard the viability of the common agricultural policy now and into the future.
Mr President, representatives of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Wynn's joke would have been much better if instead of members of the Committee on Budgets we had been Finance Ministers.
Apart from that, you have made us all laugh just the same.
They have also brought consensus to our relations with the Council and have responded as far as possible to the Commission's fair demands.
In summary, we believe that the Nordic dimension has been very beneficial to the interests of the European Union and therefore today we are debating the draft budget for 2003 in a situation which those of us with long budgetary experience could describe as exceptionally calm.
The almost EUR 100 000 million we are going to approve is of little quantitative significance in terms of the Union's economy, but its relative importance is very great because, let us not forget, what both politicians and citizens understand by Europe is there, in those scant EUR 100 000 million.
The final consensus, however, for which we have so much to thank the Danish Presidency, which was so willing to hold discussions, does not hide the fact that there are still thorns in the sides of Parliament.
When we are not talking about obligatory expenditure, we are talking about multi-annual programmes or privileged expenditure or amending budgets.
A representative Parliament must decide on all expenditure.
Codecision must be generalised, without thereby jeopardising agricultural and structural spending which must be guaranteed.
Above all, I believe it is a political mistake to translate the way in which budgetary austerity is carried out in the Member States to the Union's budget, and there are two reasons for this: firstly, because budgetary restrictions are being applied to a Community budget which by its very nature does not have the capacity for indebtedness.
It is understandable that a national government which wants to, or which must, comply with the Stability Pact has to act on its public deficit and, if possible, achieve zero deficit, but to apply these annual rates of budgetary growth of less than 2% per annum to the Union's budget leads to an increasing insufficiency in Community resources.
The answer remains in the air.
There are Member States which use, as a variable for their national budgetary adjustments, structural funds which they do not commit and do not implement.
I ask myself whether this is the right way to administrate the European Union, whether this Parliament should agree with this way of acting.
Let us hope that the Convention helps us to resolve this problem which we are all facing.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate both rapporteurs, who have attained good results.
This means that those budgets which at the outset were EUR 66 million over the ceiling, are now within an acceptable margin.
This should help us in the 2004 budget as well.
Not only did we have major preparations in the institutions for the forthcoming enlargement, but the strains of working within a rigid framework agreed in Berlin were all too apparent, especially in category 4.
I have observed over the last three years a year-on-year crisis situation.
One of the fundamental problems for Parliament is the lack of influence on the whole of the EU's budget, particularly category 1.
The reality of enlargement is upon us.
However, until we have the outcome of the Convention and the full extent of the new role of the institution is established, it will be difficult to put direct plans into place.
It is important that the Council and the Convention recognise that they have to take this political decision. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, it has already been said by many people in many different keys, this year's budget procedure was exemplary.
My compliments also to the two rapporteurs and the chairman of the budgetary committee, who proved a safe pair of hands.
This morning we talked in this House about the foot and mouth crisis of 2001.
The resolution adopted this morning again urged the undertaking of research in various fields.
Because even before the committee was called into being, Parliament had already voted in favour of initiating research.
One thing: we already have programmes in place for Eastern Europe which should be being implemented at this very moment, but implementation is extremely slow.
Finally I should like to express the hope that with the new system of Activity Based Budgeting planned for next year the budgetary process will proceed as smoothly as it did this year.
Mr President, it gives me great pleasure to say that the budget for 2003 has gone wonderfully well.
I would like to praise Commissioner Kinnock for his reforms at the Commission, although there has been one blind spot.
This is absolutely vital.
Looking ahead, it is vital that we have the common agricultural policy reform carried out to programme and not delayed, because this is so vital to enlargement and the sensible payment of reasonable subsidies - I say reasonable and stress that word - to the accession countries.
It is well known that the Council, despite having acquired this commitment in its draft budget for 2003, removed the EUR 27 million laid down by the Commission in the preliminary draft budget.
Of course, my group is going to support this agreement at second reading.
It will vote in favour of this agreement which it fought for and promoted and I hope that the role of the Socialist MEPs is made sufficiently clear, both during the negotiations and in its conclusion.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2003 the current period of the financial perspectives will reach its half-way point.
It is fair to point out that the efforts to reach an agreement in the July conciliation were successful and will allow us to vote in favour of the 2003 budget tomorrow.
The series of commitments achieved during the conciliation, and enshrined in the declarations, demonstrates a clear advance for Parliament in decision-making with budgetary consequences and an advance in terms of ensuring better control of budgetary implementation and outstanding commitments.
I would like to say sincerely to my colleague Mrs Dhrkop Dhrkop that we share her objectives, but not the methods or comments we have just heard here.
I believe that this is a good example of interinstitutional cooperation.
Both the Commission and Parliament and the Council have reached an agreement and I believe that at this time when regions such as Galicia are suffering the consequences of an extraordinary disaster, the fact that our institutions are showing their sensitivity and solidarity is a positive thing which we can communicate to the citizens.
I must also say that once again the revenue for the next financial year will allocate a significant amount through the surpluses of the previous year.
This situation, which reveals a chronic under-use of payments in certain areas, must come to an end.
I would like to say to the Council that it cannot ignore or diminish the political priorities of Parliament and that the loss of appropriations must not be repeated, as is going to happen with the Community funding for Europol for certain actions in the fight against terrorism, simply because the Council does not want to be subject to the control of this House.
As many of you are aware, I have expressed some concern at a number of decisions, particularly the cut in payment appropriations for category 2 of the Structural Funds.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, alongside enlargement and foreign policy, agriculture and structural policy are the essential priorities for the budget.
On the one hand, I am glad that the Council has withdrawn 25% of the across-the-board cuts in the lines under heading 1A.
On the other, this means, when compared with the draft budget, that we are giving out EUR 200 million, even though the estimated upper limit has a margin of EUR 2.6 billion.
Money has been taken away even from the strengthening of the second pillar that has been called for on all sides.
As regards the Commission's letter of amendment, I welcome the fact that the Commission has adopted some of Parliament's proposals from the first reading and, in particular that it is not making further cuts to export refunds.
It is important for me to again emphasise, in conclusion, that the agriculture budget faces attack on two fronts.
On one, the Council is attempting to use the agriculture sector to finance ever more new expenditure, and on the other, redeployment of funds to a second pillar yet to be defined means that farmers are losing out on payments from the first pillar that generate income.
I believe, as has been so often repeated, that we can indeed be truly satisfied with this budget.
I explain to people in the Netherlands that out of every hundred euros that they earn, they pay forty-three euros in tax and that only one euro of that goes to the European Union.
Yet everyone wonders why so much is spent, although from a national perspective relatively little money is involved.
But they are always prepared to talk about what is after all a relatively insignificant sum, especially because it is supposedly going abroad and that is always easier to talk about.
So you can easily see that a collective approach to such a policy can solve many more problems than doing it all separately.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I see a need for discussion of four areas that are of great importance to us.
Thirdly, we in this House must ourselves step up our efforts in order to meet the challenges involved in preparing the WTO to face the future.
On the subject of industry, I want to record the fact that support for border regions has been very successful, especially that given to small and medium-sized enterprises.
The B5-510 budget line would also be very well suited to increasing the budget for the 'Arge 28' working community of chambers of commerce.
In particular, we want to start up a preparatory operation for next year, in order to give particular help in this area to small and medium-sized enterprises in meeting the requirements of Basle II.
I really can unreservedly assure you, Mr Walter, that the Commission has been quite specific in emphasising that the adjustment of the Financial Perspective is not something that has been, so to speak, decided in advance; rather, it is to be decided jointly by Parliament and the Council on the basis of the Commission's proposal.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, who is no longer in the Chamber, raised the subject of Parliament's decisions on expenditure in the area of agricultural policy.
The Commission entirely shares the view that, in future, this distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure should be removed and the consequent differences in Parliament's rights eliminated, so that the European Parliament becomes fully competent in budget matters.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, today, the Commission has adopted a comprehensive analysis of the Member States' strategies for ensuring adequate and sustainable pensions.
This report is the fruit of a new form of cooperation between the Member States, given the consensus that pension systems should remain a responsibility of the Member States, and so the role of the European Union will be limited to supporting the Member States in their reform efforts.
This is, of course, without prejudice to the Community policies in a number of areas which have an impact on national policy-makers, including internal market policy and the sustainability of public finances, which is examined in the framework of the broad economic policy guidelines.
I am very pleased that the European Parliament supports this approach, even though we have yet to find a satisfactory way of involving Parliament more in the open method of coordination.
An important concept of the whole report is that there are three different dimensions: sustainability, modernisation and adequacy of pensions.
It was also agreed that the Member States would submit national strategy reports in which they explain how they achieve those common objectives.
The national reports were submitted in September, and the document that has been adopted by the Commission today is an analysis of the national strategies, objective by objective.
Member States have to decide for themselves what type of pension systems they want.
But our report tried to highlight certain and concrete strengths and weaknesses of national systems and policies.
The common objectives can be achieved through a wide range of pension systems.
The social partners play a more or less important role in national pension systems.
The fact that, in spite of this diversity of systems, we could agree on a set of common objectives proves that it makes sense to speak of a European social model.
The diversity of pension systems does not prevent us from having shared goals in this important policy area.
In general, the national strategy reports described the current state of play rather than presenting new policy initiatives.
One important conclusion that we can draw from this exercise is that Member States can cope with ageing societies and avoid a financial or social disaster in their pension systems.
The report tries to be neither unduly alarmist, nor too complacent about the situation of pension systems.
In fact, achieving the Barcelona target of raising the labour market withdrawal age by five years would almost solve our financing problems as identified in the public pension expenditure projections by the Economic Policy Committee.
However, we will only get there if Member States make much more determined efforts not only to encourage older people to stay longer in the labour market but also to enable them to do so.
Many Member States also have to do more to improve access to occupational pension schemes, particularly for atypical workers, among whom women tend to be over-represented.
The European Parliament insisted particularly on the situation of older women.
Women tend to live longer than men; so a majority of pensioners are women: some 60% of people over 65 and nearly two thirds of people over 75.
So it will remain important to award pension rights for child-care periods and to maintain derived rights, without which many older women would be exposed to the risk of poverty.
The European Council requested a joint report by the Commission and the Council.
There is no commitment to a second round of national strategy reports and their assessment at European level.
We intend to cooperate with the applicant countries and to carry out the same exercise for their systems.
We are also working on common indicators which would allow us to measure the achievements of Member States.
However, agreement on common indicators is quite a difficult issue and could not be arrived at in time for this report.
Mr President, the report is neither optimistic nor pessimistic.
The first is the problem of the ageing population and the second is the rise in the entitlement age.
Bearing both these in mind, the Member States have introduced specific policies in which raising the age limit on the labour market appears to be the basic option - in fact most countries now consider it prerequisite - alongside policies to help older people stay in the labour market.
Firstly, Commissioner, we Members have not seen the communication, and I would like to know when we will see it and how Parliament will be involved before the spring Council, so that its opinion may be heard.
Secondly, Commissioner, you have said that this is a process of support for the reforms of the Member States.
My question is whether only those reforms which are in line with the Commission's communications and with the common doctrine we have supported in the European Parliament will be supported.
If the reform is of a purely financial nature and does not take account of the social needs raised by the ageing of the population, I very much fear, Commissioner, that a large majority of this House will not be able to support it.
Mr President, in reply to the first question, it is true that certain countries had age limits in the past.
We ought rather to be creating programmes for people who have reached the age of 55, 65 or older that allow older workers to carry on working and retrain so that older unemployed people can be reintegrated into working life.
We could give more to those who need to improve their standard of living and less to those who have too much, while still spending the same amount.
In Italy, for example, there are widows with four children ? (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I believe the Commissioner has a clear perception of the problems.
The second question concerns the effective retirement age and the role of non-discrimination.
As I pointed out in my introduction, the problem is not just one of raising the retirement age; we also need flanking policies to help older people stay in or, in many cases, enter the labour market, which is why I referred to both the stability pact and the employment strategies.
The Member States must therefore say what they have done under each of these lines of approach in the reports they submit.
In reply to Mr Pronk's question on the age of 60 or 65, there is no directive which sets the retirement age in the Member States.
Each Member State sets it on the basis of its economic analysis and capabilities.
France is an exception, but sets other requirements, and the Scandinavian countries are trying out a new approach and tending to abolish the age limit, which might go up to 67 or down to 60, with pensions being adjusted in line with the retirement age.
Finally, as far as the question of the management of financial organisations and funds is concerned, I am not sure if I fully understood the question, but what I would say is that public pension funds are obviously subject to the general financial stability framework of each country, as far as private pension funds are concerned.
I would remind you that a recent Commission directive introduced important safety valves for the safe management of these funds.
We now move on to the Commission communication on the modernisation of accounting from Mrs Schreyer.
It has taken a great effort by all concerned, the European Parliament in particular, to reach the goal of the European Union having a new, modern budgetary law by 1 January 2003.
This new budgetary law will provide better protection for the Community's financial interests - I might mention, for example, the securities to be lodged by the recipients of advance payments, the obligation on contractors to provide auditor's certificates or the Commission's ability to bar contractors from tendering procedures if irregularities have been found in the past.
This new budgetary law will also make budget execution more transparent and more coherent.
This creates the conditions for ending central financial control at the end of this financial year and also for winding up the remaining parts of the Directorate-General for Financial Control by early 2003.
Most of the staff released in that way will be made available to the services to complete the human resources for financial reform that they have built up in the last three years.
Finally, the Commission has today also adopted the communication on the modernisation of the Communities' accounting system.
This communication is divided into three parts.
The Commission had promised the European Parliament and the Court of Auditors to present these measures and the timetable by the end of this year.
In so doing, the Commission is taking another important step in the long-term strategy for the modernisation of its accounting system that was begun in the year 2000.
In 2000, the Commission presented a study that led to the Commission proposing that the Financial Regulation should incorporate new bookkeeping rules using accrual accounting.
The budget account will use traditional cash accounting for budget revenue and expenditure, which is what the budgetary authority requires for checking the execution and implementation of the Budget; this means that the actual expenditures and actual receipts will be compared with the estimated amounts decided in the budget.
The accrual accounting, however, will also have to incorporate the capital account for the European Budget's cash flow statement, and new standards will be introduced for this part of the budget account corresponding to the international standards that were recently adopted; I shall come back to that in a moment.
The standards in question are in fact very new.
This international body adopted its first standard for the public sector in 2000, the last standard in October 2002.
They are therefore quite new rules and we will be using them as a benchmark for our accounting system.
The system currently used for accounting is Sincom 2.
It was introduced in 1997 and extended to all fund-managing departments in 1999.
This means the Commission has decided to give this project the highest grade, A1, in order to make clear that the necessary authority is also necessary in the grade if we are to take all the institutions and all the services here with us.
I am obviously pleased that a report is now being produced, but I have to observe that there is a large discrepancy between the Commission's report and what the Court of Auditors says.
Finally, who ever signed off the Commission's accounts in 2001?
At the same time, the European Court of Auditors has repeatedly urged us, as regards the capital account, to go over to a new system that does not wait until a payment or receipt has been made before recording financial transactions, but records them when a claim is raised or a commitment entered into.
That is an important step, which is now enacted in the Financial Regulation.
For the future we plan - and this is how it is being introduced - that the information will go from the annual budget directly into the capital budget.
Some Member States - and we discussed this repeatedly in the Committee on Budgetary Control - have taken steps in this direction, but at the same time the Member States also have different problems.
The international standards are, if you like, principles, but they must, as it were, be tailored to the specific budget, to the specific tasks that we have in the budget, if they are to be made to work.
That will also be decided by this Standards Committee.
Unfortunately I have been around for quite some time and so I know that the possible advance that might be manifested in the European Union from 2005 onwards is being preceded by a period that has not yet been concluded in which a system operated that definitely does not meet those standards or even earlier standards.
My second question is: how much was invested, financially as well as in other ways, in the internal development of the SI 2 system?
Commissioner, you call your communication 'Modernisation of Accounting'.
I only wonder why it is only now that you are admitting to this scandalous situation - I only mention the fact that nothing was obviously done to prevent multiple entries - even though the Court of Auditors has drawn attention to it repeatedly since 1994, why you apparently need a few more years, until 2005, to put a stop to them, why you dismissed a chief accountant who was the first to draw attention to these errors early this year and why you subjected her to disciplinary proceedings.
Mr President, Commissioner, please excuse me if I have to leave before you reply, but I have a group of visitors and it is my custom to be punctual.
Mr President, Mrs Schreyer, I congratulate you on this ambitious project and have the following questions.
In the past, the Financial Regulation, that is the law that applies to us and also to the other institutions, had only prescribed the cash accounting principle.
I repeat, the corresponding IPSA standards of the International Federation of Accountants are the first standards for the public sector and were adopted in the year 2000, the most recent one not until October 2002, that is, two months ago.
You were the rapporteur, the general rapporteur, Mrs Stauner, and you also confirmed this in your statement.
I will explain once again that the financial statement is of course submitted not only to the European Court of Auditors but also to the Council and Parliament, in other words the books are open on the table.
That was a tremendous step for the European Commission, too, since there were previously five or seven different financial statements - I do not remember the exact number - that then had to be integrated or could not be completely integrated.
That was the basis on which the chief accountant was appointed in January 2002 and that was the basis of the work that should have been done.
That person left the Commission's employment on 31 December 2001.
The Commission presents the budget and capital account to the European Court of Auditors, which also checks the books on an ongoing basis.
The European Court of Auditors again came to the conclusion for the 2001 books that the financial statement provides a correct and true picture of the revenue and expenditure and the financial situation at the end of the year.
In accordance with paragraph 2 of Annex II of the Rules of Procedure, Questions Nos 40, 42, 43 and 44 will not be replied to, since they relate to an issue which already appears on the agenda for the present part-session: the Council and Commission statements on the Prestige, tomorrow Wednesday.
An indicative budget of EUR 40 million in the Meda national indicative programme from 2002 to 2004, signed by the Moroccan authorities in January 2002, has been earmarked for the purpose.
This initiative forms part of a broader dialogue on migration issues between Morocco and the European Union, which also covers issues linked to legal immigration and the socio-economic dimension of migratory pressure.
The specific programme is aimed at institution building, developing the regulatory framework, modernising infrastructure and equipment, training officials and developing cooperation between the Moroccan authorities concerned and their counterparts in the Member States.
During those visits the Moroccan authorities expressed their political determination and firm commitment to cooperate with the Union in the fight against illegal immigration and on border controls in particular.
The content of the programme will subsequently be determined.
This programme is the first initiative on border control management with a country in the region.
I would be grateful if you could clarify whether this is only for 2002 and whether it is an experimental programme because, given that, when we talk about the borders of Morocco, we are talking about thousands of kilometres of borders, I have the impression that this sum is entirely insufficient to help the Moroccan Government to carry out the control of those borders.
This is quite clear.
I would also add that this issue concerns more than just money.
For this reason, the pharmaceutical industry has been unwilling to develop such products under normal market conditions.
The regulation on orphan medicinal products which entered into force in January 2000 provides a system of incentives for sponsors to develop and market designated orphan medicinal products.
One of these incentives is market exclusivity for a period of 10 years.
This is granted if a designated orphan medicinal product obtains a marketing authorisation in all Member States.
To obtain this, the sponsor must conduct a series of tests and studies to demonstrate that the product meets the rigorous standards of quality, safety and efficacy required of all medicinal products marketed in the EU.
Since 2000, 123 products have been designated as orphan medicinal products and placed on the Community register.
In a very small number of cases this involves a commonly available chemical that has been supplied by the manufacturer to hospitals which have prepared the chemical for administration to patients.
The great majority of these orphan medicinal products contain new innovative ingredients.
In this situation, it is not surprising that an authorised medicinal product developed to meet rigorous standards of quality, safety and efficacy costs more than the base chemical.
In the most recent press statements of 27 November and 5 December of this year, I expressed my concerns about the gravity of the humanitarian and human rights situation there, in particular the growing pressures made on internally displaced persons to leave the camps in Ingushetia and return to Chechnya.
The Commission, through ECHO, has so far allocated more than EUR 90 million in humanitarian aid in order to help people survive.
In 2002 alone, EUR 25 million have been allocated for this crisis and an additional EUR 3 million are now in the pipeline for more emergency food aid.
In Ingushetia, at this very critical moment, ECHO provides support to internally displaced persons in camps, spontaneous settlements and host families.
Most of the aid provided in the Aki Yurt camp had been funded by ECHO, and we will continue to be present in all other camps.
This is a very difficult task, as this is one of the locations in the world where working conditions for humanitarian organisations are the worst, both in terms of security and in terms of monitoring.
We continue to argue with the Russian authorities on all these points as I have again and again informed this Parliament.
On a number of occasions over the years I have informed Parliament that we are working on the basis of a so-called 'remote-control' concept, which means that we have to use local implementing partners.
The input from the UN organisations is also crucial in this respect and our cooperation with them is quite well developed.
Part II Questions to Commissioner de Palacio Questions to 41 by Jos Manuel Garca-Margallo y Marfil (H-0800/02): Subject: Taxation of fuel supplied in Gibraltar On 20 November, the newspaper 'El Pais' reported that most vessels passing through the Straits of Gibraltar take on fuel from tanker ships anchored in Gibraltarian waters, instead of doing so in the port of Algeciras, where there are better installations.
The reasons are, inter alia, that fuel is cheaper in Gibraltar than in Spain, and that the Spanish authorities are stricter in their application of EU regulations on maritime safety and pollution prevention than the Gibraltar authorities.
Although many ports have equipment for refuelling on the quayside, this type of refuelling is still the most common in ports, not only in small ports, but also in others such as Rotterdam, Barcelona or Hamburg.
The Commission believes that this practice should be carefully supervised in order to prevent dumping and marine pollution.
These black oil slicks and this black money always involve groups with structures much more like mafias than like businesses, made up of companies with ridiculous assets in order to evade responsibilities and covered by insurance which is also ridiculous.
The problem is that direct taxes are not paid either, taxes on companies, which also have an impact on prices: 35% in Algeciras and nothing in Gibraltar, as Commissioner Monti knows very well.
I would like to ask whether or not there are tax differences in Gibraltar when compared to Algeciras.
In this regard, it has promoted and facilitated the development of Community research and legislation on control in the fields of both radiation protection and on the control of the use of nuclear materials.
These Commission proposals strengthen, above all, the existing mechanism for guaranteeing the health protection of the population and of workers, as defined in Chapter 3 of Title II of the Euratom Treaty.
With regard to the trade in nuclear materials with Russia, the Commission proposes to present a proposal for a negotiation mandate for the approval of the Council, in accordance with its right to initiative.
Contrary to what the Commission has suggested, Articles 30, 31 and 32 of the Euratom Treaty are not applicable, as the Commission would be interfering with the safety of nuclear installations in respect of their technical operation.
I should also like to inform you that in the Member States, particularly in the UK, questions are being raised concerning your support for reprocessing in some of your statements.
With regard to the legal basis, I would refer to the press release issued by the Luxembourg Court on 10 December.
The Court believes that Euratom has competences in the following areas: the establishment of a legislative and regulatory framework for organising the safety of nuclear installations; measures relating to the assessment and verification of safety; organisation in the event of emergencies; the choice of location of nuclear installations and, finally, the design, construction and operation of nuclear installations.
I therefore believe that nobody is going to argue about the legal basis in the Euratom Treaty for all the proposals I have made to the Council and Parliament, because the Court has said it loud and clear.
How can Mrs Loyola de Palacio decide to file a petition which - as indicated in a reply sent by Mrs Wallstrm - does not fall within her department's remit?
Furthermore, on certain occasions I have also met with the honourable Member and other people and these meetings furthermore seem to me to be extremely important in terms of becoming aware of what social groups and people are thinking.
What we have to avoid when we are in the Commission, in Brussels, is losing contact with reality.
It seems to me unfortunate to use the names of two officials from the Directorate-General for the Environment.
Mr President, I am surprised that such experienced Members of Parliament should confuse a complaint to the Commission with a petition to the European Parliament.
Such an important public communications infrastructure project as the 'autova de Occidente' motorway deserves all the support of all the Asturian political representatives.
Question No 48 by Carlos Bautista Ojeda (H-0781/02): Subject: Starting date for Third Road Safety Action Plan In reply to question E-1265/02 of 26 April 2002 by the author of the present question, the Commission stated that it would issue a communication on the Third Road Safety Action Plan during the third quarter of 2002.
This programme is being drawn up and it is scheduled to be adopted during the first quarter of 2003.
The general measures will also have significant positive consequences for the safety of drivers and passengers of two-wheeled vehicles.
Mr President, thanks to the improvement in communication networks, particularly within cities, in population centres, pedestrianisation and the increase in the volume of four-wheeled traffic, the number of users of two-wheeled vehicles is increasing every day, as you have said.
Commissioner, my friend and colleague Carlos Bautista Ojeda has made a brief reference to this, but I would like to expand on one of the issues which he has raised: as you know, in the Spanish State users of two-wheeled vehicles have real difficulties finding companies who want to insure mopeds, motorcycles etc.
Their only answer - in some cases - is to turn to the insurance compensation consortium.
The Union's financial aid for the construction or modernisation of rail infrastructures, as well as the elimination of bottle necks, creates the physical conditions necessary for the rail system to absorb a greater percentage of the expected future growth in transport volume.
The Community has co-financed various projects for development of the trans-European rail network in Ireland.
For example, in 2000, the projects received co-funding of approximately EUR 3 million from the trans-European networks budget and around EUR 16 million from the Cohesion Fund.
The Commissioner is probably aware that the Irish rail system is run by a state company in which the government is a shareholder.
The Commission hopes that this study of the Irish rail system will take account, naturally, not only of general transport policy, but also of the investments made during recent years with Community funds in the Irish railway.
Lannoye (H-0793/02): Subject: Air transport and noise Following the adoption of Directive 2002/30/EC Directive 2002/30/EC lays down objectives and methods for resolving the problems of noise pollution in areas close to Community airports.
To this end, the directive describes measures which the States can apply in order to reduce noise and lays down a series of principles and rules on the methods for the evaluation of noise with a view to a reduction in levels of noise emissions.
At the moment, the Commission considers it a priority to ensure the correct incorporation of this directive into national legislations of the States of the Union, which should take place by 28 September 2003 at the latest.
This directive is one more measure in a series of measures intended to control exposure to noise around airports.
With regard to the proposal for a directive on the establishment of a Community framework for the classification of noise emissions from subsonic civilian aircraft and for the calculation of noise charges, following the first reading by the European Parliament in September, it now falls to the Council to begin examining the proposed text.
This decision by the European Court of Human Rights could become case-law, to the advantage of people living near airports.
I consider, however, that the European Commission should speed up its work to take practical measures with a view to preventing these matters from being resolved through the courts.
What we need are effective European measures that would make it possible to decrease exposure to noise for people living near airports, particularly at night.
Commissioner, do you not think that Article 1 of Directive 2002/30/EC, adopted in March 2002, which provides precisely for a reduction in the amount of people exposed to noise, should be more specifically followed by practical measures to reduce the level of exposure suffered by these people?
The creation of a new public space around the building and the provision of the security glass wall are just two of the consequences of that integrative approach.
On the second question raised by Mr Collins, the Commission will make significant savings because the purchase of the Berlaymont building at a comparatively competitive cost puts the institution in a better negotiating position in a property market where the major participants are well aware that the Commission will vacate a number of substitute buildings when it returns to the Berlaymont in the early part of 2004.
In addition, unlike rental agreements that have to be renewed after a period of tenure, the cost of the Berlaymont to the Community budget is fully predictable because the annual payments of EUR 31.9 million and the annual step-up of 2% were determined when the Berlaymont contract was signed with the Belgian authorities, by me, in October.
The major design characteristics of the Berlaymont have already won the International 2000 Passive and Low Energy Architecture Award for the best architectural design.
The Commissioner has solidly justified the expenditure in relation to the Berlaymont.
One of the Commission's fundamental aims throughout the negotiations on the contract on the Berlaymont was safeguarding the interests of the European taxpayer.
The whole project has taken so long and will take some time longer - until 31 December next year - partly because of difficulties arising from the clearance of asbestos in the building which was vacated in 1991.
The problem is that delay means cost, and one of our objectives was to ensure that we only accepted a fair share of the costs.
The net result of all that is that the actual annual price that we will pay of EUR 31.9 million per annum, at an interest rate that we negotiated in recent months, will be lower than the cost anticipated when the protocol, the memorandum of understanding, was signed between the Commission and the Belgian Government in 1997.
The overall cost of the Berlaymont meanwhile has gone up but, because of the contractual arrangements, our contribution to that cost is fixed, whereas the Belgian Government has an obligation to meet additional costs arising.
Leave on personal grounds from the European Union civil service is governed by Article 40 of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities.
The Commission recognises that appointment to some posts could constitute - or appear to constitute - a conflict of interest.
It is important to emphasise, therefore, that officials on personal leave continue to be subject fully to the provisions of Article 12 of the Staff Regulations, which require officials to obtain permission before engaging in any outside activity whatsoever and which also allow for refusal of permission or imposition of conditions where it is considered that the activity would otherwise be detrimental to the work of the Communities.
The Commission would interpret the creation of conflicts of interest as being detrimental to the Community and would thus refuse permission for such activities or impose conditions in order to prevent conflicts arising.
The purpose of the letter signed by the official mentioned in the honourable Member's question was to signify his full awareness that these requirements always prevail and are unconditional.
The Staff Regulation rules governing leave on personal grounds will be clarified by the reform amendments proposed by the Commission which, as the honourable Member will know, are currently before the Council.
In addition, the Commission is examining means of providing more detailed guidance to officials and to potential employers in order to reinforce understanding of the need to ensure that the objectives of allowing exchanges between the Commission and other bodies are fulfilled, whilst also ensuring that the integrity and the security of the Commission are completely safeguarded.
I want to believe in the good faith - I certainly do believe in your own good faith, let that be clear - of this civil servant.
As she will understand and she was good enough to recognise both in her question and her supplementary question, in a free society, if we are trying to maintain the advantage of an interchange between the institutions and outside bodies, we must ultimately rely on the honour of civil servants as well as on the fact that they are advised and know that if they stray from the undertakings they have been required to give, they make themselves virtually automatically liable to disciplinary proceedings.
When we have the final figures in the first week or so of next year I will certainly ensure that the honourable Member receives those in detail.
We are now in a situation in which the software producers and a large part of the information society may be affected by this matter in the future.
As to your question concerning the timing, our analysis of what is a very extensive file is well advanced.
I would like to thank all those who have worked to make it possible, including Members of the European Parliament who raised the matter with the Cuban authorities last week while there.
I am happy that this signal has been given to the European Parliament.
My dear Mr Pay, you represent for many Cubans today what Andrei Sakharov represented in the 1980s for many Soviet citizens: you represent hope.
Using the existing legal and political framework, you want to introduce reforms in order to initiate a process of transition to pluralist democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
This initiative calls for a referendum on open elections, freedom of speech, freedom for political prisoners and free enterprise.
To date, the project has attracted support from more than 100 organisations in Cuba and tens of thousands of individual signatures.
Together with other opposition leaders, you drafted the manifesto 'Todos Unidos' and for the first time, thanks to your action, the opposition has united together on a single initiative: the Varela project.
Your plan is not a theoretical construction; it does not promise heaven on earth but reminds people of basic principles for which so many have fought for so long: respect for human rights and fundamental democratic principles.
It has been used over the last 50 years to construct a vision of Europe that has learned from, but not forgotten, its past.
The Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought for 2002 is awarded to Oswaldo Pay, as a tribute to his commitment to freedom of thought, democracy and reconciliation of the Cuban people.
You have awarded the Sakharov Prize to the people of Cuba; I say this because the Cuban people richly deserve such recognition.
In my country there are thousands of men and women fighting for the rights of all Cubans in the midst of persecution.
I say that this prize is for all Cubans because I believe that, by means of this prize, Europe wishes to say to them: 'You also have the right to rights'.
It is of no help to Cuba for some people in the world to take sides with the Cuban Government or with their opponents, on the basis of ideology.
And this means supporting respect for all their rights, supporting openness, supporting the demand that our people be consulted through the ballot box on the changes we are demanding.
We ask for solidarity so that our people may be given a voice through the ballot box, as the Varela Project proposes.
Many people have related this prize to the Varela Project, and they are right, because the thousands of Cubans who, in the midst of repression, have signed this referendum petition, are making a decisive contribution to the changes Cuba needs.
We must put an end to the myth that we Cubans must live without rights in order to sustain the independence and sovereignty of our country.
Father Flix Varela taught us that independence and national sovereignty are inseparable from the exercise of fundamental rights.
This time we will carry out the changes by means of this civic movement which is already opening up a new stage in the history of Cuba, in which dialogue, democratic participation and solidarity will prevail.
The lack of political and civil rights in Cuba has had serious consequences such as inequality, poverty for the majority, privileges for a minority, the deterioration of certain services, even when they are intended to be human and positive services.
Therefore, although many Cubans have worked for years with love and good faith, today there is a serious situation in terms of civil and political rights, as well as increasing inequality and a deterioration of quality of life for the majority.
This reality cannot be justified by claiming that the Cuban people freely chose this system.
The honourable Members know that none of the peoples represented in this Parliament, nor any people in the world, would ever surrender the exercise of their fundamental rights.
It is not my intention to proclaim new positions or models, but our people have experienced and suffered various political and economic systems.
We know today that any method or model which, in a supposed quest for justice, development or efficiency, places itself above human beings and cancels out any of their fundamental rights leads to some form of oppression, of exclusion and brings disaster to the people.
We wish to express here our solidarity with all people suffering any kind of oppression or injustice, or who are silenced or marginalized throughout the world.
The cause of human rights is a single one, just as we have one single humanity.
While we talk today about globalisation, we declare that if we do not globalise solidarity we do not only endanger human rights, but also the right to continue as a human race.
Without human solidarity neither will we conserve a clean world in which it remains possible for human beings to live.
This new spirit must be expressed through solidarity, cooperation and justice in relations between countries and will not hinder development.
May our message from Cuba of Peace and Solidarity reach all peoples.
All Cubans are accepting this prize with dignity and stating our hope that we can rebuild our society with the love of everybody, as brothers, as children of God.
This was presented to the Council and Parliament in January 2001.
Considerable work has been done since then, and I welcome the constructive way in which the proposal has been addressed both in Parliament and in the Council.
I very much hope that the Commission's proposal for a directive on tissues and cells will be considered with the same interest and efficiency.
Madam President, I thank the Commissioner.
In the spirit of conciliation that is quite satisfactory.
Others might give it another name, but it gets us to where we want to be at this point.
It is quite a contentious issue in many of our Member States, not least in our own.
One of the most important aspects of this directive is that it will restore confidence in blood transfusion services generally and in the movement of blood and blood products throughout the European Union so we can all have confidence in other Member State systems in relation to it.
This new directive, together with the existing Directive 89/381/EEC, will ensure that binding Community legislation will apply now to blood and blood products whatever the intended purpose.
There was quite a lot of contention at earlier readings on this directive as to whether all donations had to be voluntary or unremunerated.
While we should never risk rare blood groups or rare blood products being unavailable to patients through our unwillingness to pay, that must be the exception.
The views of the patient groups, which were very strong at first and second reading, were that we must not rule out remuneration, but it must not be the rule.
The outcome of the conciliation will mean our now having obtained high minimum levels of safety and quality where blood and blood components used for transfusion are concerned.
The different rules in the Member States have meant, however, that we have not been able to decide that unremunerated donation should apply in all the Member States from day one.
I am also very pleased that the Member States are now to make arrangements for encouraging voluntary, unremunerated blood donation and that, every three years, they are to submit reports to the Commission concerning the arrangements they have made.
I definitely think that the directive we have now arrived at will make an important contribution to the safety and the quality of blood donation in Europe.
That said, I am glad that this joint text was adopted in the Conciliation Committee.
It was vital to ensure the same high level of safety of blood donations and transfusions throughout the Union, just as all the improvements made to the legislative text throughout the procedure were vital.
These improvements included, first of all, a great victory for blood donors and patients: the insertion of a specific chapter on blood monitoring which covers traceability and notification of incidents and serious unwanted reactions.
The Liberal Group believed this to be particularly important, quite simply, I would say, because the need for this type of monitoring requires no further proof in Europe.
I welcome the fact that the joint text, while strongly encouraging voluntary, benevolent donations - which is the aim of Article 20 - allows the Member States room for manoeuvre to use remunerated donors in a strictly-regulated environment.
The Liberal Group also wanted the text to contain a reference to scientific and technical progress.
This concern was addressed in Article 29, which, in particular, lays down clear guidelines for establishments performing blood transfusions.
Lastly, the conciliation procedure has put the finishing touches to the excellent work carried out by the three institutions on this matter.
Blood donations, as many will know, have an incomparable human dimension, which concerns us all.
In France, 8 000 donations are required every day to save 60 000 lives each year and carry out 800 000 transfusions.
I know the European Commission understood - and I thank it for that - a fundamental part of the problem when defining the objective of its proposal for December 2000.
Its aim is to increase public confidence in the safety of blood and blood products and thus achieve self-sufficiency within the European Union.
I shall not speak tonight about the contaminated blood scandals, which understandably shook this confidence and which, furthermore, brought down some political leaders who sinned through lack of vigilance, not to say incompetence.
Blood and blood products are not goods.
Incidentally, I would note that some people, here and there, and even in this Parliament, who vehemently defend ethical principles on matters relating to human genetics, have no problem defending the option of payment being given for blood, and therefore payment being given for the human body.
That is why we must stand firm on this matter, in order to avoid any deviation, scandal or attack on human dignity and the ethical principles we share and hold dear.
Of course, we must distinguish between remuneration for blood as such and reimbursement of costs incurred in order to give blood: refreshments and snacks, reimbursement of transport costs, and time taken from work to give blood.
The proposal put forward in this area is along the right lines.
I shall take this opportunity to congratulate Professor Nistic warmly on the quality of his work.
Lastly, it is important to emphasise certain essential points: blood quality and safety standards, more stringent specifications on the acceptability of blood and plasma donors, and testing of blood donations in the European Community.
In conclusion, I would say that, in terms of the points that were the subject of contention, I can accept the results obtained through the conciliation procedure with regard to the guarantee of traceability and the quality of the staff directly involved in collection, testing, processing and storage.
For all these reasons, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can vote in favour of this report and would call on you to do the same.
It is our responsibility to help increase public awareness of this gesture, which saves the lives of tens of thousands of people each year, a gesture that could be more common in future, so that our needs can be met in a human and ethical manner.
Many of our aims were realised, and the directive must surely serve to contribute to general confidence both in the quality of donated blood and in the health protection of donors in an integrating Europe.
Parliament accepted my amendment regarding the non-remuneration of blood donation in the first reading in September 2001, but we had to yield in the end.
In the actual Article that concerns non-remuneration the hope is expressed that blood and blood components should be derived as far as possible from this type of donation.
I myself would have resolved the matter in individual cases without opening the floodgates to remuneration for all blood products.
Many patient groups and authorities at one time appealed to Parliament not to allow the commercialisation of blood donation.
This could lead not only to exploitation but increased risk.
Furthermore, several Member States are signatories to a bioethical agreement which categorically forbids the economic exploitation of the human body and its parts, including blood.
I hope that when in time this directive is reviewed, we will also consider the part the principle of non-remuneration has to play.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the other speakers who have said that this conciliation procedure went well from Parliament's point of view, considering the original position we were in.
The wording of the conciliation decision also refers to this.
As has been said here, blood or its components cannot be commercial goods.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Madam President, in 1966 the Community first established a comprehensive system to monitor and control the presence of residues in food of animal origin from the Member States and from third countries.
This legislation requires Member States and third countries exporting to the EU to submit annually a monitoring plan for residues in products of animal origin.
Only those third countries that have submitted satisfactory residue monitoring plans are allowed to export to the European Union and be included in the appropriate list.
This list is kept under constant review in order to take into account the results of the evaluation of the annual updates of residue monitoring plans.
However, this approach must be complemented by measures on the ground.
First, import controls must be carried out by the Member States at the external borders of the Union.
These substances are banned for use in food-producing animals in the European Union because it has not been possible to set a safe level of residues due to their toxic effects on human beings.
The Commission has not hesitated to take measures whenever this problem has arisen.
For example, imports from China of all products derived from farmed animals, including aquaculture, have been banned on the basis of the conclusions of an FVO mission, underpinned by discoveries of contaminated food.
These measures taken in third countries are complemented by strict, mandatory import controls to provide sufficient guarantees.
This is the case for both Thailand and Brazil.
The Commission will ensure the maintenance of the necessary level of scrutiny on imported products to ensure a consistent approach to consumer safety.
The Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed is the tool to disseminate all relevant information between Member States and the Commission, as well as to third countries.
Let me say that it is not just in relation to third country imports that the Commission has identified problems of residues in food.
Indeed, residues monitoring plans carried out by Member States also enabled the identification of contamination cases in food produced in the European Union.
These measures are necessary because there are serious failings in residue controls in the countries concerned.
It is not necessary to send a mission team to establish what is already known.
However, in the coming months, FVO missions could be deemed necessary to assess the implementation of actions and the changes introduced by the third countries concerned in the area of residue monitoring.
The FVO programme of inspection for 2003 mentions such missions.
That is the position in regard to the issues that have been raised in the questions.
Because I also have the feed additives report, I have now heard the alarm bells ringing, because many who are concerned with this matter fear there will be a treatment crisis in a few months' time.
As a logical consequence of the ban on nitrofurans in Regulation 2377/90, Regulation 1756/2002 was issued on 23 September 2002, banning Nifursol from 31 March 2003.
When this ban comes into force on 31 March, there will, for example, be a crisis in the treatments used to combat blackhead disease in turkeys.
The consequences of the ban will hit both fatteners and consumers.
The consequences are a treatment emergency, a painful end for large stocks of birds, jeopardy for turkey farms, the development of an uncontrollable black market, and an increase in imports of poultry from third countries, where many substances that are banned in the EU are used with few or any controls.
Personally I find it hard to understand how the Commission can on the one hand, in the report in my possession, on the Commission's draft of which we worked very hard - approve the use of histomonostats,-- while on the other hand, in another regulation, banning the only product in existence on this market.
And secondly, is the Commission aware that European production is continuing to decline, is disappearing from the market in the European Union and that we are being increasingly exposed to third country imports of turkey meat, although we still do not know what quality standards those imports come up to?
I think I can be brief but would very much like to respond to the Commissioner's reply.
We all know, Commissioner, that you are especially concerned and are making great efforts to ensure food safety and this House, across all party boundaries, supports you in that.
But it is very important - and we still have doubts about this - that the same statutory framework should be applied to products produced in the EU and for products marketed in the EU.
I should have therefore preferred a number of more concrete answers to the questions, since I do not have the impression that you dealt with them properly.
I also think that you can provide a better answer in order to reassure the consumer that what eventually finds its way onto his plate is safe.
I think that, if these countries do not meet our requirements, they should be put on the list, and then they cannot supply us until they can guarantee that the products they supply to the European Union meet our standards.
What I would therefore like is for you to put forward a clear plan that we, who have to justify ourselves as parliamentarians - including to the Commission - can stand by and say that the Commission, the European Union, is being strict enough here.
Madam President, it seems like only yesterday that the Commissioner and I were talking about other issues regarding the safety of some of these foodstuffs.
He has just told us that the FVO missions to Brazil and Thailand, and probably elsewhere, were cancelled because 100% testing is now in place within the Member States.
It is certainly true that in some of those Member States - notably Germany and the Netherlands - considerable concern has been expressed about the degree of nitrofuran residues in poultry and the extent to which even a very sophisticated Member State cannot guarantee by itself the degree of testing.
I would like to know whether or not he feels that poultry imports from countries like Brazil give cause for serious concern.
I would like the Commissioner to put on record the opinion of the Commission and its own residues experts on the number of tonnes of poultry from the states in question that have passed into the European Union without proper inspection.
If that is the case, it is not a sufficient answer to give to those whose primary concern is - as is the Commission's - food safety.
Finally, how soon will these proposed missions take place?
If the money is not available and that is why these FVO missions have been postponed - tell us so.
We read today in communication COM (2002) 422, which was presented yesterday, that a firm has imported shrimps with very high nitrofuran levels - 20 mg - from Vietnam via Ostend into Germany and then on to Austria and Luxembourg as well as selling them in Germany.
My second question is this.
As I indicated in my earlier contribution, these inspections were suspended either because there was a ban on the importation of products from that country or because in the two countries in question there was 100% testing in respect of all products coming from those countries.
It is expected that the controls that are put in place in Member States effectively carry out the job that they are supposed to do because it is understood that these inspections have to be 100%.
Therefore it is important that they reveal any residues in any of the foods that are designated for testing.
A number of you raised the question whether there were doubts about standards and whether there was any pressure being put on the Commission and on DG SANCO in particular by other DGs in relation to the carrying out of tests or the changing of procedures, either by suspending FVO inspections in third countries or by not doing so.
I confirm to the House considerations of that kind never impinge on a decision in relation to food safety.
I have made that point here in this Parliament on many occasions and I am happy to repeat it now.
Inevitably you meet representatives from the developing countries that we are talking about and often others, sometimes Members of Parliament, who make the suggestion that perhaps the European Union is putting in place precautionary barriers in place of tariff barriers.
I have to assure Members of Parliament who raised this question that the decisions that are taken in relation to these kinds of issues - testing for residues - are strictly based on the scientific analysis and judgement of the technical and scientific staff in DG SANCO, who give their advice as to the appropriate way forward in respect of these issues.
On the question of when the inspections will be resumed, that will happen in the spring, but there is not much point in sending inspectors to third countries - or the ones I have been describing - to carry out tests to determine what we know already, to confirm the continuation of either a ban or 100% testing.
We have to determine whether it is a proportionate response to a risk that may exist to the consumers of the European Union, bearing in mind not just trade considerations but the kinds of consideration I am sure questioners have in mind here today.
In deciding what is an appropriate response, we have to take into account all of these considerations and make sure that we come to proportionate responses.
One of the most difficult aspects of my job in dealing with food safety is to come up with solutions that are proportionate.
It is not always possible to keep everybody happy on all occasions.
But I am satisfied, bearing in mind the rigour with which inspectors from the Food and Veterinary Office carry out their work and the reports they make, which are made available to the public on the Internet for all of us to read, as well as the work that is undertaken by the control authorities in the Member States to ensure that where 100% testing is required, that is done.
If we come to the conclusion that is the appropriate response in respect of other countries which seek to trade with the European Union and send food here, as distinct from the continuation from a 100% control programme, that will happen.
The more detailed and technical questions that have been raised by many of you I have taken note of.
The debate is closed.
Logically, therefore, at first reading Parliament pronounced itself in favour of prohibiting pentaBDE in all its forms, thus confirming the red card that the Commission had shown it.
There was therefore unanimity with regard to this first substance.
Having said this, Parliament, in its vote of September 2001, also wanted this proposal to cover the two sister substances, octabromodiphenyl ether and decabromodiphenyl ether.
Given the strong indications of the hazardous nature of octabromodiphenyl ether, both for the environment and public health, the European Parliament, once again with a very large majority, pronounced itself in favour of immediate prohibition.
This approach strictly applied the precautionary principle and was not, at this point, shared by either the Council in its common position or the Commission in its amended proposal.
We needed to establish a fragile balance between obvious advantages in terms of fire safety and equally proven disadvantages in some cases in terms of health and the environment.
It is this balance in risk management, taking account of factors as varied as scientific risk assessment, proportionality and cost-benefit analysis, that was at the heart of the discussions within our Conciliation Committee.
This pressure contributed to the swift, eventually negative conclusion of the risk assessment and convinced the Council to support us in prohibiting the use of this substance.
In the case of decabromodiphenyl ether, the insertion in the joint text of a recital inviting the Commission to immediately assess the results of the risk reduction strategy, expected by 30 June next year at the latest, seems to me to be objectively the first compromise we have been able to achieve at this stage because, in this case, contrary to the case of octabromodiphenyl ether, in the absence of a final risk reduction strategy and, in particular, in the absence of risks to human health - the conclusions of the French rapporteur are definite in this regard - this deferment accompanied by strict conditions is justified.
It should, however, be pointed out that decabromodiphenyl ether, which is mainly used in insulating products, in construction and textiles, is a particularly effective, fire-resistant flame retardant.
In the United Kingdom alone, in the year 2000, 155 lives were saved and 4 537 injuries avoided by the presence of this kind of substance in furniture upholstery.
It has taken almost ten years for brominated fire retardants, which are included in the list of priority substances, to be assessed at last.
I sincerely hope that this textbook case will enable the Commission and, in particular, the Member States, to understand the need, when preparing future legislation on chemical products, to establish a new assessment method that is swifter, more effective and more transparent, a REACH system which, as proposed by the resolution adopted by Parliament in November 2001, is based on a genuine risk management strategy at Community level.
In conclusion, and I shall go back to my footballing metaphor, whereas the Commission, in its initial proposal, only gave half a red card to pentabromodiphenyl ether, Parliament and the Council, as fair, impartial referees, give two red cards to pentabromodiphenyl ether and octabromodiphenyl ether and a yellow card to decabromodiphenyl ether, as the essential aim is to reconcile citizens' immediate safety from fire hazards with the more long-term benefits in the field of public health and the environment.
It is a far-reaching proposal as it bans the marketing and use of all articles containing these substances.
Furthermore, the proposed directive provides not only for the protection of human health and of the environment but it would also preserve the internal market, as it would introduce harmonised rules throughout the Community.
The conciliation procedure that is about to be concluded has benefited from the fact that the risk assessment and the risk reduction strategy for ocataBDE became available in July of this year.
We were therefore able to include 'octa' in this directive.
As the risk assessment procedure and the risk reduction strategy will be completed in the next few months, the Commission will soon be able to propose justified measures.
Madam President, like the previous two speakers I welcome this report and I praise the rapporteur for her work.
However, they appear to have dangerous effects on the environment and public health and, therefore, we felt something had to be done.
I am sure that Parliament is pleased that the original proposal is now developed and that octaBDe has also been banned.
I hope the Commissioner will confirm that tonight.
On this basis, the PSE Group can support this proposal, which will be put to the vote tomorrow morning.
Those of us in Parliament's delegation can be very satisfied with the simple fact that we succeeded in bringing about a settlement that also included octaBDE, meaning of course that it will be possible to introduce a ban more quickly.
I nonetheless see it as a failure in terms of EU environmental and health protection that the Commission and the Council did not comply with Parliament's proposal also to include decaBDE in the ban.
At least 75% to 80% of all use of brominated flame retardants involves deca, and the risk assessment we have available to us shows that decaBDE should have been banned immediately.
These substances are long-lived and bio-accumulative.
They are stored in living organisms, and they cause changes in the behaviour of animals used in experiments.
Deca may also be converted into pentaBDE and octaBDE, which are precisely what the Council wishes to ban.
The scientific evidence is so worrying in terms of public health and the environment that the European Chemicals Bureau recommended the Member States to take a political decision or, more specifically, to employ the precautionary principle.
It is of course a good example of the European Parliament's being able to promote the protection of the environment and of public health in Europe.
If that is the case, the Commission will be able to make a proposal by June next year.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I believe the quotas for industry are achievable and no one can say we are asking too much.
I am pleased to say that by working night and day with the help of other members in other groups we were able to persuade them to agree after all.
Following on from the packaging regulation and the end-of-life vehicles regulation, this individual liability is the first step towards a really sustainable environmental policy which, combined with economic policy, has my full support.
That old appliances must be managed and also paid for - in this case collectively - by the undertakings currently in existence on the market is not in question because there is no other system for doing it.
That is not necessarily my group's normal position.
We want to reuse raw materials in future.
Basically, though, this directive does have two parts.
The Japanese, for example, have shown us very promising approaches here, and we are now making clear to manufacturers, with appropriate incentives, that in the long term we want to create a society where these highly dangerous substances are more and more a thing of the past.
Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to say a personal word to my personal colleagues who have been very busy here, working long hours and sometimes through the night..
May I once again thank my colleagues, you, Commissioner, and your staff, who always rendered us excellent assistance whenever we were faced with major questions.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am very pleased that these two important directives have now finally reached the last stage of the decision-making process.
The type of waste that proliferates most quickly today is waste from electrical or electronic products.
The average European produces approximately 14 kg of this type of waste every year.
The directives also set a binding collection target of 4 kg per inhabitant per year from private households.
In accordance with the European Parliament's proposal, individual responsibility must form the basis for this collection target.
I believe that these solutions are a great success for the European Parliament and for cooperation with the Council in the conciliation committee.
This is an important step for environmental policy.
Madam President, I would also like to thank the Conciliation Committee for its constructive work.
It has been a very good success for Parliament and indeed for the European citizens.
Waste from electronic and electrical equipment is now one of the fastest growing waste streams in the European Union.
As the Commissioner has said, it constitutes almost 14 kilograms per head and is growing by at least 3% to 5% every year.
Indeed business and the environmental NGOs have been on the same wavelength during this process, which is not always the case.
It is also accepted that countries and industries which innovate more quickly will end up being more competitive than those which delay.
The adoption of this directive will be a signal in that regard.
The objective of the EPR is to make producers financially responsible for their products when these become waste so an upstream effect is created which leads to design for the environment, taking account of the durability, repairability or upgrading, disassembly or recycling of the product.
The directive also applies the principle of internalisation of external costs.
Madam President, I wish to join with the others in complimenting all involved, particularly on bringing this through conciliation successfully.
I thank him for his commitment and belief in both these directives.
We can insist on improved product design, and that will facilitate recycling and the disposal of products at the end of their life.
I noticed that at conciliation the views concerned were unanimous - and that includes views from Ireland, Portugal, Greece and other countries whose waste network and recycling systems are much less developed than in some countries in the EU.
I hope our officials, ministers and others who agreed to the targets and timetables did so realistically, because we should not commit ourselves to something we cannot deliver.
If it is only a matter of time before countries are dragged before the ECJ for non-compliance or non-transposition of a particular regulation, this brings into disrepute legislation passed through this House.
Each manufacturer of new products should cover its own costs, and the collection and treatment of all new products can be done collectively.
The manufacturers will have to provide a guarantee prior to placing their products on the market to ensure the financing of subsequent disposal of the products - through insurance perhaps or a blocked bank account.
The second reason is perhaps more important, however, and strikes a very positive note.
It is true that we have binding targets, but we had to rein in the level of these.
What I find particularly deplorable is the question of exporting.
I accept this regretfully, but I think we must ensure that this problem is solved through other means.
The principle is contained in the directive.
Four of the major manufacturers of electrical goods, including our chief lobbyist, Electrolux, have teamed up to develop a common approach to waste management which aims to be both innovative and cost efficient.
And the mobile phone manufacturers of the world have agreed to cooperate to ensure the environmentally sound management of their end-of-life products.
Just a few weeks ago government representatives in that room in the Council committed themselves to this legislation at the conciliation meeting.
But judging from our experience with the end-of-life vehicles directive, that will not be the case so far as many Member States are concerned.
The UK Government has still not transposed Mr Florenz's legislation.
Finally, the text of Article 4 was the matter I referred to in my opening remarks.
I hear that, sadly, the UK Government is trying to wriggle out of the intended requirement to prevent producers from making their reuse difficult by claiming that these products are consumables.
I hope that other Member States will take the lead in this and in other respects in putting this directive fully into practice, and show by example just what a commendable piece of legislation this directive will prove to be.
I should also like to congratulate rapporteur, Mr Florenz.
We have a packaging directive that, as we say in the Netherlands, 'is not worth a light', and that is because there is shared responsibility between the government and the producer.
In the case of car wrecks we were almost successful two years ago.
The largest company in the field in my country, Philips, was decidedly antagonistic.
Mr President, the concerns about increasing quantities of electrical and electronic equipment entering the waste system have been well rehearsed.
My purpose in making this address, therefore, is to enter into the record my total disagreement with this directive.
My central objection is that the directive is economically illiterate.
Its effect will be to create massive quantities of materials in a highly volatile market.
When quantities increase as a result of this directive, the value of recycled materials will drop, making the economics of recycling extremely uncertain.
With that degree of cooperation the most expensive part of the scheme - collection costs - are minimised.
It seems that, whenever there is a choice between a simple and effective scheme and one that is costly, bureaucratic and inefficient and also criminalises the business fraternity, the European Union always goes for the latter.
If you need an explanation as to why there is growing disenchantment with the European Union, just look at this directive and the many more like it.
The unambiguous application of individual producer liability is something that I, as the person who originally proposed the amendment, am especially glad about.
This is precisely the way we can ensure that product design takes account of the environment and therefore the directive's whole viability.
Unfortunately, it has to be said that the position taken by the Council right up to the last moment to solve the question of costs would not have worked in this way and it would not have had such an ecological impact, although it might have been tempting for Member States in terms of taxation.
When fully implemented it will bring about a transformation in the culture of recycling in many Member States.
The rapporteur can be truly proud of his work and he is to be congratulated on it.
The requirements in these two proposals: firstly, to ensure recycling of substantial quantities of waste electronic and electrical goods, and, secondly, to ensure substantial reductions in the amount of hazardous substances in these products will be technically and financially very difficult to achieve for many people.
In particular we cannot expect the new accession states to achieve easily or quickly the high levels of recycling of these products that already exist in some more advanced Member States.
We can be pleased that individual consumers can expect to return their waste appliances free of charge, and that the primary responsibility for collection and disposal of waste electrical and electronic goods will be with the producer.
I would particularly like to thank him because he initially took quite a different position on the end-of-life vehicles directive.
If we had not found so satisfactory a solution to the problems with the end-of-life vehicles directive, we would not have been able to adopt this directive, either, because it would not have been evident why some were excluded from producer liability and others not.
I think it is very important that consumers will in future be able to have greater certainty that prices are telling the ecological truth and that consumers need not buy new hardware with every new software program.
In this way, we are also giving industry incentives to pursue not only environmentally friendly policies but also consumer-friendly ones.
I think it is very important that we have succeeded in arranging this individual financing and also that we were able to prevent the Council having its way and that small and medium-sized undertakings will not be released from liability.
I would, however, also ask the Commission to strictly control and enforce this individual financing later.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to begin by offering Karl-Heinz Florenz my warmest congratulations.
One problem that of course arises for small and medium-sized firms is how they are to provide a guarantee for various services.
I think the Commission should be very careful to ensure that proof of sustainability is furnished in the next three years, so that we can see that these bans really do make for a better, more sustainable, more ecological performance.
I would also like to sincerely thank the Commissioner because it is also an important forward-looking step in the area of refuse and waste and because small and medium-sized firms are being given completely new opportunities here.
Thank you very much, Mr Rbig.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I do not believe that the result we have now achieved would have come anywhere close to the success it is without that support, even though Parliament's will has been unambiguous and unwavering the whole time.
It would be impossible to fit more central issues to the European Parliament than these into a single directive.
Another important outcome of the negotiations concerns payments.
The directive mentions the principle of providing information free of charge as a general practice and particularly when it is a matter of examining information in situ or using public registers and lists.
When charges do apply they must be reasonable and must not exceed the costs incurred in providing the material in question.
A third important outcome of the negotiations is that a special new section on the requirements for the quality of environmental information was approved for the directive.
The quality of information is especially important now that the availability of information is being granted as a right to a wide public, and one, therefore, that is unfamiliar with that specific subject.
Experts should be in a position to suspect that the information on emissions they are examining has been compiled using a very different scale or measurement procedure from the figure to which they are attempting to relate the information.
We might therefore say that correcting the perceived weaknesses and shortcomings in the implementation of the old directive, which was mentioned as one of the aims of this directive, is being successfully realised.
In this way they will not be taking up the time of the authorities in attending to their request.
The outcome of conciliation can be regarded as satisfactory as far as Parliament is concerned, as the minimum targets laid down in the rhus Convention are exceeded in all essential respects and an important step is being taken in the ratification of the Convention.
The end result will be legislation that appears workable and balanced and which the various Member States, including the new ones, can, with moderate effort, make part of their national legislation and implement.
I warmly recommend the acceptance of this outcome of conciliation in tomorrow's vote.
The directive also means that authorities are responsible for ensuring on their own initiative that such information is stored in electronic databases easily accessible by the public, for example via the Internet.
The public authorities are responsible for ensuring that the information they possess is made easily accessible, but the public is also entitled to receive environmental information following an express request made to the public authority.
I believe that Parliament succeeded in preventing the Council's worst aims to allow Member States a very loose framework for interpretation, for example, regarding the exceptions contained in the directive, on the grounds of which it is possible to refuse to provide the public with information.
It mentions, for example, the food chain, and I hope that this really will guarantee that we will be able to provide our citizens with such information in the future.
Thank you very much, Mrs Hautala.
The debate is closed.
I congratulate Mrs Langenhagen on the excellent report she has produced on Special Report No 2/2002 of the Court of Auditors on evaluating the implementation of the Socrates and Youth for Europe Community action programmes in the 1995-1999 period, which I fully support, particularly with regard to the issue of imposing clarity, accuracy and rigour at every stage of the Community programmes, from design to evaluation.
In this context, I should also like to emphasise that the European Parliament must, under the decision-making process that leads to the adoption of Community acts, call for the clarity of texts, simplified procedures and, when appropriate, mechanisms that ensure the effective management and evaluation of the act in question.
We knew a long time ago that serious danger was brewing.
For economic reasons, we ignored this danger for a long time and, today, tens of thousands of victims are suffering and dying.
I agree that the EU system must be simplified and that Parliament must contribute to the work of the Convention.
