Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote Mr President, I just wish to say on this report that I am pleased that our group's Amendment 1 was accepted and, therefore, I welcome this development.
I would like to see Slovenia, in its national interest, also act as a pioneer in connection with the accession of Croatia to the EU. (NL) Mr President, in principle I support the accession of Croatia to the European Union, but I did not vote in favour of this report.
Mr Wiersma also said that there is no place in the EU for an Islamist Turkey; however, 20 years ago Turkish Islamists blew up coaches in Bulgaria, carrying women and children.
Never has this saying been more appropriate than in the lamentable saga of the accession negotiations with Turkey.
We need an EU which is wider and not deeper. (EL) Mr President, I voted in favour of the report on Turkey due to the positive elements for Cyprus in paragraphs 32 and 40, even though I disagree with the content of Amendments 9 and 10.
Amendment 9 introduces an unacceptable position on - albeit temporary - derogations from the principles on which the European Union is founded, including the four fundamental freedoms.
Like other colleagues in this House, I support a unitary state for Sri Lanka.
We are reversing not just 300 years of legal understanding of territorial responsibility, that is, that a crime is the responsibility of the territory where it is committed; we are also going back to the pre-modern idea that people who decide on laws should not be accountable to the people who live under them, but rather only to their own consciences.
I am not in favour of Mr Milošević: he was a baleful and wicked Communist.
I reiterate the issue around food production standards, which are higher in the European Union.
The report itself is framed in a largely balanced way, but what I would say is not in the interests of Europe - and this is something that will also give rise to a whole range of questions amongst the general public - is the provision in the report that calls for the conclusion of a mutual agreement on an immigration policy.
This does not bode well and it is also the reason why I chose to abstain in the vote on this report. - (SK) I have also voted for the resolution on the situation in Tibet on the 50th anniversary of the Tibetan uprising because the Chinese authorities have tightened the security in Tibet recently and have forbidden journalists and foreigners from entering the region.
Well, perhaps the party and Mr Ford do not understand - or else they understand all too well - that much more is at stake here; the freedom and democracy of more than a billion Chinese citizens as well as the Tibetan people. (NL) Mr President, it goes without saying that I voted in favour of this resolution; although, of course, we cannot allow ourselves to think that this ultimately innocuous resolution will make much impression on the totalitarian communist regime in China, with whom we nonetheless are so happy to trade.
