Results of the informal summit of heads of state and government (Lisbon, 18-19 October 2007) (debate) The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the results of the informal summit of heads of state and government in Lisbon.
An equally warm welcome, of course, to the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, and thank you to him for his work at the European summit.
This is also a great result for us all because the Treaty was and is the top priority for the European Parliament if we are to come out ahead and be victorious in this Treaty.
Ladies and gentlemen, when I presented the programme of the Portuguese Presidency to this plenary three months ago, I stated very clearly what would be the main challenge - the top priority - of the Portuguese Presidency: to draw up and reach an agreement on the new Treaty, putting an end to the six years of impasse in the institutional debate in which the European Union was immersed.
Today, therefore, it is with great satisfaction that I address the house to present the agreement reached by the Intergovernmental Conference on 18 October.
The Treaty will be signed on 13 December in the city whose name it will bear.
We began on 23 July and completed it on 18 October.
This enabled us to present a full text of the Treaty on 3 October, and brought us much closer to our goal.
In this context, our strategy was to try to reach an agreement on the first day of the summit.
The solution that we adopted, a declaration plus a protocol guaranteeing that the decision on Ioannina can be amended only by consensus, seemed to us to be the solution that was most true to the spirit of the last agreement.
Finally, the issue of the composition of the European Parliament.
Two declarations were attached to that amendment: one stating that the additional seat in the European Parliament will be attributed to Italy; the other guaranteeing that the European Council will give its political agreement on the composition of the European Parliament, based on the proposal from Parliament itself.
However, among all the advances contained in this Treaty, there is one point that I would like to highlight in particular: this Treaty explicitly gives legally binding force to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, due to be proclaimed by the European Union's three institutions on 12 December.
Europe succeeded and achieved the crucial objective of having a Treaty that asserts European values and strengthens Europe as a global economic player, and of putting in place more effective institutional conditions to enable Europe to play its role.
The Lisbon Treaty now demonstrates that Europe is ready, confident and self-assured.
Allow me to thank the European Parliament and its President, Hans-Gert Pöttering and its representatives at the Intergovernmental Conference - Elmar Brok (PPE-DE), Enrique Barón-Crespo (PSE) and Andrew Duff (ALDE).
On behalf of the Portuguese Presidency I would like to thank you for your excellent collaboration in our work, your constructive suggestions, but mainly for your constant commitment to Europe reaching an agreement and to its reaching agreement quickly. (Loud applause) I would also like to thank the European Commission, especially the President of the Commission, to whom the Presidency is hugely indebted over these months for his valued assistance in bringing the negotiations to a successful conclusion.
I would like to thank the Foreign Affairs Minister, sitting next to me, Luís Amado, the Secretary of State, Lobo Antunes, and all the Portuguese diplomats who gave their best during this period to ensure that it would be remembered, without doubt, as one of the great achievements of the EU Presidency.
It is true that 18 October ended with an agreement on the Lisbon Treaty, but that day also began with another important agreement that I would like to tell you about here: the agreement between the European social partners on the new challenges for the labour market.
Through this agreement, the social partners set an example of constructive engagement, responsibility and social dialogue.
A good example of attention to the need for dialogue, of the need for reform in a globalised and constantly changing world.
In political life it is rare that we have the opportunity to serve our country and serve Europe at a critical moment.
I should now like to ask the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, to be kind enough to speak to us.
We have reached agreement on the Lisbon Treaty.
Allow me to say that it is of special significance that the Treaty will be signed on 13 December in Lisbon at the Jeronimo Monastery, precisely where the Treaty of Accession of Portugal to the European Community was signed.
Throughout this process the European Parliament showed a strong political will to resolve the institutional issue, being determined to reinforce European democracy.
The Treaty of Lisbon is the first Treaty of the enlarged Union.
In 2005, after the two negative referenda, we heard some people saying that the European Union of 25 or 27 would never agree on a Treaty, whatever its content.
In 2007, critics said that Member States would never agree on a mandate.
On my way to Lisbon last week I was still hearing some critics saying that it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to reach an agreement and that delegations had even booked hotels until Sunday morning - maybe expecting to benefit from the very nice weather in Lisbon and Portugal.
The fact is that 27 Member States reached a consensus, respected the mandate and agreed on a Treaty - and all of this on the Thursday night, after dinner.
The success of Lisbon tells us that the European Union is, indeed, tougher than it looks, with a strong ability to recover from setbacks.
On the one hand, the Lisbon Treaty has clearly advanced from the current status quo.
The Treaty of Lisbon will reinforce the democratic nature of the European Union.
Together with President Pöttering and Prime Minister Socrates, we will proclaim the Charter in the European Parliament before the signature of the Reform Treaty.
The fourth democratic advance introduced by the reformed Treaty regards the rights of national parliaments, which will reinforce the principles of accountability and subsidiarity.
However, the central feature of the democratic nature of the Union remains the European Parliament.
We should be very proud to live on a continent where, thanks to the European Union, we can enjoy fundamental rights, and we will say that together when we approve the Reform Treaty and the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The Treaty of Lisbon will turn a new page in our ability to deliver, and will reinforce our capacity to act.
The crucial point is that despite our diversity, we remain united regarding fundamental goals, fundamental values and fundamental principles.
This Treaty will be officially signed in Lisbon on 13 December.
That is an excellent date.
Some have already made it known that the process will begin the day after the signature in Lisbon, and I am delighted about this.
However, it also means providing better information to our citizens about who the elected representatives in this Parliament are - there will be 751 of them in 2009 - and what they do.
It also means explaining to our partners on the international stage that a High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, who will also be Vice-President of the European Commission from 1 January 2009, will be the primary contact, along with the President of the Council, who will be elected for two and a half years and will facilitate cohesion and consensus within the European Union so it can finally speak with one voice.
If the Treaty of Lisbon promises that the European Union will be more democratic, more transparent, more effective and more capable of acting as a single political entity on the international stage, it is to its citizens that this needs to be explained first of all.
The gap between rich and poor is getting bigger and bigger - within the European Union and throughout the world, between our continent and other continents.
The Portuguese Presidency was therefore well advised to focus on Africa.
We - as Europeans, as states and as Parliament - are being asked to face up to this issue and have been asked to do so, ladies and gentlemen, not just for a few years now, but for a very long time.
Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there were some encouraging signs last weekend.
I would therefore say that this Treaty will help Europe's legislation to become more social, based on the aims you have agreed with the social partners at this summit.
We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have to concede that we have not achieved everything we would have liked, and to those who are now screaming again that this is now in fact the Constitution - I read in some British newspapers that a few of our fellow Members are asserting that this is essentially the Constitution - I must unfortunately say that they have neither read the Constitution, nor have they read this Treaty.
So Felicitas, Jose.
Or suggesting that the President of the European Parliament should forsake his right to vote; or, indeed, that Council has the right to determine Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
Look, it is your right to act as you choose, but it is also your responsibility.
That is exactly what the new Treaty will do.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, General de Gaulle said of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing: 'His problem is the people'.
This statement would apply rather well to the European Council today.
Yes, the European Council's problem is the people, but without the people there would be no future for a great European ambition.
It is absolutely disgraceful that you are doing this, but I have hope and faith that in Westminster, the Mother of Parliaments for once will do her job and the British people will get a referendum.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two and a half years after the French and the Dutch rejected the European Constitution, in Lisbon on 19 October the European Council adopted the simplified Reform Treaty, which is a very bad name for it since it has been made more complex and only marginally 'reforms' the rejected Constitution.
In short, they are trying to pull the wool over our eyes and convince us that this text has nothing in common with the previous one, to avoid facing up to the people of Europe with a referendum.
We cannot, for example, give responsibility for representing us abroad to a High Representative, any more than we can watch our seat on the United Nations Security Council being challenged in the name of the legal personality of the European Union.
The parties to such a denial of democracy would carry a heavy burden of responsibility before history. (SK) At the Meeting of the Heads of State and Government last week, a Treaty was agreed that should adapt the European institutions to a new situation and improve the existing Treaties.
I regret very much that although in Article 3 of the new Treaty we profess to act strictly in accordance with the principles of the United Nations Charter protecting human rights, in the same breath we refuse to include the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union in the Treaty.
I believe that the Members of this Parliament currently play a very important role in the process of reforming the Treaty; they defend the opinions of the people of Europe and they should act as a catalyst for consensus in areas such as human rights.
We are merely able to state that there are 751 Members of the European Parliament and I see no post where there is a difference in voting rights within this text.
I challenge him that we should explain to the people of Europe what the Protocol is on the Ioannina Declaration, and what has surprised me most is that governments have not fought very hard in the Council to stop the introduction of the Luxembourg Compromise into the Treaty, which would mean destroying it.
To conclude, Mr President, Prime Minister Sócrates said that the Treaty of Lisbon has been born.
European Parliament representative at the Intergovernmental Conference. - Mr President, for 26 countries, the Treaty is certainly a great step forward towards European unity and certainly rivals the Treaty of Maastricht in importance.
Indeed, the agreement on the new Treaty was announced before midnight on 18 October.
What is more, on the same day an agreement was signed with the European Union's social partners, employers and trade unions, to modernise the labour market, an important step for the new cycle of the Lisbon Strategy.
Europe has emerged from a six-year impasse and can now concentrate on what is really important to citizens because, as Jean Monnet said, we cannot stop when the whole world around us is on the move, and the speed at which the world turns makes no allowance for a slow European response.
The Treaty will be signed on 13 December, and the ratification process will follow, which should be swift and problem-free.
Thank you very much, Prime Minister. (DA) Mr President, fortunately the Lisbon Summit ended well.
However, the struggle will continue, as more than 200 000 people made clear at the impressive demonstration in Lisbon promoted by the CGPT also on 18 October.
The Treaty, which reinforces the role of non-elected officials of the EU, thereby reinforcing the democracy deficit, is creating, among other things, 105 legislative and non-legislative competences of the EU.
However, we had already obtained this at the last plenary in Brussels.
The Reform Treaty transfers the principle of free competition from the main body of the Treaty to the protocols that are to be annexed to the Treaty.
A few days ago, Gordon Brown said that this Treaty will mark the end of EU institutional reform for the next decade.
That is what people expect of us. - (FR) Mr President, the European Union is going to have a new Treaty.
All the same, this Treaty will give us the means to revive Europe, provided that we want to do so.
We must hope that the compromise reached at the summit is only an introduction to consultation with the peoples of Europe.
The draft EU Reform Treaty is, in the end, too important a document to be smuggled through in the secrecy of political meeting rooms.
She is urging the national parliaments to ratify this text as quickly as possible.
If you do not want it to be eroded, if you do not want democracy to be choked, please have the political decency at least to allow referendums, as there have been in the past - for the last EU Constitutional Treaty - even in Spain and Luxembourg. (NL) Mr President, President of the Commission, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, looking at the changes the Reform Treaty makes in such fields as migration, agriculture, and police and justice, and at the decisions regarding the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the euro area and the social market economy - which becomes an objective for the first time - and also regarding intergovernmental solidarity on energy, it is apparent to me that this Treaty builds on the results of the Convention and the June Summit, and gives us more clout and a great deal more democracy as political institutions.
This Parliament, particularly the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, has been fighting and working for a new European treaty for seven years.
Admittedly we have not got the Constitution, but we do say that this Reform Treaty represents progress in every respect.
The winners in the new Treaty are the people of Europe.
I believe that the Lisbon result is important, although more for the speed with which it was decided, which sends out a positive signal to public opinion, rather than its content, since there are still too many opt-outs and clauses, and it is still too complicated.
President-in-Office of the Council, you referred - and I would like to congratulate you on the agreement that has been reached, because I would like to stress that I think that the agreement is important for getting us out of the impasse - you referred to three issues that I would like to highlight.
Firstly, I think that it is very important to have a formal proclamation in this House of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
In summary, Mr President, I think that it was Paul Valéry, who was a great poet and, perhaps therefore a great European, who wrote that a poem is never finished, only abandoned.
The new Treaty enables the European Union to progress.
The conclusion was that the differences are such that a second referendum is not necessary.
As co-rapporteur on the new composition of the European Parliament, I am also pleased about the Council's agreement with the motion for a resolution voted for by Parliament on 11 October.
The first comment is, as you said, Mr President, that all the Members of Parliament will keep the right to vote - even the President, and even the 73rd Italian - contrary to a persistent rumour spread by some of the press.
You have done great work here and we have been with you 99% of the way. . - (FR) Mr President, 'nothing is possible without men; nothing is lasting without institutions'.
So said Jean Monnet, and it applies very well to our situation.
Jean Monnet has an answer for this too.
However, obviously not everyone agrees, since our British friends are so keen on opting out.
However, Jean Monnet experienced this in 1951 with coal and steel.
Remember Tony Blair.
I can merely ask the national Parliaments to make thorough use of these new opportunities! (Applause) Mr President, I, too, welcome this agreement, which, despite a few oddities like the extra seat for Italy, is a good package that deserves ratification and will make the European Union function better, while also improving its democratic accountability.
It should now be clear to everybody that there was no plan B and there is no plan C.
Firstly, at the Lisbon Summit we adopted a new Reform Treaty, which is an enormous success, and I warmly congratulate Prime Minister José Sócrates, President Barroso and indeed all of us.
Parliament does have a role to play here: please bear in mind that we have greater importance under the Treaty than we had before.
There are three points to consider: the description of the role and tasks of the High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy and the matter of his election, this being a joint decision with the European Council from 1 January 2009.
Thirdly, we must hold a political debate to finalise the principles by which the President of the European Council will act, with particular reference to his relations with the European Parliament.
Those who like democracy also like democracy to be appreciated as a method that allows effective decision-making, and all those who follow European political life understand that Europe needed more effective decision-making.
Europe is more confident since the Lisbon Agreement and Europe is now in a position to take a stance on the future; it can move from the defensive to the offensive.
Graham Watson was kind enough to mention Pessoa in his speech.
The President will of course retain that right; I do not know how this mistaken idea arose, but what the Council decided is that this Parliament will have 751 Members (750 plus the President).
The first came last October when Angela Merkel decided to make the Treaty the main issue of her Presidency and of future presidencies.
I call this a decisive moment because Europe needed to get back to politics and also to get back to courage and political risk.
President of the Commission. - Mr President, Ms Thyssen asked a specific question: can we make progress between now and the final ratification?
I also believe that it is right in our communication, as Mr Corbett highlighted, to explain the new democratic dimension.
That is not true.
I welcome the relentless work of daring, wisdom and pragmatism of the French President Nicolas Sarkozy, and Angela Merkel's excellent German Presidency in the first half of 2007 of which put the institutional agenda on the rails.
I would like to include in these congratulations recognition of the excellent and immense work accomplished by chairman Valéry Giscard d'Estaing.
This Treaty also takes account of the messages delivered by the French and Dutch people who rejected the old Treaty, in that it does not retain the character of a constitution, which the original text had, and it does not set in stone in the Treaties of the European Union a collection of European public policies that instead come under the current functioning of European democracy.
It is important that the process of ratifying this document, due to be signed on 13 December this year, also goes without a hitch in the Member States.
As a member of the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs, I believe it is important to emphasise that the document that has been adopted can contribute positively to making European Union foreign policy more effective, and can also enhance its effectiveness in the international diplomatic arena.
This joint success first and foremost required the political will to take joint action, so let us now rejoice in the Treaty, but in the interests of ensuring the success of the process we must not stop here; we must continue in our joint efforts to ensure that the ratification process is brought to a successful conclusion.
The truth about the Reform Treaty is the same as that about the European Constitution.
We must therefore reject the Reform Treaty and set about doing some fundamental work on a system to guarantee the rights of peoples under the conditions of European integration.
