This initiative definitively establishes the idea that internet access and usage fall within the fundamental rights of European citizens.
We will have to continue to defend internet users' rights and, in particular, to define them better.
I voted in favour of Mrs Trautmann's report as I believe that the current agreement goes far beyond what was possible in the earlier stages of the process, particularly with regard to consumer rights.
In relation to this, disconnecting a citizen from the internet will be possible only in justified cases, while respecting the principles of innocence and the right to privacy, and following a fair and impartial trial.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the compromise package on telecommunications.
I voted against the framework directive on electronic communications networks and services because I think that it represents an attack on freedom of expression and the civil rights of citizens.
The compromise reached refers to the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, while Amendment 138 opted for the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
There are a number of important definitions and clarifications that have been made and, therefore, I have decided to vote in favour of this report.
In order to minimise the risks to people and the environment involved in the use of plant protection products, we need harmonised risk indicators based on comparable and reliable data from all the Member States.
I want to emphasise that pesticides must be used in a more viable manner, which also entails a significant overall reduction in the risks involved.
I voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution of the European Parliament on the joint proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and the Council concerning statistics on pesticides, which was approved by the Conciliation Committee, because in my view, it will bring significant benefits.
It harmonises and, in particular, simplifies legislation in the area of statistics on pesticides.
In this particular case, we are consolidating the regulations from 1999, two regulations from 2004 and one regulation from 2005.
This Parliament must fully assume its new powers in these matters.
In view of this, I am voting in favour of this report requesting the Council withdraw its proposal.
Therefore, the Council should submit a new proposal following the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
This Parliament must fully assume its new powers in these matters.
In view of this, I am voting in favour of this report requesting the Council withdraw its proposal.
This Parliament must fully assume its new powers in these matters.
In view of this, I am voting in favour of this report requesting the Council withdraw its proposal.
This Parliament must fully assume its new powers in these matters.
In view of this, I am voting in favour of this report requesting the Commission withdraw its proposal.
It is for these reasons that I have decided to vote against this report.
This Parliament must fully assume its new powers in these matters.
The European Crime Prevention Network (EUCPN) was created in 2001 due to a need to establish measures and exchange activities to prevent criminality, as well as strengthening the network of national authorities responsible for preventing crime.
This Parliament must fully assume its new powers in these matters.
In view of this, I am voting in favour of this report, and request that the Kingdom of Sweden and the Kingdom of Spain withdraw their initiative.
I voted in favour of the in 't Veld report, of the Kirkhope, Albrecht and Díaz de Mera García Consuegra reports on a package of measures concerning Europol, and of the Alfano report on the European Crime Prevention Network, calling for the rejection of the Council's proposals on these matters.
The aim of rejecting the proposals was to defend the European Parliament's prerogatives on such sensitive issues as police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon imminent, decisions in this area should be taken under the new legislative procedures.
Financial assistance from Brussels will also help Georgia combat the effects of the world economic and financial crisis.
Taking into account the above circumstances, as well as Georgia's strategic significance for the European Union in the European Neighbourhood Policy and the newly established Eastern Partnership, I endorsed the resolution on a Council Decision providing macro-financial assistance to Georgia.
In the specific case of Serbia, the macro-financial assistance programme is vital for improving the country's financial stability, as, in addition to the global crisis, Serbia has also emerged from an armed conflict whose effects are still being felt.
Serbia and its economy play a role of paramount importance in the process of regional integration, and its participation in European integration is also essential.
Over the next year, it is planned that Serbia will receive macro-financial assistance totalling up to EUR 200 million in the form of a loan.
In fact, by combining certain aspects relating to VAT on the supply of natural gas, electricity and heat or refrigeration with the tax treatment of joint undertakings established in accordance with Article 171 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, with the identification of certain consequences of EU enlargement, and with the conditions for exercising the right to deduct input VAT, we will be moving towards greater effectiveness in applying VAT.
In Portugal, as in other European countries where citizens have low incomes and whose relatively recent inclusion in the European natural gas networks is extremely expensive, the use of butane and propane gas in households and micro and small enterprises is an unavoidable reality.
in writing. - I abstained on the Bullmann report.
I voted in favour of the report on the protection of the marine environment of the North-East Atlantic in relation to the storage of carbon dioxide streams in geological formations as I believe that the existence of a regulatory framework and guidelines on the storage of carbon dioxide streams in geological formations will contribute to the protection of the maritime area, both in the short term and the long term, provided the aim is to permanently hold the carbon dioxide in these formations, and provided that this will not have significant adverse effects on the marine environment, human health and other legitimate uses of Europe's maritime areas, specifically those of Portugal and, in particular, the Azores.
I voted in favour of the Rosbach report on the proposal for a Council Decision concerning the approval on behalf of the European Community of the Amendments to Annex II and Annex III to the Convention for the protection of the marine environment of the North-East Atlantic (OSPAR Convention) in relation to the storage of carbon dioxide streams in geological formations.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Rosbach report.
I must admit that I learnt something new from these two reports by Mrs Geringer de Oedenberg: I learnt that those countries that chose not to participate in judicial cooperation in civil matters had, nonetheless, also lost their sovereignty.
Indeed, Denmark, which was able to negotiate an exemption, but which also sought, as a sovereign country, to conclude a treaty with the Community so as to participate in certain aspects of this cooperation, is today obliged to ask for the Commission's permission in order to conclude new international agreements of this kind with others!
We have only voted in favour of these reports because there is no reason to prevent Denmark from concluding the agreements that it wants to conclude, and there are few opportunities to do otherwise in the current circumstances.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report relating to recovery plan changes within the framework of the North Atlantic Fisheries Organisation.
in writing. - On 9 November 2009, the report on the request for the defence of the immunity and privileges of Tobias Pflüger was voted and adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs (JURI) in the European Parliament.
in writing. - On 9 November 2009, the report on the request for the defence of the immunity and privileges of Tobias Pflüger was voted and adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs (JURI) in the European Parliament.
The judgment is invalid because the regional court in Munich dismissed the action against Tobias Pflüger on 21 July 2009 in the second and final instance.
This kind of proceeding by the European Parliament creates the impression of supporting the persecution of politically active persons, in this case, the Munich II Public Prosecution Service against the former Member of the European Parliament, Tobias Pflüger.
in writing. - On 9 November 2009, the report on the request for the defence of the immunity and privileges of Tobias Pflüger was voted and adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs (JURI) in the European Parliament.
The central point is: the report cites a judgment at first instance which was repealed in the meanwhile.
The judgment is invalid because the Munich regional court dismissed the action against Tobias Pflüger on 21 July 2009 in second and final instance.
This kind of proceeding by the European Parliament creates the impression of supporting the persecution of political active persons, in this case, the Munich II Public Prosecution Service against the former Member of European Parliament, Tobias Pflüger.
