One-minute speeches on matters of political importance The next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance in accordance with Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure. (RO) I wish to draw your attention to the political situation in Romania and to the impact this is having on Romania's relations with the Community's institutions.
The reasons behind this are not only electoral.
The European Week of Regions and Cities consolidated the position of the regions as a fundamental part of the solution in the European response to global challenges.
Following 9 November 1989, we were told that humanity would finally be set free.
It is important to distinguish between a real crisis and a business matter in relation to gas and at what point senior political figures should enter the negotiations and what the market should control.
Tens of thousands marched in protest last Friday; thousands of workers marched in Dublin today; and on 24 November, a public sector workers' strike is scheduled, in order to stop these attacks.
As part of this effort, China has planted 54 million hectares of trees, with impressive repercussions on the availability of drinking water and agricultural productivity.
Nonetheless, I trust that the European Union's negotiations in Copenhagen will pro-actively support global efforts to put an end to deforestation and to increase tree-planting. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our debate on neurodegenerative diseases permits me to introduce the problem of sclerosis and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and to bring to Parliament's knowledge the fact that 150 people throughout Italy have begun a hunger strike as a show of support for Salvatore Usala, an ALS sufferer who has stopped eating in order to protest against the Italian Government's indifference to the problems experienced by patients and their family members who are living with this terrible disease.
I therefore think that more harmonisation may be required. (PL) Madam President, the scandalous judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which orders a cross to be removed from the wall of an Italian school and EUR 5 000 compensation to be paid to one of its pupils for so-called moral damages, has aroused concern not only in Italy, but also in other countries of the European Union.
It is unacceptable that neither the European Commission nor the Council has found an alternative to the dismantling of this microchip and nanotechnology industry.
As a coordinator on the Regional Development Committee and an MEP for Wales, it was with great concern that I received a leaked copy of a draft communication of the European Commission entitled A Reform Agenda for a Global Europe: reforming the budget, changing Europe.
It would affect the majority of the EU's 271 regions.
Sadly, the consequences of these crimes are devastating and long-lasting.
I hope you will join me in informing our voters and the citizens in our countries about this through declarations and articles to the press.
Madam President, would you agree that political discrimination is not only unlawful but is also an attack not just on me, but also on the functionality of this place and, most important of all, on the voters and the entire democratic process? (PT) The investigation conducted by the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work provides some worrying conclusions, stating that generalised unemployment is having negative consequences for the safety and health of workers.
A debate on the Community budget needs to be held urgently, but we believe that the financial framework after 2013 should be based on solidarity and territorial cohesion, this being vital for regions such as Madeira, which face permanent difficulties and which therefore need permanent support.
These proposals exclude the Antifer dyke situated near Etretat, but compensate for it by enlarging the perimeter to 12 nautical miles.
Take also Romania, where they are in the process of putting up a statue to a former general who gave the order to fire among the participants in demonstrations. (PT) The current economic crisis leads to job insecurity.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am afraid we must conclude the one-minute speeches under Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure at this point.
