This House - and indeed the international community in general - time and again have dealt with the unacceptable situation in that country.
The recent execution by stoning to death of the 13-year-old girl victim of rape, Aisha Ibrahim Duhulow, is another example of this practice.
Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I want to express our total condemnation of the murders being committed in this region of Somalia in the name of God.
I believe that we cannot remain impassive here in this Community of 500 million people and 27 countries, the most important in the world.
The Socialist Group does not agree with the amendments tabled at the last moment, which have not been duly negotiated.
The Somali Government should restore the honour of the victim, Aisha Ibrahim Duhulow, posthumously.
The human rights situation in the region and in the country will improve only when its political situation changes.
Although Somalia regained its independence over 40 years ago, conflicts are still caused by competition between clans for grazing land and water sources.
Natural disasters we can at least understand, but how is it that in poor Somalia there are so many weapons?
But what happened on 27 October is beyond human comprehension.
Aisha was punished, in accordance with Islamic law, for the rape inflicted on her.
I strongly condemn the stoning and execution of Aisha Ibrahim Duhulow and I am horrified at such a barbaric act perpetrated against a 13-year-old rape victim.
We are also aware that two Catholic nuns have been kidnapped and are being held in Somalia.
Any lasting peace in Somalia must be based on accountability and justice for the human rights violations committed by all sides throughout the Somali conflict.
The vote will take place at the end of the debates.
Three weeks ago a 13 year old girl, Aisha Ibrahim Duhulow, was stoned there after having been raped by three men.
The stoning took place in a stadium in Kismayo, in southern Somalia, in the presence of 1 000 spectators, while 50 men carried out the execution.
