EU-Russia Summit on 18 November 2009 in Stockholm (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the EU-Russia Summit on 18 November 2009 in Stockholm.
It is a good opportunity for the EU to evaluate relations between ourselves and Russia.
In general, clearly we want to use the summit to develop the strategic partnership between the EU and Russia.
However, we must also make it clear to Russia that our partnership must be based on respect for a common commitment and common values.
The summit will give us the opportunity to exert pressure on Russia to fulfil its contractual obligations in these areas and in other areas, too.
The Council will emphasise the fact that close cooperation between the EU and Russia is important to enable us to achieve a result in Copenhagen.
Russia should promise tangible and comparable reductions in its emissions of greenhouse gases, corresponding to the two-degree target that the G8 agreed on in L'Aquila.
With regard to Russia's position as the EU's most important energy partner, the summit will give us the opportunity to emphasise the need to regain trust and transparency in relations between the EU and Russia in the area of energy.
This should be accompanied by clear guarantees from Russia and separately from other relevant third countries that the transit or export of gas to the EU will not be reduced or stopped in the event of future energy disputes.
The summit will also give us the chance to assess the progress made in our work relating to the four common spaces.
Russia's change in position with regard to the World Trade Organisation has created a new situation that we are in the process of analysing.
Delays in Russia's WTO accession will affect our bilateral relations, including with regard to the negotiations for a new agreement between the EU and Russia.
Evidence of this can be seen, in particular, in your decision to award this year's Sakharov Prize to human rights defenders in Russia.
It is particularly worrying that human rights defenders and journalists have been killed, not only in the North Caucasus, but also in Russia as a whole.
We need to cooperate with Russia on this if we are to be able to make progress in achieving a peaceful solution to long drawn-out conflicts.
We will raise the matter of Georgia and reiterate that Russia must fully honour its commitments under the six-point plan laid down on 12 August and, subsequently, the agreement of 8 September 2008.
We must also regain the necessary trust with regard to Akhalgori, Upper Kodori and the checkpoint in Perevi.
However, we will also point out to Russia the importance of involving the Minsk Group in all stages of the process.
The summit should express its support for the ratification and implementation of the new protocols between Armenia and Turkey.
The summit should ask for Russia's confirmation that it supports the fundamental principles of the process, in other words, complete respect for and implementation of the regulations of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), that the OSCE is the main forum for debate on the Corfu Process, and the fact that all aspects of the overarching security strategy should be dealt with in a balanced way.
As far as the EU is concerned, we are willing to inform Russia of all incidents relating to the Eastern Partnership and reiterate that third countries may, on a case-by-case basis, be entitled to take part, in accordance with the joint declaration in Prague of May 2009.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, just a year ago, we reviewed EU-Russian relations and decided that the European Union should - despite our major differences with Russia over the conflict in Georgia - pursue cooperation with this major neighbour, including on the negotiation of the new agreement.
The summit will be an opportunity to again stress the importance of Russia's WTO accession.
The summit should also provide definitive clarity as to the conditions concerning bilateral trade from 1 January 2010 onwards under the new common external tariff system of the customs union.
Turning to climate change, my colleague has already said that the summit should underline the leading roles that Russia and the European Union can play together in achieving results at the Copenhagen meeting.
These should therefore form the basis of our work on energy security under the new EU-Russia agreement.
While we should be ready to discuss Russia's wish for a wider debate on international energy security architecture, I think we will also want, above all, to establish the essentials of our bilateral energy relationship.
We will therefore continue to explain our view that the political and economic stability encouraged by the Eastern Partnership is, finally, in the interests of all parties.
The EU-Russia strategic partnership must - as was said before - be based on common commitments in the area of human rights and democracy.
Key topics on the comprehensive agenda include the planned cooperation agreement, securing the supply of energy, Russia's accession to the WTO, climate change, the situation in the Caucasus and, above all, the situation with regard to democracy and the rule of law in Russia.
Disarmament, arms control and a possible anti-missile shield are also on the agenda.
As a community of values, we have a common view of the situation with regard to the rule of law and human rights in Russia and we should say so.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Madam President, debates on Russia very often divide us into ideologists and pragmatists, confrontational geo-strategists and conciliatorists, Cold War veterans and new utilitarian opportunists.
As far as I am concerned, we should always show firmness from the strategic point of view, but flexibility from the tactical point of view, in our relations with Russia.
We also have to think of such a trilateral approach in order at least to be sure that Russia and the United States will not cut deals without our participation.
However, such relations require good will on both sides, something that President Havel indeed referred to today in his afternoon speech.
And this is very important - as is indeed shown by the resolution we have prepared - and in listening therefore to the council and the representatives of the Commission, I have a very good feeling about this.
This is something very concrete, and it is taking place very soon - in December at the Copenhagen Summit - and this is truly a matter where we should be able to weigh everything up and look at whether this cooperation between the European Union and Russia is therefore possible or not.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this year, we are not only celebrating the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Wall and the peaceful revolution, but 1989 was also the year that saw the death of Andrei Sakharov, who played a significant part in the fall of the totalitarian Eastern Bloc system.
Russia's President Medvedev recently expressed his concern about the stagnation and problems in his country and called for support for his efforts to bring about reform.
This includes the involvement of Russia in international regulatory frameworks like the WTO and the Energy Charter.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Madam President, the ECR Group accepts that Russia is a vital economic partner and a global diplomatic heavyweight, but this position brings with it responsibilities.
The Sakharov Prize awarded to the human rights group Memorial shows just how seriously we in this Parliament view this issue.
The EU's commitment to diversification of source and supply under a common external energy security policy must surely strengthen our hand at the negotiating table with Russia.
At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of Italy, we decided during the last plenary session that this was an internal matter.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be abstaining from the vote on this motion for a resolution because I find it somewhat contradictory.
While we call for all these things, in the same resolution we strongly criticise Russia's domestic situation.
I believe that we must look to establish much more balanced cooperation with both these partners, if this is what we consider they are. (PL) Madam President, the forthcoming EU-Russia Summit will confirm the importance which the European Union attaches to relations with Russia.
In this context, I would like to draw attention to two questions which are fundamental from the point of view of the interests of Russia and the European Union.
It is important that the European Union construct its point of view in exactly this manner.
This means that, especially at a time of economic and financial crisis, this cooperation should be based on keeping the financial costs to a minimum, but also that all conditions related to the supply of energy should be stated.
Please take along the results of the human rights dialogue and, furthermore, do it very publicly. (PL) Madam President, the EU-Russia Summit takes place in a week's time.
For historical and cultural reasons, this is far more practical and safer than attempting to create unity with Turkey, Europe's ancient and eternal enemy. (ES) Madam President, relations with Russia are very important: it is a permanent member of the Security Council and a military power; its cooperation is necessary in order to tackle the nuclear challenge of Iran, the issue of the Middle East, disarmament, climate change, etc.
Without sincerity, we will not build anything. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, the war in Georgia, the gas dispute and the inability of the European Union to agree on a reasonably unified line to take with regard to Russia have left their mark.
The fact is that our dependence on Russian gas cannot be eliminated easily and even the Nabucco project will barely make a difference to this situation.
It would be naive to believe that Tehran would not be able to put pressure on Europe.
I believe that the European Union must pursue a sensible and realistic policy towards Russia.
Firstly, we do not approve of the way the third country arrogantly ignores and rejects the EU as its equal and respected partner in matters of external energy security that are important to the European Union.
We cannot allow Gazprom - the principal 'Nord Stream' shareholder - to completely ignore our Parliament's resolution on the threats the gas pipeline poses to the environment.
The problem is not simply the tragic ecological state of the Baltic Sea, but also our institution's moral condition.
Taking Russia seriously means developing a sensible relationship and a pragmatic economic relationship with Russia, but it does not mean that we should not be critical of political developments within Russia, particularly with regard to human rights issues.
What I do want, and what we demand in this resolution, which is a very balanced one, is for Russia to take the protection of these human rights defenders seriously.
I have nothing against Nord Stream, or against South Stream, but I do not want to be dependent on anyone, not on any one country, for our gas supply.
I am therefore very much in favour of the Nabucco pipeline.
The progress of certain projects of vital interest to the European Union's development also depends on energy security. (HU) Madam President, we greatly need to establish a new partnership and cooperation between the EU and Russia.
However, this is currently being restricted by an historical debate between several EU Member States and Russia.
In the energy sector, it would be an important development for the European Union and Russia to reach agreement after withdrawing from the Energy Charter.
However, attention must also be drawn to those rights violations such as the denial of citizenship to 400 000 Russians living in Latvia, highlighting that the European Union still has plenty to do in its own backyard. (SL) I support the approach taken by Mrs Malmström and Mrs Ferrero-Waldner.
With such an agenda in place, I think that the dialogue between Russia and the European Union will prove to be advantageous to both parties.
I have no time for that kind of talk. (PL) Madam President, I would like, above all, to say something to Mrs Ferrero-Waldner.
Like Mrs Ojuland and Mr Schulz, I would like to refer to President Havel's statement about the European Union's obligation to spread democracy and respect for human rights.
Then there is the financial and economic crisis and our common commitments in this regard, as well as our relations with regard to energy, accession to the WTO and various issues relating to foreign and security policy.
We must do this in a correct and respectful way, without abandoning our values.
I think it is an extremely good resolution and I also think it is excellent that there is, on the whole, a high level of consensus in the Commission, as well as in the Council and the European Parliament, on these matters.
If we are in agreement, and if we have a clear and constructive dialogue, it will be good for Russia, it will be good for the EU and it will be good for many pertinent issues in the European and the global arena.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, Russia is a strategic partner on the one hand but also a neighbour, and as a neighbour, it is more complicated.
Russia's WTO accession is, and remains, a key objective for us.
This is what we are aiming for, particularly in our new agreement.
I would like to say a few words on the death penalty, because this is, of course, not acceptable for us according to our community of values.
Yes, the constitutional court in Russia is debating this issue at the moment, but we were told that there are indications that the court will conclude that Russia is bound by its signature of Protocol 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and thus, will most probably not apply the death penalty.
These are always discussed in our EU-Russia human rights consultations.
As these just took place in Stockholm on 5 November, I did not go into any details, but everybody who is informed knows about that.
These have proven beneficial within the European Union itself, for instance, TEMPUS and Erasmus Mundus, and this is also an avenue we should continue to explore.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 12 November 2009.
Written statements (Rule 149) At the onset of winter, Europe is being threatened by a gas crisis similar to that at the start of this year when dependency on Russian gas was more apparent than ever.
It is becoming imperative for all EU organisations to make Nabucco a priority, just as the European Council also actually decided in March.
in writing. - (HU) The renegotiation of the EU-Russia Partnership and Cooperation Agreement provides a good opportunity for both sides to review the issues which most clearly define their relations.
As we, the European Parliament, are about to present this year's Sakharov Prize to the 'Memorial' Foundation, including to one of the founders of the Moscow Helsinki Group, Mrs Lyudmila Mikhailovna Alexeyeva, we must underline that this Parliament, this Union, is more than just about business and making sure that gas arrives as cheaply as possible.
