Protection of minors and human dignity The next item is the report (A5-0037/2002) by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, on the evaluation report from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the application of the Council Recommendation of 24 September 1998 concerning the protection of minors and human dignity [COM(2001) 106 - C5-0191/2001 - 2001/2087(COS)].
The rapid development of the audio-visual media has brought many real benefits in terms of education, spreading greater awareness of public affairs around the world, and not least in the field of entertainment.
However, along with the undoubted advantages, there have also been concerns that, given the generally greater adeptness of children at using audio-visual resources, in some areas there are dangers of their obtaining access to unsuitable or harmful material.
This is most obvious in the fields of overt sexual material and gratuitous violence.
The principles which have guided this report are to encourage greater public awareness of these issues and to support parental responsibility and to develop co-operation between the content providers, consumer organisations and the respective authorities, both national and European.
The report calls for user-friendly content filter systems to enable parents to predetermine the sort of content which they feel is unsuitable viewing for their children and, in this regard I very much welcome the fact that, since the report was first drafted, the Internet Content Rating Association (ICRA), has launched a filter system available free of charge, an initiative supported by the Commission.
The report does not seek to sensationalise or exaggerate perceived dangers, but it does provide a useful framework to encourage public awareness of the risks involved and to provide practical remedies.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the protection of minors and human dignity is an issue that is close to the hearts of us all.
It is therefore to be welcomed that the Commission has presented this evaluation report on the progress we are making in this area in relation to audio-visual media and the Internet.
Nevertheless, I should like to take this opportunity of drawing your attention once again to the fact that technical resources and legislation from above are not sufficient to guarantee this protection.
There are always ways and means, devious or otherwise, to get round this, and certainly children are very resourceful in this area.
The system is also accompanied by an age category.
This is where moving closer on a European level to a uniform system of classification for the whole audio-visual sector seems to be of the greatest and most urgent importance, as that would be a tool facilitating control by parents and young people themselves, one that could also function on the basis of trust and not tend towards either excessive control or censorship.
The rapporteur is also right to draw attention to parental responsibility in the first place, but also to the responsibility of the government and of suppliers of Internet products.
It is, therefore, important - as emphasised in the resolution that we are discussing today - to do all we can to ensure that protective frameworks are established, in particular for the forms of media which are used freely by young consumers, be they audiovisual, written resources or on the Internet.
The dangers children and young people are exposed to today are very different to those we were exposed to at that age.
Having said this, I would like to express my total support for the rapporteur when he calls on Member States to classify video games using self-regulatory mechanisms set up by the industry, and for them to establish 'abuse departments'.
We also know that many children and young people, in an age when adults have not mastered the whole range of technical options, are ahead of their parents in that respect.
We welcome initiatives by the Member States in the EU on safer Internet use for children but we need to step up our actions for a more coordinated campaign to fight against Internet paedophilia.
The unit was launched in 1995, when 12 images were seized.
With this they monitored chat channels for 16 hours.
So what should we do in the EU?
AOL and NTL have excellent reputations, but others are not doing the job.
You can tell that by the fact that we adopted this report unanimously in committee and that, today in Parliament, there are no amendments to this report left, and that on a topic that involves a very large number of problems and unanswered questions.
The proposals submitted by the Commission are therefore very much the right thing, and the Member States' support for them is urgently needed.
And, thirdly, media education is needed not only for children but also for their parents.
The constantly growing range of multimedia services surely makes safety arrangements necessary - and of a comparable nature right across Europe - in order to protect our children and young people from harmful content and its consequences.
Mr President, of course, we wish to thank the rapporteur and the Commission for this work and for the evaluation report.
I am not going to repeat what other speakers have said but I should like to mention, Commissioner, three specific cases that have been brought to my attention this week.
Soon, Commissioner, on 8 May, a world summit on children will take place.
We have a shared aim, which is to protect our children.
There are thousands of such examples, which merely confirm our feeling that we must translate our words into action and that we will not be able to resolve the problems in the European institutions alone, but that concerted action by all key players is necessary, including the NGOs working to protect minors and human dignity, at both European as well as national or regional level.
The European Commission is supporting the creation of these hotlines with its action plan for safer Internet use.
According to the information provided by the Member States, it seems that the majority of Internet sites advocating political extremism or which depict sexual violence, and very many paedophile or pornographic sites are located outside the European Union, hence the importance of a strategy in this field that is not only European, but global.
The Community action plan for safer Internet use is also encouraging these initiatives.
Furthermore, filter systems can only be used with digital television.
We shall continue our work, but the report will probably not be ready by the end of 2002.
Secondly, with regard to the system of classification, a new study on classification was started by my staff in January and should be completed by the second half of 2002.
This is also why the forthcoming 'Net-Days' in November 2002, which will link up hundreds of thousands of school classes in most of the Member States and, furthermore, in other parts of the world, will this year be dedicated to image education and image analysis.
The debate is closed.
We therefore have a great deal of ground to make up and this is why my report makes a number of proposals.
My second proposal is that we must move towards harmonising the quality of higher education and the recognition of diplomas and studies.
The European Union must be able to provide high-quality training, whatever the university or the host country.
It is crucial for students to be able to start a degree in one Member State and complete it in another with the guarantee of seeing the knowledge they have acquired validated by a diploma that is recognised in all Member States.
We must also promote the creation of joint courses between Member State universities in order to achieve, wherever possible, the award of joint diplomas.
Thirdly, I propose that a European university label be established, which would be awarded to training modules provided in higher education establishments recognised for the quality of their teaching and of the reception they give to students of third countries.
The aim of this report is, therefore, to urge the European Union and the Member States to take action to make European higher education dynamic, competitive and attractive.
The competitiveness and attractiveness of European higher education must, of course, start taking shape in the Member States first of all.
The issue of the quality of training warrants further analysis, for the quality depends on the extent to which the training fosters the human development of the young generations.
We fully support the creation of centres of excellence, towards a European university label, just as we are in favour of the Union taking on a role in promoting high-quality university teaching.
This is damaging our young people, and I do think this is a challenge for all of us and one that we should take up.
Our responsibility has to be to see them fully respected and put into practice, because education is not only an individual right; it is also an essential means of promoting peace - a crucial issue today - and ensuring respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in general.
It is a huge task, but let us not forget that even today we live in a world where there are more than 800 million illiterate adults and almost 100 million children of secondary school age who do not have access to a school.
It is therefore increasingly urgent for us to meet these needs in a world where the upheaval caused by globalisation and by the revolution in information and communication technology is marginalising entire peoples, who have been plunged into the most extreme poverty and who are easy prey for extremists of all kinds.
Making the right to education a reality is now less a question of access to education than of access to adequate training programmes for everyone so as to meet basic needs.
From this point of view, the right to higher education is - on our own evidence - not yet a reality, in particular for women.
Higher education shall, according to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit, but in Africa and Asia fewer than one person in ten in the age group concerned is in higher education, and the gulf is continuing to widen between these regions on the one hand and Europe and North America on the other.
There is no doubt that considerable progress has been made in the last 50 years towards making the right to higher education a reality throughout the world, but we should not forget that this vision, which is laid down in Article 26, is not only quantitative but also qualitative because it encompasses the aims and objectives of education and thus its content.
The Commission is now calling for this process to be extended and intensified so as to include third countries.
The EU has already set up cooperation programmes with America and with Canada, but I should like to fight for cooperation in the field of higher education with the developing countries.
The mobility of people and ideas has an extremely stimulating effect on all participating institutions within and outside Europe.
Education in general is the best way of eradicating poverty in the world, and this certainly applies to developing countries.
We who live on the border with Eastern Europe know these countries very well.
This creates a demand not only for citizens who have technical and scientific knowledge, but also for citizens with a feel for world citizenship.
This report is about cooperation with third countries.
I agree with the report that we in Europe must work towards a consistent and high level of education, which inevitably goes hand in hand with a command of languages, international recognition of qualifications, a Credit Transfer System, at least at European level, and more flexible opportunities for students from third countries who study in one Member State to also study temporarily in another EU country.
Mr President, the Commission communication, although somewhat late in arriving, seeks to address and resolve the issue of the sensitive relationship between the European Union and the international training market, the principle leaders of which are currently the United States and some European countries, which are, moreover, in competition.
However, I feel that the two goals identified for cooperation between the EU and third countries are particularly positive: firstly, the development of high-quality human resources, which can only be achieved through high-quality training or education; and secondly, the promotion of a world centre of excellence for study, training and research situated in Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to congratulate our colleague Mrs De Sarnez on her excellent work on an issue of such great importance to all Europeans.
However, one of the fundamental rights of EU citizens is the free movement of persons, a right denied to European citizens insofar as there is no recognition of qualifications that enables citizens to go and work in another EU country.
At this very moment, the large number of students on the Erasmus programme who spend a whole year studying in another Member State come back to find that this year abroad has been a waste of time, because it is not recognised in their country of origin.
I believe that we should avoid this situation by improving conditions within the European Union.
It is very important for students to have the opportunity to spend a year outside their own countries, for the opportunity to live alongside other EU citizens, for the training that this experience provides and for the opportunity this offers them to learn and perfect another European language, which is so important for us as EU citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the communication which was adopted last July by the Commission sought to launch the debate on cooperation with third countries, taking into account many of the points which have been made by honourable Members: globalisation, increasing international mobility, Europe's lack of competitiveness in the international education market, and the need to foster an understanding of other cultures amongst our own young people and those in third countries.
The Commission reiterated that cooperation with third countries is based on Article 149 of the Treaty.
Secondly, we must ensure that our work in this area is more visible, so as to promote Europe as a centre of excellence and so as to attract students seeking an international education.
Secondly, obviously we want to promote the Community as an international centre of excellence for studying.
This initiative is, of course, part of the Barcelona Process, but it also fits in with the idea of strengthening cooperation in the field of higher education, which is the subject of the communication.
I can tell her that we are in the process of developing ALFA Plus for the countries of Central and South America.
We fully agree with the basic analysis of the European Parliament and the Member States.
We are setting up pilot projects whereby three or four universities from three or four countries will collaborate on the basis of a joint curriculum leading to a European Masters degree.
We will, therefore, analyse the initial results in Berlin, and I very much hope that the initiative will snowball and that, when they see how positive it is, many universities will want to be involved in this new system.
But we think that these are the institutions that should do this.
The high-level political decision exists.
The problem that we have is that progress is not being made as rapidly on the ground because these are issues which need to be addressed by national governments.
As you know, 2001 was the European Year of Languages.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The Commission's communication is entitled, 'Europe's response to World Ageing - promoting economic and social progress in an ageing world'.
Today it is also - and increasingly - becoming a concern of developing countries.
In a number of these countries, ageing will be a much more rapid process and will take place against a background of a level of development which is markedly lower than in Western Europe.
Ageing is therefore a problem which, in the Twenty-First century, will require not a European response but a global response.
The response must therefore constitute an integral part of the global strategy, which is made up of mutually supportive policies.
The Member States have committed themselves to coordinating their work and we are starting to see a similar tendency for health care.
Over and above the experience which the European Union has acquired in considering its response to ageing, the communication also takes account of the problems faced by candidate countries and developing countries at a global level.
Indeed, the phenomenon of the ageing of society affects all countries, both the more advanced and the developing countries, although in markedly different ways, and due consideration of these differences in impact reveals the need for different approaches and initiatives.
I therefore feel that the European Parliament, the institution which is the voice of the citizens of Europe, must adopt an official position at the Second United Nations World Assembly, due to close tomorrow in Madrid, and we shall do this by voting on the joint motion for a resolution today.
Indeed, it is necessary to distinguish between the elderly of the third age, who are still fully active and have the right not to be excluded from social, cultural, political and economic life, citizens who are a resource for our society rather than just a problem, and those who belong to the fourth age and, although no longer self-sufficient, still have the right to live a dignified life and enjoy full respect for their dignity.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your contributions.
Indeed, in future we will need to be even more fully involved in our societies.
We look to our societies and to our governments to act internationally to create a sustainable future so that we can change the situation of poverty in which many people live.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the strategy of the international action of the United Nations World Assembly advocates the commitment to create a society for all ages, with political and financial means dedicated to achieving this.
It is, therefore, crucial that the European Union and its Member States give this commitment, incorporating issues of ageing into Community policies and including the elderly in their social, economic and development programmes, paying particular attention to elderly people at risk of isolation and by developing the principle of active ageing, promoting opportunities for the elderly to participate in social and cultural life.
We hope that the Commission will propose an action programme that is specific to the elderly and which takes account of all these aspects in an integrated vision, having listened to organisations representing pensioners and the elderly.
The European Union must also demonstrate greater commitment to providing international aid to developing countries in order to enable them to develop policies in the field of ageing, specifically for women and in order to combat Aids.
There have been many sincere efforts in recent years in our countries, in Europe too, to provide systems of guarantees and dignity for all elderly people - and rightly so.
I feel that less has been done, on the other hand, to attempt to give the elderly a political and institutional position too, to attempt to keep all elderly people in the active world for as long as possible, to make their departure from the world of work more gradual.
Mr President, we have to address this question of the ageing of our population from the point of view of having a society for all ages, as our motion indicates.
It is important that all Member States take this on board.
It is not enough to talk about the need to ensure that developing countries have sufficient resources to feed and to provide for their own people.
I hope that, when the economic, social and health consequences of the increase in average life expectancy and the ageing population are discussed and analysed, the emphasis will not just be on the role that elderly people must be able to play in modern society today but also on the right, for example, of each elderly person who loses their independence to continue to enjoy a guaranteed quality of life.
Indeed, it would be very valuable for our society to aim at adopting that approach, for it must treat the elderly person not just as a potential user of services but as a person who is still useful to society as a whole too.
I warmly welcome the new Community programme that the Commission is preparing to launch in the second half of the year - not least because the Commission has not done a great deal on this matter thus far - in an attempt to remedy a situation which the Commission itself has described as disturbing in terms of the preservation of the quality of life of elderly people.
At this meeting, it was revealed that ageing is a phenomenon affecting both the North and the South, despite the growing divide and inequality between societies in the developed world and those of countries that are fighting to overcome underdevelopment.
The first concerns healthcare at an age when people's health requires care that is more and more costly; the second is the guarantee of economic security in order that the elderly can continue to live independently when, because of their age, they have to stop working; and the third is the social consideration, respect and appreciation that society adopts towards the elderly, not only in recognition of the services they have provided - which should also be the case - but also with regard to the role and function these elderly people should fulfil within our social framework.
A satisfactory response to these three priorities will increasingly enable the elderly to live in dignity longer, which is to be welcomed.
The picture in the developing world is even worse.
As Commissioner Anna Diamantopoulou said in Madrid on Monday, with people living longer and enjoying better health, we have room for a new life model, a new society which pro-actively reflects technological and scientific achievement.
Strengthening these two policies could resolve the problems in the short term.
Simplified procedure: Proposal, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, for a Council regulation imposing certain specific restrictive measures directed against certain persons and entities associated with Osama bin Laden, the Al-Qaida network and the Taliban, and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 467/2001 prohibiting the export of certain goods and services to Afghanistan, strengthening the flight ban and extending the freeze of funds and other financial resources in respect of the Taliban of Afghanistan (COM(2002) 117 - C5-0132/2002 - 2002/0059(CNS)) Before the vote: Mr President, as regards the first request by the Council for the opinion of Parliament regarding the UN Security Council's freezing of funds, I would like to inform Parliament that the Commission will give its full attention to the amendments proposed by Parliament and promote their adoption by the Council where the EU Treaty, the UN Charter and the urgency of the matter so allow.
Secondly, the Commission is also open to further discussion with Parliament on the tension that will inevitably arise between the continued efforts to eradicate the financing of terrorism and respect for civil liberties and human rights.
That right should also apply to human rights issues.
I would like to have had more certainty about the proposed role of the Court of Justice taking into account the role of the courts of the Member States.
I am not sure about the implications of Amendment No 9, which covers the Commission's proposals on the transmission of information received by the Commission to the competent authorities of the Member States.
Anything to do with tackling terrorism is important.
The names of some of the citizens have already been included in the list annexed to the regulation, even though no evidence has been produced of their connection to terrorist movements or involvement in terrorist activities.
However, we voted against the regulation, both because of the procedure employed - this is the fourth time we have voted on terrorism with an urgent procedure, without a report and without a debate - and because of the content of the regulation, for we are voting on a list of names given to the UN by the CIA with no evidence and no possibility of our having access to any evidence there may be.
The procedures for drawing up the list of natural and legal persons, groups and entities laid down in Article 2 of the regulation clearly violate the sacrosanct rules on the right of defence of EU citizens - also enshrined in the recently proclaimed Charter of Fundamental Rights - introducing a freeze on the financial assets and resources of those concerned without any possibility of democratic and/or judicial monitoring of the evidence on the basis of which they are included on the list.
On more than one occasion - this is the fourth - the Commission has asked the European Parliament to vote in favour of restrictive measures against certain individuals and organisations in the aim of combating international terrorism without any prior debate on the issue, either in plenary or in the relevant specialised committee.
The fight against terrorism is crucial and has our support.
Everyone on the UN's list must be notified immediately of evidence against them and of formally notified suspicions concerning them.
The fact that the list, which is not made public, is approved by the sanctions committee if no one on the committee protests within 48 hours opens the way to unsubstantiated decisions.
Parliament's amendments are crucial in order to guarantee EU citizens legal certainty.
I am therefore able to support the Council regulation only in such an amended form. . (IT) The radical Members voted against this document in order to express their opposition to terrorism and to emergency policies and procedures and their support for democracy and the rule of law and for the dignity of Parliament and the Members of the European Parliament.
We voted against the motion because this is the fourth time the European Parliament has been asked to adopt 'exceptionally' a document containing several gaps which seeks to take steps to combat terrorism, and the second time it has been asked to endorse without a debate or report the decision to freeze the assets of persons and companies on the grounds that they are involved in - unspecified - terrorist activities.
We voted against the motion because it is now clear that, after 11 September, it has become standard practice to exploit the urgent procedure, using it as an emergency measure in situations that do not justify this.
Nevertheless in some sectors the risk persists.
This is an essential initiative and an effective strand of our policy on health and safety in the workplace. (Explanation of vote cut short pursuant to Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) With the proposal for a directive we are now debating, the Commission is seeking, albeit in a limited way, to refocus protection measures for the people who have hitherto been the most exposed: to review levels of exposure and re-examine the method of assessing the volume of asbestos fibres in the atmosphere; to insist on measures to prevent or reduce exposure to the minimum and to consider the assessment of risks arising from work in which exposure to asbestos is intrinsic or incidental.
With the work in the specialised parliamentary committee and in plenary we have helped to improve the report with proposals that the rapporteur, Elisa Damião, and the plenary have accepted, specifically: the need to pay particular attention to compliance with labour law, which takes on crucial importance in this sector, specifically the fight against greater job insecurity and compliance with health and safety regulations in the workplace; the need for the Member States to pay particular attention to workers' rights, specifically where health is concerned, when mines or production plants are closed; the removal of exceptions unless it is proved that the cases under consideration demonstrate no risk to the workers.
The proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin is a truly magnificent example of a mania for inappropriate regulation.
We advocate closer relations between the Member States of the European Union and the countries of the Mediterranean, and feel that this must be developed on the basis of enhancing economic and cultural relations between these countries, respecting the interests of each and every one in order to achieve development and to improve the living standards of all peoples.
Furthermore, we are concerned at the objective of defining the fight against terrorism as a central political priority, thereby disregarding the necessary consideration of its root causes such as, for example, the resolution of the conflict in the Middle East or in the Western Sahara, in the framework of the UN resolutions, or providing a response to the most basic needs and shortages that affect many populations, guaranteeing economic development and improving social conditions in the countries of the Mediterranean.
Because of its strategic importance and mainly in the context of eastward enlargement and of the new international political context that has arisen as a consequence of 11 September, the Mediterranean region warrants a sustained strengthening and deepening of euro-Mediterranean relations and consequently of the Barcelona Process.
The main aim of the Barcelona Process is to develop a euro-Mediterranean zone of peace and of shared prosperity.
It also recalls the resolution of two years ago, in which Parliament called on the EU Member States to recognise the Tibetan government-in-exile within three years in the event of the Tibetan situation stagnating or getting worse.
There is no alternative to a peaceful solution in the form of negotiations between the Chinese government and the Dalai Lama - without any preconditions.
I believe that the EU has a vital role to play in helping to shape China's economic, social and political agenda.
We cannot, of course, work miracles, but the European Union can do something - and I believe it can do a lot - for citizens who have worked all their lives and have the right to have the value of their work recognised when they have grown older and need to receive something from society in return.
It is a pity, because they clarified the aspects of pension policy for which the Member States are responsible and the - very few - aspects for which the European Union is competent.
It must be clear that there can be no question of the Commission providing funding to enable the objectives laid down in this paragraph to be met, objectives with which all of us agree.
The Commission cannot provide financial assistance: all it can do is support a process, as it does with open coordination.
Yesterday the entire Left in this House violently opposed the Barcelona proposal that it would be worthwhile and necessary for many more people over the age of 50 to work.
The French presidential candidates, Chirac and Jospin, have not made any real proposals to save our pensions, which will no doubt save them breaking their promises.
On this basis, an agreement was reached in Barcelona to increase the pensionable age by an average of five years by 2010.
In this report, we are treated to all of the current commonplaces on the subject, the main one being that the pensions problem is above all a demographic issue.
That is why I am in favour of a massive recruitment policy in the public services and a ban on mass redundancies in profit-making companies, and why I am against a cut in employers' contributions.
If we focus on assuring the mutual recognition of qualifications and invest in language training for those students who could potentially learn in another European country, we will go some way towards closing this gap.
Indeed, Europe must capitalise on the fact that for those people who want to increase their skills base and learn languages, this is the ideal destination to do so.
I feel that this resolution contains extremely positive points relating to the European Union's active policies on elderly people, in terms of both free time, work and rights of citizenship, and, most importantly, in terms of the potential for action still possessed by the elderly which they can most certainly use to the benefit of the community as a whole.
Then it seemed that social and economic reform in Moldova was making headway despite the many difficulties and obstacles.
The Moldovan Parliament must also revise its decision to abolish the parliamentary inviolability of members of the opposition and desist from any renewed suppression of that inviolability.
The internal political situation is being aggravated further by the problem of Transnistria.
I think it is important that the European Parliament clearly states its position to the Moldovan Parliament and government, as well as the party in power there, which is what is being done in this motion for a resolution.
Mr President, just over a year ago, Vlad Cubreacov visited my office in the European Parliament in Brussels.
The person who had sat in my office and with whom I had talked warmly and companionably about politics had disappeared.
Moldova needs a new future.
Moldova is a country in search of its cultural and political identity.
I suspect that, following the vote on the lifting of the immunity of two opposition politicians - something I regard as irregular - the ruling parties see themselves as victors and do not grasp what three months of mass demonstrations mean, namely that they have forfeited the confidence placed in them and that they themselves are no longer in a position to lead their country out of the crisis at the present point in time.
Developments in that country are, though, deplorable in the extreme and give grave concern not only to us but also to most of its population.
Some of them were threatened or assaulted before disappearing altogether.
My colleague, Chris Patten, has described the political situation in Moldova, especially the outstanding question of the secessionist region of Transnistria.
The fact that the Moldovan government suggested to the Council of Europe that it send an observer to Kishinev is a rare sign of encouragement and we hope that this measure will help calm the political situation.
Nonetheless, we feel that the terrible poverty in this country is not conducive to political equilibrium or compromise.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Much attention has been paid to the fact that talks have been going on between the military regime and Aung San Suu Kyi since October 2000.
However, in reality, little in the way of substantive political progress has been made.
In any civilised country he would be held up as a pillar of the community.
Instead, on 29 November last year, he was arrested for handing out a petition calling for a return to civilian rule.
Mr President, May will be the twelfth anniversary of the elections which gave Aung San Suu Kyi and her National League for Democracy 82% of parliamentary seats.
This Parliament must again call for the release of Aung San Suu Kyi and all who are wrongfully imprisoned.
Burma is poor, under-developed and its population increasingly remote from the socialist military government, which refused, in 1990, to accept the result of the last free election in that country and placed the victor of those elections, Aung San Suu Kyi, under house arrest.
Burma's rulers have driven themselves and their people into a cul-de-sac.
Certainly, we recognise that some political prisoners have been recently released and that 25 of the offices of the National League for Democracy in Rangoon have recently been allowed to re-open.
A country that tolerates freedom of expression is a stronger country with better hope for the future.
Although certain slightly less discouraging developments than in the past have been observed in Burma over the past year, we are still, in our view, a very long way from a clear commitment by the National Council for Peace and Development to restore democracy and respect international standards of human rights.
The recent Union troika which visited Burma (Myanmar) between 13 and 15 March expressed its hope that the negotiations under way between the National League for Democracy and the NCPD would continue and reiterated our hope that this process would at last bring about tangible results.
Our common position - the Union's position - needs to be renewed by 29 April.
May I assure you once more that we are prepared to review our position one way or the other if there are any positive or negative developments in Burma which give us cause to do so.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my thanks first of all to Mr Nassauer, chairman of the delegation for relations with the Member States of ASEAN, and to Mr Posselt, Mr van den Berg, Mr Maaten, Mrs McKenna and Mr Corbett for having taken this initiative.
Helping the Vietnamese authorities fight poverty has not achieved anything, especially in terms of democratising Vietnam: there is the very serious problem of the hill tribes, but there is also the problem of freedom of worship for the Christian minorities and even for the Buddhist majority.
We are therefore sorry to see that the tripartite agreement has been broken and, given the circumstances, we welcome the positive decision by the Cambodian government to allow Montagnards currently living in the refugee camps in Cambodia to return to the United States under the plan coordinated by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
However, we feel that this measure does not offer a definitive solution to the problems at the root of this exodus.
It is subject to the 1951 Convention on the Status of Refugees and should continue to offer aid, asylum and temporary protection to asylum seekers.
At the same time, we share the views expressed by the members in their resolution that Vietnam should continue in its efforts to improve protection for civil, political and religious rights.
In the case of the hill tribes in particular, the Vietnamese government can obviously only deal with these problems at a local level and that is where they must be dealt with.
Mr President, a number of countries around the world have reintroduced Sharia law in recent years, including parts of Nigeria.
Tens of millions of European citizens also share this view.
Both Nigeria and Afghanistan are members of the international community and signatories to various international conventions guaranteeing human rights.
Mr President, Commissioner, the only reason the voices of these two women, Safiya Hussaini and Hafsatu Abubakar, have reached this Chamber today from the distant regions of Sokoto and Katsina in Nigeria is because their situation is the very epitome of all that is unacceptable.
Thanks to us and because the entire international community has been moved and motivated, the authorities and national courts in Nigeria have pardoned these two martyrs to religious fundamentalism.
But how can we possibly think that these efforts suffice, when these precepts of times gone by, which victimise and condemn millions of citizens from the day they are born, continue to apply?
If all Nigerians recognised the primacy of human rights, and of course women's rights, over any religious precepts or principles, the European Union would respond by providing full support in a spirit of solidarity for the democratic and economic reforms under way in Nigeria.
The application of Sharia law affects women in particular, especially poorer women.
These arbitrary judicial proceedings and the sentences passed on these women are contrary to the fundamental rights recognised under the international conventions ratified by Nigeria.
The Nigerian Government must abide by the international conventions on human rights which it has signed, as tangible proof of its intention to institute a process of democratisation and the rule of law, guarantee economic and social dialogue and foster dialogue between communities.
Above all, we must make clear not just to the Nigerian government, but anywhere else where Sharia law applies, that the best defence against intolerance is to strengthen the secular aspects of the state and legitimate democratic order.
We also need to send out a message that no religious or other tradition or practice can take precedence over respect for fundamental human rights and the rule of law.
We, together with many men and women of democratic countries, have roused ourselves to action, and that is what saved the lives of Safiya and of Hafsatu, but, despite this victory, the Islamic court in Bakori has condemned another woman, Mrs Amina Lawal, to being stoned to death.
We are all particularly worried, both in the Union and the Commission, by the cruelty of the punishments and executions practised in application of Sharia law in a number of countries.
We also intervened on several fronts in the case of Safiya Hussaini, especially when President Prodi launched a direct appeal to President Obasanjo.
One of the fundamental elements of this agreement is respect for human rights and, in this context, equality between men and women is one aspect of the same issue.
The federal government would also appear to be worried by the incompatibility between the penal application of Sharia law and the international conventions signed by Nigeria.
We have funded a Nigerian study into Sharia law which indicates that Sharia law is poorly drafted and does in fact contradict other federal laws.
It is vital that these agreements, which have been so successful not only in Guatemala but also in other countries in Central America, reach a satisfactory conclusion.
A 2001 report by Transparency International, a German NGO that monitors and condemns government corruption worldwide, states that Guatemala is in a situation in which the democratic system is discredited to the point where its institutions are in danger.
We in this House would ask the Guatemalan government to monitor and sanction clandestine groups, to guarantee citizens' safety and to allow justice to be done, by investigating crimes that have been committed for some time now.
There is a white Creole minority that continues to dominate and marginalise millions of indigenous people who, in spite of being the majority, are completely ignored by the State.
In this way, this minority controls the judiciary, ownership, the police and the army, and I believe that, in these Latin American countries, until there is genuine democracy - as has happened in South Africa - until the indigenous minorities have power and until they are truly able to create their own State for themselves, there will be no solution to this problem of human rights violations in these countries.
In Latin America the problem is much worse and we have to be aware of this in order for Europe to be able to help in the construction of truly democratic regimes, governed by the majority.
I believe that the best way of remembering Monsignor Gerardi, the author and person responsible for this extraordinary document of historical clarification, which should today be the guide for the majority of Guatemalan judges talking about crimes committed during the civil war, is to demand that agreements be honoured, for there to be true agrarian reform, which has not taken place to date, for there to be respect for the large majority of the Guatemalan people - a respect that currently does not exist, because these people continue to live in abject poverty - for there to be an end to the increasing violence against the people and their representatives, defenders of human rights, farm-workers' representatives, trade unionists, religious leaders and people involved with the rights of the majority of the population.
We, like you, are most concerned at the increase in cases of intimidation in Guatemala, not just against human rights protesters but also against representatives of civil society, political leaders and members of non-governmental organisations and the clergy.
Then, in a joint declaration published at the end of the meeting of an advisory group on Guatemala held in Washington in February, the Commission and the Member States insisted on the need for much more consistent progress in the peace process than has been seen recently.
The purpose of this programme is to encourage the Guatemalan authorities to take the measures needed to prevent any undermining of the rule of law and step up efforts to make the country much more democratic and fair.
This initiative will be relayed over coming months in a new programme of cooperation for the benefit of the judicial system in Guatemala.
However, on 27 March, along with some 150 parliamentarians, rail-freight operators, officials, police, media and others, but with the noticeable absence of any British or French government ministers, I visited the rail-freight terminal at Fréthun.
The situation was clearly out of hand and it has got no better, in spite of undertakings by SNCF to achieve a normal service from 2 April.
Only this last Tuesday, some 100 migrants broke out of a freight train at Dollands Moor in Folkestone.
This train had apparently waited virtually unguarded at Calais for 24 hours.
This situation is unacceptable.
There are also very serious environmental and other consequences.
I now implore the Commission to take the necessary further action, including legal action against the French government, as a matter of urgency.
Businesses need fences at Fréthun, but that is also crucial to stop migrants dying.
I call on them, especially British Labour MEPs, to back Amendment No 2 on this point.
Amendment No 6 by the Socialist Group is hopelessly weak, letting governments off the hook.
Amendment No 1 is an ELDR Group amendment, which calls for the strengthening of the current inadequate intervention powers of the Commission to clear obstructions to the free movement of goods.
The refugees are Kosovars, Kurds and, nowadays, mainly Afghans.
This is the road we should be going down, obviously in the long term, with our sights set on a European refugee statute, in order to deal with this situation.
This situation is caused by the distress of thousands of refugees and displaced persons, who have had to leave countries in which they are politically, economically or socially oppressed and in which wars and conflicts are raging, often against their will and sometimes at the cost of their life.
So what we have to do is find a satisfactory long-term response to these problems and adopt a humane approach in terms of asylum and immigration policy.
We cannot continue to bury our head in the sand.
If serious problems persist at the entrance to the Channel Tunnel despite the joint efforts of the French and British governments to stop refugees trying to cross illegally, it is because we have no joint asylum policy at European level.
Every country in the European Union is affected because the difficulties we face stem from the fact that we have no harmonised asylum procedures in Europe.
In short, it is hardly a country from which we would reasonably expect people to claim political asylum and yet, night after night, hundreds of people are risking their lives in order to enter Britain through the Channel Tunnel.
The British Government must take primary responsibility for this state of affairs.
But just as Parliament must protect business and the freight industry, so Europe - but not exclusively the United Kingdom or France - has a duty to care for and protect those seeking refuge.
Mr President, two months ago we held a debate in this Chamber on obstacles to traffic in the Channel Tunnel caused by the presence of numerous refugees on the French side trying to cross to Great Britain, apparently in order to seek asylum there.
But, as this first debate was lacking, to say the least, our Conference of Presidents decided, in its wisdom, to arrange a second debate today on the same subject.
If we fail to react to this new form of immigration, the situation will soon get out of hand and become uncontrollable.
This being the case, the Commission has, for its part, already taken the relevant initiatives by submitting, to the Council and Parliament, all the proposals needed in order to ensure some sort of equal treatment between the Member States on what are obviously difficult issues.
We proposed a Council directive on asylum procedures in September 2000.
So we are still drafting this text, Mr Berthu.
As far as the fight against illegal immigration is concerned, the Council adopted an action plan on 28 February, broadly based on our proposal and highlighting the importance of cooperation with countries of origin and transit.
And we intend to launch a very broad consultation procedure on this aspect of a global immigration policy very soon on the basis of the Green Paper on the policy to repatriate illegal residents which the Commission adopted yesterday.
Mr President, a society that calls itself civilised, such as European society, which prides itself on its defence of human rights, cannot remain impassive when faced with the situation of many millions of children worldwide who are denied the rights we claim we want to defend; children condemned to death by AIDS or malnutrition, or through a lack of medical care, or who are destined to live in absolutely wretched conditions.
It is true that the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Action Plan approved at the 1990 World Summit attempt to guarantee that children are able to exercise their fundamental rights, but unfortunately, there has been no improvement at all in the situation, and children continue to be the main victims of poverty and underdevelopment, amongst other things.
But also, and above all, the Assembly should lead to a commitment to adopt more coherent and more generous development cooperation policies and policies to combat poverty, in order to guarantee every child's fundamental right to decent living conditions.
And, since the family is the fundamental unit of society and bears the main responsibility for protecting and raising children and the monitoring of their development, it is crucial that we also promote family assistance policies that contribute to the creation of the human environment that is essential to a child's development and to his or her being able, in the future, to become a useful member of the community to which he or she belongs.
Parliament must give a clear mandate to the European Union in this direction.
Therefore, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, I would ask this House to support the joint resolution we are debating and the amendments we have tabled and which were already part of the text that this Parliament approved in July 2001 for this very sitting of the United Nations, which should have taken place in September; because, with this vote, we will make the cause of children our own, the cause of the European Parliament and the cause of the European Union.
With reference to a resolution from 5 July 2001, we would emphasise that children are the first victims of the breakdown of family life.
It is a message to the world that even so-called modern Europe still realises that the family is the basic unit in which love is given to the next generation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, children are worth their weight in gold.
Just as two-way communication has been established between parents and children, such communication must also be established between children and the policy in all areas.
It would be of particular importance if the European Parliament were to take an initiative to offer children from the Member States, and also from third countries, a forum in the buildings of the European Parliament.
Finally, children are the first to suffer in war situations and from poverty and social exclusion.
Even in our own countries within the European Union, how many children fail to receive the care to which they are entitled or an environment in which they can flourish, quite simply because their parents are poor, socially excluded or immigrants with no papers?
Europe has a very important part to play.
Finally, I would add that we need to be much more coherent in our ambitions.
The Commission feels that assistance and protection for vulnerable children should be set against the wider context of the fight against poverty and hence within the framework of the Community's development cooperation.
As far as education is concerned, we recently adopted a communication on education and training as part of the bid to reduce poverty in developing countries.
As far as children involved in armed conflicts are concerned, aid is granted under a number of programmes managed by the Commission, especially the European initiative for democracy and human rights.
The entire international community, and especially the European Union, must make it clear that we expect all parties to do everything they can to ensure that this peace process is definitive and irreversible.
The new dialogue, set up immediately between the government and Unita representatives and born of a common will to restore peace, has the support of the entire international community.
In a word, it could bring its people back to life.
Nature has given this country sufficient resources and wealth to deliver it from need and give it the best conditions of life on earth.
There is no country more in need or more willing to follow the democratic rules and respect for human rights suggested by the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, we have sufficient grounds for holding today's debate on the situation in Angola with a considerably greater degree of optimism and hope than in previous debates.
In order for this new era to become a reality on which there can be no going back, however, what is needed now more than ever before is the support and the commitment of all Angola's political and social forces to ensure the mobilisation of the commitment and resources which exist and which are crucial to the new country that seems to want to come into being.
In this context and at the same time as the essential and definitive end to Unita's military activity and its total demilitarisation, it is also important to guarantee and provide incentives for its full integration into the normal political life of Angola as an unarmed political party.
Still crucial, furthermore, is the active and positive contribution of the international community, including the European Union, specifically in terms of providing urgent humanitarian aid for the Angolan people and, more generally, in terms of the country's reconstruction.
Where the European Union is concerned, and given the state of weakness and destruction that country is in and the enormous amount of work on reconstruction and rehabilitation that must be undertaken, as well as the importance of this country in the regional framework, special attention and support are clearly justified as is even, perhaps, the adoption of a specific aid programme for the consolidation of peace and for the reconstruction of Angola.
The measures and instruments already adopted appear to be a step in the right direction.
This is a time for optimism and all our action must be determined by unlimited support for turning the hope that the Angolans have today into reality.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by awarding the Sakharov Prize recently to the Angolan archbishop, Zacarias Kamuenho, the European Parliament wished to support the struggle of all those who were working for peace in Angola, against the implacable logic of violence and war.
This extraordinary people now has the right to peace, to freedom, to democracy and to progress.
They are all hoping for a solution to their tragedy.
The return of peace and the reconstruction of Angola will have to address this situation, which is a genuine human disaster.
Peace and democracy will only truly be achieved in Angola when the monopoly of power is brought to an end and the diversity of political opinion can be expressed without hesitation or fear, when power is made truly democratic and when there is a fair and equitable distribution of resources.
In fact, unless civil society comes fully to the fore in Angola, everything could become more fragile, limited and uncertain.
We are encouraging the two sides to take measures to involve representatives of the whole of Angolan civil society, including the clergy, who have played an active role here, as Mr Lage has just pointed out, in discussions to bring about national reconciliation and sustainable peace.
The strategy in the long term is currently being discussed both with the government and civil society and at Commission and Union level.
We are endeavouring, with this strategy, to forge very close, very permanent and very coherent links between aid, rehabilitation and development, which are the three problems we have to cope with.
The next item is the joint debate of the following three motions for resolutions: (B5-0218/2002) by Fernández Martín and others, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on flooding in Santa Cruz in Tenerife; (B5-0231/2002) by Marset Campos and others, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on torrential rain in Tenerife and climate change; (B5-0237/2002) by Medina Ortega and others, on behalf of the PSE Group, on torrential rain in Tenerife and Eastern Spain and climate change.
Mr President, on 31 March, in the space of two hours, 224 litres/m2 of rain fell on Santa Cruz de Tenerife, in the Canary Islands; a violent downpour which caused a great deal of destruction.
The local community, European neighbours, the fire brigade, medical services, the police, the regional government and the Spanish Government all lent their support.
I think that Parliament needs to be sensitive to this loss of both human life and over 400 homes, and ask the Commission to provide economic assistance, to provide European support for the Canary Islands and the Autonomous Community of Valencia, which have both suffered the devastating effects of the climate change that has been affecting the Mediterranean region recently and, on this particular occasion, the Canary Islands.
For example, large infrastructures under development in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, created under the Urban programme, have been destroyed, and they need to be rebuilt.
We have the sad task of having to pass on our sincere condolences to the families of victims who died in the floods and of all those who were injured but next, and in order to provide for all eventualities, we also need to adopt the appropriate means to demonstrate, in real figures from the budget, the solidarity of all Europeans with the suffering caused to families, goods and infrastructures in these two Spanish regions.
We need to take into account the fact that competition in local building and construction work is undertaken on a local, regional and national scale.
The relevance of this from the Community point of view is that the European Union was generous enough to make a large financial contribution to the Urban plan in the city of Santa Cruz de Tenerife itself.
The issue now, without questioning whether these funds were used properly, or whether they took due account of environmental considerations, is that we are clearly failing to see that urban development in island regions such as the Canaries, and in other outermost regions, has resulted in what we could call abusive land use, without taking other considerations into account.
Perhaps the lesson we can learn from this type of occurrence is that the European Union now has a wealth of knowledge on building in areas that are exposed to potentially catastrophic torrential rain, not only in Spain, but also in France, the UK, Germany, practically throughout the Community, in fact.
We saw the effects after Kyoto, with certain large nations deciding not to support the position taken by the European Union.
It is not only the United States - which is the prime mover in this - there are other countries such as Australia, and countries in Eastern Europe, where this problem needs to be tackled.
Unfortunately, on 31 March, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, one of the capitals of the Canary Islands, which is an outermost region of the European Union and an Objective 1 region, some of whose works are being carried out under the Urban initiative - as has just been pointed out - suffered a natural disaster on a huge scale.
For this reason, a public campaign was launched to repair the damage caused and to make Santa Cruz de Tenerife a town fit for habitation once more.
The Community funds this measure to the tune of over EUR 20 million and, again under rural development policy for the community of Valencia, the integrated operational programme includes a forestry measure which makes provision for reforestation following natural disasters and preventive instruments.
The Community provides over EUR 13 million for this and, as with the ERDF, it is up to the Spanish authorities to restructure their priorities within their programming budget as and where necessary in order to deal with the consequences of this disaster.
However, we consider that climate change is the most serious ecological threat we have to face and, as such, the agreements brokered in Bonn and Marrakech are successful additions to the multilateral approach to the fight against climate change.
Yesterday, Wednesday, Questions to the Council were cut by 35 minutes because the agenda was so full up.
