I would like to ask you whether you are prepared to write a letter or contact the Austrian Government to express your concern about the restriction of the freedom of expression and to point out the obligations which the government has in this respect and which it cannot escape unilaterally.
Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg.
We are investigating the matter you have just told us about very carefully.
Madam President, yesterday, the European Parliament decided by democratic majority no longer to convene in Strasbourg on Fridays.
Everyone has their own personal and political responsibility.
Mrs Van der Laan, you will agree that even when entrusted with the office of President of the European Parliament, we remain free politicians.
Madam President, I would like to make you aware of something very inconvenient which happened to me which, in my opinion, undermines the dignity of the Members of this Parliament.
Mr Mauro, what happened to you is totally unacceptable.
Please let me have a note as soon as possible so that I can take it up with the authorities concerned.
I have a letter from you, Madam President, dated 6 April, in which it was agreed by the College of Quaestors that the area around the Chambers in Brussels and Strasbourg should be regarded as a neutral zone in which demonstrations, exhibitions or similar activities intended to influence Members would not be tolerated.
I hope that you and the College of Quaestors will take this seriously because it is an encroachment on the right of Members to come to this House and vote freely on issues that their electors have sent them here to debate.
The Portuguese Presidency has always tried to maintain a frank, open and constructive relationship with the European Parliament, both with the plenary and its committees.
It is in this spirit that I will present our preview of the Feira European Council.
Lunch will be devoted to the Intergovernmental Conference and, in particular, closer cooperation.
The afternoon session will be devoted to the issues of enlargement of the Union, the common European security and defence policy and external relations.
The Intergovernmental Conference will come to the European Council through the presentation of a report by the Presidency.
I would highlight the formation and entry into force of the new political and military bodies and civilian crisis management bodies for the first time in the history of the European Union and also the approval of the rules governing relations between the EU and NATO and between the EU and third countries.
The decision taken on the location of all these bodies, in terms of buildings and installations, should also be stressed.
We have also recognised full applicant status for Turkey, approved the framework regulation and accession partnership, and also a unique financial framework, and we have held the first Association Council with a view to adequately preparing for assessment.
As for the state of enlargement negotiations, given that yesterday and the day before we held 12 consecutive Intergovernmental Accession Conferences with the 12 applicants, the following negotiating chapters are now closed: 16 with Cyprus, 13 with Estonia and the Czech Republic, 12 with Slovenia, 11 with Hungary and Poland, 7 with Malta, 6 with Slovakia, 5 with Romania, Latvia and Lithuania and 4 with Bulgaria.
The potential of this new model of external representation of the Union is considerable and it is fair to say that the next few months will demonstrate this.
The presidency has already drawn up and submitted the report on the Intergovernmental Conference.
In the oral question to the Commission, we requested clarification regarding its undertaking to reorganise the Treaties and provide a fresh perspective on the problems of governance, points on which the Commission had already made its opinion clear.
In our oral question to the Council, we requested clarification of the issue of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and its incorporation into the Treaties.
The importance of the Feira Summit has been rightly highlighted at this delicate stage in the process of European integration and I want to start by saying that the Commission expects this European Council to provide the political impetus for adapting the Union before the great enlargement.
Both Mr Napolitano and Mr Gama mentioned the first: genuine institutional reform right now.
The Commission is committed to effective and rapid follow-up to the Lisbon European Council - that is the least that might be expected of it.
I would also like to testify here, if I may, Madam President - because I participate conscientiously in the work of the group - to the very active part taken in that work, under your authority, by your two representatives, Elmar Brok and Professor Tsatsos.
Ladies and gentlemen, with the Presidency report now available, the Feira European Council should give us a snapshot of the progress accomplished so far and I hope that snapshot will be 'proactive' - as we can expect after listening to Mr Gama.
I am especially thinking of the progress on what I consider the most important item in the negotiations: the extension of qualified majority voting and, consequently, the extension of codecision.
In the debate now in progress about the future and purpose of the European Union, the essential first stage is definitely putting the Union into working order now to make the enlargement a success.
The draft basic treaty, presented at our request by the Institute of Florence does, I think, demonstrate the legal feasibility of this exercise.
But as you yourself have said, Madam President, we must at least make a start on it, at the latest in Nice.
Mr Napolitano mentioned the report on governance announced by President Prodi.
The Commission hopes the work of the convention drafting this Charter will be completed before the end of the year.
The Charter should create added value, without affecting the acquis in the Treaty, by codifying in a single text all the fundamental rights upheld by the Union and adding the fundamental economic and social rights which form a part of that acquis, plus some new limited rights.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about the Commission' s second great priority: the development of foreign policy and a genuine European security and defence policy.
As the Council President mentioned, following Helsinki, negotiations are now in progress with all the candidate countries.
That said, from now on, we who are already in the Union must set out to explain the coming great enlargement better and give the citizens of our countries better information about it.
That is what the initiative taken with you by Günther Verheugen is about, and we attach great importance to this public debate he will be taking part in, because we are aware of a feeling of disquiet among citizens in all our countries, a need to understand, and a growing sensitivity to the issue of enlargement.
The defence ministers have been involved in that work and at Feira the European Council will be presented with a progress report measuring, as you said, Minister, what has been accomplished under the Portuguese Presidency, and it will draw up guidelines for the work ahead.
The Commission is contributing actively to these developments, in particular as regards civilian crisis management.
On this point, Chris Patten recently submitted a proposal for a regulation to the Council, to create a rapid reaction force.
The Commission has also undertaken an in-depth review of its own organisation and procedures in the area of foreign policy, in order to adapt them to these new challenges.
Under foreign policy, the European Council will in particular be debating the situation in the Western Balkans and the implementation of the common strategy towards Russia.
The Council should also adopt the common strategy for the Mediterranean region.
For the Western Balkans, the Commission will continue to work with the Member States and with the Secretary General, Javier Solana, to achieve a rapprochement, a real rapprochement, between the countries concerned and the European Union, through a stabilisation and association process.
First, the European Commission, along with the entire international community, was delighted at the Israeli Government' s decision of 24 May to withdraw from South Lebanon, in line with United Nations Security Council Resolutions 425 and 426.
We should pay tribute to the Prime Minister of the State of Israel, Ehud Barak, for having taken this difficult decision after 22 years of occupation.
The Commission has already sent a mission to evaluate reconstruction needs in situ.
Likewise, following the death of President Harez el Assad, the Union must also encourage a smooth political transition process in Syria, as well as continuing economic reform and modernisation in that country through a strengthening of the rule of law, through a strengthening of human rights and through political pluralism.
Talks between Syria and Israel will be able to find fresh impetus in this new political context and could lead to a just and durable peace agreement.
Finally, the Feira European Council' s agenda will include the common Mediterranean strategy, which many of you, quite rightly, value highly.
Not only will it contribute to strengthening the Barcelona process with a view to the forthcoming Euro-Mediterranean Summit in Marseilles, it will also help consolidate the European Union' s contribution to the peace process.
Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk about the effective and rapid follow-up to the Lisbon European Council, which the Commission is very committed to, just as it is committed to the proper preparation of this Council.
That is reflected in falling unemployment rates everywhere, even though there are still too many pockets of poverty within the Member States.
In this improved context, the Commission, the Council and Parliament must act together to make the Lisbon objectives a reality, not contenting ourselves with words and hopes, but putting them into practice.
Together with the Council, we have presented a draft action plan to make the eEurope initiative a reality as from 2002.
Feira should approve this plan and I want to underline two key factors in the programme presented by Erkki Liikanen: first the reform of the regulatory environment for communications and electronic commerce, then, access for all citizens, especially young people, to the resources and qualifications needed in the communication and information age.
The high level working group on social protection is preparing its interim report on the modernisation and improvement of social protection.
I also want to stress the major role played by this House in all these issues.
We trust the Feira European Council will acknowledge all the progress made.
But the European Council must also provide fresh impetus for intensifying these efforts, particularly in the areas where short term action is still necessary to achieve the Lisbon objectives.
All this requires a commitment from all the operators involved and the political impetus to introduce the necessary measures, but in our turn we must convert this political will, ladies and gentlemen, when the time comes, into priority expenditure, both by the Union and by the Member States.
There again, perhaps Feira can point us in that direction.
First, the one Pedro Solbes will report on: the main economic policy guidelines and the coordination that goes with them, essential for a better balance between the two pillars of economic and monetary union.
We are persuaded that the guidelines thus defined are, with the Luxembourg, Cardiff and Cologne processes, essential for proper progress towards the Lisbon objectives.
Finally, the fiscal package.
On 18 June there will be a special Ecofin Council, and we hope it will open the way to an agreement, provided all the parties demonstrate goodwill and a desire to reach a conclusion.
I want to say, on behalf of the Commission, how very active the Portuguese Presidency really has been.
But a European Council is also the result of the effort made by each institution.
So I feel sure that the effort everyone has made will result in the Feira European Council making progress possible on all these fundamental issues, responding better to the challenges of the Union as a whole, responding better to the expectations of the citizens of our fifteen countries, but also to the expectations I mentioned just now, those of the citizens of the twelve countries of Central, Eastern, Baltic and Mediterranean Europe who are soon going to join us.
Thank you, Mr Barnier.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, next week' s summit in Feira could be an important summit if the work it is to do is carried out properly.
The procedures to be agreed in Feira for the future of the European Union represent a significant step along this path.
Firstly, the Intergovernmental Conference must be concluded in Nice this winter, but not just for the sake of completing it, but rather in order to achieve a satisfactory outcome.
Secondly, we witnessed major changes in Europe in 1989-90, not to mention before and since then.
The peoples of Central Europe are anxious to join our Community of values.
We must not create the impression that these Central European peoples are not welcome in our Community of values.
I would like to call on you personally to do everything in your power to make sure that we send a signal to the peoples of Central Europe that they are welcome to join us!
You have talked about extending the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference.
Commissioner Barnier has talked about majority voting.
Commissioner Barnier talked about a basic treaty.
I support the endeavours to create a strong Europe, indeed we have always supported them, but in the framework of the Western Alliance, and not separately from our American friends, but complementing them and as partners with equal rights.
If we want to supplement Article 191 of the Treaty, and the Commission is to present a proposal to the IGC to that effect, then it must be possible to deal with this at the IGC and ultimately to supplement the Treaty if we are to make progress on the subject of European political parties.
This is about paragraph 8 of the political groups' motion for a resolution.
Mr President-in-Office, everyone will probably see this differently, but this issue is casting a shadow over the European Union.
We know that in Denmark, support for the euro in the run-up to the referendum in September is rapidly waning because of the Austrian issue, as in Denmark, this is viewed as interference in the internal affairs of the smaller states.
If you succeed, it will be a success for all of us, for the entire continent of Europe!
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, it is no cliché to say that, on the eve of the European Council in Feira, this is a decisive moment for the European Union.
This debate reflects the political will of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, and also Parliament as a whole, who wish to achieve an ambitious agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference.
With regard to the Intergovernmental Conference, it is important that President Herzog appears before the European Council in Feira.
I would like to point out that, when we talk about the community of values, - and there have been recent opportunities to do so, such as the formation of the new Austrian Government - we must demand that the Charter of Fundamental Rights be clearly included in the Treaty in order to fulfil the purpose of Articles 6 and 7 of that Treaty.
Furthermore, although the Treaty of the European Union recognises European citizenship, until now, economic and social, individual and collective rights have not been developed.
It is completely contradictory to have citizenship without rights.
One is, for Parliament, that decisions made by qualified majority should be accompanied by the codecision procedure, and the second point is that we must favour integration over closer cooperation, because what we are actually doing is integrating.
In the economic field, what we need is greater coordination of economic, social and employment policies.
We must implement the conclusions of the European Council in Lisbon, which are positive and have achieved a broad consensus in this Parliament as well, but this requires that we increase our capacity for economic government.
I believe that it is also important for the Commission, with regard to the Balkans, to take account of the fact that there is a country which could become a bridge - having before been a barrier - towards the Balkans, and that is Croatia.
Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Middle East.
I agree that the Israeli withdrawal from Southern Lebanon is very important and we must support Barak, but we should also intensify our partnership with Syria and Lebanon.
We must have an active policy in order to contribute towards resolving the dramatic problem of the Palestinian refugees, and we can actively offer ideas and resources in order to ensure that the Middle East peace process will make decisive progress, which would also lead to a greater opening up and intensification of the Euro-Mediterranean process.
All of these elements are on the agenda and I hope that the European Council in Feira will make progress.
Madam President, I should like, on behalf of the Liberal Democrat Group, to begin by recording our thanks to the Portuguese presidency and our appreciation of its willingness to engage constantly with this Parliament, with its committees and with its groups.
I cite qualified majority voting as an example.
We are prepared to engage in the debate on closer cooperation and welcome the way it has been put to us by a number of important political personalities outside this House.
But there are some caveats: we hope that speculation on long-term reform will not be the enemy of necessary radical reform in the immediate period ahead.
We believe it is important not to signal to existing Member States or to candidate states that any of us would contemplate a Europe of first- and second-class citizens in terms of statehood and membership.
My group would appreciate it if the Council at Feira would try to make an evaluation of the quality of relations between the Fourteen and Austria.
I asked him to send to me a copy of the list that is available of persons and agencies in civil society in Austria who have become isolated from various educational, social or cultural events in Europe.
Regardless of intergovernmental diplomacy, it is intolerable that we should isolate the common citizens of a state.
If there is any way that we in Parliament and my group can assist, we are ready to try to do so.
Relations between the European Union and NATO are converging so quickly that the non-aligned countries are in a very precarious situation, although they want to make a full contribution to the promotion of national security.
I was recently in New York at a conference on women' s issues.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, a year ago, almost to the day, the European elections were marked by massive abstentions, confirming that there is a crisis of confidence amongst citizens as regards the European institutions.
When you were preparing for the Portuguese Presidency, Mr President-in-Office, I presume you were determined to send a strong message to the public.
And you effectively relaunched the idea of full employment, emphasised the importance of lifelong training, and stressed the considerable challenge represented by the information revolution.
Madam President, President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the Feira European Council represents a fresh opportunity for this House to express its opinion on the various political issues forming the EU agenda.
Firstly, on Austria, clearly we do not harbour any sympathies for political extremism but we must condemn the ill-timed reaction of 14 Member States to the formation of a democratically elected government before this had even had the chance to start governing.
The Portuguese Presidency was willing to take on the role of spokesperson for the Member States last February, wrongly in our opinion, despite the issue always having been a bilateral issue, as was clearly agreed between the 14 Member States.
The distinctive act of the Portuguese Presidency should be to recognise and defend political equality between the Member States as a corollary to maintaining the balance between the large and small countries and between these and the European Union itself.
This will should be shown through three essential aspects: firstly the defence of the major European causes of peace, freedom and economic and social development which must underlie the negotiations with the applicant countries; secondly the promotion of the merit of each country as the only condition to be imposed on accession, and thirdly the maintenance of the economic and social cohesion of the current 15 Member States.
Austria, the Intergovernmental Conference, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and enlargement are four issues requiring four different responses.
This is what we expect from the meeting at Feira of the Heads of State and Government on the Portuguese Presidency.
Mr President, President Gama, Commissioner Barnier, in Feira, France will take over from Portugal to complete the IGC, the impossible reform of taxation on savings, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, defence policy, and sanctions against Austria.
Portugal has had a difficult presidency, with the collapse of the euro, and the collapse of the new economy, and, in Lisbon, had to deal with many problems like unemployment, the loss of Macao, the arrival of imitation port from South Africa, and even the arrival of the great criminal Rezala in your country, Mr President.
The broadcasting rights could be paid to Kosovo, Iraq or the victims of the construction of Europe.
In official speeches, everyone welcomes enlargement of the EU from 15 to 30 Member States, but that objective is receding ever further, and more and more obstacles are being placed in the path of the unification of Europe' s nation States.
The Feira Summit will give the green light particularly to close cooperation between the most developed and the most federally minded nations.
Human rights, the arts, transport and foreign and security policy could also become areas for which European bodies such as the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe are responsible.
The common market could also, of course, be opened up to all European countries.
Mr President, dismayed as I am about the continuing prejudgement of Austria by 14 Member States, I would like to stress that the Santa Maria da Feira Summit will be vital for the further development of the European Union.
For one thing, it will determine whether the Portuguese Presidency will go down in history as the presidency which upheld the wrongful decision on the part of those 14 Member States against Austria, or, instead, as the presidency which found a way out of this unfortunate period of disregard for European solidarity and lack of respect for the democratic processes within Member States.
Over a year ago, it looked as if the disastrously low turnout in the European elections would at least have the helpful effect of initiating a fundamental debate about the structure of the European Union.
The programme we have heard today does not give us cause for any great hope.
Mr President, the forthcoming European Council in Feira will mark the end of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union.
We do not understand why the President-in-Office has allowed confusion to arise between his institutional position as President of the European Union and his role as spokesperson for the bilateral decisions of 14 Member States against one.
The Portuguese Presidency assumed a special responsibility in this issue and we hope that it will solve the problem at the Feira European Council so that this does not become a sore point within the European Union.
The idea that everything will be decided at the last minute seems too much a justification of a fait accompli policy and must be rejected immediately.
We therefore hope that the Feira European Council will produce not just a statement of positions but also a plan, a project or an idea on the changes to the Intergovernmental Conference.
On this third point we had the opportunity yesterday to debate the proposals with the Presidency and in particular the issues which will be on the agenda at Feira.
The second point of the triangle is social and economic cohesion.
With regard to the issues of racism and xenophobia, we must fight these at the roots and prevent them from gaining ground and being used in speeches of the extreme right which we all reject but which it seems that some only reject in speeches but not in practice.
This Parliament contributed positively and constructively, as Commissioner Barnier witnessed, so that the work of the IGC could be started in February.
Mr President, the drafting of the Charter has now reached a critical phase.
We have drafted 60 clauses and provoked 1000 amendments.
This prejudice must be suppressed by the Feira Council if the project is to succeed.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the European Union will only be able to play its historic role if it decides to be more than the sum of its Member States.
As representatives of the European peoples without their own state, we want the European Union to be a community of citizens, on the one hand, and correspond to the reality of peoples and regions and their political entities, on the other.
In our opinion, the institutional reforms which it is hoped Feira will bring are sound but insufficient in our eyes.
We fear, for example, that the refusal to develop a true federal authority will result in a common foreign and security policy which cannot really function properly.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese Presidency has certainly had a difficult task this semester, for it had to set in motion an Intergovernmental Conference which will finish during the term of the next Presidency and, therefore, there was every possibility that governments would be uncooperative and play for time so that the next Presidency would reap the benefits of the work carried out.
Certainly, we expected more from this first stage of the Intergovernmental Conference.
From the point of view of the institutions, the current impasse is certainly extremely serious.
Today, the European Parliament is going to call strongly upon the Portuguese Presidency to uphold the need for integration, for political will, or the European Union crisis will become a general crisis, as Minister Joschka Fischer quite rightly pointed out yesterday.
The institutions of the European Union, and this House in particular, have still not grasped this very elementary insight.
On 28 September of this year, the Danish people, who have the privilege of being able to vote in referenda, will send out a decisive signal when we vote against joining the euro.
This 'no' vote will, first of all, mean that our friends and brethren in Sweden and Great Britain will also vote against and, secondly, it will send out a crucial signal to the summits in Feira and Nice to the effect that one ought to be guided by the terrain, which is more important than the ideological map.
It is based on fundamental principles, listed in Article 6 of the Treaty, which many of us have seen called into question in one particular Member State.
In the PPE we have analysed - in my humble opinion, objectively and competently - the political situation in Austria and we have agreed, within our political family, on a system of conditions and of monitoring which we pray will make a positive contribution to the resolution of this crisis.
These have been lively months internationally.
Israel, Syria and the Lebanon are living through intense time in terms of national politics, as has been said this morning in this House.
I believe that these circumstances offer a new opportunity for definitive peace in the region.
Therefore, we have to demand of our Heads of Government and of the European Commission that they take the responsibility which the circumstances demand of the European Union, by increasing our joint political presence, of course, but also in the economic field, concluding the associations agreements once and for all, and implementing the Barcelona agreements more quickly.
We also think it is important to mention that the conference agenda is a full one, and we are expecting a positive result from it - a result which allows the European Union to operate in its present state.
But these are two parallel exercises.
I also hope the Intergovernmental Conference agenda will be flexible enough for us to be in a position to add an item or two, here or there, depending on the progress of the work.
I am also thinking about the reform of Article 7.
The debate initiated by President Herzog' s speech must clearly highlight the European Council' s commitment to the indivisibility of rights and the convention' s task of drafting a Charter rich in content, which respects the full Cologne mandate, civil and political rights, but also economic and social rights.
Yes, but what use will it be to incorporate a Charter if the content is disappointing?
But for that it seems to me we also need the debate at the Feira European Council to give us a political signal.
The Presidency has just announced that closer cooperation will be discussed at the Intergovernmental Conference.
However, there are many different ways of defining closer cooperation and, in our opinion, certain criteria must be respected.
The first is total observance of the acquis communautaire; the second is the abolition of the right of veto for every Member State; the third is full respect of the roles of Parliament, the Commission and the Court of Justice in the decision-making procedures with regard to the initial introduction and implementation of closer cooperation.
This Charter will only be a success if it has binding legal status - its content must, of course, be sound, but it must also have legal status - or it will serve absolutely no purpose - and if it includes other new rights such as the right to a safe environment and a number of fundamental social rights such as the right to belong to a trade union and the right to strike.
Mr President, I would also like to draw the attention of the Portuguese Presidency to the fact that the aim of Article 8 of our resolution is, from within the European Parliament, to make a positive contribution to resolving the running conflict with Austria.
I am therefore urging you to also assess the actions of the Austrian Government and to look for creative solutions in order to break the deadlock.
Mr President, many have already pointed to the need for enlargement and the fear that has swept countries in Central and Eastern Europe that, with regard to the IGC, too little progress is being made and that, along with this, the chance for rapid enlargement will pass.
Finally, Mr President, good governance is all well and good in theory, but let us also look at what is happening in practice.
If the Kosovo agency in Thessaloniki is still caught up in so much red-tape that funding cannot be made available, then this is extremely serious.
Jacques Chirac and Gerhard Schröder announced that their countries are prepared for deeper integration as a core group, failing, however, to illustrate its nature or extent.
Mr President, I believe that the quantity and quality of the speakers on the Charter of Fundamental Rights illustrates the importance this House attaches to it.
I believe that it would be of great help to the Convention if, in its conclusions, the European Council could make a statement on the future of the Charter, because it appears at the moment that its formulation has demonstrated that the Charter is of interest to the people.
The participation of the NGOs, the participation of ordinary people, clearly show that Europeans are interested in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The institutional questions of the Intergovernmental Conference are enormously important, but they do not reach the people.
I believe that the Charter of Fundamental Rights does reach the people.
Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I pray that in the Feira conclusions, which we will all read with enormous interest, the Charter will receive the boost that it deserves, so that the Convention will be able to complete its work properly.
In that way we will fulfil the mandate of Salvador de Madariaga, for whom Europe would become a reality only when it is a reality in the minds of the citizens.
This European Council, as has been said, will have a very full agenda with the Intergovernmental Conference, the approval to include closer cooperation and other items.
On the contrary, it is advancing on both its internal fronts and also in external relations, which is extremely important.
All these points are extremely important.
As you know, this is a bilateral issue between 14 countries, which are also Member States, and one country which is a Member State too.
Mr Poettering and Mr Barón Crespo, I hereby confirm the commitment I made to you yesterday on behalf of the Commission on the status of European political parties.
The Commission will shoulder its responsibilities.
And, with the support of your President, it is planning to use the next trialogue to identify the ideal approach, in agreement with the three institutions, but in the meantime we are getting the initiative ready.
You are right to highlight the strategic nature of the country, formerly part of Yugoslavia.
Mr President, the Commission is currently preparing for negotiations which should open before the end of the year for an association and stabilisation agreement with Croatia.
Mr President, the Commission is doing its duty and shouldering its responsibilities.
This is particularly true when it is faithful to the guidelines and decisions of a European Council.
Mr Wurtz, you know very well that Brussels is not the only place, and I smile when I say this, where politicians of right or left meet employers.
Mr Fischer and others have provided oxygen, a horizon.
The first deadline to be met, as you said, Mr President, is the reform deadline so that we are in a good position to undertake enlargement and also so that other reforms can follow.
So let us keep to those deadlines and dedicate ourselves, in the few months that lie ahead, to success in the negotiations.
And, as far as I am concerned, the quality of reform is more important than the timetable.
With the Portuguese Presidency coming to an end and the French Presidency about to begin, we must now put all our energies into achieving real reform at Nice to make enlargement possible, as well as other reforms later, if need be.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today.
We should not allow this plenary session to pass without paying some attention to the fact that the Nobel laureate and Sakharov Prize winner, Aung San Suu Kyi, is still denied her freedom.
Next Monday, Aung San Suu Kyi will be 55 years old.
The military junta in Burma refused permission for him to see her.
I think that it would have been better if the majority in this House had paid greater attention to the legal basis and had checked it more carefully, and if it had paid more attention to the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on that matter.
But, in addition, there is another error, namely that the following words have been included in the English text: "with all the parties in the EU concerned", and those words are quite simply not included in the Danish text.
I would urge that a correct Danish translation of the text be obtained, for I find it a very serious matter that, in point 8 concerning Austria, these two mistakes have been made which, from a political point of view, completely alter the sense.
Reference is made to a 'European interparliamentary body on security and defence' .
Initially I had proposed the term 'forum' , but discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy produced a compromise and we agreed o use an equivalent of the French 'organe' instead.
But I wanted to highlight that point so that the various language versions can be corrected.
There are delays in pension payments in all 15 of the Member States.
Mr President, at second reading I voted against both the reduction in the payment period from 30 to 21 days, and against the proposed interest level of 8%.
Hence the interest in adopting legislation aimed at harmonising the provisions relating to late payment, due dates and the legal rate of interest at European level as soon as possible.
A legal framework needs to be established to discourage late payment and give creditors the right to fair compensation in case of late payment.
The negotiations on this text were difficult.
A common position was finally adopted on 29 May last.
The European Parliament emerged from those long negotiations victorious on several crucial points.
On interest, Parliament and the Council reached agreement on a rate of 7% above Central European Bank rate, making a total of 10.5% at the present time.
The European Parliament wanted to reduce the period after which interest is due for late payment to 21 days from the date of receipt of the invoice rather than 30 days as envisaged by the Council.
In the end the period of 30 days was maintained, but with the proviso that it may give rise to action for compensation if it constitutes a manifest abuse against the creditor.
Meanwhile, the project continues to sink into the bureaucratic bog.
Nearly 40% of small and medium sized enterprises in the region have trading links with other EU Member States.
In a few years' time, following the enlargement of the European Union, they will have access to a potential 500m customers - as big as the American and Japanese markets put together.
I voted against this measure.
Through its actions, the Swedish Government has helped obscure this fact in the course of the debate of recent years.
There is also a lack of consistency when, on the one hand, exports of Swedish snuff to other EU countries are banned for health reasons and, on the other hand, appeal is made to the free market, and health aspects are set aside on the issue of imports of alcohol.
We think it very unfortunate that the Swedish Social Democratic Government has chosen not to pursue this issue more vigorously.
Because we consider that both the Swedish Government and the European Commission have acted incorrectly on this issue, we choose to signal our rejection of their approach by abstaining in the vote on the extension to Sweden' s derogation from the Council Directive.
Meeting of the European Council in Feira (RC B5-0522/2000) Mr President, I would like to make it known, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, that we have abstained in the vote on the final resolution, despite the fact that we clearly support the resolution on the issues which are within the competence of the European Council in Feira, that is to say, the Intergovernmental Conference and the economic and social agenda.
With regard to the case of Austria, we understand that, firstly, the European Parliament' s resolution, which was voted for at the time, is still in force, since no new events have occurred; because it is not a Community issue as such, but has been raised by the fourteen Member States; because, furthermore, my Group supported President Klestil' s appearance and we took good note of his positive proposals, which are in fact related to issues which come within the competence of the Commission - which is not present - such as the application of Article 7 and the strengthening of our community of values.
Mr President, there seems to be a trial of strength going on behind the scenes, during preparations for next week' s Feira European Council, between those who want to extend the Intergovernmental Conference agenda and those who want to cut it.
It gives me some satisfaction to say that the second category looks like winning, which suits us fine.
As I have already had occasion to say in this House and in the forum responsible for drawing up the Charter, it would certainly be useful to proclaim our common values - if it is done well - but we must not deprive our peoples of the freedom to define the rights of their own citizens themselves.
I am speaking on behalf of the Italian Radicals in this explanation of vote to justify our vote in favour, stressing that, in spite of everything, this resolution contains important points, including the need for dialogue, the need to get past the stage of pseudo-sanctions against Austria - which has not been constructive - and make sure the Minutes state that the vote also includes an important request we formulated last April and which we now reiterate: review of the seat of the institutions.
Parliament has spoken very clearly.
I think it is high time account was taken in the Treaty reforms of our determination to insist finally on a status that makes us masters of our own procedure, and masters of our own decisions as to the seat and meeting place of our institution.
Mr Dell' Alba, with regard to the first part of your intervention, we are indeed in the throes of internal reform of this House.
The debate has started and your opinion on the explanations of vote will also certainly be of value in due course.
Mr President, I noted that Amendment No 11 included the proposition that the Community should take action in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity only if and insofar as the objectives of the proposed actions cannot be adequately achieved by the Member States or - and I emphasis this - their constituent states with legislative powers that have been conferred on them by national constitutional law.
I regret that the topic of subsidiarity is substantially missing from the Feira resolution.
The intention in the resolution is that the Charter of Fundamental Rights should be incorporated into the Treaty in the course of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr President, I am speaking briefly to justify my abstention.
But, given the circumstances, I could not vote in favour of paragraph 8 on Austria.
Although, unfortunately, not everything I had hoped for appears in the joint resolution - in particular, the need for a framework directive on public services - I find many of the proposals acceptable, and on all those points it is undoubtedly one of the best resolutions we have dealt with in the current political composition of the European Parliament.
However, I find myself unable to support it because of the inclusion of paragraph 8 on Austria.
I was proud of the EU when it imposed sanctions on Austria when the new coalition formed because of the views and actions of the Freedom Party: a party whose policies have xenophobia running through them like Blackpool through rock; a leader who has praised Hitler and the Waffen SS, refused to condemn terrorist bombings against Roma and congratulates Nazi war veterans for keeping to their principles.
The new revision of the Treaties being promoted at the Intergovernmental Conference will be the main item on the agenda at the Feira Summit.
As always, the Communist Party of Greece will be standing firmly by their side. - (DA) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted neither for nor against the joint resolution concerning preparations for the European Council in Feira on 19 and 20 June 2000.
However, the resolution also contains a long section about the current Intergovernmental Conference and, in this connection, we should like to repeat that our vote in favour of the overall resolution does not alter our basic view that extending the agenda and turning the Treaty into a constitution, with the Charter of Fundamental Rights incorporated into it with binding legal effect, will not enhance the possibility of achieving a satisfactory result in Nice in December, something which is absolutely crucial if the enlargement is to be able to go ahead once the countries concerned are ready.
In my opinion, it is not a question of being against the principle of returning relations with Austria to normal.
It is a question of the right opportunity and time for this political change to occur.
A resolution on the European Council should specify that it is up to the latter to take this political change in hand by taking advantage of its meeting in Feira.
The resolution does not emphasise that enlargement must be given absolute priority.
We have voted against this resolution to affirm our opposition not only to a common European army but to national armies as well.
The past half-century shows that the armies of the great imperialist powers of Europe, in alliance or each on its own hunting ground, were not there to defend the people, but to carry on wars of pillage.
The author of the report is careful not to specify which enemy the future European army is intended to fight.
Consequently, not only do we refuse to vote in favour of any resources whatsoever, human or financial, for this army, but we protest against its very existence.
Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote on behalf of my delegation and say right away that we intended to vote for Amendment No 26 and paragraph 27.
Nevertheless, the crisis in the Balkans has demonstrated the shortcomings of the European Union.
The Treaty of Amsterdam made the Petersberg tasks the responsibility of the Union.
That leaves Article 5.
The exercise is complicated, first because it is necessary to try to clarify relations with NATO, and because the United States not to mention other countries in NATO which are not members of the European Union, like Turkey, are not making our task any easier.
To summarise, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group believes in advancing towards common security actions, provided we do not get boxed into a rigid institutional system, but instead establish flexible procedures based on voluntary input and respect for national sovereignty.
There are three consequences of that: the national democracies must always have the last word, so the operations concerned must remain in an inter-state context; decisions can in no case be taken by majority on issues of principle; the system must be based on the possibility of 'differentiated actions' permitting each people to exercise its freedom of choice without discontinuity.
Nor can we support the more concrete proposals in the resolution, which call for increased defence budgets in the individual Member States and coordination in purchasing military equipment and establishing an actual army for the Union.
Together, Europe and the United States are seeking to impose this army as the military arm of the IMF-World Bank-WTO triangle.
That will not happen without a radical break from neo-liberalism.
Careful consideration ought to be given to the way in which the European Parliament is to be involved in the area of defence and security policy.
The proposal paves the way for the increased use of majority decision-making, over and above what is laid down in the Treaty of Amsterdam in connection with a common defence and security policy.
In my opinion, it should only be possible to take military action following a decision in the United Nations' Security Council.
I cannot, therefore, support the resolution. "Women 2000" (RC B5-0562/2000) Mr President, I would first of all like to make it clear that I am speaking on behalf of the Dutch members of the EDD Group.
We voted against the present resolution by way of expressing our dissatisfaction regarding the conduct of the European Parliament delegation during the UN General Assembly.
It is the Presidency of the European Union that speaks on behalf of the Union at that kind of international conference.
Because people were putting words into the mouths of various parties, particularly Poland' s, I would like to specify that as regards gender equality, Poland is adopting the acquis communautaire and is not calling into question the provisions of Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam on discrimination based on gender.
I wanted to make that clear to dispel any misunderstanding about what really happened in New York.
After very acrimonious negotiations, realism in appreciating the needs of women and respect for their dignity carried the day.
Along the same lines, it is a real education to note that, although they are all officially specialised in the position of women, the NGOs with the largest financial resources for political communication systematically militate in favour of notions of 'reproductive health' to the detriment of more serious and urgent needs, thus offering unfailing support to the European and American delegations.
In any case, if this conference was ultimately a success for women all over the world, that was mainly thanks to the realism and resistance of the poorest countries, which were able to by-pass Western ideological polemics about sexuality to promote practical measures against poverty - like 'micro-credit' , against international trafficking in women and against lack of education and medical provision.
If the voice of the poorest countries was finally able to make itself heard last Saturday around 4 a.m.
This was obviously not the case, neither in New York during the Beijing + 5 conference, nor in our debate in this Parliament yesterday.
Regarding paragraph H of this resolution, "sexual rights" is an undefined term not included in Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty nor in the Beijing + 5 Platform for Action.
Forgive me Mr President, but I feel that these matters must be dealt with while the time is ripe, for otherwise, if we do not speak out, these demonstrations will end up being perceived as the norm.
I thank the Members for their important communication.
It is truly unacceptable to denigrate and insult the democratic legitimacy of any country or its institutions, or of the European institutions.
As you are aware, the sound and efficient implementation of the Structural Funds is of fundamental importance for the credibility and effectiveness of the Community institutions, in particular the European Parliament, considering its monitoring functions.
Our report, which was adopted unanimously, takes note of the fact that all the resources available for 1998 were fully taken up but it also records that there are still considerable divergences in implementation between Objectives, between the Member States and between regions, and that this full take-up was only made possible by mechanisms for offsetting over- and under-implementation, which, in fact, made the implementation of the budget non-transparent.
This is because we are convinced that we can only reduce the structural divergences between European regions and areas through coordinated action.
We have also noted that, although there was an inexplicable and dangerous fall in the number of on-the-spot checks carried out under the regulation in 1998 compared to the previous year, they have brought to light a whole range of shortcomings, from an insufficient number of monitoring schemes in certain programmes to the co-financing of non-admissible expenditure.
As a result, we consider that the Commission' s checks in 1998 were, unfortunately, still unsatisfactory, and that they must be sufficiently strengthened in order to guarantee proper implementation of the Structural Funds regulations.
In our report, we therefore call upon the European Commission and the Member States to adopt a number of actions as soon as possible to strengthen controls and to keep Parliament better informed of measures adopted to increase transparency and improve the implementation of the Structural Funds.
Finally, Commissioner, I would like to stress that our report is consistent with the opinion you expressed on 5 June last in Brussels, when you stressed that, in the interests of transparency, even the smallest European taxpayer has to know where and how Community resources appropriated to the Structural Funds are spent.
I will leave to you the task of assessing whether a Commission report such as the 1998 report allows, I will not say the smallest, but any of the European taxpayers to satisfy their desire.
Mr President, lastly, I would like to explain my position regarding the seven amendments which will be put to the vote on Friday.
I, myself, have tabled a technical amendment, the third amendment, which corrects a transcription error likely to cause confusion and make paragraph 28 inconsistent with the rest of the report.
However, I cannot accept Amendment No 4, Amendment No 5, Amendment No 6 or Amendment No 7, for I consider that they misrepresent the rest of the report.
For my part, Mr President, I am going to concentrate on just point: the need to coordinate Structural Fund interventions with other Community policies, an issue the rapporteur is likewise very concerned about.
I shall be particularly grateful to Commissioner Barnier if he can tell us whether the Commission has looked at this aspect of the problem in the context of the re-examination of competition policy, and if he could tell us where the Commission has got to in its thinking on this subject.
However, I have chosen to speak in today's debate because some of the issues discussed in the report are at the core of what must be addressed if the European institutions themselves are to lift the cloud of mismanagement and waste which hangs over them from previous times.
Many positive changes have taken place since that time, not least since the new Commission took over.
We have before us an opportunity to concentrate the minds of both the Commission and the recipients - Member States and others - of this valuable EU assistance, on the criticisms identified in the report in many areas concerning the allocation of funds and the lack of monitoring of their use.
None of us here would personally enter into a business or private financial agreement without being sure of how and when that obligation would come to an end.
Failure to act will result in the particular problems highlighted in this report.
This is particularly so in my home region, the West Midlands, where this delay is causing a great deal of uncertainty to local communities and the local taxpayers, who are having to underwrite the projects to the tune of many millions of pounds, pending the resolution of the problems I have outlined.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if economic and social cohesion is rightly called the core of European policy, then it is safe to say that the Structural Funds act as its pacemaker.
However, I would like to strengthen one demand, and that is the demand that in its next report the Commission should devote a special section to reporting on the measures which it has adopted in response to criticisms voiced by Parliament in previous years.
The 11th Annual Report should, therefore, at the same time include a progress report.
For example, in the case of Objective 1 areas, it is frequently only partly true to say that there is an independent structural policy to which the European component is added.
This is often because all the funding available in political terms has already had to be committed to guarantee adequate cofinancing, and rightly so.
In this way our structural policy itself will contribute to regionalisation.
Fourthly, controls and assessments are the alpha and omega of any structural policy that has the noble objective of making itself superfluous as quickly as possible.
Only in this way can we make horizontal comparisons between strategies and projects between Member States in individual areas of activity.
It is therefore worth remembering that regional and structural policy in the European Union as a whole is a response to the specific disadvantages confronting certain European regions and, in particular, the outermost regions such as Madeira, the Azores, the Canary Islands and the French overseas departments.
In fact, Articles 158 and 159 of the Treaty set the objectives for economic and social cohesion, giving regional policy the task of reducing the existing differences between the less developed regions and the others.
In view of the challenge of an enlarged Union, which will in future have 28 or more Member States, we can no longer afford not to use European money for European objectives such as employment, sustainability, environmental protection and equal opportunities in an efficient way.
I am emphasising this because I have the impression that the new programmes are once again being approved because of pressure from the Member States, although they do not provide for optimum use of funds in accordance with Europe' s objectives.
We cannot afford, as we did in 1998, to spend EUR 30.4 billion only to find that unemployment is increasing again in the poorer regions.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is once again time for us to consider a Commission report on the implementation of Structural Funds appropriations, this time for 1998, and to express the views of our group.
And this dissatisfaction is all the greater when you consider that the continuing regional differences, as measured in income per capita, are particularly reflected in unemployment figures.
Even though there has been a reduction in unemployment in the EU in absolute terms in recent months, the total number of people without jobs is still far too high.
If we were to use this issue alone to gauge the success of Structural Fund policy, we would pass a devastatingly negative judgment on it.
We learn that the implementation rate for programmes in 1998 remained satisfactory, although only slightly under 90% of total support was achieved for commitments, and 61% for payments.
Moreover, this report reveals some mismanagement in the allocation of the Structural Funds.
Beyond the overall picture, considerable differences in implementation have persisted between the different objectives as well as between the Member States and the regions.
The difference between the budgetary appropriations and the final implementation remains a problem particularly affecting Objective 2.
Moreover the full utilisation of the Structural Funds in 1998, or at least in terms of the percentages mentioned earlier, has only been possible thanks to a compensation mechanism for under-implementation, such as major transfer of credits from Objective 2 to Objective 1.
Furthermore, we ask for a fairer distribution of expenditure, more transparency in the allocation and control of the funds, better eligibility criteria, a reduction in the number of priority objectives and Community initiatives.
I would firstly likely to remind you that the objective of the Funds is to strengthen economic and social cohesion in the European Union and that, while it is true that the GDP per capita in the regions with the lowest rate increased by 9% between 1986 and 1996, over the same period the income per capita in the four poorest countries rose by 8%.
Nevertheless, the difference when compared to the 25 richest regions continues to be the same: two and a half times.
A second factor is that only 10% of the interventions from the Funds correspond to local development measures, despite the fact that most population and poverty is found in urban centres.
All of these issues point to the need for a series of criteria to be taken into account in the future.
Secondly, we need to develop policies which will reduce the disparities between the richest countries and the poorest countries.
Lastly, we must take account of all sections of the population with the real objective of creating ever more employment, especially in the least-favoured regions.
Mr President, Commissioner, as someone with a local government background, I should like to stress the need for local government agencies to become more involved at all levels, particularly when programmes are being formulated and implemented.
I should also like to stress the need for greater coordination between European regional policy and other Community policies and between the Structural Funds and other funding mechanisms.
The principle of additionality must be taken into serious account and I believe that the Member States and the Commission, in the light of forthcoming enlargement, will have to work together to draw up and adopt guidelines defining a more integrated approach to verifying the application of this principle, taking into account, of course, the particular economic situation in each Member State.
In closing, I feel I must congratulate the rapporteur on his comprehensive report and stress the fact that on the whole, the implementation of the programmes financed by the various funds was on the right track in 1998, the year covered by the report and a good year overall, in which the relative delays of previous years were recouped.
There seems to be a problem with this generally, perhaps due to a lack of staff, and the Commission must ensure that it takes the measures needed to ensure that the implementation of European policies continues to be monitored.
Mr President, Commissioner, I especially welcome paragraph 20 on additionality and hope very much that the Commission will take particular account of the importance of transparency.
I would add that this should also relate to the question of whether the principle is being complied with, not just overall by Member States, but at regional levels within them.
Finally, I believe that there is a great deal of merit in Amendment No 5.
Management at this level allows for a high degree of coordination and exchange of best practice between those involved.
I offer as an example our Objective 3 partnership's development of a tool kit for gender mainstreaming in structural funding.
It is vital for the concept of subsidiarity to be brought into the heart of our notion of structural funding and for the regional, local and national authorities within Member States to be fully engaged in the process of implementing the structural funds and applying them.
Perhaps Commissioner Barnier will not be surprised if I bang home again on the point that whatever might have been the failures of the past, he has the opportunity to make successes in the future and to ensure that the additionality principle is not just a formal principle requiring Member States to satisfy certain budgetary conditions in a global way.
Rather it should become a substantive principle built into the idea of subsidiarity which he and President Prodi are researching so that at regional and national level within Member States we can see that the funds really are being used to enhance and improve development.
to help reduce regional disparities and achieve economic and social cohesion; in numerous cases, the situation has worsened and the gulf between the regions lagging behind and the developed areas has widened both in rural areas, especially island and mountain regions, and also in urban areas, which are plagued by mass and long-term unemployment, poverty, and a scarcity, or in many cases, a total lack of basic infrastructures.
Epirus acquired the dubious accolade of being the poorest region in the European Union.
The scarcity of resources under the Damoclean sword of Agenda 2000 and persistent cutbacks in order to satisfy other requirements, such as enlargement, do nothing to strengthen cohesion or stabilize development levels; on the contrary, they help set further socio-economic degeneration of the regions in motion.
President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this Sixth Periodic Report on the social and economic situation of the regions of the Union, which was adopted last year by the Commission, indicated that the 25 richest regions of the European Union still had an average GDP per head that was two and a half times higher than that in the 25 poorest regions, and my fellow Members have also reminded us of this.
The development gap between the Member States has certainly been reduced, but there are still disparities between the regions, not only with regard to the GDP per head, but also, particularly, in terms of unemployment.
In its 1998Annual Report on the Structural Funds, the Commission notes, rightly so, that high regional unemployment leads to social exclusion, hence making unemployment even more resistant to economic improvement.
The Commission has promised that the emphasis in the new programming period for the Structural Funds will be on improving transport networks, particularly in the peripheral or outermost regions, and on creating sustainable and effective transport systems that provide a balance between the different modes of transport.
People in work are a guarantee of peace and freedom in Europe.
The Structural Funds cannot operate in isolation.
The Structural Funds are therefore very important and have to function well.
Finally, Mr President, I want to emphasise that the whole of the EU must share in European growth.
His report states clearly that the results of the 1994-9 Structural Funds programming period, taking into account the assessments available at the end of 1998, have not met expectations on a number of fronts.
I would like to devote my speaking time to responding as precisely as possible to each one of you on the most important points and, first of all, on the implementation of the Funds for 1998.
There is the innovative aspect of most of the programmes, a new approach based on partnership and the inherent difficulty in implementing transnational programmes, by both national and regional authorities.
With regard to implementation, Mr Esclopé, since you mentioned the inequality between the different Member States regarding implementation, I think I am right in saying that part of the explanation you are looking for lies in the inevitably different nature of the programmes and projects according to the countries or regions.
We are well aware that it is the countries and regions that propose the projects which, I repeat, are very different.
There are still unjustified, unacceptable gaps between regions, and between the group of the poorest regions and the group of the richest regions.
Finally, thirdly, completing thematic cross-sector evaluations, in particular with regard to small and medium-sized businesses, equal opportunities or partnership.
I have noticed that these evaluations are gradually bearing fruit, in particular the new programmes for the period 2000-2006.
There is still progress to be made in this area, but it must be noted that the evaluation culture seems to me to be more prevalent today in all the departments of the Commission and also among the programme managers.
With regard to control, the new legislation also gives the Member States direct responsibility for controls concerning programmes carried out on their territory.
In particular, I will think about this in the joint discussions on the nature of the new regional policy for 2006-2013.
I must therefore find, in conjunction with my staff, the optimum balance between and coordination of, on the one hand, the desire expressed by some of you earlier for greater decentralisation, greater trust in the Member States and the regions and, on the other, your requirement for rigour, which is also required of me by the Court of Auditors, in order to be able to be accountable to the taxpayers.
Your rapporteur quite rightly remarks that in 1998 the Commission did not carry out enough on-the-spot checks.
Actually, Mr Turco, in spite of the importance attached by the Commission to proper financial management of the programmes and to reliable controls, I must point out that the resources at my disposal did not enable us to carry out as many controls as we would have wished.
For Objective 1 programmes, as was formerly the case, but also for Objective 2 and 3 programmes, taken together, this verification will be carried out on the basis of samples and will concern solely the active measures of the labour market.
This new system will make it possible to have an overall view of the implementation of the additionality principle, including for Objective 2, which as you know, presented great statistical problems during the previous period.
The Commission had also proposed a link between the verification of this additionality and the allocation of the performance reserve, but, as you also know, this link has not been adopted by the legislator.
I would, however, like to remind you of my desire to verify the reality of this additionality and I would also like to say - as I have said to several Member States - that the verification of this principle, the reality of additionality will be a criterion for the admissibility and approval of new programmes.
You asked me about your draft Article 5.
Once again, I am bound by Article 11 of the general regulation on Structural Funds which, at least until 2006, does not allow the decentralisation or delegation of the executive powers of the Commission to sub-national bodies, as you call them: the Autonomous Communities, Regions, and Länder.
The principle of partnership is one which the Commission hopes to make as comprehensive as possible.
But the Commission goes much further with the new legislation for 2000-2006.
This is how the cross-sector theme in their annual report for 1998 should be considered, for example, the actions supporting local development and, I would like to announce, actions in favour of equal opportunities and sexual equality in the report for 1999.
This is a field in which the Commission adopted, in 1998, a communication reconciling the map of regional State aid with the map of regions eligible for the Structural Funds and on this subject, I regularly have constructive dialogues with Mario Monti, my fellow Commissioner with responsibility for such matters.
This is also the case for the environment, within the scope of the new programmes for 2000­2006.
The objective of the fund is to support the development of the weakest regions in order to step up economic and social cohesion within the Union, and you stressed the lack of progress made in this area.
You know, ladies and gentlemen, of the personal interest that I will continue to take, within the Commission, in the future and the development of the outermost regions.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is right for Parliament to make demands on the Commission with regard to the implementation of the Structural Funds and their impact, and you have presented new requirements.
The draft resolution reflects this wish, this requirement, by asking the Commission to provide yet more information in the annual report.
However, for a few years we have chosen to make the annual report more concise, which, moreover, was formally requested by the European Parliament at the time.
We shall therefore continue our efforts in favour of readability and the task of explanation, while being more precise in order to respond to your requests.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Barnier.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Basic freedoms in Serbia and Kosovo The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B5-0568/2000 by Mr Dupuis and others, on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members; B5-0569/2000 by Mrs Pack and Mr Posselt, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats; B5-0572/2000 by Mr Lagendijk and others, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance; B5-0574/2000 by Mr Haarder and Mrs Malmström, on behalf of Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party; B5-0577/2000 by Mr Brie and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left; B5-0579/2000 by Mr Wiersma and Mr Swoboda, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on basic freedoms in Serbia and in Kosovo.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just had a chance to speak with some young lawyers from Serbia, who gave us an impressive account of the hopeless situation in their country.
Anyone who sees the facts as they are is treated as a traitor to the Serbian people and a NATO lackey.
One of the young Serbian women told me that it is extraordinarily difficult for her to explain to her grandmother why she opposes Milosevic, as her grandmother only has her own information and experiences to go by.
This means that she cannot understand why this young woman is involved in the OTPOR organisation.
We must help the independent democratic media in Serbia so that they can provide accurate information as far as possible, and so that democracy may yet blossom in Serbia.
OTPOR, the real resistance group in Serbia, which grew out of the student movement, is as at present being prevented by Milosevic from registering as an organisation.
The situation in these prisons is indescribable.
She was sentenced to 14 years in prison in Serbia, in Nis.
We must attempt to at least give these people some certainty about where these missing persons are, what prisons they are in or where they met their death.
In Kosovo, which we also visited, although the situation is different, there are similar problems.
We went to Kosovo last year because we wanted to help the Kosovo Albanians who for ten years have suffered under an apartheid-like regime to obtain attention.
But in Kosovo there is also the problem of missing Serbs, which we are all familiar with.
That being the case, we must help these well intentioned Serbs to achieve some positive results, so that their cooperation is clearly of some benefit for the Serbian population.
That is why I appeal to all the Member States to send as many police officers as possible to Kosovo, in order to guarantee protection for minorities also.
I also know how hard it is to act as opposition in this situation, and not to despair or give up.
It is also important to give these signals, because otherwise the opposition feels isolated and loses all its drive.
I therefore call on the Commission to take every opportunity, in all its talks with representatives of the Serbian Government or embassies, to present the list of prisoners and to request information on each prisoner.
For the sake of the credibility of the international community it is therefore a matter of urgency for us to protect the minorities and give them genuine opportunities for living and working there.
The Serbs, Roma and other minorities have a right to live there!
Mr President, fellow Members, this resolution deals in a meticulous way with a number of practical problems.
I shall not repeat them, as our president, Doris Pack, has explained them better than we could.
Having said this, I think it is time for the European Parliament and also the Commission and the Council to engage in a debate - and I know that the president of our delegation does not entirely share this point of view - on the future status of Kosovo, the future status of Bosnia, and therefore also, directly, that of Serbia.
There is another fact that merits our attention: the presence, in a country with less than two million inhabitants, of over fifty thousand westerners with a standard of living 10, 15, 20 times higher than that of the Kosovars, cannot but present many problems in terms of discrimination and inequality, and is not without secondary effects that are not always as secondary as all that, and are in fact very serious and often very problematic, or even truly adverse.
Having said that, I am not questioning the role of the KFOR, the role of the United Nations in Kosovo, at all, but we cannot consider and plan an "occupation" of Kosovo for many years without running serious risks.
Six years after the signature of the Dayton agreements in 1995, with a Bosnia that is still not a country where things run smoothly, with a Bosnia comprising two or even three entities, we must urgently put an end to all these problems and the Commission and the Council must urgently propose ways of overcoming these situations which were designed to be interim situations.
In particular, I do not think we can avoid the idea of a federation between Kosovo and Albania, nor can we avoid associations between certain parts of Bosnia and Serbia.
I can, unfortunately, also testify to what the debate here ought especially to be about, namely the fact that it is now the Serbs who are being persecuted by people who act with spite towards them, throw stones at them, burn their houses down and attempt to drive them from their homes.
Now, it is the Serbs who need our attention.
The police are doing everything possible, but nothing like the promised number of police has arrived.
Mr President, one year on from the end of the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia, the situation is unstable and the opposing forces in Serbia are giving increasing cause for concern.
Many of the men, women and students who are victims of oppression today are the same people who have courageously spoken up in these past years, calling for peace, freedom and respect for human rights, and who have, in reality, been abandoned even by Europe.
And those who have remained are regularly attacked and, in many cases, killed.
The most recent UNHCR/OSCE report states clearly that, in Kosovo, minorities have no access to education, health and public services and no freedom of movement.
In my opinion, Europe, and, in particular, the 19 NATO countries, should undertake a large-scale self-appraisal operation and revise its policies.
It may be that we should be the ones to give them strong support in Serbia and Kosovo.
Milosevic is creating dictatorial conditions, a country governed by security troops, State media and State terror.
CCL recently branded them terrorists.
All in all, a situation is being created in which democracy is becoming a farce and the regime is trying to keep a grip on the situation by means of totalitarian manipulation.
We need to remain involved, and it is also useful that we, as a Parliament, are here today expressing our broad consensus on the situation and on how the situation in Serbia is to be addressed.
We must make one thing crystal clear once and for all: our criticism has never been aimed at the people of Serbia, but against those in power who are abusing the name of the Serbian people for their own criminal ends.
We must at the same time be very much aware that the issue of protecting minorities also affects Serbia.
The Albanians driven out of core Serbia scarcely get a mention in our media, yet they are significantly aggravating the situation in this region.
In this context I would like to make it very clear that it is crucial for us not just to point the finger of blame at others, but also to fulfil our own obligations.
Mr President, we find ourselves gazing with bewilderment at each new act by the Milosevic regime, acts against its own people.
That is why I think it is important to maintain constant contact with the opposition and to attempt to bring about a change in the political scene.
I also believe that funding for increased information provision should be implemented here and now, so as to provide more objective information about the actual conditions in the Balkans.
This does not apply to Serbs living in Kosovo, nor indeed to those Serbs who have fled Kosovo and are now living in Yugoslavia.
In his annual report, the UN Secretary-General notes that, one year on from the deployment of KFOR, we face a well-developed, organised and well-orchestrated campaign against the Serbs and other ethnic groups in Kosovo, which is undermining confidence in the future and transforming Kosovo into a breeding ground for retaliation and crime.
The UN High Commissioner and the OSCE have condemned the fact that, one year on from the arrival of the KFOR forces in the area, the minorities living in Kosovo, mainly Serbs and Gypsies, are still unprotected.
Only the European Parliament seems incapable, including in today' s resolution, of drawing any conclusions from the tragic situation which has arisen in this area as a result of the military incursions of NATO forces into an independent Member State of the UN, in violation of the fundamental principles of international law.
After all, the resolution speaks out unmistakably about the undemocratic nature of the Milosevic regime in Belgrade and the means it deploys in order to exercise power.
This medical doctor forms part of the political leadership of the moderate Serbs in Kosovo.
In Kosovo, violence is a daily event, and the democratic forces in Montenegro are at risk from threats from outside and from polarisation within.
So it is not surprising that the Milosevic regime is now taking a harder line than before against the independent media.
A time when a regime has to repress any freedom of expression is a time when it feels particularly weak and under attack.
That is why it is right that demands are being made here for the European Union to use its resources to bolster the independent media in Serbia.
If it is possible to do yet more in this area, then the Commission is of course willing to look into this.
We have, of course, already reacted to media repression in many cases in the past.
I believe that it is very important to demonstrate that democratic developments in Serbia will be rewarded and will receive a positive response.
Against this background I would like to stress that we regard it as being particularly important to strengthen and stabilise the democratic developments that have already started in Croatia, as Croatia in particular is also capable of exerting a positive influence on Serbia.
With regard to Montenegro, I must say that we certainly welcome the democratic way in which the most recent municipal elections in Podgorica and Herceg Novi have been conducted.
I am also pleased, in view of all the laborious history of this, that the Council has now finally agreed to grant Montenegro an emergency support budget of EUR 20 million.
The European Union will always condemn such violence with equal force.
Not only is the credibility of the policies of the European Union and its Member States at stake, it is also imperative, if we wish to achieve our objectives in Kosovo, for us to provide the minimum level of police presence required to guarantee stability.
It is in everyone' s interest to ensure cooperation between all Kosovo' s citizens, on the basis of common institutions.
The Commission also supports UNMIK' s endeavours in the area of local administration by means of twinning projects and by advertising posts in UNMIK' s civil administration and the pillars of the reconstruction programme as widely as possible in all the Member States.
I consider it extraordinarily important that the European Parliament has today once again held an in-depth debate on the resolution before us on the situation in the Western Balkans, and that this not only expresses our concern but above all demonstrates our shared determination not to leave our work in this region only half done.
We have held a high-quality debate lasting for over an hour on the most important topic in Europe today.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, the European Union and this Parliament have followed recent events in the Republic of Paraguay with great concern.
The second event which has been followed with great interest by this Parliament was the arrest on 11 June, of General Oviedo.
In this context, we in this Parliament must, in my opinion, support full democratic consolidation in the Republic of Paraguay and appeal for the correct operation of the rule of law and justice in that country.
Mr President, it seems to me to be particularly appropriate to point out that the defence of democracy and the rule of law is the cornerstone of the policy of cooperation with the countries of Latin America.
The respect for democratic values is, and must continue to be, the central pillar of political dialogue between the European Union and the countries of Mercosur, both on a regional level and on a bilateral level.
Good evidence of this can be found in the ambitious institutional support programmes which the European Union has been developing in Paraguay since 1995.
These projects, Mr President, are fundamental in a country whose constitution only dates from 1992, whose first elections took place in 1993, which suffered 50 years of dictatorship and which, therefore, is very much in need of democratic stability and institutional continuity.
Mr President, I believe that both the European Union and the United States, which have expressed their support for the Government of Paraguay, while recognising that efforts are being made to consolidate a certain degree of democratic stability, must also remind the Paraguayan authorities of the urgent need to take measures on institutional consolidation and to begin also to resolve the great economic and social problems in that country.
Having pointed out the importance of our institutional support and cooperation in Paraguay, I do not wish to end without reminding you that the European Union still has no office in Paraguay.
I believe that a European Commission delegation in Asunción would not only aid and improve our relations, but could also contribute in a significant way to the achievement of these objectives which are so important to all those of us who believe in the democratic clause, which is the foundation of these agreements and our relations with that country.
We can help considerably in this field, by appropriately implementing the contents of the European Union' s agreements with the Mercosur countries and in particular the agreement with Paraguay, which is so necessary.
We therefore believe that our action in this area can be decisive and we would also like to express our full support for the joint resolution which we have signed.
Mr President, fellow Members, the Greens, like several other groups, had tabled a motion for a resolution on Paraguay.
As you are aware, the situation in Paraguay is characterised not only by a revolutionary tendency in certain sections of the army but, more generally, by very serious human rights violations and the harsh suppression of popular movements.
We have tried, in our resolution, to emphasise both these factors simultaneously.
The resolution before us simply pays tribute to the initiative used by another Southern Cone country to arrest the leader of a military coup d' état and extradite him to his country of origin.
We welcome this initiative on the part of Brazil, but to say that and nothing more would mean framing a resolution on Brazil, not Paraguay.
We would have liked the European Union to exploit the methods of democratic persuasion afforded due to the aid it provides to all the Southern Cone countries in order to encourage the legitimate government in Paraguay to show greater respect for human rights.
Unfortunately, in the current wording of the resolution, this is not the case, and we consequently prefer to vote against the joint motion for a resolution and, if necessary, maintain our own motion for a resolution.
It therefore makes sense that the European Parliament, which has always regarded itself as the patron saint of democracy in Latin America and elsewhere, should express its views on this.
The second point that I would like to mention relates to Paraguay and Brazil.
We believe that Paraguay is probably a forgotten country, which has been helped by its integration into Mercosur, and, from that point of view, it is important that our relations with Paraguay should improve the situation, and that Brussels should find a way to help that country and at the same time remind it, as we will surely do later in the case of Peru, of the democratic clause which is the inspiration for all our actions.
Other equally positive signs are the reduction in corruption and the hope that General Oviedo, like Pinochet, will be tried.
Mr President, it is appropriate today for the European Parliament to turn its attention to Paraguay and express its solidarity with the Paraguayan people, who still face considerable difficulties and uncertainties in their effort to consolidate a democratic regime.
The history of Paraguay is one of the saddest and most unjust in Latin America.
For those of us who for many years have sided with the resistance in that country, it is painful to remember how, in the 60s and 70s, there were at least three good reasons to feel sorrow.
Paraguay was probably the only country in the world whose population had been practically exterminated during wars with its two neighbours, Argentina and Brazil.
At that time, Paraguay was the only country which had considerably more population outside its borders than inside, with exiles, outcasts and emigrants of every type.
Lastly, Paraguay held the tragic record of suffering the longest dictatorship in the whole of Latin America, headed by General Stroessner.
That dictatorship displayed the most extraordinary cruelty in its repression of any opposition, and at the same time its dictator and his entourage was enormously corrupt, with their monopoly on big business and, in particular, smuggling.
The Paraguayan people never gave in.
In this context, and with Oviedo under arrest in Brazil, the resolution we are voting on in Parliament is a great opportunity.
The European Union has already been active in Paraguay for a good many years.
Our attempts to have a concrete influence on the situation there have focused on two areas.
We can help to develop these institutions, but the political will really to establish them, to use them and take advantage of them has to come from those who are currently in power in Paraguay.
I would like to mention in particular that this includes a special programme supporting the indigenous population of the Chaco region.
But as yet no decision has been taken to change the situation in Paraguay in this respect.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, on 16 March, this Parliament adopted a resolution on the presidential and legislative elections in Peru, in which it expressed its confidence, within the context of cooperation in our relations with Peru, that the presidential and legislative elections would be held in a fair and transparent manner, in accordance with the universally held principles of democratic systems.
The Presidency of the European Union, in its declaration of 9 June this year, expressed its enormous concern at the irregularities and anomalies detected.
Despite the fluid relations which the European Union maintains with Peru, which are embodied in the cooperation agreement with the Andean Pact which has been in force since 1998, we should remember once again that these very relations are based on the universally recognised principles of respect for pluralist democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
On the basis of these principles, the European Union must carefully assess the necessary response to this delicate situation resulting from the elections of 28 May.
The Council of Ministers of the European Union, in its declaration of 9 June, has decided not to adopt sanctions against Peru at the moment.
The meeting of chancellors of the Organisation of American States in Ottawa, having heard the report of the electoral mission headed by Eduardo Stein, has decided to send a new mission, which will include the Canadian Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary-General of the Organisation of American States, in order to ensure that the Government of Peru is adopting the necessary measures to re-establish democratic legality.
The OAS has not adopted sanctions against Peru at the moment either.
This mission seems to me to be particularly appropriate since the European Union is the main provider of development aid and economic cooperation, and it is also the main investor in Peru.
Mr President, since you have asked us not to take up the time allotted, and in summary, I will say that one of the main contributions which the European Union could make in this difficult situation - and I believe there is good reason, as I have just pointed out, not to leave the matter exclusively in the hands of the Organisation of American States - should be, in my opinion, to promote, on the basis of a guarantee of the full exercise of all civil and political rights, a consensus amongst all the forces which would allow democracy to be recovered, strengthened and deepened in Peru.
Let me remind you that the conditions of this election, at least in the second round, were so disastrous that not only did the main opposition candidate withdraw, but so did all the international observers.
In these circumstances, it could be concluded, even before the election, that the election was not valid.
The excess vote was around 20% in some places.
So not only was there no opposition, but it was even necessary to resort to fraud in order to obtain the figure of 51%.
Unlike the case of Paraguay, we are not going to see this as a reason for voting against the resolution.
You know that the Organisation of American States goes further than the European Parliament' s joint proposal apparently does, as this organisation is actually volunteering to suggest a democratic way out of the political crisis which Peru is stuck in over this matter.
We are simply suggesting that the Parliament should approve the current efforts of the Organisation of American States to find a legal, peaceful way out of the crisis.
These are the two amendments that would enable us simply to support the joint motion for a resolution.
Mr President, it is clear that President Fujimori has challenged the international community and, in particular, the Organisation of American States and also the European Union.
Therefore, from our point of view, as well as lamenting the situation and supporting the democratic forces, it is still absolutely essential that, as we did in the previous case of Paraguay, we remind Peru of the need for any relations with the European Union to be maintained in compliance with the democratic clause.
Secondly, only by sending observers will we be able to assess the true situation and find a way to act appropriately.
Therefore, since two recent days, 9 April and 28 May, have caused us great concern, it is clear that we will only be able to act appropriately if we send observers, which we hope will be possible, and who we hope will be able to act effectively.
The President of Peru has for years been failing to play by the rules that we expect in a democracy.
Mr President, the situation in Peru worries us.
President Fujimori took power with dangerous plans: to give absolute priority to supposed economic efficiency, claiming that a strong hold on power was required to manage it, and to overcome what he called 'party-ocracy' , subliminally blaming all the previous problems on the institutions of the democratic state.
In summary, that is what our resolution says, and it is good and appropriate that the European Parliament' s voice should be heard in this respect, for our own dignity, and in order to demonstrate our interest in the democratic process in Latin America, but also in order to demonstrate our support, which the Peruvian democrats need and deserve.
While we are voting in favour of the resolution in question, I would like to point out two issues relating to its text.
My second point is that I regret the fact that the resolution does not refer to the disappointing role played by the Organisation of American States throughout this process.
In its statement of 9 June, the European Union stressed that it would support the OAS mission to Peru.
We will be following the situation in Peru with the greatest vigilance and are prepared to rethink our relations with Peru against this background.
The debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed.
As planned, Mr Turco' s report, which we debated this afternoon, will be put to the vote during voting time which begins in a few moments.
I would simply like to thank all the honourable Members for providing such a clear demonstration on the subject of Friday' s vote of "whittling away" .
If we want to deal with a serious agenda, then we need to attend.
Vote (continuation) Mr President, before you take the final vote, Amendment No 3 to paragraph 28 is on the voting list as by the TDI Group.
Mr President, first of all, this technical amendment has been voted upon, and I do not see why we have to come back to it.
The amendment has been voted upon as I announced it.
Mr President, I would just like to say that, in my opinion, amendments should be accepted or rejected on the basis of their content and not on the basis of who has put their name to them.
It is ridiculous for Members to say after the vote that they would not have voted in favour of an amendment because a particular group tabled that amendment.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE - Tunisia (B5-0508/2000) Mr President, I abstained from the vote on the report on Tunisia because I do not feel that this type of document serves much purpose.
Since we are discussing the protection of freedom and human rights, I would like to take this opportunity to say that a serious violation, or rather an attempt at violation of the right to freedom of speech took place today in the Parliament forecourt.
This is because this is the only means given us by parliamentary procedure through which we are able to express our protest against the dictatorship in Tunisia.
Mr President, I voted for the Marset Campos report and I will tell you why, although I would first like to express my support for Mr Speroni' s speech.
In fact, on reading the Commission document and the report by the European Parliament, we see that this was not the case.
Yes, the need to harmonise asylum standards is broadly recommended by these texts.
For example, it condemns the disparities in the way refugees are treated from one country to the next but does not provide examples.
There may be perfectly legitimate reasons for these disparities, relating to the special features of a country, its culture or its links with former colonies.
So, in fact, we are currently trying to solve a problem largely created by the Treaty of Amsterdam itself and, what is more, we are going to solve it to our disadvantage as it is clear that asylum standards cannot be harmonised from the bottom up - for who would dare? - but rather towards the top with all the in-draughts normally caused by this type of policy.
In order to escape, we can only invite the governments to exercise the utmost caution, retain as much power as possible, and interpret Article 63 of the Treaty of Amsterdam narrowly.
Mr President, this explanation of vote is also shared by Arlette Laguiller and Armonie Bordes.
This means that although, in some European countries, the application of this text could in theory improve the situation of asylum seekers, it would make it worse in others.
Furthermore, I consider that it would be appropriate for the Commission to apply this decision retroactively and share the burden borne by those who accepted Kosovar refugees between the Member States of the European Union.
Mr President, I abstained in the vote because I do not consider that these texts serve much purpose.
We are against a Communist, dictatorial Europe which eradicates the identity of peoples by eliminating the differences between them.
The asylum issue is a major political issue concerning fundamental democratic rights, the safeguarding of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual and the preservation of human dignity.
Asylum seekers in the Member States of the EU must be treated in a dignified and humane manner.
The Dublin Convention allows asylum applications to be made only in the first State entered by the refugee.
The aim of the Schmitt report is clear: "To re-enhance the reputation and substance of the right of asylum, the qualification procedure should be tightened up, and abuses resolutely curbed" .
Moreover, the States on the edges of the Schengen zone are considered to be "secure" .
Finally, this report, just like many others relating to immigration management, is unrealistic and highly populist.
This is why the Members of the National Front and I myself will vote against this report which jeopardises people' s rights and security and also democracy.
This same committee discovers the laws of democracy when it suggests that the discrepancies from one country to the next are linked to the political context as much as to the content of the applications.
The political will of this House is, in this field as in any other, to extend the scope of Community power to the detriment of the Member States, who are apparently unworthy of such power.
Either the Member States have their own policy, for which they are responsible and which they therefore finance, or the European Union "Communitises" this field and includes the costs in its budget.
If such and such a country finds its policy too expensive, let it change the policy.
We do not want a Community policy in the hands of the Commission, nor do we want the policy of another government: we want our people and their elected representatives to retain control over their own decisions and destiny.
Coordination of the Member States' responsibilities is necessary if countries are in practice to be able to pursue generous policies on refugees.
We therefore welcome the Commission' s working document in principle, together with Ingo Schmitt' s report on the drawing up of a common policy on asylum and refugees, but we emphasise that it ought not to be the least generous countries which set the standards.
Nor must we forget that refugees and immigrants have a positive influence on the Member States.
What is more, it is important that refugees should in principle be entitled to the same social benefits as other people resident in the particular country dealing with the application for asylum.
This basic principle is established in the Geneva Convention and must be given due attention and complied with.
The aim of the Schmitt report is to extend this degrading and inhumane system to the entire European Union.
Instead, the rapporteur complains that people "wrongfully lay claim" to the right of asylum in Europe.
With regard to accepting asylum-seekers, the Schmitt report demands "burden sharing" within the EU.
The European Parliament must make proposals that take account of the interests of refugees and asylum-seekers in the European Union.
Everyone seeking refuge in the EU must have access to a just and fair reception procedure.
In France, our most famous asylum seeker was General de Gaulle, who was able to benefit from the right of asylum in England in order to prepare the resistance.
In my opinion, the standards set by the report are too low.
Thus, persecuted Afghan women who are stoned for not wearing the chador, should without exception benefit from the right of asylum.
The report remains vague on this subject.
I abstained on Amendment No 14.
But I am against the actual idea of systematically collecting information, as by Eurodac, as I am against the very idea of accelerated procedures, which can give rise to many forms of abuse.
Report Sörensen (A5-0126/2000) Fatuzzo (PPE-DE). (IT) Mr President, I welcome the Commission' s decision to adopt rules on compensating victims of crimes in the European Union.
In Europe, it is no longer possible for the elderly to set foot out of doors, not only at night but during the day as well in some areas.
We therefore applaud those sentiments in the Sörensen report which support our view.
Once again, Europe has shown its great sense of responsibility in taking an interest in crime victims.
Report Turco (A5-0138/2000) Fatuzzo (PPE-DE). (IT) Mr President, I voted for the Turco report although I would have preferred to vote against it for it resembles a final balance sheet and is, above all, a very tedious report on the allocation and use of the Structural Funds in 1998.
Personally, I am convinced that the European Union must completely change the way it allocates aid to those in need of its support.
One further aspect concerns another governing motif for the current period: regional and local development and related issues.
New actions based on local initiatives carried out in a partnership framework have recently been introduced to boost the profile of this motif.
The Commission mentions this in its report but provides an overview, confining itself to general aspects and not providing a detailed evaluation, so to speak, of the frauds, still less revealing the means used to combat fraud in the past or those to be used in the future.
This last aspect is, in fact, an unambiguous indication of commitment and political determination.
Extremely serious remarks were made regarding the President of the Commission, the Republic of Italy - our country - and 25 April, which is the date of liberation of Italy from the Nazis.
But freedom of speech must be upheld!
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, as you all know, the objective of the Cohesion Fund is to contribute to economic and social cohesion and at the same time reduce regional and social disparities, through solidarity amongst the Member States.
Thanks to this fund, numerous countries of the European Union have had the opportunity to try to lessen the distance between themselves and the wealthier countries, and the results have been spectacular but insufficient.
The income per capita has increased from two thirds to three quarters of the Community average and the participation of the European funds in the growth of each of these four countries stood at an average of 0.5% per year.
In this respect, we should consider a series of programmes for the future which will allow the new Members to achieve convergence with the European Union while, at the same time, the four countries which receive Cohesion funds should continue to receive them so that they can achieve the true objectives of convergence, growth and the generation of full employment.
Secondly, another problem is the temptation of some wealthier countries to penalise those countries which, since they receive Cohesion Funds, have achieved nominal convergence on the basis of serious, responsible, sympathetic and rigorous structural and economic policies, but clearly still without achieving true convergence, by eliminating them, in this case, from the Cohesion Fund, which could give rise to two possible situations.
Thirdly, we should pay greater attention to sustainable means of transport.
We are talking about the Cohesion Fund and the 1998 audit, on which there is a regulation and criteria which have already been approved for 2000-2006 and we do not believe that this is the moment to change the criteria with regard to eligibility and the distribution of those funds.
Mr President, honourable Members, Commissioner, today, eight years on from Maastricht, the Cohesion Fund has, without a shadow of doubt, made a positive contribution towards promoting the economic and social cohesion of the regions of the EU and has had clear results in tackling social and regional disparities.
We would therefore like to commend the Commission for its actions so far in implementing the objectives of the fund and we urge it to continue its efforts to ensure that the Fund is used properly and helps improve its efficiency in the new programme period still further.
We must, of course, stress that the environmental aid granted continues to concentrate on the water sector, despite the need in many other cases for other measures to preserve, protect and improve the quality of the environment and the rational utilization of natural resources as laid down in Article 174 of the Treaty, which refers to reafforestation, land reclamation, etc.
Even when measured strictly the Cohesion Fund has clearly played an important socio­economic role in infrastructures with development potential.
We are delighted to note the increase in employment, the absence of fraud, the greatly increased monitoring and the proper implementation of the programmes.
The principle of cohesion considered in the Treaty must not come under threat during enlargement.
It concerns a subject which is of great interest to me personally, given the commitment of the European Union in favour of the countries which are furthest behind in development and which are catching up with the support of European solidarity.
We are talking about a budget of almost EUR 17 billion for the period now beginning, 2000­2006.
But if we look back over the last ten years, including the year cited in this report, 1998, I would say to the Members here and to all those listening to us that the four countries that were the furthest behind, Ireland, Greece, Spain and Portugal, have gained ten points in ten years in relation to the Community average gross domestic product.
Furthermore, several speakers from all parties have thanked him.
The form of the report is just as important as its content.
He may be sure that the Commissioner for Regional Policy, who was once Minister for the Environment in his own country, is extremely supportive of this move and will oversee it personally, particularly in the programming of the Cohesion Fund for the next six years.
The priority was to allow the Member States to respect the deadlines set in implementation of the directive on waste water, and we are well aware that the problems that I have just mentioned, in particular the matter of waste or water treatment, are problematic in the countries concerned.
I have been able to see this personally in the Azores and I know that the situation is the same in the Greek islands, to use these two examples: these problems are particularly difficult in the case of remote, outermost or isolated island regions.
Also, with regard to the specific problems concerning the environment and thinking of islands in particular, I would like to express my wish to support investment in favour of renewable energy, and I have made this known to the Member States.
Having talked about content, I would like to say a word or two about form, and first of all reply to the comments of your rapporteur on the study on the socio-economic effects of the Cohesion Fund ordered by the Commission.
The Commission, which has just received this study, is currently analysing it, and in any case, it will be sent to you as soon as possible.
This is why the Structural Funds programmes currently being negotiated by the Commission with the Member States of cohesion include indicative sums for both Cohesion Fund aid and European Investment Bank aid.
The information requested by Parliament is available in the individual programming documents.
In addition, I would like to emphasise that the recent restructuring of the Directorate-General for Regional Policy brings together the geographical teams and power within the same units for Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, so that Cohesion Countries, which are eligible for Structural Funds in most cases, will have the same contacts within this Directorate-General.
This seems to me to be a more consistent approach for these countries.
But consistency between the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund also means observing the specificity of these two instruments, in accordance, moreover, with the general regulation on the Structural Funds.
It would in fact be inappropriate to use the Cohesion Fund for the same purposes and in the same way as the Structural Funds.
In any case, I am not in a position to alter the scope of the Cohesion Fund, which stems directly from the Treaty.
Mrs Schörling, you spoke of the matter of additionality.
I even said that the reality of this additionality would be one of the points which would enable me to validate or approve programmes and projects.
This report is even more useful in that it is comprehensive.
I can also assure you that beyond our regular meetings, the report on cohesion that I shall present to you at the end of this year will respond to a lot of the questions, criticisms and proposals raised by your rapporteur with regard to the pursuit of solidarity regarding countries benefiting from the Cohesion Fund, particularly in view of the perspective that concerns us all: enlargement.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
The proposed method is based on a modern geographic information system in which the cartographic information on holdings is digitised and integrated with the alphanumeric information needed to describe the holding and the aid received.
In terms of control, this method has enormous advantages and significantly reduces the possibility of fraud or any other irregularities.
In my opinion, the integration into the system of virtually all the sectors financed by the CAP should be sought.
The recent Court of Auditors report on classical swine fever shows that, even in areas where the geographic information initially seems less important, this is actually decisive and may form a fundamental instrument in rationalising the common agricultural policy.
For the second, we know that the Commission has already proposed the integration of this sector into arable crops but we do not know when and if the Commission proposal will be approved.
Although it is necessary to fight fraud, we must also prevent the complexity of the system causing a multiplication of minor formal irregularities and farmers being unfairly penalised.
It is unthinkable that a common policy such as the CAP should be handled like a collection of fifteen national policies or, even worse, like a pile of unconnected invoices from 80 or 90 national payment authorities.
The Commission must process all the geographic information now required from the fifteen Member States in a coordinated manner.
Nevertheless, it only demands that that information is communicated to them on request and exclusively for the preparation of verifications in situ in the process of the settlement of accounts.
Effective administration must be able to provide the institutions responsible with the elements for analysis and decision and amongst these elements is the cost-efficiency index.
This approach must be applied systematically and must be based on the analysis of the payments corresponding to each regulation.
The fact that this information can only be requested for the preparation of verifications in situ in the process of the settlement of accounts sets a time limit on the availability of the fundamental information for administration and control.
Therefore, in the first stage of the establishment of this integrated administration and control system, it would be sufficient to regulate the conditions for delivering the information mentioned and the need for the Commission to store it.
Mr President, we welcome this proposal by the Commission to improve the system of control and I should like to thank Mr Casaca for his report.
Mr Casaca has made a very good effort to explain it to Parliament.
It is extremely important.
It is fair to point out that the most recent report by the Court of Auditors for the year 1998 has not drawn attention to any single major failure of the Commission in this entire area.
There have been problems but they were isolated, small offences, relating to areas of aid and also to premiums and the failure of national governments to understand the details of European law.
But we have to recognise that for the most part the Commission was given a clean bill of health for 1998 which is the most recent report we have and it is to be congratulated on that.
The fact that more money is now going directly to farmers makes it easier to understand exactly what is happening.
It is reasonable to expect Member States to produce the sort of detail that is necessary for the European Commission both from the management point of view as well as that of accounting, to have exact details of where and to whom the money is going, down to the last recipient.
But we spend EUR 1 000 million on the tobacco regime.
This is a difficult task which is only possible at all by virtue of technological progress.
In connection with the final discharge, the Commission also presented the 1998 monitoring statistics to us.
In 1998 in the 15 Community Member States there were more than 3 million applications for "area" aid.
As the European Parliament rapporteur responsible for anti-fraud measures, I would like to bring a serious problem in this area to your attention.
All the Member States report any irregularities to the Commission, but only a few Member States tell the Commission which of these cases are classified as fraudulent.
For example, according to the statistics, in the United Kingdom there were 4 995 cases of over-declaration, 971 cases of duplicate applications and 52 cases of "false" applications.
But not one of these cases was classified in the statistics as being fraudulent or as giving rise to suspicions of "serious negligence" .
The far-reaching management and control measures which the Commission proposes are therefore very appropriate indeed.
Data on payments or revenue in respect of the EAGGF, Guarantee section, can only be used at the request of the Commission for closing accounts.
The existence of this wealth of information should have been a reason for the European Commission to adapt Regulation 2390/99.
In my opinion, the reservations expressed by the Executive, particularly the Commission' s position on Article 1 of the proposal, are unfounded.
The products which the rapporteur intends to add to the list all fall within sectors of considerable financial consequence whose control mechanisms have proved to be insufficient.
In fact, these products have all been subject to fraud and irregularity in the past.
On the basis of the above considerations, I therefore call upon the Commission and the Council to incorporate the position of the Committee on Budgetary Control and, in particular, Amendment No 1 and Amendment No 2.
As has also been explained, we have already taken advantage of the charging procedure, by setting a charge for those Member States lagging behind in that context also.
The Commission must also retain the right to carry out checks in relation to IACS.
The deviations in these 16 incorrect applications were in ten cases between 0% and 3%, in four cases between 3% and 5% and for only two applications in the entire random sample for the whole Community was the deviation over 5%.
I hope that there will be no further need for negotiations and clarification within the Commission.
I simply said that any decision would have to be taken in the framework of the Intergovernmental Conference.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9.00 a.m.
They are of fundamental importance as a source of supplementary income, which is essential to the maintenance of a large number of rural operations in the least-favoured areas.
Furthermore, this production is the basis of a significant primary and secondary processing industry, the key to economic diversification in rural areas which suffer very difficult conditions.
The Community' s level of self-sufficiency in this area is between 50 and 60%.
For example, in the case of hazelnuts, the costs of production in the European Union are three times greater than those in Turkey as a result of the differences in labour costs.
Tariff protection is very low and is being progressively dismantled following the negotiations within the World Trade Organisation and other preferential agreements.
Despite the fact that the measures laid down in Regulation (EEC) No 789/89 have had positive results, they have not managed to balance the cost of production with prices on a market dominated by the enormous pressure of imports at low prices.
The problem is that the support which this production has relied on is coming to an end, while the severe production conditions have not changed, and the competition from third country production has become tougher.
Furthermore, American exports to certain third countries enjoy preferential agreements which the European Union does not have.
The pressure of imports is such that there is less and less difference in prices between the select varieties and the common varieties, which has a devastating effect.
The difficult growing conditions in the European Union prevent competition with third countries and it is not possible to improve competitivity unless we abandon the current production areas and move production to other regions.
For these reasons, Commissioner, the Committee on Agriculture presented the oral question which has led to this debate.
The pressure of imports and the difficult climate and soil conditions demand, therefore, support for Community nut production.
These concerns, demands and requests of the Committee on Agriculture and the political groups in Parliament are aimed at seeking a solution which involves the granting of direct aid to the income of producers which, by maintaining that cultivation, will lead to the prevention of environmental damage and depopulation and maintain certain primary and secondary processing industries in the least-favoured areas.
However, none of the programmes submitted to us by the Member States, including those Member States with substantial agricultural areas, contains any proposals for measures of this kind, so that no such need was evidently identified when drawing up the programmes.
But the Commission should not be attacked if it was agreed beforehand that rural development was to be the responsibility of Member States and included in their programmes, and if at all possible at regional level within the Member States.
Mr President, I must thank the Commissioner for being present in this almost deserted chamber on a Thursday evening.
The Commissioner is aware of the problems of nuts in the European Union and he is aware that we are dependent on a single supplier in many cases: the United States, on the one hand, in the case of almonds, and Turkey, in the case of hazelnuts.
When you tell us that there are structural problems of low productivity and high production costs in the European Union, we must ask ourselves whether we want a nut sector or whether we want to be totally dependent on outside sources?
You tell us that there have had to be negotiations and that there is already aid from the COM in fruit and also within the framework of the rural development projects.
In those cases, the operational funds - which are a very small percentage of this global production per hectare, some 1.5 or 2% - are a reasonable amount to work with.
In the case of production per hectare which amounts to little more than ESP 100 000, I believe that the operational funds of the COM in fruits have very little significance and offer very little in terms of resolving the problem of nuts.
With regard to the framework of the rural development projects, the Commissioner knows much better than I do that, in rural development, the second pillar of the CAP - which we all view with great hope and we congratulate him for having brought it up and united it in one budgetary line -, in the regions where these fruits are grown - which are basically Objective 1 regions in some cases, and Objective 2 regions in others-, the programmes developed there are LEADER programmes.
In these LEADER programmes, and PRODER programmes in the case of Spain, where there are national programmes, which are organised from the bottom up, it will be difficult to consider a specific cultivation as being of strategic interest and as a strategic sector, when these programmes normally deal with problems of general interest.
However, Commissioner, what we are proposing to you, and I believe that all the political groups are in agreement on this, is the partial continuation, not continuation sine die, but continuation until a certain date, Commissioner, of improvement funds and plans, because in some cases they have still not ended, and in other cases their objectives have still not been fulfilled.
However, these funds are absolutely essential to the maintenance of the crop, as long as nuts are subject to differentiated treatment within the coming reform of the COM in fruits and vegetables.
Since these producers have the political support of this House, I believe that it would not be justifiable to deny them a few pesetas of economic support.
Mr Fischler, the European Commission must not continue to ignore the requests of the sectors affected.
It must be said that both specific measures for nuts and locust beans, as well as the lump sum aid for hazelnuts, were in fact transitional measures aimed at the conversion of the crops, but there is no reason why they cannot be extended.
Commissioner, a conversion in the agricultural sector cannot be treated as if it were a conversion in the industrial sector.
In industry, one can modernise plants and improve productivity, but in the case of certain crops, however much investment is made, however many changes are made in terms of marketing, we cannot alter the fact that certain areas are arid or semi-arid.
We cannot imagine that this problem can be resolved through the scant funds available in the rural development programmes.
That is not the place to find a solution for these areas, as the Commissioner and the whole of the Commission seems to think.
Furthermore, it does not appear that an extension of this aid until the adoption of the measures proposed in the resolution, nor even until the definitive measures themselves are adopted, will cause problems within the conversations in the World Trade Organisation.
The sector produces a surplus and Community protection is minimal.
The Commission' s main argument is that which was agreed ten years ago.
I believe that it is precisely the change in conditions compared to ten years ago which weakens the Commission' s position, and it is therefore important for them to be sensitive to an agreement which originates from the action of certain MEPs from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the European Parliament at the moment.
It is an economic sector, I agree, but it has much greater environmental responsibility than it did ten years ago.
Thirdly, if this aid is removed today, the loss of the land recovered over these ten years would be irreversible.
I therefore sincerely believe that there is no margin, either within the framework of rural development or in other areas, because we are not talking about vegetables, we are not talking about any other type of product, we are talking about a very specific product, with very specific circumstances, which were analysed ten years ago and which must be analysed today once again.
For this reason, I believe that it makes absolute sense to carry out a study of a new framework of aid and, in any event, there should be an extension with immediate effect.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, there are not many of us, just the little Mediterranean family, trying to defend the crops that Brussels does not like.
The fixed aid for hazelnuts in 1996 was temporary.
You tell us that it is expensive, but you are not telling the whole truth.
And as we have told you, we are dealing with regions in Spain, in my native Languedoc-Roussillon, in Greece, where the land is arid.
Our olives instead of North African olives and our Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Greek, Languedoc-Roussillon and French Mediterranean before Anatolia and California, Commissioner.
Commissioner, in your speech you told us how you viewed the situation, but I can assure you that the industry does not see it in the same way.
For all these reasons, it is not surprising that there is enormous concern in the sector at the possibility that aid may be withdrawn, since without it - and we must recognise this -, given that the future of these operations, as a result of the competition from third countries, is in jeopardy and the investment made in the modernisation of the production systems - which has taken place on a significant scale - will have been pointless.
I would therefore also like to ask you, Commissioner, on behalf of the producers in the sector and especially on behalf of the producers in Catalonia, for the specific aid to this sector to be continued in the way that has been pointed out here and along the lines of the motion for a resolution which I hope will receive the support of this House.
Any other type of aid such as those you have mentioned, above all rural development aid, may be positive in other sectors, it is true, but in this case, given the specific nature of the sector, they are totally insufficient to guarantee the competitiveness, and therefore the survival, of these operations, whose interests the Commission - you, Commissioner - can in no way ignore.
Mr President, here again, I would simply like to draw attention to the fact that, in this crop that I know so well, the return on investment is long term.
But every farmer who has made an investment in this area signed a contract at the outset before he made that investment, so that he knew for exactly how many years he would be receiving investment aid.
If a case is being made that this type of farming is absolutely essential for maintaining the landscape and preserving the environment, particularly in these dry areas, then this is an ideal case for environmental measures.
You cannot argue that this is an important form of agriculture if it is obviously not important enough for the regional authorities to give it priority and grant support for it.
