Some EU countries that blocked the prospects of Georgia and Ukraine for joining NATO have enabled Russia to pursue its aggressive policy of annexing territories.
I also think that Europe should adopt a unified and clear stance on the situation in Georgia and not turn a blind eye to Russia's crude interference with the sovereignty and integrity of a neighbouring state.
I am convinced that Europe must bring pressure to bear and, as part of the international community, push for the territorial integrity of Georgia.
The Slovak Republic adhered to the principle of territorial integrity in the case of Kosovo and still does not recognise its separation from Serbia.
I need not remind you that, on 5 September 1972, 11 Olympic athletes were massacred in Munich.
Therefore, I believe it is vital that, following our resolution, which I welcome, we go a step further and station European peacekeeping troops in Georgia.
We must also ensure that this country can survive and continue in peace, because having Russian troops as peacekeepers, as the UN and the OSCE have organised, is giving the arsonist the role of fire chief. (PL) Mr President, this resolution on Georgia is important, and I voted in favour of it, although I feel that the European Union, which was faced with an important test as a result of events in Georgia, failed to pass that test.
The main reason it failed, in my view, is because some very important German interests are involved here, particularly the interests of the German left wing and Chancellor Schröder.
The Germans must come to terms with the fact that they are either forging a united European Union and their declarations are genuine, or they are acting hypocritically and putting their own interests ahead of those of the EU. (DE) Mr President, I voted in favour of the resolution, but with some heartache.
This is a danger not only for Ukraine, but also for us.
That is only one aspect of this report, however.
Mr President, for some bizarre reason I broke the trend of a lifetime in this Parliament today by not voting against a report by the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality - I abstained.
But I abstained on this report. (PL) Mr President, although I am a supporter of equal rights, I voted against the resolution on equality between women and men.
The fact that Amendment 2 - an amendment that removes these points - was rejected in the vote made it necessary to reject the entire resolution.
Restricting these freedoms will not do the European Union any good, but will lead to a further drain of scientists to the United States of America and other countries around the world where there are no such bans.
Mr President, I voted against the resolution on banning cloned animals in our food chain, due to the lack of scientific rigour underpinning our approach in Parliament.
That is why I voted against. (NL) Mr President, if I had to summarise my reasons for voting against the Svensson report, I could say quite simply that, in my opinion, this report is complete nonsense.
Indeed, several provisions of the Svensson report, such as paragraph 14 on censorship, are straight out of Fahrenheit 451, a book portraying a world in which books are banned and critical thought suppressed.
Paragraph 14 of the text takes the biscuit, advocating the elimination of what it calls 'messages conveying gender stereotypes' from textbooks, toys, video games, the Internet and advertising.
I have a huge amount of respect for the rapporteur, Mrs Svensson, who has done a lot of work in this area and is one of the strongest female role models that this Parliament could put forward.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote in favour of the report because its aim is global harmonisation of the classification, labelling and packaging of chemicals.
The opening at international level of the debate on chemical substances and the part they play in our lives dates back to 1980, first within the International Labour Organization and then within the United Nations, which adopted the GHS (Globally Harmonised System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals) in December 2002, with a revision in 2005.
in writing. - The Sartori reports deal with important matters of relevance to all our citizens.
I have no doubt that the document is inspired by the manufacturer of the vehicle used by Hans-Gert Pöttering, but I deliberately voted in favour of it.
However, overall, hydrogen powered vehicles have a very low energy efficiency of 20% from source to wheel.
It is urgent to include hydrogen vehicles in the EU type approval framework, thus fostering the research and development of this environmentally friendly technology throughout the whole of the internal market.
Moreover, technical specifications have been established to ensure the reliability and safety of hydrogen components and systems, as well as the clear identification of hydrogen powered vehicles through labelling, which would be important should an emergency arise.
in writing. - I voted in favour on the Weisgerber report.
The potential of hydrogen as a clean form of power has long been recognised, and technologies in this area are constantly being improved.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of Mrs Weisgerber's report on type-approval of hydrogen powered vehicles.
Hydrogen powered vehicles lend themselves to this purpose but they must guarantee a high level of safety and environmental protection.
in writing. - I welcome Anja Weisgerber's report on type-approval of hydrogen-powered motor vehicles.
I voted in favour of the report's recommendations.
in writing. - (DE) There is no doubt that hydrogen power is a technology with future potential, but it has by no means reached maturity.
Furthermore, even if the cars themselves do not produce any harmful emissions, it is still not clear how the hydrogen is to be produced in a way that uses as little energy as possible and does not generate CO2.
In conclusion, we also do not yet know whether battery- or fuel-cell-powered vehicles will become the norm, but it is important in any case that we support alternative technologies in order to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels.
Accordingly, I voted in favour of the Weisgerber report.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report as this legislation will pave the way for full-scale production of these cars and provide European drivers with real alternatives in the near future.
I am voting in favour of this resolution in the hope that it will bring a swift and peaceful end to this tragic crisis.
Evidently, following the events in Kosovo, the voice of the international community is undoubtedly weaker and far less credible, but diplomatic efforts must be stepped up to bring about a credible and concrete solution.
I hope that the European Commission will play its part, as it has done in other situations.
The MEPs of the New Democracy (ND) party have decided to abstain from the final vote on the resolution on the situation in Georgia.
This decision was taken because the final draft resolution, which was put to the vote, was worded in such a way that the sense of equilibrium present in the previous draft resolutions was removed.
in writing. - I will be voting in favour of this joint resolution because it is important that the Union send a strong message to Russia's leadership.
in writing. - (SV) The situation in Georgia and the position taken regarding it are foreign policy issues.
The opinion of the June List is that neither the European Parliament nor any other EU institution should issue a statement on such matters because foreign policy is to be pursued at national level, not by the European Union.
Hardly surprisingly, the European Parliament is making the most of the opportunity to issue propaganda in favour of a stronger common foreign and security policy and, even worse, the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty.
The situation in Georgia is very serious, especially in view of all the civilian victims of the conflict.
However, the EU should not pursue a foreign policy and therefore we have voted no to this resolution.
Some of those who are now calling for international law, territorial integrity, sovereignty and the independence of States to be respected are the very same people who championed and supported the aggression against Yugoslavia or Iraq.
in writing. - I am satisfied that my own group's amendment was successful.
I voted in favour of Amendments 2 and 5, as in my opinion Russia is making a claim to restore the territorial boundaries of the former Soviet Union by employing various means.
To my mind, in its resolution the EU must clearly show the gratuitousness of Russia's expansionist plans, especially regarding the Baltic countries.
I wavered on whether to support the draft resolution.
This remarkable statement convinced me that the resolution could have been a lot worse and could have been wrecked by the pro-Russian lobby in the European Parliament.
It is a shame that we did not present our position during a Council sitting.
It is a shame that we did not put forward our prescriptions and our views before the leaders of the Member States got together.
in writing. - Mr President, by taking an unequivocal position against Russia and engaging Europe in the resolution of the conflict, the European Council and a majority in Parliament are launching a process as dangerous as the one which plunged the continent into the First World War.
If, as the Socialists, Liberals, PPE and Verts would like, Georgia became a member of NATO and joined a European Union governed by the Treaty of Lisbon, our nations would enter into conflict with Russia.
in writing. - I welcome the swift action taken by the French presidency in working towards a solution to the conflict between Georgia and Russia.
The aspects of this resolution I reject are its taking sides with Georgia and its attempt to punish and isolate Russia and surround it by NATO for recognising the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
Most European countries came into being after 1830, particularly in waves after 1918 and 1991.
For these reasons, but also to avoid jeopardising its credibility, it is important for the EU to play a neutral role as a mediator between Georgia and Russia.
With this in mind, then, I favour the position worked out at the special summit and am against the 'vassals' attitude towards the United States in this report, which is why I voted against it.
The people's answer can and must be to join in the anti-imperialist struggle.
The position taken by the majority in the European Parliament directly opposes that held by the same political forces six months ago on the Kosovo issue.
in writing. - I have voted in favour of Amendment 2 because I consider it inadmissible that borders could be changed under the pretext of 'care' for the minorities in neighbouring countries.
It is true: Georgia was assured that she would become a NATO member and that is officially inscribed in the Final Communiqué of the Bucharest NATO summit, b.
in writing. - (FR) Though not perfect, the resolution adopted by the European Parliament deserves to be supported in that it confirms the unity demonstrated by Europe on the resolution of the situation in Georgia.
I abstained from voting on the European Parliament resolution on the events in South Ossetia and Abkhazia since the Parliament took a one-sided, unbalanced position towards Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence from a normalised, democratised Serbia.
Parliament did not consider it appropriate to take a similar resolution on Kosovo in the name of the same principles of respect for international law and integrity of national borders that it is invoking today to denounce recognition of the independence of Ossetia and Abkhazia by Moscow.
Nothing would be worse for the security of our continent than for the European Union to confuse alliances and allegiance to the 'crime-inducing' politics of the Bush government in this part of the world, as it has in other parts.
I therefore abstained on this resolution.
We voted to abstain on the second part of Paragraph 27, as we are clear that this is a resolution aimed at resolving the situation in Georgia.
in writing. - (CS) I abstained from voting on the European Parliament's resolution on the situation in Georgia, not because I would be casting doubt on the legitimacy of the Georgian stance but, on the contrary, because I would have been approving the improper and aggressive steps taken by Russia.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the resolution from the Legal Affairs committee.
The Common Frame of Reference will be an important legal development, and we as yet do not know what form it will take.
in writing. - Despite the complex title this report concerns a complaint in 2001 of maladministration by the Commission in relation to the German Government's failure to properly implement the Working Time Directive.
This anti-labour travesty divides the concept of working time into active and inactive time - the latter is not considered to be paid working time - and gives employers the right to employ their workers for up to 13 hours a day, 65 hours a week, while paying them nothing whatsoever in overtime.
in writing. - (SV) The June List considers that working hours should be regulated at national level.
in writing. - I was able to support the De Rossa report and hope that the Commission fully takes on board the Ombudsman's recommendations in relation to the rule of law and the principle of good administration.
As our Shadow Minister for Women has said: "A Conservative approach to gender equality will be based upon a belief in equality of opportunity and equitable legal, commercial, social and political treatment".
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the European Parliament resolution based on the report by my Spanish fellow Member Mrs García Pérez on equality between men and women.
All subjects are important: unequal pay, participation in decision-making, particularly public decisions, the reconciliation of private and professional life, and violence against women.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs García Pérez on 'Equality between women and men - 2008' as I consider that reducing the disparities between women and men is fundamental to establishing a fairer society as well as being a determining factor for the European Union's economic growth, prosperity and competitiveness.
However, I regret that Amendment 1 has been approved, thereby removing the important reference to the need for the Commission and the Council to create a clear legal basis for combating all forms of violence against women.
in writing. - (SV) The June List strongly distances itself from all forms of discrimination.
The EU is a union of values, and the Member States must treat all groups in society in a fair and equal manner.
Equality between men and women must be a goal for all Member States.
The international coordination which is desirable should take place at global level, preferably within the UN.
We have therefore chosen to vote no to this report.
in writing. - In general, I am very supportive of most of what is in this report.
I believe that the text of Paragraph 9 should be qualified by stating the need to respect national legislative processes when considering the issue of abortion.
It is up to each Member State to make its own legislation in this area and Parliament must therefore respect the principle of subsidiarity.
Unfortunately, the text is not clear on this matter.
in writing. - The García Perez report deals with many important issues relating to gender equality, social justice and fundamental rights.
Combating serious organised crime of this nature requires a cross-border and multi-agency approach, and it is clear that the EU has a key role to play in this area.
in writing. - While progress has been made on the issue of gender equality in Europe, we are far from full parity.
I voted in support of Iratxe García Pérez's report 'Equality between women and men - 2008'.
in writing. - I welcome the report on Equality between women and men - 2008, and support much of its contents.
However, I abstained in the final vote because amendment 2 was rejected.
in writing. - I voted for this report which aims to tackle gender inequality.
in writing. - (RO) As a Shadow-Rapporteur from the PSE group in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I voted for this report because I consider it very important as regards the proposals for ensuring equal treatment of women and men with regard to the labour market.
in writing. - (FR) The European Parliament must think that its Members are suffering from Alzheimer's disease!
To believe this, all you need to do is read the previous ones: the Kauppi report in 2007 or the Estrela report in 2006 on equality between men and women.
No, because progress has been made with employment and with the participation of women in decision-making at local, national and European level.
in writing. - (SV) Mrs García Pérez's report on equality between women and men - 2008 was essentially good.
What was more difficult was paragraph 4, which seeks to create a clear legal basis at EU level for combating 'all forms of violence against women'.
The reason why I finally abstained, however, was the second sentence of paragraph 6, which encourages the use of quotas.
We support the fundamental principle as outlined in paragraph 1 of the report: 'Emphasises the importance of giving women and men the same opportunities to develop as individuals regardless of gender'.
I voted in favour of Mrs Svensson's report on how marketing and advertising affect equality between women and men, as I agree with the need to develop a 'Code of Conduct' for advertising that is applicable in all Member States and that guarantees respect for the principle of equality between men and women and combats the use of gender stereotypes.
I believe that advertising and marketing communications are dangerous vehicles of gender stereotyping and give rise to restrictions on freedom, both for women and men, in their various dimensions and roles throughout their lives, having a negative impact on their role in society.
This report by Swedish MEP, Mrs Svensson, of our Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, has enabled us to take a broadly positive stance on how marketing and advertising affect equality between women and men.
Indeed, the choices we make throughout our lives are influenced by a whole range of factors, including the social class to which we belong, our gender, the images and concepts of gender and gender roles that are ever present around us through education, the media and advertising.
For this reason, it is important to continue to combat the gender stereotypes that persist in our societies, despite various Community programmes to promote gender equality.
As mentioned in the report, the school system has a fundamental role to play in developing children's critical faculties with regard to images and the media in general, in order to prevent the disastrous effects of the recurrence of gender stereotypes in marketing and advertising.
in writing. - (RO) I decided that abstention is the position that expresses in the best way the heterogeneous content of the report.
in writing. - (FI) I voted against Mrs Svensson's report in line with the view of our group.
This I did because, although the report on how marketing and advertising affect equality between women and men contained a lot of good ideas that I wholeheartedly support, including teaching children to use their critical faculties when it comes to the media and teaching people to question sex stereotypes, I thought it went too far in general.
in writing. - (FR) I am delighted by the adoption of this report, which highlights the role played by marketing and advertising in the emergence and perpetuation of gender stereotypes and proposes a number of avenues for combating these.
Exposure from a very young age to gender stereotyping in the media makes a major contribution to the perpetuation of lifelong inequalities between women and men, hence the importance of developing children's critical faculties with regard to images and the media in general.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of Mrs Svensson's report on advertising, which continues to be discriminatory.
Despite the measures that have been taken against it, gender stereotyping remains a major issue in society.
In summary, it can be said that advertising confronts all citizens in their daily life and it must therefore present good role models.
I should point out that of course we are concerned about the gender stereotypes conveyed by some advertising.
Of course we are against the advertising of sexual services, which reinforce stereotypes of women as objects.
Advertising should respect the values dear to us, but it must be able to exist and to play its role in a market economy without being accused of all evils, which is the tenor of this report.
However, we would like to emphasise that the European Parliament cannot solve any problems in this area, nor is legislation at EU level the right way to go.
Finally, we think that it is through opinion-forming and debate in the Member States that we can succeed in eradicating advertising for sexual services from the daily newspapers.
After a certain amount of heart-searching, we have voted in favour of the report in its entirety.
However, we would like to emphasise that we have done so because we consider that many of the values and demands it contains are essential, but our opinions differ regarding the means to achieve them.
in writing. - I welcome Eva-Britt Svensson's report on how marketing and advertising affect equality between women and men.
I therefore voted in support of the report.
in writing. - (RO) I voted this report because it renders very well the moment of the intervention required to reduce the negative influence of marketing and publicity on equality between men and women, namely: the first years of a child's socialisation.
I welcome the idea of establishing a specific department for matters related to gender equality within the national mass-media monitoring bodies of Member States, but it is extremely necessary that they have a double role: regular and systematic monitoring of gender images in the mass-media, as well as the coercive monitoring of their information media.
It is worth making special mention of the commitment made by all the public authorities to eradicate violence against women and on the role that advertising and marketing should play in this process.
The new European Institute for Gender Equality should have the resources to closely monitor images and language and to eradicate violent images and those that subtly allude to women as objects that can be controlled and owned, and that are therefore susceptible to attack.
in writing. - (SV) Mrs Svensson's report created quite a major headache before the vote.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting against this own-initiative report, because it interferes too much with freedom of opinion and smacks of imperious censorship.
in writing. - (SK) I voted for the adoption of this resolution.
The objective of this report was to use the law to govern all aspects of life, even though it has certain centralised features.
The report on how marketing and advertising affect equality between women and men is nowhere near being a good one, but opens up several problems, which Parliament would prefer to avoid.
in writing. - (CS) I voted against the report and against the majority of the tabled amendments which are intended, in a planned and unified way, using six comprehensive priority areas, to achieve equality between women and men in advertising and deal with the way in which advertising supports and reinforces certain types of discriminatory stereotype, which have a negative effect on equality between women and men.
I voted against because this report is a serious threat to and, what is more, a dangerous interference in an area in which pronounced individual and different cultures prevail in the various Member States.
in writing. - (RO) My vote "in favour” is based on the following doctrinaire and practical grounds.
in writing. - The cloning of animals for food supply, I feel, carries with it various risks both to human health and animal welfare.
I therefore voted in favour of calling for a ban on the cloning of animals for food supply.
in writing. - I welcome the debate on animal cloning.
I abstained in the final vote on the resolution on cloning of animals for food supply because I have some concerns about an outright ban as proposed in this resolution.
in writing. - (DE) Only 12 years ago, a new technology, which is apparently associated with high death rates and considerable suffering, stunned the world with the cloning of Dolly the sheep.
Frankenstein is lurking at the door!
However, in terms of animal welfare and food safety, I am totally opposed to cloned animals entering the food chain.
Although I do not wish to stand in the way of science, it is clear that we are not yet fully aware of the all the consequences and implications of cloning, both in terms of animal welfare and human consumption.
Product quality, animal welfare and environmental concerns should remain our priority in terms of food production.
I therefore applaud this initiative and remain confident that measures will be adopted to protect both human health, by maintaining the high quality of the food that we eat, as well as animal welfare.
in writing. - (SK) I voted for this resolution.
Consumers in EU Member States must be protected against the negative effects on their health which may potentially be caused by products cloned for food purposes.
These experiments are also financed from taxpayers' money, even in States where the legislation considers cloning to be a crime.
