European satellite radionavigation programmes (EGNOS and Gallileo) (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Barsi-Pataky, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the amended proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the further implementation of the European satellite radionavigation programmes (EGNOS and Galileo) - C6-0345/2007 -.
President-in-Office. - (SL) I am delighted to be here with you in today's plenary session dedicated to the debate on the Galileo Implementation Regulation.
This initiative was followed by the European Parliament's Resolution expressing strong support for the two programmes to be continued under the auspices of the European Union, and making an unequivocal call for the entire funding to be secured from the European Union's budget.
When later on, in September 2007, the Commission tabled a bundle of proposals which would steer the projects towards 100% funding from the public sector, amongst the proposals was a regulation on implementation.
Owing to the agreement reached in November last year between the ECOFIN Council and the European Parliament on a resolution, and a general decision which the TTE Council endorsed a week later, through conclusions regarding the future development of Galileo, we have succeeded in getting the two programmes out of the cul-de-sac and returned them to the public domain.
The Slovenian Presidency prides itself on having made all necessary efforts to reach agreement during its first reading.
I should like to thank you for your attention and, in particular, for your constructive cooperation in this important European project.
Thanks to the efforts of each and all of them, we have made enormous progress in the various tripartite dialogues and are today looking at a draft regulation that satisfies Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
I can confirm that the proposal includes financing for programmes in complete accordance with the budgetary agreement reached in November 2007 between the European Parliament and the Council.
The text also establishes satisfactory governance of the programmes.
The Commission should table a proposal amending the regulation in terms of the management structures of the European GNSS programmes.
The European Parliament has given continuous and positive support to the Galileo programme since its inception.
In November last year, 2007, the European Parliament, in a bold step, moved the programme out of the doldrums and in December approved the financing for the development of the GNSS programmes from a revised Community budget.
We are now discussing a regulation on the implementation of the Galileo and EGNOS GNSS programmes following a successful informal trialogue in the first reading.
The Commission will also be asked to submit a proposal by 2010 for post-2013 financing, in particular for common ownership commitments.
The Commission is responsible for programme implementation and programme management and will be aided in its work, in committee procedures, by the Programme Committee.
With the Galileo programme we have hopes of new technology, development, new business opportunities and work, and we particularly stress the opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises in all 27 Member States.
The ITRE Committee approved it unanimously.
Firstly, just when Europe is accused of having no ambitions of being in turmoil, our willingness to find the resources for such a technologically ambitious plan proves that the EU can more than answer its critics when it comes to benefiting citizens and business.
However, we only have GPS on loan.
I would also like to thank Mr Schinas and the Chair of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, Mrs Niebler, for their good cooperation and for the fact that we have worked as a team during the negotiations.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Barrot for his contribution in tying up the loose ends.
Like the previous speaker, I would also like to begin by saying a sincere thank you, thank you to our rapporteur, Mrs Barsi-Pataky, and to the Members of the Committee on Budgets and of the Committee on Transport and Tourism for their excellent cooperation.
I think that as Parliament we have worked very well together on this dossier and, together with the Council and the Commission, have achieved a really good result.
This does indeed show that we also have to invest our own European satellite navigation system.
We need the know-how in order to build systems such as these independently in Europe and we also have to do something for the owners of our medium-sized enterprises, for small and medium-sized enterprises, which will then, if the infrastructure has been set up, benefit from this by developing the applications in many sectors, to which we perhaps do not give much thought at all today: in the logistics sector, in the road haulage sector, in maritime, rail and air transport and in the security field.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Galileo could also be subtitled 'The Neverending Story'.
I should like to thank Mrs Barsi-Pataky specifically for her helpful cooperation, not only in the trialogue negotiations, but also in recent years.
My group, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, has always backed the Galileo Project and we are now also backing the result that has been established.
We have the Interinstitutional Panel, on which the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission have witnessed the progress of this project.
Galileo is - as my fellow Member Mrs Niebler has just stated - not only a satellite navigation system, which enables some citizens perhaps to arrive more quickly at their destination.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Minister, Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, for experts in the aerospace sector, the name Galileo may conjure up not only an Italian astronomer, but a US space probe designed by NASA to study Jupiter and its dunes, due to be launched on 18 October 1989 from the Atlantis space shuttle.
The project must succeed.
Galileo made scientific advances, but also indirectly brought about progress in philosophy and other areas of thinking.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Barsi-Pataky for having such an open attitude, including all those of us who have participated in the process.
I am convinced that the answer is no.
Galileo is not cheap but on the other hand it should provide approximately 140 000 new jobs in the EU Member States.
In conclusion, I have already invited the authority that manages Galileo to visit us in Prague.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, let us be honest.
It asks for, in this case, a massive increase in the budget, from GBP 120 million to GBP 715 million.
In my speech I would like to stress two important aspects that are vital for the successful implementation of the European satellite radionavigation programmes.
I think that the European Union must, using its public resources, participate in such programmes and in the development of this sector, which has significant potential for the development of new services with high added value, which are needed in almost all areas of society.
The second aspect in the implementation of the programmes is the procurement process during the Galileo development phase.
Here, too, I want to express my satisfaction with the proposals for a balanced participation on all levels, including the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in all Member States.
The implementation of the system is so demanding that no Member State could carry it out on its own.
I therefore congratulate Etelka Barsi-Pataky, the rapporteur, and the head of the European Parliament's negotiating team, Angelika Niebler, who did an excellent job.
I would also like to congratulate the Slovene Presidency of the European Council for the latter's agreement with Parliament.
I would like to congratulate and thank Mrs Barsi-Pataky, the rapporteur, for her will to help launch it and to ensure its continuation through monitoring, through this interinstitutional group that I think is a very positive innovation which maybe can be adopted for other matters.
That is why a lot of collective work is ahead of us, and we believe that we shall be as successful in the future as we have been in the past. (DE) Mr President, I wish to drop a few more flies into the ointment.
The project has been put back five years, with the operating phase planned to begin in 2013.
Our industrial policy strategy is therefore failing, as regards being ahead of GPS 3 on the market with Galileo and setting the standards worldwide.
For this reason we must have a discussion in sufficient time about the public costs of the operating phase after 2013 and we should concentrate on how we can establish publicly funded systems for Galileo such as tolls, eCall and Caesar.
I would like to thank the European Commission for finding an alternative solution in the absence of an agreement between companies, and for working on a proposal to allocate contracts in a way that would federate all the member states and the European Parliament.
Let us not disappoint them. (FR) Mr President, (inaudible) Galileo, the first Community infrastructure, requires all stakeholders to share the same goal: success.
Prague is strategically placed in the heart of Europe and the building suggested for the new headquarters currently houses the Ministry of Informatics in the former military zone in Klecany.
It is a powerful tool that will enable the EU to play an important role in the international arena.
In considering whether to support this proposal, Parliament must bear in mind that establishing a satellite radionavigation infrastructure will exceed the financial and technical potential of the Member States, which is why it is a Community action. (DE) Mr President, I should like to join my fellow Members who have specifically commended Commissioner Barrot and our rapporteurs Mrs Barsi-Pataky and Mrs Niebler for their staying power.
We need a functioning Galileo system as soon as possible and, what is more, our own European system.
Mr President, I would particularly like to thank everyone who contributed to this success here in Parliament.
Firstly, I would like to thank Mrs Barsi-Pataky who, on the committee chaired by Mrs Niebler - and I also thank Mrs Niebler for her decisive role in the conclusion of the tripartite dialogue - never stopped believing in Galileo while continuing to set high standards.
Mrs Jensen, thank you for being such an ardent supporter of Galileo on the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
Mr President, I cannot reply to all the speakers.
What I would like to say is that we must now approach our SMEs in all of the Member States so that these preparations can be implemented and we can finalise Galileo's applications.
The Commission will sign an agreement with the European Space Agency.
Mr Remek, allow me to thank you for being here, because you know what there is in space.
The European Commission in the person of Vice-President Barrot brought a new proposal for an intensive one-year programme to the table for discussion, and the European Community implemented a new structure and promised the necessary funding.
The Galileo programme is ready for its new START, in other words, the project has reached an end.
And finally, Mr President, if you will permit me a personal comment - when the Galileo programme was launched, Hungary, where I was elected in 2004, was not yet a member of the EU, and neither was Slovenia.
I am therefore particularly happy that we are cooperating in the new launch on the 27th.
Matters are, unfortunately, moving at a slow pace - 11 years have passed since the European Commission presented its first communication on a European satellite navigation system.
