rapporteur. - (DA) Madam President, every day there are Europeans who become ill because of air pollution.
What is more, the proposal will presumably, I hope, have some direct environmental impact because the public sector is in actual fact responsible for a large proportion of the purchases of a wide range of vehicles: for example buses, with public authorities in Europe accounting for approximately a third of bus purchases.
In the process, I believe we have also sent an important signal that we stand shoulder to shoulder here in Parliament where this important piece of legislation is concerned.
I am proud that, tomorrow, we can vote through a piece of legislation that will reduce pollution in Europe and whereby local authorities will be in the driver's seat in the fight against global warming and the fight against the air pollution that makes many Europeans ill every year.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the objective of the proposal is to increase the presence on the European market of energy efficient vehicles that produce low levels of pollution, with the aim of reducing both energy consumption and emissions of CO2 and other pollutants.
The legislative text which we are approving does not bring in new administrative procedures.
The proposal is thus perfectly consistent with the existing regulations on procurement and public services and all the provisions contained in them, such as those on exemption thresholds, remain in force.
The directive will incorporate general parameters for energy consumption, emissions of CO2 and emissions of other pollutants into procurement through competitive tendering.
As a result, energy efficiency will rise and emissions of CO2 and other pollutants will fall for all vehicles circulating in Europe.
I hope that, through this debate, we can achieve a positive outcome and that the revised proposal for a directive can be adopted.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by saying that it is clear from this draft report that environmental protection and climate change really matter to the whole of the European Parliament and to all of its committees, but also to the Commission and the Council.
However, the environment and climate change must also be a matter for the people, for the citizens of the European Union themselves - it must be an autonomous concern, in other words a concern for those who purchase cars or buses in the European Union.
I therefore continue to wonder whether the provisions we are proposing here will really strengthen citizens' consciences in this matter in the end, or whether they will in fact weaken them, and whether this directive actually serves the objectives we are aiming for at all, or whether it will actually just create yet more frustration at alleged Brussels bureaucracy.
I rather doubt that a directive will really bolster this, because in my view the directive does very little, and it is not true, as you claim, Mr Jørgensen, that the environmental effects will be particularly large.
However, the directive will also do no harm, because in the end all those involved will be able to carry on more or less as before.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism has suggested the use of the label 'clean and energy-efficient urban road transport' by the authorities whose purchases of environmentally friendly vehicles account for the largest share in the total annual specific procurement.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and I am sure that this document will change the attitude of local public authorities towards the environment.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, the Commission proposal before us on the promotion of energy-efficient vehicles is a revised version of the original proposal that we rejected two years ago.
These standards are already being used successfully today and, according to what is stated by our municipal associations, should remain in this form in the future.
I would therefore ask Commissioner Tajani whether, in the future, when reviewing this text or perhaps even before that, he could present us with a proposal in this respect: namely, to use this instrument of the trans-European energy networks to ensure the supply of these new fuels in one of the areas where there is the greatest need, in other words the area of these essential infrastructures for new fuels.
It will certainly have an effect on public procurement procedures, undoubtedly guiding the choices made by the institutions, but first and foremost - upstream of that - guiding the choices made by manufacturers.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DA) Thank you, Mr President, and thank you Mr Jørgensen for your frank and constructive cooperation.
It is therefore right to make it compulsory for European authorities to take account of, for example, CO2 and particle emissions when they are about to invest in new vehicles.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (GA) Mr President, I welcome the recommendations in the conciliation measure agreed by representatives of Parliament, the Council and the Commission on clean road transport vehicles.
This will help us to comply with our climate commitments and, more importantly, this can be a market catalyst for clean transport choices.
I hope that this directive shall be adopted - as soon as possible - so that it can be implemented by 2010 as a support for local authorities and for public bodies who value the environment.
Public authorities shall therefore have the opportunity in the future to set an example and act as a catalyst for the automobile sector so that the latter develops and invests in the production of environmental vehicles with ever-decreasing CO2 and pollutant emissions.
I should also like to point out that we shall debate product standards in Brussels.
In this vein, we can do no better than promote the creation of an ecological label, a visible, legible and understandable label of this ecological quality.
I support the general approach, which gives a choice of options for taking into account lifetime costs and also allows flexibility as to the weighting given to the lifetime costs in award criteria.
I have been assured that many of these bodies already factor lifecycle costs - including fuel costs - into the criteria for procurement.
For these reasons, I support the proposal. (PL) Mr President, the issue we are discussing today, as you can see, unites rather than divides us in the European Parliament.
Our debate needs to be at grass-roots level, so the Commission also needs to be aware that, in this case, it needs to listen more to Parliament and the MEPs. (HU) Thank you very much, Mr President.
To conclude, I hope that this directive will serve as a stepping stone towards a comprehensive proposal on limiting CO2 emissions from commercial vehicles. (FI) Mr President, the facts speak for themselves: 26% of all energy consumption and 24% of CO2 emissions.
Mr Jørgensen, however, has had good intentions and he has succeeded in many areas.
A compromise at first reading rarely meets the criteria for democracy: that is something that was made clear to us when we debated Parliament's climate and energy package, if not before. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, climate protection is the aim of us all.
All the issues that are still relevant have already been regulated in the European context, or else no regulation is necessary or the issue concerned would have been better resolved on the basis of subsidiarity.
Local authorities play a key role in determining the criteria for public procurement in the area of road transport.
I therefore support the proposal, under which public procurement must take account not only of procurement costs but also of consumption costs, CO2 emissions and information on atmospheric pollution over the whole life of a vehicle.
I firmly believe that a clear set of environmental criteria can play a significant role in supporting the market for clean vehicles.
Intensive and open dialogue between local authorities, environmental protection groups and citizens will surely contribute towards reinforcing the importance of environmental factors in the purchase of new vehicles. - (CS) It is an important and perfectly legitimate aim to have clean vehicles, but today local authorities already have the option to include environmental considerations in contracts for public transport services.
This means that it is a matter of who is going to buy expensive vehicles in a situation where consumption is falling and we are heading into recession.
A huge amount could be achieved in this area, and I would propose that we embark on a new initiative in this connection.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, first of all, I would like to say to Mr Rübig and Mrs Ayala Sender that I will speak with the relevant Commissioners and ask them to reply to the issues that they have raised.
rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, I believe that, in ten to twenty years' time, Europeans will be environmentally aware in a quite different way than at present.
The figure for lorries is 35 000 per year and that for buses 17 000 per year.
Seventeen thousand is, in actual fact, a third of all the buses purchased in any one year in Europe.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 22 October.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, if we want to adopt credible climate policy - and we are, in this respect, facing crucial weeks - then the government should in the first place set a good example.
This is, after all, the whole point, namely to convince the consumer, us all, that environmentally-friendly cars are available and need not cost more than their polluting counterparts.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, all the initiatives taken to meet the climate change criteria outlined by the Council of Europe in March 2007, and which have been repeated in the conclusions of the current Presidency, will clearly strengthen the EU's position as the world leader in the fight against climate change.
in writing. - Climate change and depleting natural resources are important issues in our world today.
This initiative is a great start to helping clean our environment and helping make Europe more sustainable in the future.
It is important that we encourage all Europeans to play their part in protecting the environment.
In our cities in particular, choosing efficient, green transport options will benefit citizens' health, our environment and our climate commitments and can act as a market catalyst for clean transport options.
We know transport is one of the areas where CO2 emissions must be reduced, and it is my hope that the revision of this directive can be signed off as soon as possible so that it can be implemented by 2010 as a support for environmentally conscious local authorities and public bodies. (GA) I think the committee is right to challenge local authorities.
Public procurement should be based on sustainability and not only should the price be considered but all other costs such as health, environment and carbon emissions should also be taken into account.
in writing. - (RO) Launching clean and energy-efficient vehicles on the market will make a significant contribution to protecting the environment, improving air quality and making modes of transport more energy efficient by reducing pollutant emissions.
The question remains, however, as to whether the hoped-for impact of this model on the private car market is in actual fact to be as great as expected, bearing in mind that the relevant market share in terms of the public procurement of commercial vehicles is a mere 6%.
