Suspension of the WTO Doha Round (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the suspension of the WTO Doha Round.
While the negotiations in Geneva in July did not succeed, the Doha Round has not been suspended.
The emerging package outlined a possible balanced outcome which respected the European Union's key requirements in agriculture while delivering valuable benefits for our industrial manufacturers.
We would also have succeeded in locking in real farm reform in the United States.
It was therefore a disappointment that it proved impossible to close the discussions on the Doha modalities in July because of continuing disagreement on a very specific point in the agricultural field.
We therefore call on the Commission to take a decisive negotiating stance in future.
Madam President, some of us witnessed the real efforts made by all the participants in the July Ministerial Summit of the Doha Round, and in particular the efforts of the European Union, represented very worthily by Commissioner Mandelson.
If the Doha Round is not concluded, the multilateral approach is at serious risk, especially in a situation of global uncertainty such as we are experiencing, that until the Doha Round is concluded, the other matters on the global agenda such as climate change and the rising price of food cannot be tackled.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I am very happy that this House has become rather more critical towards the Doha Round in recent years.
It is almost certain that the new negotiators of the US, the Commission, India, will not be going back to the same old quick fixes of July 2008 that did not work even then.
on behalf of the UEN group. - (GA) Madam President, it is about time we changed the way in which we engage in the World Trade Talks.
For some of these countries, a free trade agreement of any kind is not the right model and they have an interest in concluding a trade agreement, but on the basis of GSP+.
After all, the European Union, or some European countries, developed their economies in closed markets.
This has a negative effect on small regional producers.
I hope that the new Commissioner will take that opportunity.
The talks collapsed because India and China were concerned about protecting their farmers from agricultural import surges.
I would like to confirm that, if the round continued to be about market access at any price, we would not achieve our objective.
China's role is considerable, as China has so far always been committed to free trade, but suddenly it apparently has a new agenda.
The setback in the Doha round over the summer was therefore very serious and it is now up to the EU, the world's biggest trading organisation, to take a new initiative.
This is what is at stake, because if these six years of negotiations result in failure, we know what sort of bilateral agreements will gradually replace them within the WTO.
This is absolutely fundamental.
However, it is not by dissolving the multilateral framework, but by strengthening it, that we will succeed in better organising this aspect of globalisation.
As the resolution states, the dialogue should not only be North-South, but also South-South.
Others also have to move in this direction, and in the interim, let us conclude the pending association agreements, such as with Mercosur, which are essential in this new context. (ES) Madam President, today's debate is definitely revealing some major points of agreement.
This is particularly apparent in the sugar market, but not only in that market.
I would like to ask the Commissioner what the European Union has received in exchange.
We felt that we were so close to being able to strike a deal on agriculture and NAMA, knowing very well that at the very end this would be the single undertaking that would determine whether the European Union could consider a package to be acceptable.
The reason was that we have actually been doing our homework in the agricultural sector by reforming our common agricultural policy, first with the big reform in 2003 and then all the reforms after that period.
So we were able to deliver an 80% reduction in trade-distorting domestic support, without actually damaging our agricultural sector.
For agriculture, this mandate was simply not to force us into a new reform within the agricultural sector.
So we have actually opened up our markets in the agricultural sector to these countries.
If we look at the European Union's agricultural sector, we would never be able to be as strong as we are today if we had a closed market in agriculture.
If we imagine that we closed our markets, we would never be able to sell all our high-quality products internally because we would be punished if we protected ourselves.
I do agree with you that we have actually been under-prioritising our development aid in the agricultural sector for decades.
