Consumer confidence in the digital environment (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Roithová on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection on consumer confidence in the digital environment.
Small businesses are unaware of their obligations in e-commerce and have difficulty in making their way around 27 different legal systems.
Users are not sure what they can and cannot do with the digital content they have purchased.
I would venture to say that 27 separate national markets are hampering the development of the information society in Europe, which lags behind that of the USA and Asia.
I would like to start my speech by thanking Mrs Roithová and all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent and very close cooperation - and this is not just a matter of courtesy, but a sincere recognition of very hard work.
The digital economy - and more specifically e-commerce - has great potential to improve consumer welfare by making a greater range of products available, boosting price competition and developing new markets.
The need to improve consumer confidence in the digital economy runs through every aspect of this strategy.
In conclusion, I would like to thank you for your commitment to helping European citizens to enjoy all the benefits of the internal market and the digital economy.
Consumers must be aware of their obligations and rights in the digital world.
Software patents are also a serious threat for software developers in SMEs, who cannot afford the legal costs.
I also want to thank Mrs Kuneva for her very positive response.
We have to be very careful that we design the regime in such a way as to ensure that we do not discourage them from doing that, because we want not only consumers to go online but also businesses to put their products online, and to make the two work together, because that is what we have the opportunity to do in our dynamic e-commerce market as it moves forward from here.
All actors who make use of the Internet need to be aware of their rights and obligations.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Roithová for tackling such an important issue.
The use of digital technology in electronic commerce for the purchase of goods and services ought to be seen in this context.
We will therefore not be voting for Amendment 4 and we will also be rejecting the Liberals' amendments.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Mr President, trade and the exchange of goods, services and capital are the very bases of economic prosperity.
Constantly, man merkt die Absicht ['the intention is noted'].
Our citizens have a whole range of problems in the digital environment.
As you can see, there is still a lot to do in this area.
If this happens, Commissioner Kuneva - and I know this is your intention - then we will achieve our objective, namely a Europe for the citizens; a Europe in which they are free to make online purchases in another country without problems or obstacles, and in which they have rights, including the possibility of redress.
