During the previous period from 2000 to 2006, this principle was applied in practice using a flat-rate method.
An important difference therefore, in the new period is that, according to the definition in paragraph [...], the provisions of Article 55 apply to a broad spectrum of projects which qualify as revenue-generating projects and not just to projects to invest in infrastructure which generates large net revenue, as was the case in the 2000-2006 period.
According to the outcome of the informal consultation of Member States by the European Commission, the provisions of Article 55 are clearly unsuitable for projects cofinanced by the European Social Fund, which mainly finances intangible operations rather than infrastructure projects.
The remaining provisions of Article 55 have not been amended.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 November the Commission adopted the draft revision of Article 55 of the general regulation on Structural Funds, which applies to the conditions for taking account of revenue-generating projects within the framework of the cohesion policy programme.
The first actual operation carried out in accordance with Article 55 showed that there were serious difficulties with effective implementation.
The aim of the amendment to the regulation in question is to exempt all operations cofinanced from the European Social Fund as well as small projects with overall costs of less than EUR 1 million cofinanced from the European Fund for Regional Development and the Cohesion Fund through the application of Article 55.
The proposed Regulation concerns Article 55 of the Council Regulation laying down general provisions for the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund and the Cohesion Fund.
I think that we should, in fact, utilise these very experiences and pick up on further changes in 2009.
Secondly, it is therefore entirely appropriate for the European Commission to have tabled a proposal to amend Article 55 of the Regulation.
Thirdly, the scope of application of Article 5 of the Regulation would also be limited as regards small projects cofinanced by the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund in terms of calculating the maximum sum of eligible expenditure and the monitoring of these projects.
In addition, all these measures would apply retroactively from 1 August 2006.
I therefore welcome the decision to exempt projects financed by the European Social Fund from the mechanism for monitoring revenues and the decision to raise the cost limit from EUR 200 thousand to EUR 1 million in the case of projects financed from the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund.
This step will undoubtedly simplify administration and increase efficiency in the implementation of these projects. (RO) The European Regional Development Fund, European Social Fund and Cohesion Fund are instruments which have been provided to Member States to support the economic development of various European regions.
Thank you. - (PL) Mr President, for small projects cofinanced by the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund, and also for operations cofinanced by the European Social Fund, the current monitoring mechanisms undoubtedly represent an undue administrative burden that is disproportionate to the sums concerned and a significant risk factor for the implementation of these programmes.
The structural funds must be used swiftly and efficiently. - (CS) I and many small-scale entrepreneurs would like to express our appreciation for the way in which the European Commission has reacted with unexpected speed, vigour and directness to suggestions from both Member States and MEPs in submitting this additional clause for Regulation 1083.
I view the flexible approach taken by the European Commission as a harbinger of further good news concerning the de-bureaucratisation of the complex processes for monitoring small projects.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) I would like to thank you for the debate.
The amendment to Article 55 is a good example of excellent cooperation between the institutions of the European Union.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 16 December 2008.
