Substances that deplete the ozone layer (recast) (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Blokland, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on substances that deplete the ozone layer (recast) - C6-0297/2008 -.
Our atmosphere is formed in such a way that there are two different layers that protect us.
The regulation on substances that deplete the ozone layer is primarily aimed at protecting the stratospheric ozone layer, but also at preventing climate change.
Secondly, the use of the pesticide methyl bromide will be prohibited as of 18 March 2010.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Madam President, I should like first of all to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Blokland, and all the shadow rapporteurs on their exceptional work on this proposal to recast the regulation on the protection of the ozone layer.
The policy on the protection of the ozone layer in the stratosphere has been acknowledged as a very great success and the European Union has played a decisive role here.
Thanks to the innovative measures which we adopted in the European Union, we have succeeded in getting 99% of substances that deplete the ozone layer withdrawn.
It strengthens commercial measures against the illegal use of and illegal trade in substances that deplete the ozone layer in the European Union and will help to prevent environmental dumping in developing countries.
The European Commission is in a position to accept in full the compromise package of amendments.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FI) Madam President, the regulation before us is the natural continuation and an important part of the Montreal Protocol, which obliges its 191 signatory states actively to abandon the use of substances that deplete the ozone layer.
For example, bringing forward the deadline for ending the production of HCFCs by five years to 2020 is sensible and justified, as is reducing the number of exemptions to the ban on export trade.
Methane is a gas produced in processes of decay, by animals, released underground in mines, and through various chemical processes.
I thank Mr Blokland for his labour-intensive and relevant report.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FI) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my congratulations go to Mr Blokland for an excellent result.
I should also like to remark that I believe we shall reach an agreement on combating climate change in Copenhagen at the end of this year which is at least as ambitious and successful as the Montreal Protocol.
rapporteur. - (NL) Madam President, I would like to extend my sincere thanks to Commissioner Dimas for his commitment to accept the idea put forward by Mrs Hassi, namely that further substances should be investigated for their effects.
The amendment makes the text clearer and simplifies the regulatory framework, while also reducing the administrative burden, thereby facilitating the application of the legislation to ensure the regeneration of the ozone layer by 2050 and prevent the adverse effects on human health and ecosystems.
Although signs of ozone layer recovery have been observed as a result of the measures taken, it is considered that the level of ozone in the atmosphere prior to 1980 will only be achieved in the second half of the 21st century.
