Negotiations on an Interregional Association Agreement with Mercosur and the new bilateral strategic partnership with Brazil (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on negotiations on an Interregional Association Agreement with Mercosur and the new bilateral strategic partnership with Brazil.
We understand that the association agreement between the European Union and Mercosur must be comprehensive in all its aspects, that is, political and economic association and cooperation, aiming not only to promote trade and investment, but also to strengthen, in a decisive manner, the strategic relationship between the European Union and that region.
This agreement will create the largest free trade area between two regional blocs, nearly 700 million inhabitants, enhancing economic and social integration, facilitating investment and bringing significant economic growth for both regions.
It is true that the results of the negotiations on the Doha Development Agenda influenced the negotiating process.
The strategic partnership between the European Union and Brazil established at the Summit in Lisbon on 4 July, must be regarded not only as a vehicle for strengthening relations with Brazil, but also as a way of enhancing strategic biregional relations between the European Union and Latin America and, in particular, the EU's negotiations with Mercosur.
President Lula made this point very strongly at the first EU-Brazil summit in July.
In addition, the aggregate value of EU investments in the Mercosur countries in 2005 was around EUR 100 billion.
A sum of EUR 50 million has been committed over the last five years and the same amount is available for the current Financial Perspective (2007-2013) to help build Mercosur's institutions, strengthen civil society and take economic integration forward.
The strategic partnership with Brazil is a decision in favour of Brazil and in favour of Mercosur.
We are in full agreement with Brazil that Mercosur is and will remain the only platform for our bilateral economic and trade relations.
I am convinced that by engaging with Brazil, Mercosur's largest member, we can bring a real added value to the regional integration process.
Brazil, as we all know, is a large and admirable country with enormous potential which is at a crucial point in its political and economic development.
Brazil's special links with Portugal, and Portugal's links with Brazil, are also known, recognised and respected by all. - (PT) We well understand the position of our good and esteemed Portuguese friends, their interests and their concerns, because we share them. (ES) However, the European Union, the Commission, the Council and Parliament have always expressed support for consolidating the regional integration of Mercosur, negotiating with the block and, as far as possible, supporting regional consolidation.
Alongside this we want to conclude a multilateral agreement in the Doha Round.
However, it is also obvious that, since its origins in 1985, with the Foz de Iguazú declaration and the Treaty of Asunción in 1991, the European Union has been very close to what was then in its infancy and is now a reality.
An agreement which, alongside the trade dimension, the strictly trade dimension, also has a political and institutional chapter, as well as a chapter aimed at promoting sustainable economic and social development.
Everyone is aware, if we look at the figures, of how important Brazil's influence is in our trade relations with this dear part of the world and how increasingly important it will be.
However, a specific, strategic relationship between the European Union and Brazil, as announced on 30 May, runs the risk of damaging the regional relationship between the European Union and Mercosur.
This policy worked well in Ireland in 2001 and in the UK this summer, as strict traceability policies were implemented immediately.
Well, we were told, we are in talks with Brazil, and we are in talks with India: as if we needed to compensate in some way for the memory of British imperialism by the memory of Portuguese or Spanish imperialism!
Bolivia, Ecuador, Nicaragua, Venezuela, Paraguay and Argentina have joined forces to create a Bank of the South and thereby to become independent of the World Bank and the IMF.
I would therefore like to ask the Commission what initiatives it is taking to dispel these concerns in countries such as Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay.
This manifests itself not only in an assertive role within the WTO, but also for example in the desire to acquire a seat in the Security Council.
As a result, Brazil has less of an interest in its own role on the continent.
Venezuela operates a protectionist, internally oriented economic policy, in which major economic sectors are threatened with renationalisation.
I call upon the Council and Commission to exploit the fact that a bilateral partnership exists with Brazil in order to turn around the trend that I have just described.
The Union must urge Brazil to use the new political weight of the bilateral partnership with the EU in order to display new political leadership within Mercosur and on the continent.
Despite the many problems we are currently encountering, multilateral cooperation in the context of this region is far more advantageous, as it will enable cooperation within the framework of all the states associated together in Mercosur to be maintained and at the same time deepened, regardless of their economic position in the region.
I think that partnership with Brazil, as our largest partner in this region, is very important, and we should develop it, but under the aegis of cooperation with Mercosur, and this means that first we must put together an association under the Mercosur framework, and only then, with this as a basis, should we build up any bilateral cooperation with individual Latin American countries.
On the contrary, it favours those relations, as mentioned in the joint statement from the EU-Brazil Summit on 4 July.
The Portuguese Presidency was right, then, to promote the EU-Brazil Summit, in line with what it did in 2000 when it held the first EU-India Summit, which did not harm relations with the other countries in that region.
There are therefore now better conditions for Europe to give a fresh impulse to relations with Mercosur and to the Doha negotiations.
With 34 countries, the enthusiasm of the Mercosur members is not tremendously great.
Europe is now already Mercosur's most important trading partner, yet there is still huge potential for growth between both trade blocs.
I have to confess that when I first heard about the priority given to the Brazil strategic partnership agreement, I felt we were rewarding a country that has been one of our more awkward partners in the multilateral negotiations in the Doha Round.
However, having heard the Council this morning, having spoken to my Portuguese colleagues, I am convinced that there is a possibility that a successful strategic partnership agreement with Brazil can make it easier in the Doha Round if we develop understanding between ourselves and a key Doha player.
This would clearly set us apart from the US policy of creating a vast economic free trade area for the entire American continent. (PT) When we ask what contribution a strategic partnership between the European Union and Brazil can make to developing the relationship between the EU and Mercosur, with a view, amongst other things, to concluding the much-wanted, long-delayed agreement, I think there can only be one answer: that contribution is of major importance.
Of the four 'BRIC' countries - Brazil, Russia, India and China - Brazil was the only one that the EU had not held any high-level meetings with until the Summit on 4 July.
That is even more of an anomaly given that Brazil is the major regional power in South America.
For all these reasons a strategic partnership with Brazil is justified, because this country is a strategic partner of the European Union in its own right.
However, there are also other reasons for strengthening the relationship and developing a strategic partnership with Brazil.
This is a region with many natural resources and, in fact, the European Union absorbs 25% of the Mercosur region's exports.
It is important to assist this region for economic development, for industrial development; its role in climate changes will be extremely important and, for this reason, we must support regional integration.
The strategic partnership between the EU and Brazil should not, in my view, cause divisions in the en bloc approach of the Mercosur region.
Nevertheless, this relationship can play a complementary role in two spheres: in the multilateral negotiations at the World Trade Organisation (WTO), and in the free trade area between the EU and Mercosur.
The free trade area between the EU and Mercosur, like the Doha Round at the WTO, has become caught up in issues of trade in agricultural goods.
The role of Brazil is particularly important here: given its influence on economic stability and integration in the wider region, Brazil ought to contribute creatively to bring about a balanced and ambitious agreement between the EU and Mercosur.
It is a representative democracy.
It is one of the European Union's principal trade partners and a country whose 200 million inhabitants speak one of the most widespread European languages in the world - Portuguese - and whose values of civilisation and culture are closely related to those of Europe.
Mercosur's contribution to democratic consolidation in the region and growth in the volume of trade within that bloc are unquestionable facts.
The EU should contribute to the success of South American regional integration by putting all its efforts into the success of the negotiations between the two blocs.
The joint statement by the President of the European Commission and the President-in-Office of Mercosur, the President of Uruguay, Tabaré Vásquez, following the meeting on 19 September promising a joint public statement by the two blocs by the end of the year on the environment and climate change is an important example of that political collaboration.
But, regrettably, in spite of the closeness of its constituent countries (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay) culturally, Mercosur remains too weak politically compared to national interests, therefore impeding an EU-style single market in the region - although this, of course, should be our long-term objective.
He called in the King of Spain to arbitrate. (MT) Mr President, we have before us today an agreement that reaffirms and consolidates the important role of the European Union in the global political sphere - a role to which we should attach great importance because it is part of the success of this union of states.
This agreement emphasises the strengthening of the relationship not only with our neighbouring countries, but also with countries from other continents, especially countries that are home to thousands of millions of people of European origin such as those of Latin America and Central America.
It is in the interest of both sides that these relations continue to be strengthened by means of dialogue and the exchange of ideas.
I want to make it quite clear to you, however, that once the Portuguese Presidency considers that the minimum conditions are established to relaunch that debate and that relationship, we shall not hesitate; we also assure you that, if that is not during the Portuguese Presidency then Portugal as a Member State - as it has always done and as has always been its aim - will not fail to call the attention of its partners to the real need to relaunch the negotiations on the Association Agreement with Mercosur in all its dimensions.
I think we have to be responsive to the realities of the time and, fortunately, we now have many more important partners for multilateral cooperation than maybe 10 or 20 years ago.
It is our common cause, our common interest, that the Doha Development Round is concluded successfully.
Brazil is the first country from Latin America to cooperate in our research programme and, via this experience and bridge, I think we can gradually do more in other countries.
