The year 2004 was hugely significant for the European Union: a year of historic enlargement, European elections, a new Commission and intense debate about the Constitution.
These events and the popular attention they attracted had important consequences for the Ombudsman, as I will explain in a minute.
The annual report records our progress in handling complaints, in promoting good administration and in making the Ombudsman’s work better known to citizens.
In total, 3&#160;726 complaints were received, a 53% increase compared with the previous year.
The rise in complaints does not result from worsening administrative behaviour by the institutions; rather, it reflects citizens’ increased general awareness of matters European and growing knowledge about their rights and about how to exercise those rights.
As I have mentioned, 2004 was a year in which European subjects figured prominently in headlines throughout the Union.
I also made intensive efforts to inform citizens about their right to complain to the European Ombudsman and to spread the word about the positive results that have been achieved.
All in all, I gave over 30 public lectures and presentations and held over 150 meetings with ombudsmen, public officials and other interlocutors in the Member States and candidate countries.
In 45&#160;% of the cases, the inquiry revealed no maladministration.
Furthermore, even when there is no maladministration, I may identify an opportunity for the institutional body to improve the quality of its administration in the future.
In 28&#160;% of cases, my inquiries resulted either in the institution concerned settling the case to the satisfaction of the complainant or in a friendly solution.
If a Community institutional body fails to respond satisfactorily to a draft recommendation, the Ombudsman’s ultimate weapon is a special report to the European Parliament.
Only one special report was made in 2004, following the Commission’s refusal to reconsider its rules on the grading of press officers in its delegations.
I am grateful for Parliament’s support in this important issue of principle, as expressed in paragraph 11 of Mr&#160;Mavrommatis’s report.
The Commission accepted the need to improve the administration of the European schools and gave a commitment to cooperate with parents.
The Commission also accepted and implemented a draft recommendation to introduce an internal complaints procedure for seconded national experts.
I would now like to say a few words about my priorities for the future.
The annual report contains many examples of the institutions taking prompt action to settle cases brought to their attention and responding positively to my proposals and recommendations.
The Code has received wide recognition internationally, in the Member States and candidate states, in the Council of Europe and elsewhere in the world.
My principal objective here is to ensure that citizens can have full confidence in the Ombudsman’s power to find the truth when hearing witnesses or inspecting documents.
I would also like to cooperate with Parliament to ensure that citizens’ complaints about violations of the fundamental rights mentioned in the Charter can be brought before the Court of Justice if an important issue of principle cannot be resolved in any other way.
The network makes it possible to transfer cases rapidly, share best practice and promote a free flow of information about European law and its implementation at the national, regional and local levels.
The aim is to promote good administration throughout the Union so that citizens can enjoy their rights under European law.
I have already mentioned today many of the matters on which the report contains wise advice, at least to the Ombudsman.
As regards other points, I have already undertaken to ask to appear before the Committee on Petitions whenever I deem it advisable and necessary to submit a special report to this House following the rejection of a friendly solution or draft recommendation.
The Council could easily amend its Rules of Procedure to provide for open legislative meetings.
The European Parliament and its Committee on Petitions constitute vital partners for the European Ombudsman in this regard. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I thank Mr Diamandouros for the cooperation which we enjoyed throughout the preparation and drafting of this report.
My sincere thanks also to the Committee on Petitions, Mr Libicki, all my colleagues here today, Sir Robert Atkins and everyone else who helped with this report.
The report presented to us by Mr&#160;Diamandouros at the meeting of the Committee on Petitions in Strasbourg constitutes a basic source for the drafting of the annual report by the European Parliament on the activities of the European Ombudsman.
It is a fact that complaints increased by 53% in 2004, compared with the previous year.
Although it was assumed that enlargement would be the main cause for the increase in complaints to the European Ombudsman, only 51% of the increase was accounted for by the 10 new states.
His numerous visits to Member States and third countries, public lectures, press interviews and other meetings in 2004 helped to inform citizens about his role and about the right of citizens to complain.
Consequently, as the European Parliament, we too must contribute to the clear differentiation of the competences of the Community institutions to which European citizens can take recourse in order to exercise their rights.
In 2004, 251 enquiries were closed, of which 4 were opened on his own initiative.
An important factor in the efficacy of the institution of the Ombudsman is his cooperation with the institutions of the European Union and the European Parliament in general.
I would refer, by way of example, to the regular briefings and meetings between Mr Diamandouros and the Committee on Petitions and its chairman, and his meeting on 25 May 2005 with the College of Commissioners.
Mr President, Mrs Wallstöm, I should also like to point out, as I mention in my report, that it would be most helpful for the Ombudsman to be present in the Committee of Petitions of the European Parliament in order to discuss all forms of refusal on the part of the institution or to organise a friendly solution.
The Ombudsman's annual report also demonstrates, among other things, the efforts being made by the Ombudsman to extend and energise the network of national and regional ombudsmen by developing exchanges of information and best practices.
Participation by the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions in this network could facilitate practical cooperation between the European institutions and national and regional ombudsmen and would allow regular contacts with the committees on petitions of the national parliaments and with the ombudsmen of the Member States to be increased.
The finding that 69% of complaints were against the Commission is particularly interesting.
Finally, a reference point for the preparation of my report was also last year's De Rossa report on the European Ombudsman's 2003 report.
It allows the Commission to take into account the views of the European Parliament on a number of important issues raised by the Ombudsman in his annual report for 2004.
To me, the European Ombudsman has an essential role in building bridges between citizens and the European Union.
In light of the Commission’s dedication further to improving and promoting its cooperation with the Ombudsman, I would like to take the opportunity to highlight the very recent reform of the Commission’s internal procedures.
The reform aims at strengthening the guarantees of strong political ownership by each commissioner as regards Ombudsman enquiries within his or her domain.
This reform will enter into force on 1&#160;November 2005.
Furthermore, the Commission needs to strengthen its efforts to agree to friendly solutions proposed by the European Ombudsman.
In these cases, a balance needs to be found between the transparency principle and confidentiality.
The Commission attaches great importance to the issue of a code of good administrative behaviour, with binding effect upon all the EU institutions and bodies.
The Commission’s own code entered into force in November 2000.
Nevertheless, a positive conclusion on this dossier is possible and I hope that we can arrive at the result proposed by the Ombudsman and the rapporteur.
During his visit to the College of Commissioners on 25 May 2005, Mr Diamandouros informed the Commission that he had asked the European Parliament to review certain aspects of the Ombudsman’s Statute.
Our willingness to cooperate with the Ombudsman is not only our obligation but is also very important for better administration.
The Ombudsman's office is a direct link between the citizen and Europe; it enables citizens to make known their concerns about maladministration at European level.
I do hope that this Parliament, which has that responsibility, will undertake that in the course of the next 12 months.
Indeed, the fact that 75&#160;% of the complaints the Ombudsman's office receives do not relate directly to European Union institutions and problems therein is, in my view, not necessarily a bad thing.
We would not accept that from this Parliament or from any national parliament; the Council should not be allowed to get away with it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Mr&#160;Mavrommatis for his excellent report, and also the Ombudsman.
It is also significant that 51% of cases were reported by citizens in the enlargement countries.
The Ombudsman figure and the petition have been a success.
Commissioner Wallström, although your so-called Plan&#160;D to bring us closer to the European citizens, to open up the doors of this Institution and to promote dialogue, is worthy of our support, this does not preclude the right to complain to the Ombudsman, since it is he who offers the citizens an independent analysis in the event that they want to make a complaint about bad government or bad conduct on the part of the European institutions.
There is absolutely no doubt that one of the conclusions that can be drawn from the referendums in France and Holland is that the citizens do not want to be treated as mere passive spectators, but as dynamic players in the process of European integration, who want more transparency and more means for participation.
I believe that the Ombudsman does a very good job.
The Committee on Petitions — the appropriate Committee — decided, therefore, to draw up a report and listen to both the Ombudsman and the Director of OLAF.
I believe that these actions cause collateral damage: they weaken the role of the European Ombudsman, which is completely irresponsible.
What is unacceptable is that no position should be adopted, thereby damaging and weakening the crucial and extremely important role of the European Ombudsman. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Ombudsman’s report for 2004 does not, in our opinion, contain an overall view of the principles involved, even though the need for one could certainly be felt.
As many speakers have emphasised, the referendum results, which sank the draft European Constitution in some major countries with great democratic traditions, show that there is a strong sense of impatience and widespread dissatisfaction among European citizens with regard to the democratic nature of the European institutions.
If I think of what comes out every time that the anti-Mafia commission in my country touches on the use of European funds in certain regions, I wonder what an honest citizen from Sicily, Apulia, Calabria or Campania thinks when he or she sees such public works undertaken perhaps through non-transparent tendering processes.
The idea of the European Ombudsman’s role that emerges from the report is somewhat ‘over-bureaucratic’, for a change.
I refer to the Ombudsman, Mr&#160;Diamandouros, with whom the Committee on Petitions, of which I am Chairman, cooperates very closely, the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Mavrommatis, who is one of the most active members of our committee, and Commissioner&#160;Wallström, with whom our committee maintains close and friendly contacts.
The first is to be professional and competent, and Professor&#160;Diamandouros possesses these attributes to a very high degree.
Professor&#160;Diamandouros demonstrates a great deal of dignity in the course of his duties.
The role of ombudsman also demands a certain ability to make the job one’s own.
We should like to thank you on all these counts, Professor&#160;Diamandouros, and I should also like to thank the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Diamandouros, this year marks the tenth anniversary of the European Ombudsman, as our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Mavrommatis, points out in his very comprehensive and pleasing report.
That is why we are calling for the Geneva Conventions on the rights of political prisoners and, in particular, on the right to go to the toilet, to be implemented.
While this working relationship was, in the overwhelming majority of cases in 2004, marked by a great willingness to cooperate, it has to be said that there were a number of cases in which things could have turned out much better.
Through his work, the Ombudsman ensures adherence to the highest administrative standards within the European Union, its institutions and bodies.
It is indeed a positive sign that one European institution should be able to take a critical view of the actions of another and be guided in so doing by nothing other than the goals of the European Constitution.
For that, Mr&#160;Diamandouros, I should like to thank you most warmly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly I would like to thank both the Ombudsman and Mr Mavrommatis for their excellent report, and would like to begin by making a personal observation.
I am an MEP from a new Member State, and when we discussed the annual report of the Ombudsman last year, I had no personal experience with the Committee on Petitions or with the institution of the Ombudsman.
However, as Mr Mavrommatis mentioned in his report, in the course of the activities of the Ombudsman last year and his campaign in the new Member States, a great number of Hungarian citizens became aware of their right to submit a petition to the European Union.
Echoing the opinions communicated by many of my colleagues in the course of the debate, I, too, would like to ask the Council – as expressed by the Ombudsman in his special report – to consider opening up all Council sessions to the personnel of the other EU institutions.
Mr Diamandouros prepared a material last year resulting in an even closer cooperation between the Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions, and created the so-called European Network of Ombudsmen, mentioned in his introduction.
I would like to summarise my comments by pointing out to all of us that the activity of the European Ombudsman in the past ten years has been really successful, but there are still a great number of tasks to be tackled.
And all of us, as well as all EU institutions and bodies must focus on these tasks, so that European citizens can feel that we are working for them, for the assertion of their rights and for finding solutions to public matters in their interest. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Diamandouros, I should like to thank the Ombudsman for his detailed statement on his activities in 2004.
I should also like to pay tribute to Mr&#160;Mavrommatis and to thank him for his excellent report.
Professor&#160;Diamandouros has responded positively to all these key challenges.
The fact that this institution has been in existence for 10&#160;years serves as an excellent example of the growing awareness of citizens’ rights in our Community.
I say this as a representative of Poland, a new Member State, which has gained experience in this field through the institutions of the Polish Ombudsman and the Polish Ombudsman for Children.
These factors all help to create a European society of citizens who are aware of their rights and obligations, and this is a point I should like to stress.
If I may, I should also like to congratulate Mr&#160;Diamandouros on his anniversary, and to wish him ! &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Diamandouros, the Ombudsman’s home country of Greece won the European basketball championships a few weeks ago for the first time in over a decade.
I can assure the Ombudsman that his fellow countrymen, who are the best basketball players in Europe, would tell him that a 70% success rate for two-or three-point field goals is unheard of, and I should like to congratulate him on his achievement.
I should also like to congratulate him on the increase in the number of complaints, since this is proof that people take his institution seriously and believe there is a genuine need for it.
The word ‘only’ in this sentence should be replaced by ‘as much as’, since the institution of the European Ombudsman is a very new concept for the citizens of the new Member States.
The Ombudsman should rest assured that in time he will be bombarded with our complaints. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, please allow me to congratulate my colleague, the rapporteur Manolis Mavrommatis, who has reviewed with great care the anniversary report of the European Ombudsman on his activities in 2004, submitted to the European Parliament.
The 2004 annual report issued by the European Ombudsman reveals that the number of complaints received increased by 53% in 2004 compared to 2003.
Although it is true that the majority of the ten new Member States submitted fewer complaints compared to the proportion of their population, the main reason for this lies in their relative unfamiliarity with the institution of the European Ombudsman, and not in a lower number of grievances.
As an MEP, but not as a European employee, I often see discrimination even one and a half years after accession.
In particular, I would like to call the attention of Mr&#160;Diamandouros to a discriminative phenomenon experienced in the course of admission to European institutions.
In particular, I find it very important to stress that the institution of the Ombudsman is not just one of the many superior authorities or an enforcement office – it is a special institution established to assist citizens with their concerns and complaints.
Mr&#160;Diamandouros, our goal is an EU that is closer to its citizens, and you have taken the first step in this direction.
I should like to congratulate you on this score. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the European Ombudsman performs an extremely important role in democratic European society.
Nevertheless, it is absolutely essential that efforts continue to make these activities more effective.
The Ombudsman should be a guardian of good administration within the European institutions, and he should cooperate even more closely with his counterparts at local and regional level.
Citizens’ complaints must be dealt with rapidly and effectively, and the Ombudsman should therefore be supported in his efforts to encourage the European institutions to deal with complaints more speedily.
Public access to information relating to the European institutions serves as proof that the actions of the latter are open and transparent, and our aim should therefore also be to guarantee this right to all citizens of the European Union.
I see that from your positive remarks and I am very grateful for the political will you have demonstrated on issues to do with the Ombudsman.
It is therefore not part of my report to this body for 2004; it is a report concerning OLAF that will be examined next year.
The remarks by Mrs Dobolyi and Mr Olajos were very constructive.
That particular case is still being examined and I hope to be able to report to this body next year on the outcome.
Finally, let me say to Mrs Grabowska that I am, as you know, very sensitive to issues concerning children.
I should like to thank Members of Parliament and the Commissioner again for their remarks and support. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to say something pursuant to Rules 142 and 143 of the Rules of Procedure.
In accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I must submit this exceptional decision by the Conference of Presidents to the House and I shall allow one Member to speak in favour and one to speak against this proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would in fact like to put the case for a vote on the resolution.
The Group was unanimous in its view that we should in fact frame a resolution today.
I therefore welcome the position outlined a few moments ago, which will undoubtedly be the one upheld by our entire Assembly, namely that in favour of holding a vote at the end of our debate this afternoon. &#160;&#160; We shall now proceed to the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, before I propose a few technical adjustments, please allow me to thank all my fellow Members for the excellent debate – concise and to the point – that we had yesterday and for the loyal cooperation that they have given so far and, I hope, will continue to give during the vote and in the subsequent stages.
As happens every year, before we proceed to the vote I ask that a few technical adjustments be accepted.
The original distribution of the voting list is therefore preferable. &#160;&#160; Then we shall proceed as planned. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, if this amendment is adopted, I also ask that the standard phrase that we have used for all similar amendments be adopted, which is ‘part of the appropriation is intended for’, because we cannot reserve specific funds. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, to avoid confusion during the vote, I propose we vote on Amendment 74 for the remarks and Amendment 223 for the amounts. &#160;&#160; Is there any opposition? &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are returning to the same thing; we prefer the voting order established in the procedure.
We shall proceed as planned. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, what I said before also applies to this amendment: if it is approved, the standard phrase should be adopted, because we cannot specifically reserve funds: hence ‘part of the appropriation is intended for’. &#160;&#160; Having taken note of this, we shall proceed to the vote on Amendment 292. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the ‘other institutions’ section of the 2006 budget, the following technical correction is necessary.
In addition, the date mentioned in paragraphs 17, 23 and 25 should be replaced by 30 November 2005. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr&#160;Dombrovskis has spoken in English instead of Polish.
I am aware that many Members understand English better than Polish, but all the languages have the same status and interpretation should therefore be available for all of them or for none of them. &#160;&#160; It has been a technical problem beyond the control of this House and Mr Dombrovskis has been kind enough to cooperate with his fellow Members. &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today, at the first reading of the general budget, I voted against Amendments 543, 301, 344 and 345 on the grounds that they draw no distinction between breeding animals, production animals and animals for slaughter.
Secondly, I voted in favour of Amendment 99 on the grounds that the Common Market Organisation for tobacco still exists and is in force. &#160;&#160; We want the budget to contribute to sustainable social, economic and environmental development for the EU in accordance with the Lisbon Strategy.
We do not, however, want producers in developing countries to lose their livelihood, and we have therefore voted in favour of transitional aid to compensate them until they have had time to convert to other forms of production. &#160;&#160; The June List believes that the EU budget should be limited to 1.00% of the Member States’ average gross national income and therefore supports the Council’s position in principle.
The 2006 budget is the last budget within the present financial perspective, which is why it is additionally unfortunate that the European Parliament should be trying to promote its own positions prior to the forthcoming negotiations by proposing hefty increases.
We have therefore chosen to vote against all the increases proposed by the European Parliament, at the same time as having welcomed the few savings proposed in the form of amendments by one or other of the budget committees or by individual Members.
For these reasons, we have voted against amendments or proposals that would breach the 1.0% ceiling without, in our view, contributing to the promotion of sustainable growth and jobs in Europe.
However, we do support&#160;projects that will encourage&#160;the development and supply of&#160;new-generation energy solutions. &#160;&#160; The Members of the European Parliament from Denmark’s Liberal Party voted against Amendment&#160;7, tabled by Mr&#160;Bonde on behalf of the Independence and Democracy Group.
The Liberal Party is opposed to the export of live animals and has voted against budget line 05 02 13 04.
The Member States must ensure the budgetary flexibility required in no way endangers continued full funding of PEACE 11, as envisaged last year when funding for that programme was guaranteed into 2006.
John Hume, a former member of the Socialist Group was the architect of the PEACE programme and its contribution to reconciliation has been enormous.
Parliament must exert pressure on the Member States and the Commission to effect such a change, through the EU budget that it adopts.
They were aimed at: - creating a pilot project for action in the textiles and clothing sector with a view to the future creation of a Community programme; - creating recovery plans for fisheries resources, in light of the social and economic impact of the closed seasons; - and promoting multilingualism, not least in the ACP-EU parliamentary assemblies.
I accordingly voted to end this practice. &#160;&#160; . – The Communist Party of Greece is categorically opposed to the anti-grass roots preliminary draft budget of the European Union for 2006.
These decisions by the EU on the anti-grass roots reform of the CAP are also trampling over the limited support for agriculture up to 2013.
The fight by the workers' movement against the draft budget needs to include the entire anti-grass roots policy of the EU. &#160;&#160; The Members of the European Parliament from Denmark’s Liberal Party voted against Amendment&#160;4, tabled by Mr&#160;Bonde on behalf of the Independence and Democracy Group.
Firstly, in the fight against poverty, a Mediterranean version of the Millennium Development Goals needs to be drafted and funded and progress made with solidarity structures comparable to those found in European regional policy.
Promoting democracy and human rights has to be at the heart of the partnership by practically implementing Article 2 of the Association Agreements and by bringing into widespread use the sub-committees on human rights.
I feel that the most pertinent point is the proposed setting up of a Euro-Mediterranean Free-trade area, which is scheduled for 2010 and which will cover some 40 countries and around 700&#160;million consumers.
I voted in favour of the Jäätteenmäki report. &#160;&#160; We believe that the EU has an important role within its immediate surroundings in promoting democracy and human rights.
Furthermore, we agreed with the rapporteur that there needs to be greater cooperation between the European Ombudsman and Parliament’s Committee on Petitions, and that efforts should be made to give greater prominence to people’s rights.
The Ombudsman has show diligence and forcefulness in dealing with complaints from the EU citizens regarding the activities of the EU institutions.
The European Ombudsman continues to receive complaints that do not fall under his mandate.
The European Ombudsman has taken initiatives in this respect and must continue to do so.
I therefore voted in favour of the Mavrommattis report. &#160;&#160; . – The institution of the European Ombudsman was decided at the Maastricht summit and has been applied for 10 years.
That was very important in terms of our self-confidence and of the image of a self-confident parliament that we present to the world.
Parliament has taken an initiative on her behalf before, for in July 178 MEPs signed up to demand for her release.
A resolution which, furthermore, is urgent, for some of the reasons already mentioned by Mrs Scheele and on which I would like to insist, because I believe that we must also take this opportunity to call upon the Moroccans to play a significant role in resolving this conflict.
I want to make quite clear my absolute rejection of attempts by the President of Parliament and the Conference of Presidents to set aside this motion on the human rights situation in Western Sahara until after the visit and conclusion of some future EU delegation.
The politics of the Western Sahara issue is complex and I want to focus my remarks primarily on human rights, although, obviously, there is a crossover between the two.
This motion welcomes and recognises the freeing of Moroccan prisoners of war but demands that the Moroccan authorities release human rights defenders.
The motion insists on the protection of the population of Western Sahara generally and in a manner consistent with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, specifically in the area of freedom of expression and freedom of movement and calls for any final political resolution to be consistent with international law and the relevant UN Security Council resolution.
Finally, the motion demands open access to all territories in Western Sahara for independent observers, NGOs and the free media.
Let this be a precedent and a warning for the future: hypocrisy and false, pretentious tactics should never stand in the way of our will and determination to express condemnation for human rights abuses anywhere in the world.
It is reported reliably that hundreds of people have been subjected to inhumane treatment by the Moroccan authorities in the regions of the so-called Spanish enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla, where many migrants have been shot dead while attempting to enter Spanish territory.
As the motion for a resolution states, a just and lasting solution must involve putting an end to colonial rule, of which Western Sahara is a victim, and creating a sovereign, independent and viable Sahrawi state.
Urgent, effective measures must therefore be taken with the clear aim of completing the process of decolonising Western Sahara.
On Thursday, the Conference of Presidents was giving it as its opinion that the Western Sahara was one of the three most pressing human rights problems with which we had to deal, and there was no dissent from this view even on Monday.
It is in the interests of both sides that our delegation should be able to do its work there without let or hindrance; that is indeed a minimum and something that should go without saying.
While we respect both sides, and want to do our bit in establishing peace, it must be clear beyond doubt that peace is possible only on the basis of law, which, in this case, means international law, with particular reference to human rights.
There can be no peace negotiations without unconditional adherence to human rights or without all political prisoners being released.
I agree with the joint Resolution and with the objective of supporting the demands of the Saharawi people and, above all, their demand for self-determination ― which they have still not achieved after thirty years ― but also that this issue must always be balanced with the problem of security and stability that we are facing on the southern border of the European Union, and that we must take account of the Morocco factor, a country of 30 million people, where there is a latent danger of Islamic regression.
The situation today remains as grave as it has been for many years.
The motion is worthy and valid and I hope the delegation of our Parliament will speak with a suitably clear voice on this matter when it visits the region. &#160;&#160; . – In Africa today, there are no colonies, nor any remnants thereof; this, at least, is the theory often put forward in Parliament by certain conservative Members of the House.
The two enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla remain under colonial rule, and Western Sahara, the former Spanish colony of Rio de Oro, has now been occupied by Morocco for some 20 years.
In 2001 James Baker proposed a five-year period of autonomy within Morocco before holding the referendum, but Polisario rejected it, particularly on the issue of who would be allowed to vote.
So, legally, the 1991 UN Settlement Plan remains in place.
We in this Parliament are therefore today appealing strongly to the Moroccan authorities to release the Saharawi political prisoners.
There is no question that this conflict requires decisive intervention, both by international bodies and by the European Union, in order to put an end to three decades of injustice and suffering.
The appointment by the United Nations of the new representative for MINURSO is a good sign.
The Commission, through its delegation in Rabat, and in cooperation with the Member States, has undertaken high-level demarches to the Moroccan authorities and other parties involved, expressing concern and requiring direct information about the situation and the measures to be taken.
Moreover, the Commission continues to work resolutely on human rights, since respect for human rights is an essential principle of the European Union’s external relations.
These issues – human rights, democratisation, political and institutional reform – are also considered in the action plan agreed between the Commission and Morocco within the framework of the European Neighbourhood Policy. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 4 p.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on human rights in Uzbekistan(1). &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Uzbekistan is home to over 20&#160;million people, and was the birthplace of the legendary Tamerlane.
It violates fundamental human rights, and was responsible for the Andijan massacre.
Our actions must be geared towards Uzbek civil society, and they must serve to establish good relations with the Uzbek people, as well as helping those who have suffered political persecution under the authoritarian regime.
A visit by Parliament representatives to Uzbekistan remains a matter of fundamental importance.
If I may, I should like to express my hope that the good relations between the European Union and Uzbekistan will continue to flourish further, since these relations will boost the development and prosperity of the Uzbek people.
They will also promote the advancement of democracy and human rights in Uzbekistan and in Central Asia as a whole. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Council made a good decision on 3&#160;October in favour of an arms embargo.
Uzbekistan is a large and very influential country in Central Asia.
Reports vary between 500 and 1500 people.
The draft resolution helps us to adopt the necessary position. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, it is an unfortunate fact that the historic breakthrough which in Poland led to the formation of a democratic government in 1989, and which subsequently brought about the fall of the Berlin Wall and the disintegration of the entire Moscow-led Communist bloc, did not lead to the emergence of a democratic regime respectful of human rights in all the former Communist bloc countries.
The events of 13&#160;May 2005 were a measure of sorts of the current conditions in Uzbekistan.
Today, we have been discussing European colonialism in Africa, but in this instance the colonialism was Soviet and Communist in character, following on the heels of Tsarist colonialism in Central Asia.
Human rights organisations’ figures vary between 500 and 1&#160;000, while the Uzbek Government gives the number of victims as 176.
Instead, Uzbekistan is enjoying the closest possible cooperation from an EU Member State.
The EU’s human rights policy is hypocritical if, on the one hand, the brutal human rights violations come in for justified criticism, while, on the other, geopolitical considerations mean that the regime in Uzbekistan receives military and economic aid. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, in the run-up to the parliamentary elections in Uzbekistan, which have been called for December, the European Parliament is once again holding a debate on human rights violations.
Uzbekistan is a region of strategic political and economic importance for both Russia and the United States, which makes the situation in the republic even more complex.
Since 2001, the country has been one of the USA’s key allies in the fight against terrorism in Asia.
Together with Russia, Uzbekistan is also a member of the Shanghai Five, a forum aimed at combating terrorism in Asia.
In recent times, however, as a result of clashes between foreign pressures and Karimov’s authoritarian practices, the country has been witness to human rights violations and persecution of the opposition, in particular the Islamic opposition.
Reports from foreign observers, Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch talk of unprecedented and barbaric torture perpetrated in Uzbek prisons against the regime’s opponents, of human rights violations and of the persecution of the independent journalists and political activists who uncovered the truth about the events of 13&#160;May.
The package of restrictive measures includes the partial suspension of the partnership and cooperation agreement, an arms embargo, a selective visa ban as well as consideration of actions in the framework of the United Nations and the OSCE.
That is a very clear and strong political signal by the Union to Uzbekistan.
The exclusion of Uzbekistan from such regional programmes would damage Uzbekistan's neighbours more than Uzbekistan itself. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 4 p.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the case of Tenzin Delek Rinpoche(1). &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, one of the last great Tibetan lamas, Tenzin Delek Rinpoche, has spent the past 20&#160;years engaged in efforts to protect Tibetan culture.
As a leading religious figure in Tibet, he has also played an active role in economic, cultural and social affairs.
This Tibetan lama has long been a thorn in the side of the Chinese authorities, even though he has never taken part in political demonstrations.
He was accused of terrorism and sentenced to death, without any evidence or a fair trial.
China must respect international human rights standards, human dignity and civil liberties.
The death sentence may well have been annulled, but it appears to be being carried out by other means; having endured torture and solitary confinement, he is now unable either to speak or to move, and his life is hanging in the balance.
The European Commission, the Council and the Member States must establish a close connection between the ongoing fate of China’s political prisoners and the maintenance of the arms embargo imposed on that country.
The embargo must remain in place, without any relaxation, for as long as human rights abuses continue.
These oppressive utterances constitute yet another example of the unsatisfactory outcome of the EU/China Summit of 5 September and of the failure of the human rights dialogue to yield tangible fruit.
What does send a powerful signal to all those who are persecuted for political, religious or cultural reasons is the European Union’s insistence on cooperation with any country being conditional – without any exception – on its respect for human rights.
However, it is our place to point out human rights violations when we see them.
China sees that country as a virtually blank canvas that has to be colonised and made accessible, after which it can be further developed in the modern Chinese manner.
We should fight this point globally and fight for human rights. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, Tibet is once again the subject of debate in this House.
In that context, the European Union has always addressed the rights of minorities, especially in Tibet, and urges the Chinese authorities to preserve the cultural, religious and linguistic identity of the Tibetan people.
The case of the Tibetan monk Tenzin Delek Rinpoche has regularly been brought to the attention of the Chinese authorities in the course of this dialogue.
Whilst welcoming the decision by the Chinese authorities on 26&#160;January 2005 this year to commute Tenzin Delek Rinpoche’s death sentence to life imprisonment, the European Union remains deeply concerned about the persistent doubts surrounding his trial and the heavy sentence handed down to him.
The European Union is fully committed to continuing to follow this issue very closely in the framework of the EU-China human rights dialogue.
If China can build railways of this kind, then it could also improve the living conditions of its prisoners.
Back in 1989, I wore a badge bearing the Chinese words for freedom and democracy.
Next time, however, many important matters are to be dealt with, including REACH, so we need to ensure that the technology works.
