In our discussions, we took into account the fact that the situation in Belarus is better than it was 18 months ago, despite the fact that there have been some backward steps.
We must work to instil our values - such as democracy, a market economy and respect for human rights - in Belarus.
I would like to end by emphasising that naturally, we must continue to set clear conditions in our relations with Belarus.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, dear colleagues, Council President, honourable Members, it is a pleasure to discuss with you today our very important but also our very challenging relationship with Belarus.
The European Union also encourages Belarus to abolish or declare a moratorium on the death penalty.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, why has my political group insisted on having the resolution after the debate?
Not only to express our support for the decision taken by the Council - because this is a wise decision and a proper decision and I agree with both your arguments - but the main reason is the increase in repression that has happened in Belarus quite recently.
My private opinion is that it is partly due to the unconsidered - let me say, unwise - visits by Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, who met Alexander Lukashenko and praised him as a democratically elected leader but did not find time to meet with the opposition, and also, a little earlier, by the President of Lithuania, who has invited Lukashenko to Lithuania, in an ill-considered way, I would say.
We should offer deep cooperation with Belarus, but we should also demand from the Belarus authorities real progress in the area of human rights, democracy and freedom.
However, we cannot support the approach which the Commission and Council have been adopting in relation to this country during the last year.
This approach, based on a gradual opening of the door to Belarus, linked to appropriate decisions made by the authorities in Belarus, does not seem to us to be the best way for this country to gradually turn into or, at least, come as close as possible to our idea of a democratic country.
You are aware that the European Parliament does not support official relations with the Belarusian Parliament because we consider that MPs in Belarus are not elected in fair and democratic elections, which means that this parliament cannot be our official partner.
Therefore, it is good that the Council's conclusions of 17 November this year provide for new opportunities for dialogue, as well as greater cooperation between the European Union and Belarus.
The European Union is therefore faced with the choice of encouraging reform through dialogue within the Eastern Partnership and within Euronest and, at the same time, maintaining a policy of vigilance over the results achieved and steps taken.
This would enable us to engage in a dialogue with the political decision makers on subjects including human rights and to establish a channel of communication with the government to support the process of reform.
The latest changes in position at the top political level in Minsk point to a harder line.
The European Union should use a balanced strategy to seize the opportunity to bring about a gradual change in mentality at population and elite level, an opportunity arising from the dialogue and cooperation structures now established, combined with the global economic crisis, that also impels the Lukashenko Government to act.
Minsk must realise that our policy has one objective - democracy in Belarus.
For taking part in a forum on the Eastern Partnership in Brussels.
There are young soldiers, such as Franek Wieczorka, head of the youth organisation called the Belarusian Youth Front, and Ivan Szyła, also from the organisation Young Front, who are being persecuted during military service, where they are cut off from access to information, and this is treated as a punishment.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members, I think it is extremely valuable that we have such strong support among all the European institutions for the approach towards Belarus.
There is a way towards European integration; there is a way towards engagement with the European Union, towards visa facilitation and deepening of the Eastern Partnership.
We have given them our hand and, with the full support of all the European institutions, please, Minsk, take it, because you and the Belarus people have a lot to win.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to stress that I found - and I am also speaking on behalf of Benita Ferrero-Waldner, of course - our exchanges today to be very frank and extremely useful.
Progressive EU engagement with Belarus needs to reflect positive steps by Belarus itself, but we also need to show flexibility.
The November 2009 conclusions of the General Affairs and External Relations Council (GAERC) allow the EU to offer incentives to Belarus for steps we want to see, while remaining true to our principles.
In the meantime, Belarus was invited in May 2009 to join the multilateral dimension of the EAP.
Secondly, we expect Belarus to take further irreversible steps towards democratic standards, without which our relationship cannot develop to its full potential.
Fourthly, and lastly, the Commission has started working on the implementation of the November 2009 GAERC conclusions, and will come back to the Council of EU Ministers with proposals as soon as possible.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Thursday, 17 December 2009).
Therefore, the use of sanctions as a means of exerting pressure needs to be combined with facilitating contacts between citizens from the EU and Belarus.
I would like to welcome Belarus's constructive involvement in the Eastern Partnership process, as well as the fact that a human rights dialogue has been initiated between the EU and Belarus.
