As a forward-thinking European, you guided Portugal with a sure hand on the road to European Union membership.
I see that the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, is here too, and of course I should also point out that Portugal has recently taken over the Presidency of the Union.
The Portuguese Presidency will do everything in its power to establish the convergence that is indispensable to progress in the construction of Europe.
Solidarity which is, in fact, a sine qua non for the future of European construction, on a par with the other truly fundamental principle, subsidiarity.
I take the liberty of recalling at this point the 1950 Schuman Declaration, and I quote, that Europe...will be built through concrete achievements which first create a de facto solidarity.
The extraordinary progress of European integration in the past 20 years would not have been possible without economic and social cohesion policies.
The unequivocal identification of the battle against poverty and social exclusion as a European objective confers on all of us a responsibility for finding new solutions for increasingly complex and persistent problems.
In the five years from 2001 to 2005, the poverty line in the Union countries as a whole remained static at 16%.
It is essential, in planning future social policies, to focus on the idea of the welfare society, in which all of us, as citizens, have more responsibility and show more solidarity.
The goal announced in the Lisbon Strategy to raise the employment rate in the Union to 70% is a social imperative that must be borne in mind, though it looks as though it will be difficult to reach that goal by 2010.
We have designated 2010 as the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
I believe it is absolutely crucial to the sustainability of the process of European integration to ensure that Europe is a central and influential player in the global, multilateral and multipolar world that is emerging.
Speaking for the European Parliament, I should like to assure you that we as MEPs will do all we can to support the Portuguese Presidency, so that when the Heads of State and Government meet in October we may achieve a successful outcome on the Reform Treaty.
I would also make a point of extending our gratitude and recognition to Foreign Minister Luís Amado, Secretary of State Manuel Lobo Antunes and Ambassador Álvaro Mendonça e Moura and all their colleagues, whose task it is to convey, through the process of discussions, the expression of our political will.
