The Single Market Review (debate) The next item is the report by Jacques Toubon, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the Single Market Review: tackling barriers and inefficiencies through better implementation and enforcement.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is an own-initiative report suggested by our political group which, after several months' work, is supported by a very large majority in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
In that amendment, which is based on the European Council decisions of 21 June on the mandate given to the Intergovernmental Conference with a view to including a paragraph on public services in the new amending Treaty, we call upon the Commission to clarify the position of the public services, SGIs and SGEIs, because we believe that those services play a very important part in a successful internal market that enjoys public support.
One of the main - and controversial - proposals is to incorporate an Internal Market Test in any new legislation.
If we are successful in combining the inherent strength of the internal market and the commitment of producers and consumers to this policy, I think that will be a real boost for prosperity, employment and preservation of the European social model and will, at the same time, give Europe a strong economic position in the world.
The first is the operation of competition policy.
That is even truer nowadays in the financial markets and I hope that, in that case too, the Commission will be able to take the initiative in proposing the international standardisation we need in order to make progress on supervision.
Since its inception in 1992 the single market has raised Europe's output by over 2% and created nearly three million new jobs.
The review of the single market is an essential part of the efforts of this Commission to deliver a Europe of tangible results and deliver its 'citizens' agenda'.
Piece by piece each single market reform matters, but taken in the round their importance is even greater.
In terms of how we work, we all know - and your draft report makes this clear - that we must strengthen partnership and ownership.
Now let me move on to our shared policy priorities for the single market.
On 19 September, the Commission will host a hearing in Brussels to find out more about the priorities of all stakeholders.
So, as well as broadening and deepening our dialogues with the United States and Japan, we are also holding summits with China, India, Russia and Brazil.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, it gives me great pleasure to welcome Mr Toubon's report this morning, not just on behalf of my group, as coordinator, but also on behalf of my colleague, our Vice-Chairman Mrs Thyssen, who sadly is not able to be with us this morning because she has had to rush back to Belgium, where her parents are not at all well.
I welcome this report on behalf of all the Members of our group.
In a real sense, the single market touches the lives of every citizen in the European Union.
As Mr Toubon said, it is absolutely right to issue a strong call to all of us and particularly to the Commission in its work on a new strategy to come up with some radical, new ideas and particularly to raise the whole political profile of the single market and its importance to all of us.
It is the responsibility of all of us, all colleagues, to maintain that decisive competitive advantage on behalf of all our citizens.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PSE Group has just adopted an important contribution on revision of the internal market.
The market is useful, it even has its virtues, but it is not in itself a model for society.
Any legislation aimed at completing the single market should be coupled with a study of its impact on employment in the sector concerned.
I have just quoted Jacques Delors.
Therefore, if the Commission wants the best for Europe and its citizens and enterprises, Commissioner McCreevy will take account of this report in the Commission's working process and will follow in Parliament's footsteps.
Mr Sarkozy and Mrs Merkel should also study the report very, very carefully.
If we are to make sure that Europe continues to grow and in the future is a dynamic economy globally, then I believe we need competition in this area.
I believe that Europe needs to strengthen its efforts in the field of international dialogues on financial markets not just with the US, Japan and China but also with other emerging economies, like India.
Finally, I should like to say once again that what we need in tax is competition, not harmonisation, if Europe is to be a dynamic economy in the future.
We had another example of shortcomings in that regard during the summer when Mattel, the world's largest toy manufacturer, had to recall toys for the third time in just under a year.
Member States have decided to get out of nuclear energy and I therefore think it is wrong that the European Union should intervene here with financial support.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, Mr Toubon concedes that 'the citizens of all Member States are having their doubts about the internal market and the other common policies'.
Mr Toubon, a crisis of confidence?
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (RO) Mr President, we cannot but welcome an analysis of the evolution of the single market - this major target of the European project - 50 years after its beginnings.
I support the report but I think that to ensure a greater degree of consistency, an analysis should have been carried out of the national markets in the States with less developed economies, especially in new Member States, such as Romania and, following the results, approximation measures to the developed economies should be put in place, as this is a sine qua non condition for the construction of the European single market. (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, without any doubt the common market is the cornerstone of the competitiveness of the European Union and of consumer satisfaction.
The report we are debating today states clearly, and in my opinion quite rightly, that this market, of which we can be proud, has been built on the principles of economic competition.
In my view, in the light of the merger between Suez and Gaz de France, the Internal Market Test - which is proposed in this report and which we in the EPP-ED Group support - could very usefully be transposed into national legislation.
We also inserted into the report a passage on services of general interest, which undoubtedly now makes sense in the light of the new legal basis created by the Reform Treaty, as already mentioned.
Another particularly important achievement for us as Social Democrats was the last-minute agreement on services of general interest.
The realisation of a full single market is essential to Europe's economic success.
More specifically, the various legislative measures adopted recently in the wholesale financial services area have gone a long way towards establishing a single European market in this area, with high regulatory standards and trickle-down benefits for the customer.
Yet there are many cultural, traditional, legal and tax barriers that still inhibit the single market in financial services at the retail level.
I want to stress some of the proposals which I believe are key in engaging citizens in the progress and development of the internal market and in boosting confidence in particular.
More involvement of national parliaments to better reflect the diverse views of Member States and their citizens is a very important proposal.
My argument is that we should not put down the single market because it is probably the best thing that we in the European Union have ever done.
I believe that experience shows us that open economies are the economies which grow the most and that increased competition always translates into benefits for consumers in the quality and price of goods and services competing on or appearing in the market.
The internal market and competitiveness automatically create social security and are preconditions for welfare. (HU) I would like to begin by saying how much we welcomed the clear and comprehensive debate which Mr Toubon's colleagues held with us last year prior to the preparation of this report.
We therefore cannot ignore the July 2007 Internal Market Scoreboard and the information it contains.
A condition for the new Member States which acceded in 2004 and 2005 was the introduction and transposition of the complete acquis communautaire.
The ratio of failure to meet internal market obligations between individual old and new Member States is 1:2, but may occasionally be as much as 1:8, as for example between Slovenia and Italy.
We also need more modern and simpler control mechanisms.
This new approach may eliminate the chasm between the potential and the reality and will offer solutions for doing away with the barriers between the markets of the 27 Member States.
The Member States must create a favourable environment for active cooperation between businesses, public sector and academia.
For us as Social Democrats, solidarity and cohesion in the internal market are very important.
The Structural Funds contribute to the development of all the European regions and are important especially for the new Member States.
We not only need an economic union with the most dynamic knowledge-based economy but also a Social Europe where everybody plays their part and in which public services are of high quality and are accessible to the almost 500 million European citizens.
We need health and education services, we need a sustainable social protection system.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, honourable Members, I have listened carefully to the discussion on the future of the single market and I would like to thank all participants for their comments.
The review of the single market is an essential part of a reference to the delivery of a Europe of tangible results with the clear focus on the citizens.
Some of our proposals are already on the table.
It belongs to our consumers, to our companies, to our workers and our civil society.
Hopefully the Commission's policy package from January 2007 will swiftly be translated in targeted measures for resolving the remaining obstacles.
