This target was, in 2003, incorporated into the European Employment Strategy and reiterated in the Integrated Guidelines for Growth and Employment (2005-2008).
There are countries in which these quotas for provision have already been exceeded, in some cases by a considerable degree; for example, some seven Member States have achieved or exceeded the 33% quota set for childcare services for children under the age of three years, and it is already apparent not only that the other states are lagging behind, but also that the level of provision in some of them is blatantly low.
The 2006/2007 Joint Employment Report, which the Council adopted on 22 February - just a few weeks ago - enlarges on this point and is unambiguously critical of the slow progress where childcare is concerned.
The European Alliance for Families helps to improve family-friendly living conditions in the European Union, and will create a platform for the exchange of opinions and information between the Member States.
The European Council reiterated the need to achieve these targets in the European Pact for Gender Equality adopted in March 2006.
The Commission has therefore invited Member States to focus in 2007 on 'increasing the availability and affordability of quality childcare in line with their own national targets'.
In the Annual report on gender equality for 2006 published last month, the Commission pointed out that Member States should step up their efforts to meet the Barcelona targets and support the development of care for older and disabled persons.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (SV) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, as has just been said, we have ambitious targets from the Barcelona Summit when it comes to the development of childcare.
It is important in terms of gender equality because it has traditionally been women who have had to accept responsibility for childcare and so have not entered the labour market.
It was envisaged that by 2010 all Member States of the Union would ensure childcare for at least 90% of children aged from 3 to 6 years old, as well as for 33% of children under 3 years of age.
This will put the conditions in place for the healthy growth of the young generation and for the fulfilment of their parents' ambitions. (SK) I sincerely welcome the statement of the European Commission and Council drawing the attention of Member States to the obligations that they assumed in 2002 in Barcelona, because we no longer have much time left for them to be fulfilled.
It would be a real shame if we were to continue to waste time and to declare in 2010 that the targets were illusory and unattainable, as there is no excuse for the lack of preparedness and in this particular case time is unforgiving.
It is lamentable that in 2007, the European Year of Equal Opportunities for All, we are still a long way off the Barcelona targets, and yet, with our ageing population and falling birth rates, the European Union needs as many adults in the job market as possible, and that means more women.
We have also seen that we have not yet succeeded in achieving these objectives in all the Member States, and that relatively little time remains to us to discharge those obligations before 2010.
In thanking you for the frankness of this debate, let me also say that it is for every one of us, in any Member State in which the targets have not yet been met or in which there is a risk of them not being met by 2010, to take appropriate political steps in order that the goals we have set ourselves may - as we indeed hope - be achieved before that date.
The Member States should endeavour to provide childcare by 2010 for at least 90% of children from three years up to school age; that is, to provide care or to give parents the choice of whether or not to take up this opportunity.
The debate is closed.
