Prevention of injury and promotion of safety (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Sinnott, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a Council recommendation on the prevention of injury and the promotion of safety C6-0238/2006.
Over 50 million citizens seek medical treatment for injuries and 6.8 million of those are admitted to hospital.
Research shows that more than 50 % of serious accidents are preventable and that reduction by one quarter should be a realistic target over the next 10 years.
The Commission has set out a Community action plan on injury prevention and safety promotion in its communication 'Action for a Safer Europe'.
In this report, which particularly focuses on injury data collection, I have recommended that to promote safety and prevent injury we need better-quality data.
Currently, some 235 000 European citizens die as a result of an accident or violence-related injuries.
This amounts to 600 fatalities per day in the EU alone.
The subject matter of this draft legislative resolution is undoubtedly extremely important, as it concerns the premature deaths of more than 200 000 EU citizens annually and the injury of several million individuals in the 25 Member States.
Mrs Sinnott correctly notes that, in addition to the gathering of information on injuries by way of establishing a surveillance system, the Council's report needs to be enriched by placing more emphasis on the promotion of safety and raising risk-awareness among the general public.
Instead, we are led to believe that alcohol intake is safe below certain limits, i.e. 50 mg per 100 ml of blood in most EU countries.
Whereas a driver with a blood alcohol level of 20, 30 or 40 mg/100 ml might be legally entitled to drive, he or she is at a much higher risk of being involved in an accident than someone without any alcohol in their blood at all.
Every day, 600 people die as a result of accidents and injuries, which equates to a quarter of a million people per year.
Do we really think, however, that these measures will result in fewer accidents in these countries?
In addition to the human suffering, in addition to the pain, in addition to the social impact that injuries have, they also cause a serious problem for the economies of Member States and therefore investment from that point of view is also required.
Regarding the Commission's position on the different amendments, the Commission can fully accept a large number of amendments, for example, 5, 18, 21, and partially accept amendments 7, 11, 15, 16 and 17.
It is true that there is information here and there, but we need to pull it all together so that we can learn from each other's experiences and prove that this is a European Union of solidarity, a European Union of cooperation, where we can learn from each other's experiences and help each other so that every single Member State does not have to go through this learning process at the cost of lives, at a cost to the health of European citizens.
Annex - Position of the Commission Sinnott report The Commission can accept Amendments 5, 18 and 21.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30.
