&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 19 January 2006. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, before beginning our plenary sitting, I believe that, under the circumstances, the Presidency must make a short statement relating to the two tragic events that have taken place in two countries of the European Union.
As you know, the accident on 19 January involving a Slovakian army aircraft led to the deaths of 42 soldiers as they returned from a NATO peace-keeping mission in Kosovo.
This brings to mind other similar tragic events relating to the presence of Spanish soldiers in Afghanistan.
The Slovakian and Polish flags are flying at half mast in our Parliament as a sign of mourning.
I would now ask you to observe a minute’s silence in tribute to these victims. &#160;&#160; Are there any comments?
We will no doubt have the opportunity to hear what they have to say during the debate, but at this point I would like to stress the important role played by our Members in terms of providing an objective view of the vitality of the electoral process in the Palestinian territories.
If, rather than an energy agreement, disagreement had remained, that would have had extremely serious repercussions for the energy supply of many European Union countries.
A few days later, serious problems arose with the beginning of the elections in Palestine, and once again Mrs De Keyser was there to try to solve them.
The Palestinian elections took place at the end of the month, and the result caused a commotion.
Some days later, within the context of another issue which is absolutely fundamental to the European Union, President Rugova, President of Kosovo, died suddenly.
Also in the final days of the month, there was a crucial meeting of the African Union, with which we are cooperating extremely closely in an attempt to resolve a serious problem: the problem of Darfur.
Finally, just a very few days ago, also during this month, the Secretary-General of the United Nations called upon us to be ready to take a decision on the possibility of the European Union becoming involved in security and protection at the elections that are going to take place in a few months’ time in Congo.
And many of them relate to the European Union’s influence in today’s world, because in relation to all of these issues that I have mentioned, all of them, the European Union has had to play a fundamental role: on the issue of energy security, which is fundamental and which will remain with us throughout 2006; on the issue of Iran, which will continue to occupy us over the coming days and no doubt beyond, and I will discuss this in a moment; on the Palestinian elections and their consequences; on the death of President Rugova and the consequences that it will have in 2006, and let us hope that it is only 2006; on the final agreements on the status of Kosovo; and on issues relating to the changes that have taken place in the African Union, our relations with which are marked by profound friendship, affection and cooperation.
This morning, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament’s Committee on Foreign Affairs received two personalities from Ukraine: the Foreign Affairs Minister, Mr&#160;Tarasyuk, and Yulia Timoshenko, a very distinguished parliamentarian.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs has seen — I hope that many of you have been able to say this — the extremely difficult situation being faced by Ukraine, a country that is a friend of ours and that is fundamental to the stability and security of Europe.
About a year ago now, all of us, the European Parliament and myself, were trying to resolve an extremely serious problem in Ukraine.
Today, a year later, many of the problems that existed at that time are not as serious, but they are unfortunately still sufficiently serious for us to have to continue working, essentially in order to ensure that that country does not lose its way, that this great country continues to move along the path of economic and political development, security and increasing closeness to Europe that we all want to see.
Those of you who have listened this morning to both the Foreign Affairs Minister and Mrs Yulia Timoshenko will have realised that the problem is unfortunately very serious and that we must attach particular importance to it.
In the few minutes I am allowed for this first speech, I shall not go into any more detail, but I would like to say that the elections that are going to take place in Ukraine, not in a year’s time, but in two months’ time, will be absolutely fundamental to all of us, not just for the European Union, but also for Ukraine, undoubtedly, and for all of the countries of the eastern part of our continent, which will be affected by their results.
I would like, Mr President, to move on to the second point on which I wished to comment: the situation with Iran.
I believe that the honourable Members are well informed about what has happened in Iran since 3&#160;January of this year, just a little while ago, and in particular about what has happened since the 13th, when, in Berlin, the European Union took the decision to call for an extraordinary meeting of the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency and subsequently to call upon the Board of Governors to pass the dossier on Iran to the United Nations Security Council.
I can tell you that, at this very moment, the Chinese and Russian representatives are in Tehran, with a mandate from the five permanent members of the Security Council plus the European Union, to try to make the final effort to reach an agreement at the meeting that is going to take place on the 2nd, that is to say tomorrow.
I can tell you that, the night before last, the members of the European Union and the United States held a meeting until the early hours of the morning, which I believe was very important, with Russia and China, with a view to reaching a possible agreement on a draft resolution.
It is a draft resolution, ladies and gentlemen, that makes the following appeals: firstly it calls upon Iran to return to the previous situation, that is to say, not to persist in its aspirations to enrich uranium, but to return to a negotiating position; and secondly, it calls for the resolution that is going to be presented this afternoon, with the support of Russia and China, to be approved and for that resolution and all of the related resolutions adopted over recent months to be passed on to the Security Council and for that Council not to adopt any resolution until the ordinary meeting of the Board of Governors in March.
Our intention here is to send a clear message to the Iranian authorities and, at the same time, to create the greatest possible degree of consensus within the international community.
The issue we are dealing with is fundamental, linked to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and it therefore seems to us to be essential to achieve the greatest possible agreement amongst the members of the international community and, specifically, amongst the members of the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
I do not wish to say that I am optimistic, because I believe that it is difficult to be optimistic on these issues, but I believe that we have worked extremely hard over recent hours amongst all of the members of the international community, led, without any doubt whatsoever, by the positions that the European Union has held for several months and years.
We therefore hope that the debate that will begin tomorrow, and will no doubt last more than one day, will enable us to make progress in terms of rationalising Iran’s position on nuclear issues.
Ladies and gentlemen, the results have surprised everybody: they have surprised Hamas, they have surprised Fatah, they have surprised Israel and they have surprised the international community.
And these are not personal positions, they are positions that have been agreed by the General Affairs Council, by the Foreign Affairs Ministers on Monday morning ― that is to say, very recently ― and in the afternoon, in the Quartet, with our friends from Russia and the United States and with the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
There is therefore no doubt that in the future ― when the government is formed following the negotiation that will take place, very probably within several weeks, and we will therefore probably not have a government for two or three months at least ― there may well be a clash of positions amongst the different parties, between what President Abu Mazen has represented and what Hamas represents.
In Monday’s statement by the Council of Foreign Affairs Ministers, which was then also recognised in the meeting of the Quartet, we said what I believe are some important things which should be known and, above all, explained.
The second thing we should say with the same affection and friendship we have always felt for our Palestinian friends is that, if they want the European Union’s assistance, it is essential that their policy is compatible with the position that this Parliament and the European Union have maintained since the Oslo agreements in 1993.
We want to see two States living together in peace and prosperity; we want negotiations to take place via the peaceful route ― not by any other route ― and we would therefore call upon the two parties ― if that is what we want ― to recognise each other.
Thirdly, we would like to say to our Palestinian friends ― I have said this personally on several occasions since the elections, and I am able to speak to the President practically every day ― that it would be a very good thing for the new government which emerges following these elections, in three months, also to recognise all of the agreements that the Palestinian Authority has signed over recent years.
This does not mean that at this difficult time, at this time when President Abu Mazen has the enormous responsibility of forming a government and of making contact with all of the different political factions, we should not help, or we should not help President Abu Mazen as much as possible at this time when he still has control of the situation, so that over these three months that he surely still has before there is a new government, the Palestinians do not face economic bankruptcy.
In my view, it would be an extremely serious mistake for us now to abandon President Abu Mazen, in an economic sense, and for those resources not to be used, or not arrive, and for us to run the risk of the Palestinian Authority finding itself in a very difficult situation at this point in time.
I believe that we should say ‘yes’, a resounding ‘yes’, so that that is what happens in the future.
I would like to say that what we have before us is going to be a new situation, it is going to be difficult, it is not going to be easy, but I believe that we must remain determined to ensure that this peace process moves forward under the conditions to which I referred before.
Mr President, I will now say a couple of very brief words about the situation in Kosovo, following the death of President Rugova.
Mr President, I believe that my time is running out, and it would be a great shame not to discuss some of the other issues that I wished to raise with you, given the enormous amount of activity that has taken place over the last twenty days.
I would like to tell you that we are continuing to work very hard with the African Union to try to resolve the problem of peace in Darfur.
We are working as hard as we possibly can in that regard.
There are endless things I would like to share with you on this first day of February 2006, a year which has begun with some truly frenetic activity, which is going to make us all frenetic and which must make us work with an energy, a capacity and a dedication that we have rarely seen in the European Union.
Through the will of the Members of this Parliament, through the will of the citizens of Europe and through the will of the governments of Europe, the European Union must be a fundamental player on the international scene.
Act; we like the way you act; your way of acting suits us; the way you act is better for the world, the multilateral world in which the citizens of the European Union believe’.
The Eurobarometer, Mr President, tells us every day, every month, or every two months, or every time we ask it, what the Members of this Parliament want.
If you consider what this scenario means in terms of world peace, and might also mean in terms of the security of our energy supply, bearing in mind at the same time the way in which a politically resurrected Russia uses energy as a political instrument, causing countries in our neighbourhood to fear for the maintenance of their independence and freedom to make decisions for themselves, then it can be a depressing one.
The whole scenario shows that we, in the European Union, are in a worse position in terms of foreign policy than we were a year ago, and that we therefore need to come up with a strategy for dealing with the situation.
We must become much more pro-active and, whether dealing with the Ukraine situation or energy policy in general, establish connections in such a way that no single country is penalised, but that, rather, we join together in defending our interests.
We have something to contribute, and one place in which we can do so is the Balkans, where, this year, there is to be a referendum in Montenegro and negotiations on the status of Kosovo, and so important decisions are in the offing.
It means that we have to sharpen up some of our instruments.
As Mr Solana said, this multilateral approach is one reason why the world wants European foreign policy.
Evidence of that could be found on the order of business for the first meeting of the Council under Austrian Presidency two days ago.
It was important that we in the Council should consider the issues, to many of which Mr Solana has alluded, and come to decisions that carried a clear message, for it is indeed important that the European Union should, where today’s important issues are concerned, speak to the world clearly, unmistakeably, and with one voice, and this we are doing, of course, together with the Commission, while also seeking dialogue with you in the European Parliament.
The Austrian Presidency wants to continue offering this willingness to engage in discussion on behalf of the Council and wishes to maintain dialogue with your House.
In this brief statement, I would like, in essence, to focus on two points: firstly, the Council’s annual report to the European Parliament on the main aspects of, and fundamental options for the common foreign and security policy – which is what this item on the order of business is all about – and, secondly, relations between your House and the Council as regards the budget for it.
As a result, the report gives particular attention to important issues in connection with this, notably such aspects of the common foreign and security policy as, for example, crisis management and conflict prevention, combating terrorism, disarmament and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and small arms, external relations in different geographical areas, and so on.
Its production of these reports is a matter of obligation, and they help to make visible and transparent the work that is done in connection with the CFSP.
Efforts have also been made to accommodate the views of the European Parliament, one consequence of which is that the report includes a special chapter with an overview of future activities and suggestions for activities in the coming year and for possible responses to any crises that may occur.
In the conclusions to the agreement on the next financial perspective, the European Council requests ‘the budgetary authority to significantly increase the funding under the Budget for the common foreign and security policy for the period beginning in 2007 in order to cover the foreseeable need for resources as estimated on the basis of prognoses produced annually by the Council, with a reasonable margin being left for unforeseen activities’.
The presidency looks forward to working constructively with the European Parliament on this issue and will shortly provide it with relevant information in accordance with the agreement reached during the trialogue on the 2006 Budget.
It is expected that the Political and Security Committee will, through its representative, report on the subject in March of this year.
Secondly, we also have learned a very important lesson from this, namely that the question of energy is of great importance and has to be placed much higher on our political agenda.
The issue of energy covers energy security, the question of diversification and the ways of dealing with this question in the future.
The Commission will therefore prepare a communication on this matter, which will take all these issues into account.
The second point I would like to make concerns the Palestinian elections.
We met in Gaza two weeks ago under difficult circumstances, when the security situation was still unclear.
However, let me say that the most important thing is that the elections were held freely, fairly and in relative security.
In the future, we will see it in Congo and in Haiti.
To come back to Palestine, we had a very important Council meeting on Monday and a Quartet meeting on Monday evening.
We in the Commission have to find solutions.
We also said we would help with the utilities, paying these directly to the Israelis in order to help that government too.
A World Bank mission will be going there and we will have to see what can be done.
Whilst on the subject of foreign policy issues, the Ukrainian elections are forthcoming.
All of that brings me to the more general questions.
In our view, it is a very important task to ensure that all EU foreign policy instruments – development aid, diplomacy, trade policy, civilian and military crisis management, institution-building, humanitarian assistance – work as part of a coherent whole, like interlinked cogs in a well-oiled machine.
After all, this is the rationale behind the Commission being ‘fully associated’ with common foreign and security policy.
Security is not only about defence and military deployment, it is also about civilian crisis management and the wise management of bilateral relationships – and we have a lot of those.
It is about the fight against terrorism and organised crime.
It is not only about energy supplies and prices, but also about the fight against poverty in the world, and our ability to integrate our immigrant populations.
An effective crisis response requires instruments that complement one another.
For example, our contribution to the Aceh peace process is a mix of CFSP and Community instruments.
The Commission also financed, for instance, President Ahtisaari’s peace negotiations using the rapid reaction mechanism.
The CFSP launched the Aceh Monitoring Mission to monitor compliance with the peace agreement.
At the same time, for instance, the Commission and Member States, working with the international community, put in place a package of long-term measures to support the peace process.
Early results are highly positive.
In neither case would the European Union’s contribution have been comprehensive or meaningful without utilising both Community and CFSP instruments.
We also need to enhance the EU’s existing instruments in support of our security objectives.
Access to the world’s biggest internal market or our sizeable assistance programmes is a considerable carrot.
The issue will also be dealt with in the concept paper on the EU’s external project which President Barroso announced at Hampton Court, now planned for the June European Council.
The Commission will focus in particular on building up its crisis response capacities.
It will complement our existing instruments such as the civil protection mechanism, humanitarian assistance and the rapid reaction mechanism.
We also want to build on our strategy for disaster alert and preparedness.
Under the new financial perspectives, the stability instrument will also help ensure continuity between short- and long-term interventions.
Finally, we will also cooperate very closely with the two arms of the budgetary authority to ensure adequate resources for CFSP.
The Commission welcomes the substantial increase of the CFSP budget in 2006 in order to meet concrete new demands.
I also hope there will be continued support for our stability instrument to enable us to make real progress in crisis response and coherence.
This is the main thrust of how we would like to face 2006 and its political challenges. &#160;&#160; . – None of this is new to me, because I have for many years been in agreement with what my friends Mr Solana and Mrs Ferrero-Waldner have been saying.
In order to address the lack of resources, we must establish priorities, and in this regard the support of the institutions is crucial.
This aspect is vital in view of the international issues at stake, such as money laundering and drug-trafficking, but in order for it to become a reality, the resources must be there via the various strands.
The ageing population in the EU means that in the coming decades there will have to be a significant amount of immigration, from both the South and the East.
As for the most contentious issues in this debate, I wish to say that we see eye to eye on both Palestine and Iran.
Under no circumstances must we waver on the principles that have always guided us, and, specifically on this issue, the principles that have been in place since the beginning of the 1990s.
As regards Kosovo, a key element for many years when it comes to the Balkans, we continue to emphasise that territorial integrity must be maintained and that minorities must be respected.
Unless these two principles are upheld in Kosovo, we will have great difficulty in achieving any kind of stability in the region.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, energy security is of course a technical question, but it has also become a political question, because, while demand continues to rise, the trend in the coming years will be for supply to level off.
If we do not do this, a number of surprises lie in wait. &#160;&#160; .
Europeans must be aware that what Mr Solana, Mr&#160;Winkler and Mrs Ferrero-Waldner have set out is none other than the neighbourhood policy of the European Union, on whose doorstep lie the crisis regions that they have described.
If one turns from that to consider Mr Brok’s description, in his report on the current state of European foreign policy in the hands of the executive institutions, of the instruments available to the institutions themselves and to us in this House, one finds that an equally sobering account.
This is something we have to think about, and Mr Winkler is right to say that we have to do so in the context of the financial perspective, for it is quite unacceptable that the Council should, every time it meets, broadcast to the world our need to undertake international commitments, and then make cuts in the funding that such commitments require.
Hamas must indeed renounce violence, but the EU must also keep its word, and we have to talk to Hamas if we are not to make the mistake that was made in Algeria of not recognising a legitimate election.
Acting together, our Union could have used its leverage to promote democracy and stability.
We never demanded that diplomacy depend on releasing democrats like Egypt’s Ayman Nour; or, in Asia, on the right to a free return to his country for opposition leader Sam Rainsy, now in exile while we fund the dictatorship of Hun Sen.
Israel, undeterred, builds a wall around East Jerusalem in violation of its roadmap obligations and international law.
Of course, Hamas must renounce violence and commit to a two-state solution.
But so must Israel.
The Commissioner has spoken of policies based on human rights, the rule of law and democratic principles, but where is the emphasis on those fine things when pragmatism devoid of principles is so often the order of the day?
According to Eurobarometer, it is a desire shared by 70% of our citizens.
Those rights are enshrined in Article&#160;21 of the Treaty and in the 1999 Interinstitutional Agreement.
We are facing many grave challenges: to democratise our Near Neighbourhood, especially former Soviet republics currently at the mercy of Russia’s energy politics; to ensure that the elections in Belarus are free and fair; and to ensure that the referendums in Kosovo and Montenegro do not end in violence.
Hamas’ 1988 charter is indeed appalling, and those who read it can do no other than shudder, but Hamas is now in elected office, and, in dealing with it, we must make it clear that foreign policy and relations with Israel are not in Hamas’ hands, but in those of President Abbas.
He is the one to whom we must at last give a chance; we must, once and for all, tell Israel to give him a chance to prove that there is a policy other than that espoused by Hamas.
There must be no ambiguity in our attitude towards Hamas, not only as regards the peace issue, but also as regards fundamentalism.
There is the risk of a fundamentalist society coming into being.
There is no future for the Palestinians in being conquered and occupied; that is something that Israel must come to understand; this is a policy area in which it needs a change of approach.
This change is necessary to our own security, and we must compel Hamas to make it.
We can do that only if the Israelis and the Palestinians really grasp the fact that, where the European Union is concerned, there is no debate: the right of Israel to exist is no longer a matter for discussion, and we no longer regard discussion of it as acceptable.
The right of the Palestinians to a state is no longer a matter for discussion, and we no longer regard discussion of it as acceptable.
Iraq, for its part, warrants three lines, but there is no mention whatsoever of the war nor of the catastrophic Bush strategy, which lands us all into a tragic deadlock.
This brings me to our main criticism, which I already had the opportunity to voice in this very Chamber in June 2003 at the time of the publication of your report on the European security strategy – which is still in force, Mr&#160;Solana.
The report gives an apocalyptic description of the new threats without once analysing their root causes, and it is with sheer disbelief that one reads - I quote - that ‘by working together, the European Union and the United States can be a major force for good in the world’.
This pride in being able to show the world the Palestinian people’s ability to build its democracy is a major asset for the future that the election result must not have us forget.
Certainly, the popular rejection of Fatah is genuine.
We also need clearly to show that, as far as we are concerned, there is no ‘variable geometry’ version of international law.
In that context, Mr&#160;President, it stands to reason that, now more than ever, the attitude to be adopted with regard to our diplomats’ report on Jerusalem is this: we must publish it straightaway, implement its recommendations and, more generally, finally choose a real alternative to President&#160;Bush’s strategy, which has failed in the Near East and, beyond, in the Middle East.
Let us be alert to the cries of alarm rising up from societies on the verge of despair. &#160;&#160; I imagine that all of the speakers are aware that there is an item coming up on our agenda specifically relating to the analysis of the situation in the Middle East, the result of the Palestinian elections and whether or not this report to which Mr Wurtz has referred should be published.
Rather than striving towards settlement or peace with the Jewish state, we should tear out its page from history, for that is what Khomeini called for, and, according to the present Iranian President Ahmadinejad, those are words of wisdom.
Combined with the nuclear aspirations of the Mullahs’ regime in Teheran – the peaceful nature of which is very much a matter of doubt – this makes for a particularly touch challenge for the Western world, the EU, and the US.
The first priority is the Neighbourhood Policy.
By not evaluating this event from their own viewpoints with sufficient consistency, the European institutions are diminishing the confidence of EU citizens, and, incidentally, preventing us from speaking about combating corruption elsewhere in the world.
At the moment China is in a phase of rapid development and it is ready to give high priority to entering into cooperation with the European Union.
The report is quite right to draw attention to the importance of respect for human rights and civil liberties.
I would like to take this opportunity of expressing my total and unconditional solidarity with the Danish Prime Minister, who is currently under enormous pressure to take action against the cartoonists who had the temerity to depict none other than the prophet Mohammed.
The Council, Commission and Parliament should stand united in the defence of our liberties.
If they fail to do so, then it is hardly worth our while even talking about a security and defence policy, for there will be nothing whatever left to defend. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, earlier today Mr&#160;Solana stated that the European Union needs to be a global actor.
A great deal will therefore depend on the personal actions, good judgment and creativity shown by Mr&#160;Solana and Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner in the course of this year.
Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner has also promised a special communication the European Union’s energy security energy.
There is scope for criticism of the lack of progress in certain areas.
The list should actually be much longer, and include a common solution to regional conflicts, notably in Transnistria and the Southern Caucasus, along with the whole Kaliningrad package. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as Europeans we have to respect the outcome of the free vote in Palestine and encourage those elected to form a government that chooses the path of negotiation, recognises Israel and renounces violence, as President Abu Mazen himself has indicated.
The outcome of the vote also reflects the suffering and humiliation of daily life under occupation, squeezed between checkpoints, wall and settlements, and at the same time it rings out as a severe criticism of Palestinian politicians.
The unilateral withdrawal from Gaza has itself weakened the position of President Abu Mazen, for obvious reasons.
That therefore gives rise to two compelling needs: not to abandon the prospect of a negotiated peace, and to call on both parties to renounce any actions that might jeopardise peace.
In addition, Hamas itself has shown its ability to respect a negotiated truce for an entire year.
Mr High Representative, Commissioner, Mr President, at the beginning of this debate, we were given a breathtaking overview of the events of the past 30 days.
I should like to congratulate Mr Solana and Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, as well as the presidency, for their unrelenting commitment to dealing with the disasters that have struck and all those painful events.
The first lesson is that the European Union can only be effective when united.
Imagine the implications if one Head of Government had stated one thing, another Minister had said something else and a third Prime Minister had brought a different message altogether.
Needless to say, we need unanimity across all the dossiers.
I am not as confident as the Commissioner that provision will be made for this in the financial perspectives 2007-2013.
Finally, I agree that, insofar as the High Representative, the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council involve Parliament in their activities on a regular basis, they will be able to count on our continued support. &#160;&#160; Mr President, further to Mr Solana’s reference to the Balkans, I would just like to take the opportunity of saying that we give our wholehearted backing to his efforts in a place where we bear direct responsibility for peace in Europe; this is something that nobody else can shoulder for us, and we must credibly and undeviatingly develop the region’s European perspective.
The prospect of the Iranians’ meeting with China and Russia now going ahead is good news, but we must not lose sight of the fact that the decision as to whether the red line has been crossed and world peace put in jeopardy is for neither Mr Schüssel nor Mr Steinmeier to take, but for the United Nations and nobody else.
We cannot control the situation on our own, and it is difficult, when dealing with a hate preacher such as Ahmadinejad, to keep looking for new ways to make him see reason – the reason that is part of the European security strategy that you have set out, which is founded upon non-proliferation.
I will not let diplomatic relations … &#160;&#160; Mr President, yesterday marked the death of the 100th British serviceman killed in Iraq.
But they were betrayed.
Now Mr Blair wants to embroil the British nation in yet another lie and fantasy.
This is a clear signal that the Labour government is surrendering control of foreign policy to the European Union.
Well, the whole of the European common foreign policy and the planned European army is not worth the bones of one single British serviceman or woman. &#160;&#160; Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner, Mr&#160;Solana, ladies and gentlemen, today’s debate concerns the need for a more open, more effective and more responsible European Union common foreign and security policy.
These policies suffer from a serious lack of resources, and emphasis is also placed on the need for democratic parliamentary control.
So we, the European Parliament, ought to be able to change things for the better, and this includes demanding appropriate policy coordination in order to ensure intensive dialogue between the European Parliament and the Council on these issues.
We know that this is not easy, but it is a question of the European Parliament’s institutional influence and development.
The clear backing from Europe’s citizens for joint European security actions imposes a duty on the European Parliament to expand its institutional influence and participation in decision-making.
Security will only increase if the messages from Mr&#160;Chirac, Mr&#160;Solana or Mrs&#160;Merkel or decisions taken in the spheres of weapons of mass destruction, combating terrorism or energy are predictable, and do not take an unprepared European Parliament unawares. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, a common foreign policy might have prevented the energy crisis in Eastern Europe.
Israel cannot therefore be permitted to monopolise foreign policy in its part of the world.
The EU’s foreign policy ambitions and pretensions now reach into every area, from defence to immigration to energy supply, and we see few positive results from this.
I would also say that in these dangerous times when new forces have emerged that threaten the very nature of our free societies, we need more solidarity among the democracies and less EU self promotion.
I have just returned from participating in the electoral observation mission in the Palestine Authority areas and East Jerusalem.
In the past I have expressed concern about the nature of EU financing and the adequacy of safeguards to prevent misuse of our funds.
Not only must we ensure that financial assistance is transparent and cannot be used to support terrorism and extremism: there is also a crying need to ensure that our money is used more effectively so that it is of direct benefit to the Palestinian people.
Finally, let us put more effort into ensuring that there is no difference in approach between the Europeans and the United States.
We have a common interest in peace and stability in the Middle East. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we have listened with great interest to Mr Solana’s speech, particularly the first part in which he listed what had happened over the course of January.
I think that one effect of what happened at the beginning of January has been to push energy policy up our list of priorities.
First of all, I have to conclude that we may not have organised ourselves very well as consumers, because our energy supply is so vulnerable, too vulnerable, if you ask me, since the effects of an unexpected energy shortage can be nothing short of devastating.
Secondly, I have noticed that some Member States are more vulnerable than others, which somewhat contradicts the notion of solidarity that we nurture in the European Union.
The third point I would like to make, which is actually the most important one, is that energy supplies and access to them are being deployed as political weapons, in this case against Ukraine, but also against Moldova and, in some respects, against Georgia as well.
The Russians have threatened to do this before and I think that, in this respect, we have to come down hard on them, for that is unacceptable.
I think that this, too, is something we should analyse. &#160;&#160; Mr President,I should like to point out that, as it considers its common foreign and security policy, Europe would do well to review its guiding principles.
As I see it, this is a major challenge for Europe to which we have so far failed to respond &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I have read the report and listened to Mr&#160;Solana carefully.
I have a feeling that we are continuing to serve American interests and that is a problem.
They are dragging us into enmity with Russia, hostilities with China and the same with Iran.
We must learn to say 'no' to the United States if we want to have a substantial foreign policy which, of course, I do not understand can be common to Sweden and Greece, Cyprus and Estonia, given that each State has such different issues to address.
Mr Schulz said that there is a threat to the underbelly of Europe.
The wall in Nicosia constitutes a threat.
The wall in Jerusalem constitutes a threat.
As I see it, three types of security are required if all Europeans are to feel genuinely safe.
The whole Union is much troubled by the subject, as are individual Member States such as Poland.
There seems to be no desire to take common action in this field.
The Union has so far failed to respond to this situation, although it is abundantly obvious that Russia is using the supply of raw materials for energy as an important tool with which to influence other countries’ policies.
Russia’s decision to shut off gas supplies to Ukraine and Georgia has shown just how effective this tool can be.
The security of our food supply is based on the common agricultural policy but unfortunately this policy is coming increasingly under attack.
Finally, I would like to mention physical security, which is now under much greater threat due to terrorism.
There can be no meaningful common foreign and security policy without significant progress in the three areas I have highlighted.
I trust Mr&#160;Solana and Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner will bear my remarks in mind. &#160;&#160; It is clear that the political situation around the world, from country to country and region to region, does not accord with our values, aspirations and expectations, nor is it becoming calmer or more democratic.
Yet while numerous partners want more Europe, we often find ourselves involved in our own unproductive concerns, and we are forgetting the fundamental ideas of Schuman and the other fathers of Europe in our desire to build more Europe with less money.
It does not surprise me that our partners and our citizens do not understand the jargon about the various pillars of our policy, but they can sense precisely when we are united and when we are divided and ineffective.
The experience with energy supply has taught us that national policies alone will not bring either greater internal security or greater external influence.
I have the impression that even now the course of events demands more common policy than the already ratified Constitutional Treaty would bring about.
If we truly wish to play a key role in the Balkans, in the east of Europe or elsewhere, we must find ways of expressing our common foreign and security policy more robustly.
Something that would certainly contribute to this is a greater regard for the role of the European Parliament, which has shown itself to be a dynamic and responsible player. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I can virtually carry on where Mr Peterle left off, for if, as you, Mr&#160;Solana, have said, many in Europe are bidding us to take action, then the time for action really has come.
The inadequate and hesitant support for the peace policy and the peace initiative in the Middle East helped Hamas to victory in the elections; I mention only in passing the fact that Fatah itself must bear much of the blame for this.
As for Iran, we all know that more involvement on the part of the USA in security policy would play an important part in persuading Iran to refrain from developing its own nuclear weapons.
The second example is that of energy policy.
As has already been said, we, being a major consumer, need to present a more united front on the world market; we need to mobilise and form coalitions with other consumers.
If Russia starts to make its energy policy an instrument of nationalist policy, then we must make our own – or at least part of it – more European.
It is of the utmost importance that we should now have this report in our hands and be able to say out loud that, while we need our national energy policies, they must be supplemented and extended by a strong European energy policy which is also an essential instrument of foreign policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the EU’s role as an international player is an important one, and it has strengthened in recent years.
We should therefore do more to ensure that children, young people and women in different parts of the world know how to read.
This will create a lasting basis for democracy, peace and respect for human rights. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the rejection of the Constitutional Treaty in the French and Dutch referendums (or referenda) has meant that the whole document is now no longer relevant.
The common foreign and security policy was an important part of the aforementioned Treaty, but I would like to remind you it was rejected unequivocally.
Mr Brock’s report is an example of this approach.
The time should be used instead to reassess common action at an international level and to place greater emphasis on the importance of issues such as energy security and the threats posed by epidemics and terrorism. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the European Union is actually blest with one effective security policy, and that is the common agricultural policy.
Food security is vital to them all.
The common agricultural policy is under attack and has become a testing ground for irresponsible reforms such as the reform of the sugar market, as a result of which Europe is soon to become dependent on the rest of the world for sugar supplies.
Banners carried by Polish agricultural workers’ organisations often feature slogans referring to the part food production played in the long struggle for Poland’s independence, as well as their willingness to fight.
I will take an institutional perspective and make three points.
The first is that CFSP and defence are key areas for us in the future.
Something needs to be done and I disagree with Mr Piotrowski.
The second point I wanted to make was that we need three things: firstly, we need a common defence – we need the security guarantees that the constitution would give us.
Thirdly, we need to increase the CFSP budget.
The third point is that we really need to start thinking about the different elements of the constitution and look at it in two parts.
Those issues include a President, a Foreign Minister, an external relations service and prior consultation with the European Parliament.
The final point I wanted to make is that instead of sticking to the institutional battle between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament in CFSP matters, we need to get ready, put our working clothes on and do it together. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I could almost feel my good friend Mr Solana’s pain when you outlined what happened in the first month of this year, imagining that if the rest of the year is going to be like the first month, then it is not going to be easy!
But I have another point to make.
I think that what you said in essence is that the world in 2006 will once again be confronted with a fundamental choice: the choice between pre-emptive wars or pre-emptive policies.
I am in no doubt that what you are saying and what is clear as a result of your experience, is that in 2006 we need pre-emptive policies.
When we look at the instruments which the Commissioner so nicely referred to, it is fair to say that yes, maybe it is the most difficult choice, but yes, it is also the choice which, in historical terms, has shown success.
What you said is correct: we need patience, we need wisdom and we need balance.
We will be on your side ensuring, together with the Commission and President-in-Office Winkler, that Europe will ensure open doors and dialogue and, hopefully, open doors once again over the next three months. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am grateful for everything that has been said on the subject of Ukraine.
Ukraine needs much more Europe over the next two months.
We must encourage the leaders of political parties fighting to be represented in the parliament to form a strong pro-European front, so we can count on a good partner for the next four years. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the implication of Mr Wurtz’s question to Mr Solana as to what had improved in the last two years is that decisive improvements in the state of the world are in some way within the power of the European Union to decide upon and bring into effect.
We Europeans are far from that badly off in this situation, and I join with those who have congratulated Mr Solana on reaching, with China and Russia, a joint decision on the issue of whether to make Iran’s nuclear ambitions a matter for the Security Council.
While I can only hope that that bears fruit, I am far from dissatisfied with the present approach. &#160;&#160; – In his opening remarks, Mr Solana alluded to certain events that took place last month and to certain challenges facing Europe, including the dispute over gas supplies from Russia, the elections in Palestine and the situation in the Middle East, the gloomy situation in Iraq, the crisis concerning Iran’s nuclear programme and the unresolved status of Kosovo.
All of these events and problems have one common thread: no European country, not even the very biggest, can handle such problems alone.
Mr Brok’s report, on which we shall be voting tomorrow, refers to progress in the area of common foreign and defence policy, but also mentions a number of problems such as Parliament’s inadequate involvement in the process of drawing up foreign policy.
The most important issue, as many of you have said, is that today we need a stronger Europe in foreign policy.
In order to get a stronger Europe in foreign policy we have to work together.
As I have said before, we are working on that at the moment.
That means, of course, that we should have a better conducted energy policy, if not a common external one.
As I said, the strategy of diversification will be crucial for all of us.
Therefore I can promise you that we are working on it and as soon as the communication is out, we will come back to that.
Of course, such diplomacy sometimes needs patience.
Migration is another very important new topic on foreign policy.
The fight against terrorism; the fight against drugs: all of that will take us many years, but these battles will increasingly have to be fought from a united front.
Weapons of mass destruction; the support for democracy, the rule of law and free and fair elections: this is all mentioned in our neighbourhood policy, so of course we will also take that very seriously.
We have a positive incentive on that in our Barcelona programme, for instance, but we also need every support so as to be able to make real progress with this policy.
Of course, it is also is important that we are able to combine the work for our common values in the multilateral strategy.
The High Representative was the first to say – and many of you echoed him – that there is a global demand for European foreign policy.
Within our commitment to multilateralism, we endeavour to act in line with the United Nations Charter and in accordance with international law.
That is the only way we can maintain our credibility in the eyes of the world.
I would like to comment briefly on some of the issues that have been raised.
It goes without saying that the Commission is playing a quite essential and important role in this area, and the Council Presidency is working in very close cooperation with it.
The issue of a European energy policy will be a quite central one at the European Council in March, for which the British Presidency has already laid the foundation stone.
Reference has also been made in this debate to the security of energy supply, which is a quite crucial issue, which involves the diversification of energy sources and networks, as well as the reduction of one-sided dependency on energy suppliers and networks and, in particular, the support for, and active promotion of, renewable energy and alternative energy sources.
Russia has been mentioned again and again in this context; the European neighbourhood policy in general terms and the European policy in relation to Russia are both of quite fundamental importance.
The Austrian Council Presidency will, over its six months in office, be regarding the Western Balkans as having the utmost priority in the interests of the stability of the region and hence in the interests of peace and stability in Europe.
Today, the High Representative is tireless – in the truest sense of the word – in jetting around the world in the service of peace, and he does so in the interests of a credible European foreign policy, in our own interests, and also in the interests of stability and peace in Europe.
By that I mean the protection of European citizens in third countries, for which, as recent events and crises have already demonstrated, we in the European Union bear responsibility.
The Austrian Presidency of the Council wants to help make consular cooperation better organised to protect citizens when they are abroad and also to equip it with the proper resources.
We are trying to repeat in different words what the majority of people think about the foreign policy of the European Union.
I would also like to thank Leïla Shahid for the kind words she has said about me over the last few days when I defend, and as she should defend, the position of President Abu Mazen, whom we should try to help as much as we can.
In the coming hours we will probably have some very important decisions to take.
If you do not, then do not. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The response from the Presidency and practically all the foreign Ministers of the European Union Member States was immediate, and they acted independently of each other, in a manner indicating that they were, in essence, guided by the same principles.
I would refer the House also to the statements made by the Middle Eastern Quartet between 26 and 30 January, which make it clear that the international community continues to regard a lasting and peaceful solution of the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians as conditional upon non-violence, the acknowledgement of Israel’s right to exist, and compliance with all current bilateral obligations.
If all these things are in place, the European Union will be prepared to continue to support the Palestinians in their economic development and in their building of a democratic state.
To come to decisions at the present time would be premature, and, as we cannot do that, we must instead spell it out loud and clear that the European Union, like the other partners that are making their own contributions, is prepared to continue giving its support subject to certain conditions being met.
This debate was, of course, originally prompted by the subject of East Jerusalem, and I would now like to say a few things with specific reference to that.
What emerged from the previous debate was the very clear expectation that the European Union should take an even-handed approach, with a coherent policy in the Middle East that is guided not merely by the interests of either Israel or the Palestinians, but for which balance is an absolute requirement.
The European Union is, moreover, concerned about Israel’s activities in and around East Jerusalem, including the continuing settlement and extension of the dividing wall, as well as the destruction of Palestinians’ homes.
These activities are contrary to international law, make a final settlement of the Jerusalem issue less likely and threaten to make impossible a solution founded upon the coexistence of two viable states.
These considerations have prompted the Council to ask the relevant Council offices to produce for the EU a detailed analysis of the East Jerusalem situation, drawing on data supplied by the EU’s missions in Jerusalem and Ramallah.
However, the Council decided on 12 December, in view of the change in the situation, notably the prospect of elections to the Knesset in Israel, not to publish this study, but instead to inform high-ranking representatives of the Israeli Government of the European Union’s concerns in this area.
On Monday, the EU Foreign Ministers and the Quartet met to discuss our reaction to the entry of Hamas into the Palestinian national political arena, and the implications for our assistance to the Palestinian Authority.
Let me bear three elements in mind.
The first are our principles, which should be absolutely clear.
As the Quartet reiterated, that means cooperation, a clear commitment to non-violence, a recognition of Israel and the acceptance of previous commitments including the roadmap and the Oslo agreement.
It is their responsibility to behave like partners and to meet the criteria set by the international community.
In both these discussions, I have advocated a clear message from the international community as to what we expect.
I have also said that the European Commission stands ready to work with any government that is really seeking peace by peaceful means.
However, we are mindful of the economic and humanitarian needs of the Palestinian people, which are indeed considerable.
The role of the Palestinians themselves, will also be crucial.
The World Bank is sending a mission to see what it can do and how the Palestinian Authority could meet the benchmarks, maybe retrenching the budget.
In closing let me say that the peace process is – as we all know – at a very critical juncture.
The international community must now provide a tangible perspective of progress, using our efforts on both sides, with the Israelis and with the Palestinian Authority.
At the outset I would like to thank the other 26&#160;Members of the European Parliament on the delegation for their work, particularly my deputy chairman, Mrs Napoletano, and, of course Mrs de Keyser, in her capacity as chief observer of the European Union’s team.
I would also like to thank the staff of the European Parliament who came with us and who did an outstanding job in very difficult circumstances.
We must work together, because in my view, although we imparted the process of democracy, we did not impart the values of democracy that we are so used to in the European Union.
I also received a great deal of help from the Council, from Mr&#160;Marc Otte, who was there in Palestine, and from Jeanette.
You had to guide me through some difficult decisions.
Firstly, the deployment of our mission to Gaza amid hazardous security conditions.
The first challenge – which I too find difficult – is to respect the Palestinian people’s choice, which was, as Mr&#160;McMillan-Scott said, one in favour of change and not necessarily of radical Islamism.
I hope that the European Union will work along those lines.
We were not afraid of saying no to Fatah because it let us down.
In fact, they are like an x-ray of a society at a precise moment in time.
These elections are a call for realism for all of us and a call for an end to hypocrisy in the international community.
We speak too much about the Middle East and too little about the real situation of men, women, children and elderly people who, along with their families, are desperate.
We must deliver a message of respect to this new majority.
But we must respect the will of the people.
We are faced with a new scenario that requires new proposals, a new commitment and new pressures on both sides.
And at the same time we must work very hard to open up a prospect for peace.
The Quartet’s commitments on the ground to improve the well-being of the Palestinians have progressed at a snail's pace, very slowly, and the complicated procedures and obstacles have not been convincingly overcome.
I believe that we must mediate and work as we have never done before to open up this prospect for peace. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, first of all I too should like to take my turn in thanking Véronique de Keyser and Eduard McMillan-Scott for the effort they made, together with the other MEPs, during their mission.
The election count confirmed Hammas as the first political power and this result must be respected.
The Palestinians, despite the pronouncements of the West, have unfortunately not yet seen the objective of creating their own independent state being promoted.
At the same time, Hammas needs to denounce violence, recognise the right of the state of Israel to exist and cooperate with President Abbas in continuing the peace process.
At the same time, reconfirmation is needed, both by the European Union and by the other members of the Quartet, of the undertaking to create an independent Palestinian state next to the state of Israel with East Jerusalem as its capital. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is reaping what it has sown: the billions lavished on Palestine – money that has been ill used and not properly accounted for – have resulted in the Hamas tsunami.
Hamas has given us a very clear response by rejecting all the requests made by the Middle East Quartet.
I have put many questions about this to the Council and Commission, which have each time been rebuffed, and now we are left dealing with the consequences.
The EU’s responsibility in this respect is crushing. &#160;&#160; Madam President, although the recent results of the Palestinian elections hardly inspire optimism, I believe that one of the greatest mistakes the European Union, in general, and this Parliament, in particular, could make, would be to rush to hasty conclusions.
What I do believe we can say without any mistake is that the presence of the European Union’s electoral observation mission has been a notable success for the European Commission and that — as Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner has said — it increases the Union’s visibility and contributes to the consolidation of democracy throughout the world.
We must therefore congratulate the Commission and also our fellow Members Mr McMillan-Scott and Mrs De Keyser, as well as the other Members of this Parliament who accompanied them.
Madam President, I believe that it would be premature to draw the conclusion that the spluttering peace process in the Middle East will be buried as a result of these elections or that these elections herald the death of the Oslo agreements.
I believe that we must allow a little time to pass and see what moves are made.
In particular, despite the mistakes made, we must treat the President of the Palestinian National Authority as a legitimate interlocutor, wait until the new government is formed, remembering — as Mrs De Keyser said — that 75% of the citizens who have voted for this political formation do not want the destruction of Israel and, finally, Madam President, assess what impact this electoral process will have on the Israeli elections.
The Palestinian people did not vote in favour of Hamas, it voted against Fatah.
We have to set a date – a schedule – so that Hamas faces up to its responsibilities, because it has become a legitimate party in a democratic country. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, I will be quick as I only have one minute in which to express my disappointment at seeing that, in this Chamber, our Parliament has chosen carefully to avoid ‘speaking the truth’.
I would say that we deserve a Nobel ‘Cliché’ Prize at a time when, despite the Charter, we have actually heard the Middle East Quartet, Europe’s ministers, the media and Mr&#160;Solana, only a few moments ago, asking themselves the crucial question: how can we cooperate with Hamas and continue providing our vital assistance to the Palestinians if Hamas does not renounce terror and does not recognise Israel?
Yes, Hamas won.
Yes, we want to continue helping the Palestinian Authority.
That is the persistently difficult equation that we need to resolve today. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the election in Palestine was conducted in an exemplary fashion.
The fact is highlighted in a list of UN resolutions, which criticise Israel’s ongoing breaches of international law, as well as the settlements, the dreadful Wall and the attempt to annex East Jerusalem – just to mention the worst problems.
The difficult situation in Palestine is mentioned in the common motion for a resolution, which contains a number of constructive points.
The proposal sets out the relevant conditions for Hamas.
All non-governmental groups should be disarmed both in Palestine and among the Israeli settlers.
We must discourage any form of radicalisation in both Palestine and Israel.
I would therefore call on Members to vote in favour of the amendments by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, especially the amendment to paragraph 10, which contains a very clear formulation of the Council’s decision not to publish the report on East Jerusalem, prepared by the Heads of Delegation in Palestine.
Once this report’s criticism of the situation in East Jerusalem, together with the attendant recommendations, have been clearly withdrawn, the motion for a resolution will be a tool well suited to making further progress towards a just peace between Israel and Palestine.
We do not have sufficient credibility among the Palestinians, and it is time we did so. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say how grateful I am to the Commission, as well as to Mrs&#160;De&#160;Keyser, Mr&#160;McMillan-Scott and our whole delegation, for their sensitivity and intelligence.
I believe, however, that the failure to publish the report on East Jerusalem – which in actual fact is the focus of the debate – and the failure to adopt appropriate measures effectively gave Hamas a helping hand, because there is no doubt that certain truths should not be left unspoken.
Bend that rule and we and democracy will be the losers. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe must have a basic goal for establishing peace in the Middle East and for combating terrorism, including by political means.
The words of Mahmoud Zahar, the Hamas spokesman, who promised a new Palestinian Government without secular members because ‘they bring in AIDS and homosexuality’, certainly do not bode well, and nor do other statements about Israel.
Let us also stand up for the rights of Christian Palestinians: they are a minority threatened with extinction in the Middle East, but are an important factor for peace and stability.
Let us work confidently so that the ideas of Anwar Zaboun, who said that negotiations with Israel are , or forbidden by religion, do not prevail.
We respect this result and will support President Abu Mazen as he tries to put together a government that will be strong in its defence of international law and in its opposition to violence.
It went on, through dialogue, to guide what had once been a terrorist organisation along the path that led to it recognising Israel’s right to exist and participation in the peace process.
We facilitate democratic elections in Palestine, yet we question the people’s voice when we hear it.
We rightly fund democratic institutions in Palestine, yet we impede the right to self determination of the people annexed in East Jerusalem.
We rightly call on Hamas to renounce violence or face consequences, yet stand by while the Israeli army shoots innocent children in Gaza and Ramallah with no consequence.
We have to work even more to make EU aid visible, for by so doing we will get the message across to the public that peace and democracy are worth supporting.
If, on the basis of the seats won in the parliament, Hamas takes over the Palestinian Authority, it must agree to renounce violence, to acknowledge Israel’s right to exist and accept the agreements already reached, or else everything will have to start again from the ground up.
During this period, the quartet will need to make it clear that, if it works, financial aid will be forthcoming and security will be guaranteed.
I would also like to express my gratitude to Mrs&#160;De&#160;Keyser and her team and also to our parliamentary delegation, led by Mr McMillan-Scott, for their work. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I too should like to take my turn and start by congratulating my honourable friends Véronique&#160;De&#160;Keyser and Edward McMillan-Scott on their important contribution to the monitoring of the Palestinian elections.
Unfortunately Mr Solana is not here today for me to tell him that his statement a week before the Palestinian elections that economic aid to Palestine should be frozen if Hammas won was a very serious mistake.
This being so, I see a serious deficit in the European Union.
I have seen no statement, no declaration of awareness about the unilateral policy of the Israeli Government, I have seen no statement about the policy and decision by Mr Olmert to freeze the USD 50 million paid back to the Palestinian authority.
Hamas remains a terrorist organisation with links to the Muslim Brotherhood and Hezbollah.
I have always criticised the rampant corruption under Chairman Arafat and tried to investigate this in the last Parliament, but regrettably my working group findings were never debated in plenary.
Also, the final settlement of the East Jerusalem question, as well as the right of return questions, will be almost impossible with Hamas in government for the Palestinian Authority. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Hamas’s election victory is certainly not good news for democrats and progressives, nor for people on the left, but that victory has been the result of fair elections, and we must acknowledge that.
And in order to draw it further into the political game, we must be able also to incorporate it fully into the relations between the Palestinian National Authority and the European Union.
I would like to point out that the first time that a Hamas representative elected at these elections meets with the European Union may well be within the framework of the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly which will take place on 26 and 27 March.
And then the new Israeli Members of Parliament following the elections in that country will come there.
One thing is clear, though – the Council spelled it out on Monday, and so did the Quartet – and that is that there are principles from which we must not deviate, and let there be no doubt that among them are non-violence, recognition of Israel’s right to exist and the continuation of the peace process.
I am particularly grateful to the Commission for having developed, with careful consideration and without undue haste, a strategy for helping the Palestinian people.
Madam President, Mr Winkler, ladies and gentlemen, First of all let me thank you all for the kind words on the elections and the observations.
At the same time, they desire peace.
Polls show that there is a slight majority in favour of peace with Israel.
That is why we ask – and even expect – that a new Palestinian government confirm its commitment to peace through peaceful means, in particular though the three conditions that were mentioned in the Quartet statement: non-violence, the recognition of Israel and the respect of previous obligations, namely the Oslo agreement and the roadmap.
These clearly show a commitment to peace, to a two-state solution, but also to an ambitious reform agenda for the Palestinian Authority.
I met Mr Wolfowitz yesterday in London.
Yesterday, at the London Conference for Afghanistan, Austrian Foreign Minister Ursula Plassnik and I both took every opportunity to talk to the different Arab representatives, in order to make that possible.
It is a crucial period because we also have elections in Israel.
Despite its difficulties, we would like to make the path to peace less bumpy in the future. &#160;&#160; Six motions for a resolution(1) for the closure of the debate have been submitted pursuant to Rule 103(2).
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Having overcome its initial shock at the outcome of the Palestinian elections, Europe must now acknowledge the legality of the poll and the legitimacy of the new government and, indeed, welcome the high turnout of Palestinian citizens in the poll.
On the contrary, Hamas needs to be given a chance to show that it can respect the commitment made more than once by President Abbas himself to stick to the schedule, to respect existing agreements and obligations and to pursue a negotiated settlement of the conflict with Israel.
What is needed – and we must not be moved on this – is for the monitoring system to be enhanced, including through greater international cooperation, so as to ensure that the resources are used exclusively for the economic, political and social development of Palestinian society, and not for the destruction of our own. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Council on the EU’s position in relation to the government of Cuba, put by Graham Watson, Cecilia Malmström, Emma Bonino and Marco Pannella on behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (O-0112/2005 – B6-0675/2005). &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr&#160;President-in–Office of the Council, somewhat overshadowed by the dramatic events in the Middle East, there is, in Havana, a bearded dictator who has mocked the world for decades.
He rules over a country in which human rights are violated, in which the people live in great poverty and in which dissidents are imprisoned and persecuted.
After China, Cuba is the world’s biggest prison for journalists.
Leading figures in the democracy movement were arrested and, after farcical trials, 75 of them were sentenced to long prison terms.
When, immediately before Christmas, the European Parliament awarded its Sakharov Prize to the Ladies in White – the wives and daughters of the imprisoned dissidents – representatives of the movement were not allowed to leave the island in order to travel to Strasbourg.
In recent years, the situation has deteriorated.
My friend Héctor Palacios, who was given a 25-year prison sentence, is very ill, and the doctors fear for his life.
To cite another example, Adolfo Fernandez Seinz too – a journalist sentenced to 15 years’ imprisonment - is in poor health and has lost 20 kilos in weight since he was imprisoned.
Outside prison, dissidents too are being persecuted, for example the Sakharov Prize winner Oswaldo José Payá Sardiñas and the blind human rights activist Juan Carlos Gonzalez Leiva, who has been under house arrest since April 2004.
A majority in this Chamber criticised that policy and, a year later, it has to be acknowledged that the policy has had no effect.
Let me quote from the common position arrived at in December 1996, which is still applicable, and states, among other things, that ‘The objective of the European Union in its relations with Cuba is to encourage a process of transition to pluralist democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as a sustainable recovery and improvement in the living standards of the Cuban people.
At the same time, the Council has forthrightly condemned unacceptable conduct on the part of Cuban officialdom not only in the country itself but also to European politicians and visitors.
The Council has also underlined its willingness to continue with constructive dialogue with the Cuban authorities, on a reciprocal and non-discriminatory basis, concerning, , the grant of visas for visits by representatives of the governments concerned.
The Presidency of the European Union has given voice, in an official statement, to its regret at the action taken by the Cuban Government to prevent the so-called ‘Ladies in white’ – from travelling to Strasbourg to receive the 2005 Sakharov Prize for intellectual freedom awarded to them by the European Parliament.
Such occurrences, like also the government’s refusal to allow Osvaldo Payá to travel to take part in an NGOs’ forum on the free expression of opinion in December, make it clear that the Cuban authorities disregard their own citizens’ right to freedom of movement, as set out in Article 13 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The Council also regrets the lack of further progress as regards the release of political detainees, and has denounced the detention, last summer, of more members of the peaceful opposition and the action taken by the Cuban authorities to restrict the free expression of opinion, freedom of assembly, and the freedom of the press.
The Council continues to demand of Cuba that it release all political detainees.
This is not the fault of the European Union, nor of many Members of this Parliament, who have worked hard to preserve the channels for dialogue with the Cuban authorities and people.
Regrettable events, such as not allowing the Women in White to come to the European Parliament or the increased repression – as referred to in the text of the resolution that this Parliament will approve tomorrow – suffered by independent journalists and as recently condemned by Reporters without Borders, peaceful militants and human rights activists, demonstrate clearly that the most fundamental rights on that island are being systematically ignored.
The resolution therefore states that these events are frustrating our aspiration to improve relations between the European Union and Cuba, which is the main objective of the changes to the common position made in January 2005 by the Council, and calls upon the latter, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to act accordingly.
We have always believed that in this Parliament and in the Union’s institutions there is a broad basis for agreement and for moving relations with Cuba in the right direction.
As a group, our position is very clear: firstly, in the current context, we can only confirm that the Cuban authorities have not sent out the hoped-for signals with regard to improving human rights in the country.
Secondly, we are not finding it possible to present the Sakharov Prize to the Women in White and we must therefore urge the Cuban authorities to allow this group to visit Europe in response to the European Parliament’s invitation.
At the same time, I believe that we must call upon the President of Parliament to do everything in his power to ensure that the Prize is properly presented.
The intention here, amongst other things, was to begin to prepare the ground for what many of us hope will be an imminent transition to democracy.
The time has come for the Cuban regime to accept that their future does not lie in maintaining the status quo, but in tackling in a serious and credible way the transition which the Cuban people themselves, above all, are calling for.
Naturally, we need to debate the whole issue of the request for the extradition of the terrorist Posada Carriles and, of course, to include in the Ibero-American Summit everything related to what was debated at the Ibero-American Summit between the European Union and Cuba.
I would therefore naturally call for an independent position that puts an end to the situation of exception between the European Union and Cuba. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on behalf of the new Italian Socialist Party.
In January 2005, the Council made some concessions, in the hope of encouraging a different attitude.
In this situation we, the European Union, have an obligation and a duty to do more, and to do it better and more quickly.
I am also the youngest Member in this House, and in my heart and mind I share the aspirations of Cubans of my age, who want to be able to look forward with optimism to a country that is at last more open, more modern and more just. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have addressed this House on a number of occasions to warn of the suffering in Cuba, in particular that of people who continue to fight peacefully for democracy and human rights.
A group of women whose only crime has been to ask for freedom for their husbands and sons, political detainees since the crackdown of March 2003, were prevented from coming to Parliament to receive the Sakharov Prize, along with our suitable tributes and messages of respect from the people of Europe.
Oswaldo Payá and the must be given a public forum in which to express the message of their peaceful campaign for freedom and justice.
The people of Europe, and especially the young, must be made aware of their story and their exemplary fight for human rights.
I hope that the outcome of this debate will be that nobody can be in any doubt when condemning a brutal dictatorship.
Let nobody say that Parliament has wavered in its unequivocal condemnation of a dictatorial regime.
I preferred the socialist proposal, but then fundamental aspects such as the United States’ blockade and Guantánamo, the most scandalous violation of human rights taking place on the island, have been lost.
The fact that there are more than 20 000 Cuban doctors and almost as many sports instructors and teachers working in this same field of Southern solidarity illustrates something that many people here deny or keep quiet, but their sectarian approach, which leads to resolutions like this one, damages the European Union’s image amongst the countries and peoples of the South who feel respect and gratitude towards Cuba.
For nearly half a century, the same movement and the same leader have been in power.
The country makes great claims for itself and has, for years, served as an example to the rest of Latin America in the areas of education, health care and other public services, as well as the protection of the most vulnerable sections of the population.
If we want Cuba to improve, we need to work at building an open relationship. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the fact that the human rights situation in that museum of Stalinism, the Communist dictatorship that is Cuba, has deteriorated still further, is of course a disgrace, but I should like to draw Parliament’s attention to our own European Commissioner, the Belgian European Commissioner Louis Michel, who is at least partly to blame for this.
Whilst, for example, Human Rights Watch urged the European Union not to normalise its economic relations with Cuba at least until political prisoners had been released and democratic reforms implemented, Mr Michel stated that he was in favour of an unconditional extension of the Cotonou Agreement to include Cuba.
The fact is, of course, that Louis Michel is on friendly terms with the Adolf Hitlers, the Stalins and the Maos of our time, for that is what Fidel Castro is like. &#160;&#160; The situation in Cuba is very serious.
People there are increasingly being denied fundamental human rights, and the number of political prisoners is increasing.
As a Member of the European Parliament, who, together with my colleagues, Mrs Pleštinská and Mr Gaľa, has adopted a Cuban political prisoner, I am keen to see greater pressure exerted on Fidel Castro through international public opinion.
I would like to believe that one of the first decisions made under the pressure of public opinion would be to release political prisoners who are mistreated and exposed to inhumane conditions in prisons.
This is one of the reasons why I support the draft resolution concerning the European Union position vis-à-vis the Cuban Government, paragraph 9 of which refers to sanctions being re-imposed on Cuba by the European Union Council.
I understand that reaching a consensus in the UN is almost impossible, but sanctions coordinated with the United States, and perhaps Canada, might bring about the necessary outcome.
Mr President, the European Union and its institutions cannot, and will never be, indifferent to the destiny of millions living under conditions of repression and to the many people suffering horrific prison conditions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it was in 2005 that Castro and Mr Roque themselves first raised the subject of post-Castro Cuba.
Europe must speak with one voice in Havana against the serious human rights violations and in favour of a dialogue with the authorities on political and economic reforms to prevent the achievements in the areas of health care and education in the first years of the revolution from going to waste.
We have to combine all our efforts and focus on human rights and a dialogue that offers plenty of new perspectives.
Therefore we, the representatives of European democracies, must be aware of our especially great responsibility when discussing one of the last Communist regimes.
Arrests have been on-going, and in 2005 approximately 30 members of the opposition were imprisoned, which means that by now the number of those detained for their political views in often inhuman circumstances has exceeded 300.
Today it falls on the reunited Europe to give strength to all those who are representing the values of democracy in the shadow of dictatorship. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is a Polish saying that a rich man cannot understand a poor man.
Many Cubans seem to be thinking along the same lines, and Havana is much closer to New York than Warsaw.
If Castro continues to refuse to allow the recipients of the Sakharov prize to travel to Cuba, then we should not travel to Cuba as if nothing had happened.
It is just as absurd to contribute to a tourist industry that is helping prop up a regime where violation of human rights is the order of the day. &#160;&#160; Two events dating back to December 2005 characterise the situation in Cuba: the Ladies in White were awarded the Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought.
The Cuban authorities forbade them to leave the country and receive the prize in person.
The release of all political prisoners in Cuba remains the central demand of the Ladies in White movement.
The policy of prevarications and concessions pursued vis-à-vis one of the least democratic regimes in the world only prolongs the suffering of the people there and the infringements of human rights.
By supporting the democratic opposition in Cuba and applying constant pressure on the Castro regime, Europe can secure respect for democratic principles in this socialist country.
It seems to me that we are called upon to continue to defend actively the values that the European Union represents – respect for human rights, and the defence of the fundamental freedoms of expression and assembly.
It is incumbent upon the Member States to help us ensure that European taxpayers’ money is being spent correctly.
I have to thank Commissioner Kallas in particular for the way he has encouraged Parliament by persuading the Commission to take on board those recommendations and to produce the roadmap towards getting a positive statement of assurance.
I am also led to believe that the supreme audit institutions are prepared to play their part in helping us to solve this problem.
For some Member States, such as the Netherlands, that is not a problem.
We are now in a situation where we need to come to an agreement with the Council on how to get national declarations that can actually satisfy not only the European Court of Auditors, but the Commission and the Member States themselves, to ensure that we can show European taxpayers that their money is being spent correctly.
I would like to begin with the rather obvious comment that the management of the Community budget is very complicated, and is unique in the world.
As you have in this House, so likewise we in the Council have repeatedly expressed our disappointment at the situation, particularly in connection with the discharge procedure.
Following detailed discussions in the Council and in the Council bodies, the Council adopted conclusions on the Commission communication on the roadmap on 8&#160;November, and I can assure you that it was not easy.
The Council emphasises in its conclusions that numerous efforts have already been made to improve sound financial management: the introduction of internal audits, stricter requirements regarding the accountability of the Commission's accounting officer and implementation of the integrated administration and control system, to name just a few.
In view of the importance of the Structural Funds in the European Union's budget, I would like to draw your attention to the efforts that have been made to set up paying authorities and to further extend the internal and controls of the structural measures.
One of the first points mentioned in the Council's conclusions is the balanced relationship between the competences of the Commission and the Member States in implementing the European Union's budget in accordance with the Treaty, which must be taken into account when it comes to improving the relevant controls and assurances.
The Council believes that an effective integrated internal control framework based on the principles set out in the Court of Auditors' opinion on the single audit will provide assurances regarding the management of the risk of error in the underlying transactions.
Despite the differences in administrative arrangements between the various Member States, the Council advocates that general common principles and elements regarding internal controls should be drawn up.
In the Council's opinion, the Member States should continue to work with the Commission to implement and improve controls in relation to funds for which they have joint responsibility for managing.
For example, some Member States are prepared to take precautions within the framework of the Confidence Pact, as provided for in connection with the Structural Funds programmes.
As you know, the Commission's services have published an initial analysis of the deficiencies of their internal control framework in comparison with the control principles set out in the Court of Auditors' proposal for a Community internal control framework.
The Council conclusions propose that the Commission, working with the Member States, should provide an assessment of the present controls at sector and regional level and the value of existing statements and declarations.
In setting up the internal control framework we must make a distinction between internal controls and the external audit.
Any form of cooperation between independent supreme audit institutions can only be based on the Treaty, as these authorities are not part of the internal control framework.
It requests the Commission to provide it with a report on solutions for problems common to several Member States.
Finally&#160;–&#160;and this is particularly important&#160;–&#160;the Court of Auditors has proposed that the European Parliament and the Council should come to a common understanding regarding the risks to be tolerated in the underlying transactions.
Finally, I would like to talk about the extremely important subject of the declarations associated with the decentralised management of EU funds.
I am aware that you expected more in this connection, but I am sure you will agree with me that the text itself can be regarded as a significant and important step forward.
The Council conclusions of 8&#160;November will, of course, be followed by further steps in 2006.
I think, however, that the Council conclusions are an important step towards reaching this goal.
They also confirm that the Council continues to support the Commission in its efforts to make an active contribution to financial management at all levels.
This is a very technical issue with a very bad political outcome, which seems to give good reason to whoever wants to say that money in European Union has been spent improperly.
The Commission does not deny its responsibility for implementing the budget, including in shared management.
But we have a missing link: how to make all the results of the control and audit work readable finally for the highest level, for the Court of Auditors.
So, the Commission strongly supported the proposal to the Council made by the rapporteur Mr Wynn and the Committee on Budgetary Control to have a political declaration, a signature on the national level, which, in our view, could cover this missing link.
The Commission adopted an action plan on 17&#160;January and has sent it to the Council and Parliament.
The action plan designates 16&#160;concrete actions at all levels and in all sectors.
Action&#160;5 specifically addresses the topic for this evening’s debate and reads: ‘Member States should designate a national coordinating body per policy area which can (…) provide all stakeholders with an overview of the assurance available in respect of Community actions under shared and indirect management in their Member State.
Now we Europeans have a serious problem: in the financial perspective, this Parliament wanted us to spend 1.14%, but the President-in-Office, Mr Blair, lowered this to 1.04%.
I believe that Community money is spent better and more effectively in Brussels than in the average Member State.
I know that the Council has to defend the good name of the Member States.
I very much hope that as a result of this debate, we will not only receive a previously prepared statement from Mr Winkler, State Secretary, but also concrete answers to the questions submitted by Terence Wynn and ourselves.
We very much hope that we will have the answers, as the European Parliament is politically responsible to assure the citizens of the European Union of the lawful and proper utilisation of European Union funds.
This is why the report prepared by my colleague Terence Wynn, supported by the great majority of this Parliament and also confirmed by the Böge report on the financial perspective of the European Union, pressed for the introduction of the national assurance declaration in the course of the exemption procedure last year.
Additionally, we are delighted that this has also been included in the roadmap to an integrated internal control framework, announced by the European Commission, namely by Vice-President Siim Kallas.
This reform, involving Parliament, the Commission and the European Court of Auditors, is based on mutual trust and close cooperation, but in addition to this, we also need the support of the Council and the Presidency, because some Member States are still resisting the introduction of the national assurance declarations.
As a representative of Hungary, I would also like to call attention to the fact that new Member States have not only prepared themselves for the acceptance of the and the reception of structural funds, but were also aware that they had to set up their payment and control systems according to the principles of legitimacy, lawfulness and compliance with regulations.
It is a direct result of Mr Wynn’s discharge resolution of 2003.
It is important that we should gain better control over EU funds.
We all know that the Court of Auditors has failed to issue a positive statement of assurance during the last 11 years.
The Member States, unfortunately, take a different view, and a much dimmer one, and that is why this evening is mainly intended as a debate with the Council.
I have to say that I am not entirely won over by Mr Winkler’s responses and observations this evening.
In actual fact, what we demand in this resolution is not that different from what is already happening in some cases.
It is beyond me why Member States can accept this in the area of agricultural spending, but not in the other areas of budgetary spending, such as structural spending.
I assume that the Council is familiar with the Böge resolution on the financial perspectives.
Tomorrow, Commissioner Wallström will be presenting a White Paper on communication as a means of boosting confidence in the EU, but, in my view, a thousand white papers, or a thousand measures, will make no difference if the European Union fails to spend its funds wisely.
I cannot fathom why the Council cannot do as Parliament requires in this respect.
As everybody knows, I do not believe in the European Union; I regard it as an enemy of democracy, and I approach this from an opposite direction.
After 11&#160;long years in which the EU’s accounts have been rejected by its own auditors, this weak-kneed attempt to change the system seems to me like pouring huge amounts of gold dust through a sieve, thinking ‘oh, perhaps we better try and stuff up a few of the holes’.
Although this national responsibility is something I dare not even dream of, I have not forgotten, Mr&#160;Winkler, what your Chancellor&#160;–&#160;and mine&#160;–&#160;said, standing in this Chamber where you are now, regarding the issue of subsidies using EU funds.
In some Member States, where they are much more critical about many things, such as the United Kingdom, for example, that goes without saying.
The key issue at stake here is legislative clarification.
These regulations have remained unchanged since the beginning of the current financial programming framework.
I should therefore like to call on both institutions to clarify the level of compliance with Community regulations as regards these and audits, so that we can be properly informed when we take action.
I made this request in a report that I drew up a number of years ago and am pleased that Mr Kallas has followed this initiative.
However, I would like to repeat one thing: I am here to represent the Council and the Member States; in other words, the opinions expressed by the Presidency of the Council here are those expressed in a unanimous vote in the Council.
I am sorry if I have disappointed some of you, but there is nothing more I can say at this stage.
I can, however, reiterate&#160;– and I hope you will be so kind as to accept this – that we have agreed to examine, in connection with the 2004 discharge process, the action plan drafted by the Commission.
I can also confirm that the Council will continue to support the Commission in its efforts to make an active contribution to financial management at all levels.
This question seems very technical.
It is very difficult to explain to the larger public what is actually behind this declaration of assurance.
However, we must work to find solutions which do not bring the very negative political outcome of having to say that the money is not under control.
This is already done at the level of paying agencies and other implementing authorities.
Let us try to find solutions.
The action plan includes 16 actions, only one of which is directly aimed at the Member States.
However, I hope that this cooperation will bear fruit.
It cannot always assure the legality and regularity of underlying transactions, as provided in the Treaty.
A better understanding of the picture will certainly help. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to make a point of order under Rule&#160;145.
I thought we were talking about the management directions and the reason we were asking for these directions to come in was because money was going missing.
As a member of the Committee on Budgetary Control, my role has always been to look into where the money has been lost or misused and where mistakes have been made – the phrase that Mr Kallas has just used.
Such a time-lag is due, first of all, to the fact that the Mediterranean is recognised as being one of the most diversified and most complex regions, as much from a biological point of view as from ecological, social and economic ones.
Its recommended measures have not, to date, been the subject of any implementing decision by the Council.
That is why I support, and why my group will support, the proposal for a resolution tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, Article 4 of which demands that the fishermen affected by the new regulation and forced to change their fishing methods be properly compensated.
In February&#160;2005, the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean, to which the Community belongs as a contracting party, adopted binding recommendations to improve conservation and management measures for the Mediterranean.
These recommendations were incorporated in the Presidency's compromise proposal which was put to the 'Agriculture and Fisheries' Council at its meeting on 19 and 20&#160;September last year.
This irresponsibility has many consequences: the Mediterranean is the only Community area which is still far from meeting the minimum requirements of responsible fishing and sustainable development, while in other Community waters much more drastic action is being taken in that regard.
Mr President, how can we have the nerve to propose more restrictive management measures to third countries again, when we ourselves are not capable of implementing them in our own territory?
This lack of regulation suffered by the Mediterranean Sea has led to very clear discrimination between the European fishermen fishing in the Mediterranean and European fishermen fishing in other Community waters.
And it is all the more inexplicable in view of what Mrs Fraga has just said: that this report was approved thanks to that close cooperation ― as approved by this Parliament ― that was established between the Committee on Fisheries and the Fisheries Directorate-General.
This is particularly the case with regard to bluefin tuna, but also with regard to other species, as my fellow Member pointed out.
Moreover, we want to preserve small-scale fishing, which is so very important in the regions concerned, where it provides a livelihood for thousands of people, as has been said.
I therefore believe that we must preserve the Mediterranean: this is a crucial issue in terms of the future of fishing and it is also a major issue in terms of culture.
The Council has to be fully aware of this and to be intent on breaking the deadlock in this situation as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Mediterranean represents a very important part of the European Union.
Mediterranean fisheries represent an important sector of Community fisheries.
For many of us, this sea is our life.
The European Parliament and the Commission have approved a plan of management measures for fisheries in the Mediterranean.
I would not want to get carried away but it would not be an exaggeration to say that any delay in this matter would be criminal.
This is our duty, in order for us to protect the Mediterranean, which is our life.
It is therefore a natural consequence that fisheries issues remain and citizens working in this sector on a professional or amateur basis are anxious, while the situation is becoming more complicated and, to my mind, worse.
It is out of the question for the policy decided not to be applied and, at the same time, for issues to remain outstanding in the fisheries sector, relating mainly to fishing methods, reductions in stocks and the continuing gap between professional and amateur fishermen.
We therefore need to proceed with the political means at our disposal for the promotion of the report by the Council and to start the dialogue with the agencies involved for the improvement of the existing regulation right now. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the resolution on the adoption of management measures for Mediterranean fishery resources, which we shall put to the vote in this Chamber tomorrow, is of great economic, social and environmental importance.
Lastly, but just as importantly, let us remember that different rules are in force for countries that have Mediterranean coastlines but do not belong to the European Union and that, in the absence of balanced bilateral agreements, they result in double standards in the same fishing grounds.
We therefore hope that this resolution will lead the Council – whom we respect and trust – to send out the long-awaited signal as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Mr President.
This is a disturbing state of affairs for those of us presenting this resolution because we know that this lack of initiative by the Council has placed us in a position far removed from our goal of sustainable development.
This is a dead end from which we can only extricate ourselves by adopting more responsible rules in greater accordance with the common fisheries policy, so making our aims that much more attainable.
It must be remembered that the only existing rules for managing fisheries have been in force for more than ten years, and even those measures are not so good.
It is very important for us to bear in mind that we are in danger of failing to fulfil our international obligations where fisheries management is concerned, especially with regard to regional fisheries organisations and, in particular, the International Commission for the Conservation of Tuna in the Atlantic and the General Fisheries Commission of the Mediterranean.
I thus urge the Council to take all the necessary measures without delay so that an ideal balance is achieved in the Mediterranean and so that fishermen’s livelihoods are guaranteed.
We can then turn our attention to other projects in the Mediterranean - a region that, I repeat, has unfortunately been neglected for a very long time.
The Austrian Presidency has now taken over this matter and will work actively towards a solution.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, during the debate on the sustainable exploitation of Mediterranean fishery resources, I said that the compromise reached by Parliament and the Commission may not have filled us with too much enthusiasm, but that it was undoubtedly an improvement over the initial proposal.
This is not the right moment to bring up the pros and cons of the compromise; let us just say that I regard it – at least, that is my hope – as a step on the way to the rational management of Mediterranean fishery resources, combined with essential support to improve the precarious level of employment in the fishing industry, which involves thousands of families spread around the shores of .
The eighth report of the Independent Monitoring Commission published today states that IRA members are still heavily involved in fuel smuggling, and that the level of smuggling has remained more or less constant.
Circumstances have conspired to make possible a situation in which the European Union’s labour market is open to the citizens of certain third countries, but is not open to the citizens of other third countries that meet the same requirements.
But who are we defending from whom in this European Union of 25 members?
The free movement of people is one of the four main freedoms of the European Union.
The prevention of that freedom can only be approved in exceptional cases. &#160;&#160; – The so-called spy scandal in Moscow has demonstrated the Kremlin's true intentions to suppress civil society organisations in Russia and the countries of the former Soviet bloc.
The aim is to undermine society's trust in institutions which propagate western values and to keep the society in Russia's sphere of cultural and political influence.
It should express its opinion on anti-western propaganda and should not apply double standards vis-à-vis Russia because of a dependence on Russian energy. &#160;&#160; – The organisations representing workers from the electrical and electronic equipment industry in Portugal have reported that in the past three years more than 8&#160;000 people have been laid off by the multinationals operating in the sector, such as Lear, Vishay, Philips, Yazaky Saltano, Alcoa Fujikura and Delphi, leading to serious reductions in employment levels.
Even so, our new leaders are being hounded and criticised by liberals in the media.
The liberal press has printed at least 18&#160;thousand offensive articles during the last eight years.
The question arises as to why the Union’s agencies, whose aim is to defend democracy, human rights and freedoms and to combat intolerance only react to certain types of human rights violations, turning a deaf ear and a blind eye when Catholics are involved.
I would like to remind the House that a democracy that is not based on truth will inevitably become a dictatorship based on relativism. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the Polish media have announced that the European Union has decided against awarding a grant from the Cohesion Fund for the construction of the Racibórz Dolny flood prevention reservoir on the river Oder.
The plane was flying from Priština, Kosovo, where Slovak soldiers together with other troops of the international community have been participating in the NATO peace mission.
For Slovakia, 23 January was a day of national mourning.
It was not only the loss of outstanding military professionals, but also of young people at the beginning of their careers and of individual lives, of sons and husbands as well as fathers of 36 bereaved orphans.
May they rest in peace. &#160;&#160; At the World Economy Forum in Davos, French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin blamed the malaise of Europe on enlargement.
According to the French Prime Minister, decision-making has become more difficult as a result of the accession of the ten new Member States, and the acceptance of Eastern European countries has often been viewed in the Western half of the continent as an excessively heavy financial burden.
The crisis of the European Union which is indeed in a difficult situation, has not been caused by the new Member States, on the contrary.
It is unfortunate that President Borrell, who was present at the time, did not defend the new Member States.
This event happened to coincide more or less with the 250th anniversary of the birth of the immortal and glorious Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.
With Commissioner Mandelson’s approach at the WTO, it seems the Commission wants to rush further down this road of destruction.
The first month of the Austrian Presidency is over, and by now the new Council ought to be ready to enter into specific discussions with Parliament.
Both the Commission and the Council must now take account of the situation in each of the Member States, where unemployment is growing and high levels of poverty and social exclusion remain, in order that the objectives announced six years ago at the Lisbon summit can be met.
I want to thank my fellow MEPs in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities for the valuable help and support I received during this work.
However, three national prevalence studies in Finland in 1999, Sweden in 2001 and Germany in 2004, indicate that previous assessments have vastly underestimated the extent of the problem.
Using the United Nations’ definition of violence against women, these studies show that 40 to 50% of women in these three countries have, at some point in their lives, been subjected to violence by a man.
More than 300 years ago, the British philosopher, John Locke, introduced a fundamental idea: a government should be regarded as a tool for the defence of fundamental rights, the most fundamental civil right being the right to life and physical safety.
But men’s violence against women is a specific challenge to the contract of which all common policy is an expression.
When the UN General Assembly in 1993 adopted the declaration on the elimination of violence against women, it was the first time a UN document had placed men’s violence against women in a gender-power perspective.
It is truly the most widespread crime in the world, against which the European Commission and the institutions of the European Union have an institutional and moral duty to take a firm stand.
I particularly welcome the report before us because it addresses the main areas that Europe’s institutions need to tackle.
The Commission has launched a number of initiatives to help the Member States adopt strong preventive and reactive policies designed to eradicate violence against women.
We are developing legal instruments to encourage close cooperation between Member States on policing activities; on the definitions of crimes, which often do not coincide; and, of course, on strengthening those measures designed to target and eradicate such crimes from civil society and to afford more effective protection for the victims of violence.
The Daphne programme, which the Commission intends to continue and develop further, covers all forms of violence, including domestic violence, which is one of the most serious kinds.
Unfortunately, these crimes are not represented in legal statistics because, in the vast majority of cases, the victims do not report violent episodes that take place within the family home.
I believe that by June 2006 we shall for the first time be able to publish a series of European statistics on crimes and the judicial response to crimes, and they will obviously contain a chapter devoted to violence against women.
I have given this example, Mr&#160;President, in order to stress the need to tackle the issue of violence against women at a European level and from every possible angle: from trafficking in human beings, to migration policies, to equal opportunities – hence the need for non-discrimination.
Violence against women is not a marginal problem; women from all social groups can be victims of violence.
Unfortunately, children are also often targets of domestic violence, as are men.
The rapporteur mentions the figure of 100&#160;million women in the EU who have suffered from violence from men.
The Commission estimates that almost 1000 women die in Europe every year due to violence in their partnerships.
These are horrific figures.
Every woman has a right to decide about her own body.
That is very important. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for the fact that we have been able to debate this incredibly important issue in the EU this evening.
As well as being a criminal act and a violation of human rights, men’s violence against women is a serious socio-political problem throughout the world.
We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament believe that men’s violence against women is linked to the unequal power relations between men and women, and the problem will increase if the Member States do not use legislation in order strongly and clearly to oppose such violence.
We often also forget the children in these contexts.
It has also been demonstrated that violence against women is an important factor in the lives of women and girls who fall victim to human trafficking and prostitution.
The EU must set a good example and take a stand on combating these expressions of discrimination between the sexes and of the unequal distribution of power between them.
Finally, I just want briefly to mention one of my own amendments dealing with the relationship between alcohol and violence.
The report by Mrs Carlshamre, whom I congratulate on her work, reminds us, amongst other things, that violence against women is a scourge that knows no national, religious, social or economic boundaries; on the contrary, as has been said, it is a universal phenomenon, relating to the inequalities in our societies in terms of the distribution of power and of roles between the sexes.
It is for this very reason that the response must be firm, here in Europe and in other countries where, as in Mexico or Guatemala, the situation has become so bad that there is even talk of ‘feminicides’.
That date gives us the opportunity to insist, as the Carlshamre report does, that violence against women must be seen as a clear breach of the most fundamental human rights and that, as well as reactive measures, we must establish programmes of a holistic nature to deal seriously with the issue of the distribution of roles in our society and, in particular, the perception that persists amongst many men that women are merely objects at their disposal and that they therefore have the right to hit them or mistreat them, and even sometimes to kill them.
Of these manifestations, domestic violence is the most common, affecting millions of women in Europe.
The rapporteur, whom I wish to congratulate on her work, has presented us with some figures, although it is known no studies have been carried out at Community level.
Psychological violence perpetrated by women is less immediately obvious but can be equally damaging, as research into cases of violence in male and female same-sex relationships confirms.
Lastly, the recently advocated war between the sexes, which harks back to the Communist class conflict, has fuelled aggression rather than reduced it. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Carlshamre, for her report underlining very important aspects of the fight against violence perpetrated on women.
However, guilty persons are only occasionally exposed, and usually when it is already too late.
Not far from the European Parliament there is a young woman in the street with one or two babies holding out a cup and begging for money.
Any solution will depend especially on teaching respect for other people and on intensive cooperation between governments, parliaments and non-governmental organisations.
Statistics are necessary, but our success primarily depends on effective preventive measures, all the more so since every instance of violence in families affects children as well, and is passed on to future generations.
Every state of the European Union must enact comprehensive and effective legislation in respect of domestic violence, which will criminalise certain forms of violence.
The prevention of violence against women must be a mission for all of us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this report that we are debating today gives us the opportunity to make a strong appeal to the European institutions and the Member States to combat something that is a reality: violence against women for the sole reason that they are women.
Violence against women is a breach of human rights, of fundamental rights, such as freedom, equality, life and non-discrimination.
Such important aspects as the protection of victims must be accompanied by other measures, such as specific programmes on access to work or to social housing, so that this reality can be dealt with in a complete way, taking account of aspects relating to education, legal assistance and health and without forgetting that these violent situations often also affect minors within their families.
In order to create effective strategies for eliminating this serious social problem, it is necessary to have a thorough understanding of this phenomenon and the features of it that are specific to different nations.
Post-communist countries, including Slovakia, have long ignored this topic.
Strong traditions have always kept domestic violence hidden behind closed doors.
For these reasons, I agree with the rapporteur, Mrs Carlshamre, who emphasised in her report that priority should be given to increasing the level of awareness about this problem in society as a whole.
The report challenges the governments and parliaments of the member countries to take steps aimed at eliminating the silence surrounding violence against women.
In conclusion, allow me to express my thanks to the rapporteur for her work. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I am not a man either, but a woman in this discussion, and I would like to thank rapporteur Maria Carlshamret for her well-timed report.
The European Parliament should seriously discuss making the purchasing of sex punishable throughout the European Union.
We must also therefore consider what measures the European Union must put into practice.
Nonetheless, it is a problem affecting one in three women the world over.
Violence perpetrated by men against women is a crime and a violation of fundamental human rights such as the right to life, safety, dignity and physical inviolability.
Even in the Member States of the European Union on average three women die every day as a result of domestic violence.
This means that victims of domestic murders were living in our midst, not in some distant location.
It is clear from the methodical report drafted by the relevant directorate of the European Commission and published in December 2005 and from research by the Council of Europe that violence against women is the main cause of death of women between the ages of 16 and 44.
It isolates woman from social life and the labour market.
This social problem must be wiped out in view of efforts to integrate more women into the labour market.
The measures to be taken must be coordinated and I congratulate you, Commissioner, for having shown that you are prepared to take these measures by finding the appropriate legal bases and keeping the programme to combat violence separate from other issues. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Gender equality is not only a cornerstone of the European Union, but is also an area in which Europe has blazed a trail and has always been one step ahead of social developments.
The motion for a resolution clearly refers to this and emphatically points out that the promotion of equality rests on three pillars, which are as follows: 1.
legislation ensuring equal treatment for men and women and the fundamental rights of all people, whilst safeguarding the effective implementation of such legislation; 2.
incorporating gender equality questions into our policies, especially the Lisbon Strategy and policies aimed at social inclusion, backed up by the principles of good governance and political commitment at the highest level; 3.
The Commission has pursued this approach in the past and will continue to pursue it in the future.
Its commitment in the area of gender equality will be reaffirmed in the roadmap on gender equality, of which President Barroso and I gave notice a number of months ago and which the Commission intends to table in March.
This roadmap will set out tasks and measures intended to support equality between men and women for the period 2006 to 2010, and will detail how the Union intends to address these issues with its policies.
The gap between men and women in employment stands at 15.8%, whilst the percentage of women in part-time work stands at 30.4%, compared to 6.6% for men.
The employment rate among women with small children is 13.6% below the figure for women without children, whereas men with small children enjoy employment rates 10% higher than men without children.
Women do the lion’s share of work in the home and therefore have less time for paid work.
The provision of suitable childcare facilities remains a key instrument in enabling women to enter the labour market and to stay there.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take this opportunity to share some concerns that are worthy of further reflection.
The images of the recent events in France seen around the world raised the question of what leads hundreds of young people to use violence to draw attention to their problems.
There is a high level of violence among young people everywhere, and this is a very serious problem.
The facts that have come to light are shocking.
The woman died of her burns.
Parents spend over 12 hours outside the home, leaving the children unattended and at the mercy of all manner of negative influences, leading to academic failure, children leaving school early, indolence, drugs and exclusion.
The second cause is idleness.
I should like the Commission, the Council and Parliament to look into this problem and to take appropriate measures while there is still time.
I hope that the Commission’s next report is able to talk about more progress in the area of equality.
What it actually means is that we are talking about the same concerns over and over again, because in practical terms progress is relatively slow, and one step forward is sometimes followed by one step back.
The best proof of this situation is that in spite of the countless directives and proposals concerning equal opportunities for men and women, created since the Rome Agreement, the situation has not been changing very fast.
The report (for which I congratulate the author) repeatedly points out that Directive 75/117/EC, enacted exactly 30 years ago, prohibits different levels of remuneration for men and women, but also mentions that according to the latest figures, the difference between remuneration levels of men and women is still on average 15% (between 4% and 25%).
The legislation of the European Union is becoming unreliable.
A very important pledge of this report is to close the gender pay gap and to create pension schemes which are not discriminatory against women.
The experience of the Nordic states shows that the highest living standards and quality of life can be achieved in those countries where women are by no means less successful than men in occupying the highest political posts.
We should concentrate more on the revolting and alarming rate of trafficking in women, which is, in a way, comparable to the drug trade and for which, unfortunately, there is a huge demand in the new and old Member States.
Such crimes deserve stronger punishment across all the Member States of the EU.
Gender equality has always been one of the most important indications of European values for the new Member States.
The Commission must therefore monitor seriously the application by the States of the Community legislation relating to equal opportunities and take the necessary measures in cases where it is not respected.
Furthermore, since I will become a father in two months’ time, I am also concerned about the lack of attention generally still paid to the reconciliation of work and family life and, in particular, the difficulty many men still have in many countries in playing a responsible paternal role, which means that women have to take more responsibility within the family at the expense of their own professional careers.
In short, we must support measures to guarantee equality in employment and in access to goods and services and to their provision. &#160;&#160; . – Ladies and gentlemen, as both the Lisbon Strategy and Mrs Estrela’s report make clear, an integrated community is based on freedom, solidarity and equality, yet there continues to be inequality between men and women in a number of areas.
I wholeheartedly endorse calls for a narrowing of the pay gap between men and women and for European legislation to be implemented.
I must warn, however, that women are disadvantaged not only in terms of salary, but are also often the victims of discrimination; employers are often insensitive towards pregnant women, for example.
In the Czech Republic women have suffered what is referred to as silent discrimination.
In some countries there is silent discrimination against employees particularly on the grounds of age, maternity, health and disability.
I cannot therefore understand the concern expressed by the author of the report on equality between women and men in the European Union at the fact that the employment rate for women aged between 15 and 24 has not increased.
From a medical point of view, plans to grant maternity leave to men instead of to women seem rather odd.
It is particularly important that the first few months of life are spent in close proximity to a loving mother, whose care is vital to the proper development of newborns babies and toddlers.
Thirdly, when the European Institute for Gender Equality, which is currently being established, does not confine itself to the collection of statistical data, but appoints impartial observers, capable of assessing the situation in every country of the European Union.
Fourthly, when the comment made by the European Commission is taken into account, that not one project application has been received from the Baltic countries’ non-governmental organisations, which are concerned with the implementation of gender equality policies, simply because these organisations do not have the funds for cofinancing.
Thus they are also denied access to structural funds. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr President, men and women enjoy absolutely equal rights under Union legislation.
Indeed, the Union perceives this as one of its key tasks in connection with the practical implementation of human rights.
Of course we are in favour of making progress in those areas where men and women are still not treated equally.
Of course women should receive equal pay for work of equal value.
In my view, the reason why these women do not then pursue their studies still further or take up important positions in business or politics is not because they are subject to discrimination.
It is simply that women have other priorities in life.
They have much more significant and urgent goals to attain than men.
It is important to bear in mind that the factor of time operates rather differently in the course of the life of a man and a woman.
Women have to bear their children at a specific stage in their lives.
The Creator, or Nature if you prefer, ladies and gentlemen, has determined that although they are equal, men and women are not the same.
They are physically different and have different roles to play in society.
I urge women to recognise the positive aspects of being a woman and to understand that having exactly the same as men does not always mean having the same things. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the subject of the Estrela report lies at the heart of our concerns about the quality of European democracy and is also directly liked to our development objectives and, specifically, the Lisbon Strategy, which was the subject of the meeting between our Parliament and the national parliaments over recent days.
Despite its descriptive approach, it gives us useful information on this situation and the need to address inequalities.
We note that, despite the economic slowdown, employment among women is increasing.
The present average of 55.1% is an optimistic message that we can achieve the Lisbon objectives of 60% by 2010.
However, a deeper and more careful analysis gives us to understand that the position of women in the labour market is precarious, because unemployment is increasing at the expense of women, the share of part-time work is much greater among women than among men, wage differentials continue to exist in all sectors and certain categories, such as immigrants, are victims of particular forms of discrimination in the labour market.
The proposals in the Estrela report were, I believe, the subject of unanimity in our committee and I too maintain that a national strategy is needed with well coordinated objectives in the Member States which, on the one hand, promote mainstreaming in all policies and, on the other hand, apply the measures for the abolition of discrimination where it exists.
However, very good cooperation is also required between government agencies and social partners and non-governmental organisations, especially women's organisations and, on the part of the Commission, monitoring is needed of the application of the and a deeper approach to the issue, with a higher standard of analysis. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this very comprehensive report.
Unlike some other speakers, I consider it necessary and timely.
Secondly, I support the rapporteur’s call to all Member States to ensure that women have equal access to social insurance schemes.
Finally, there is an absolute need for positive discrimination towards women in the political system by political parties at all levels, particularly at candidate selection level.
Because issues such as caring in the home, violence in the home, trafficking of women and many other issues that are seen as women’s issues are not just women’s issues, they are societal issues.
The policy of gender equality must be fostered through political commitment at the highest level, involving compliance with legislation and good governance at all levels of power.
I should like, if I may, to respond to one of the questions that was asked.
Directive 73/2002 came into force on 5&#160;October&#160;2005, and most countries have transposed it.
The Commission is currently analysing the situation and, where applicable, will initiate the appropriate procedures. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; The initiation reported by Mrs&#160;Estrela on equality between men and women in the EU has a crucial role in the horizontal way of handling equality matters.
The aim was common to present the second annual report on equality and the first to cover the enlarged EU of 25 Member States.
An important message of the initiation is that each year an annual report will be presented.
The report mentions the strategic guidelines of the equality policy.
The primary task an increase in affordable childcare, following the good example set by Sweden and Denmark.
I am delighted, Commissioner, that the Commission has put forward a very ambitious timetable, that the prospective study laid down in the directive has now been commissioned, and that, on the basis of this prospective study, we will then be in a position to take further decisions.
We therefore need to take a closer look at how we can achieve further developments here.
This will give us the materials we need to be able to reach decisions.
I am very grateful to all my fellow Members who worked with such commitment on this topic.
Postal services affect all of us: in every one of our electoral districts there are many postal customers, many post offices and sorting offices, in some cases run by several postal service providers.
There are therefore always very lively discussions both in committee and here in Parliament.
Many thanks to all those who helped me produce this report.
But first of all, I should like to thank Mr Ferber for his report, which is very timely, constructive, balanced and well informed.
In fact, the findings of the report correspond with our own thinking.
Like the report, we are convinced that postal reform in the European Union has brought about positive results for all players and has significantly contributed to the European Union’s competitiveness.
This directive has already paved the way forward by asking the Commission to submit this year three initiatives: a third report on the application of the Postal Directive, a prospective study about the impact of competitive postal markets on universal postal services, and a proposal on the future of EU postal policy.
The shape of this proposal will be influenced by a number of factors.
One of these, and perhaps the most important, is the impact of Community rules on the postal sector.
The Postal Directive, as amended, establishes balanced principles to allow a gradual phasing-in of competition while maintaining the necessary safeguards for the provision of a universal service.
The Commission will ensure that the enforcement of the Treaty provisions on competition will accompany the process of liberalisation.
As far as the state aid rules are concerned, in July 2005 the Commission adopted a package of measures providing guidance on the principles under which it assesses public service compensation for services of general economic interest.
Furthermore, the Commission is fully aware of the social relevance of postal services and will pay particular attention to the situation of every Member State so as to be able to reach common ground.
The results of the prospective study will help us in doing so and will contribute to the analysis of the conditions for a successful postal internal market.
Additional elements will be provided through the results of our recently conducted public online consultation on the future of European postal services.
The Commission will continue its preparatory work in full transparency, and pursue its dialogue with all those involved.
If I may summarise, universal service should mean that we can expect high-quality services at affordable prices in all Member States.
That is our goal, but we should take a careful look at that.
I will give you an example: If even Germany now deviates from the principle that the postage charge for a standard letter should be the same both internally and to all 24 other Member States, then we have to consider what that means.
There are great challenges facing the postal sector, but also great opportunities.
We recognise of course that each postal market is unique, but that cannot excuse serious regulatory asymmetry leading to serious market distortions.
Allow me to present my point of view from two angles.
Firstly, together with my Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, I am delighted that this report will henceforth give us the opportunity to debate the legal framework that our Union should implement by 2009 with a view to regulating the opening up of postal services.
Secondly, I support the method proposed, which offers us an approach to the process of modernising this sector that is both controlled and balanced.
Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, while the aim of opening up postal services is, as has just been explained, one of modernising the sector of activity in question and of improving the services provided to customers, no one is oblivious to what is at stake in the reform or to our fellow citizens’ legitimate fears that a high-quality service will no longer be maintained and that the service will no longer cover all territories, including the remotest ones.
It is therefore with a great deal of interest that I await the economic impact study due to be presented by the European Commission some time this year.
I also draw the Commission’s, as well as the Council’s, attention to the need to combat distortion of competition in all its guises.
The completion of the internal market cannot be an end in itself, but should – as it says in all the declarations of intent – bring positive results for the citizens of Europe.
However, it can already be seen that several states where services have been diluted have recorded a huge impact on remote regions and areas with low population densities.
For that reason, a study like the one that has been prepared should not pose the questions in a way that practically presupposes the desired answer, as has been done in point 13, for example.
If we commission a study, we must be prepared to face up to the whole truth. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the liberalisation of postal services is a piece of the puzzle of the general liberalisation of services and the privatisation of public utility companies and harms all the workers.
The social need for reliable, modern postal services is becoming the subject of exploitation in order to secure greater profits for big business.
These amendments, as part of the liberalisation of postal services and the completion of the internal market in postal services in 2009, as referred to in the report, objectively give private post offices the facility to wrest the lion's share of the postal market from public post offices, with painful consequences for users and workers in general.
Despite these rejections, the drive towards harmonisation goes relentlessly onwards, even when it has nothing to do with trade or EU efficiency and is bad for citizens.
The British Post Office is now 371 years old, and it was the British in 1840 who brought out the first postage stamp, bearing the head of Queen Victoria.
Now the EU wants to stamp its dead hand of inefficiency on it.
From Penny Black to EU attack in 166 years!
The Royal Mail told me this very week that it does not want it, as it would be bad for small businesses, charities and customers.
When UKIP vote on this report, it will vote in accordance with the wishes of UK citizens.
The liberalisation of services very often benefits those in areas of dense population at the expense of consumers in less-populated areas.
As a Member of the European Parliament for the West and North-West of Ireland, I represent a predominantly rural constituency.
The local post office in rural communities is a vital economic, social and cultural institution and the rights of rural dwellers to postal services cannot be ignored when framing liberalisation plans for those services in the EU.
It has to be highlighted that the opening-up of postal services does not always bring benefits in terms of an increased level of employment and I would ask the Commission to address this in a detailed study that will be given equality, efficiency and customer-orientation in the postal sector, particularly as regards those peripheral areas.
The intention behind the postal directive was good but, like all good intentions, the application was not so good.
I would ask the Commission and the rapporteur to try and put in place a system of postal services that will be fair to all, a universal service. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the process of gradual liberalisation in the postal sector that has begun in recent years has produced a positive change, in that it has encouraged operators to improve the quality and efficiency of the service and of their production processes.
Mr&#160;Ferber’s report on the implementation of the postal directive is well-balanced: it underlines the positive effects of the liberalisation undertaken so far, but it also points out the need to assess the social and employment consequences of a further stage in the completion of the internal market, taking account of the particular situations in individual countries.
This further stage will depend entirely on the results of the Commission’s study, the purpose of which is to assess the impact that completing the market will have on the universal service in each Member State.
Parliament’s role at this stage is to emphasise that the effect of liberalisation on the universal postal service must be assessed in relation to national differences and particular geographical, social and economic situations, and that political decisions on liberalisation must be made wholly in accordance with the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity.
The postal service is a vital link for our citizens in certain areas.
To maintain current universal service levels requires a gradual approach.
That is why the Italian delegation cannot support the amendment proposed by Mr&#160;Ferber, because it implicitly casts doubt on the need for a universal service, which, in my view, remains a right and an inescapable duty for Europe’s postal services. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I will be very brief when I say that postal services are not like other services.
They have a human dimension, as has been pointed out, but they also have a social and territorial dimension, which means that the services provided vary greatly from one country to the next.
There is a big difference between serving a very dense population, like that of the Netherlands, which is concentrated on very flat territory, and serving, on the same terms, the same population spread over thousands of islands, as in Greece, or over a very diverse territory, as in France.
Consequently, I hope that the assessment planned by the Commission is objective and that it is not based on the belief shared by some in this Assembly, namely that there is no need for a framework because the market, and nothing but the market as a whole, is equal to the job of regulating postal services.
I also hope that this assessment helps ensure that the opening up of the postal market - which is something Europe needs – is carried out in such a way as to respect what the postal service represents: a universal service whose territorial and social dimension is irreplaceable. &#160;&#160; The goal of liberalising the postal sector by 2009 is real and achievable.
Results in the Member States where postal reform has been more rapid demonstrate this fact.
It is difficult to understand why the report stresses that as a result of competition in the postal sector former employment levels have not always been preserved.
The development of the postal business and its adjustment to new market conditions are business management issues.
The fundamental goal of the restructuring of the postal sector is to better meet consumers’ interests, by giving inhabitants of the European Union the opportunity to receive a universal service.
We should not forget that the majority of postal services customers – in fact over 90&#160;per cent – are business customers, whose requirements of the postal sector may be different.
The range of postal services increasingly interacts with other sectors such as financial services, advertising and commerce.
The future of postal services will be dependent on such successful interactivity.
We must therefore argue that it is essential fully to guarantee the universal service with all of its quality of service and price conditions and also argue that account be taken of social and territorial cohesion and of the diversity of the current systems in terms of what is good about them – they cannot all be homogenised. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Ferber, on his excellent report, which clarifies the social and economic importance of the postal services, in the face of indications of unemployment and concentration.
It is necessary in my view to prevent this public service, with the advent of liberalisation, from becoming merely an economic service, in which only the wealthier sections of society will be able to enjoy the basic right to send a letter, with the universal provision of service denied to the least privileged members of society and to those living in outlying regions.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; I am sympathetic to the fact that the report emphasises that the principle of subsidiarity must be applied to the authorisation procedure.
I also welcome the fact that the European Parliament points out that the Commission should devote special attention to the consequences that liberalisation of the postal market will have for the inhabitants of sparsely inhabited regions (paragraph 9).
The Commission has not adopted a position on modifications to rules governing how often post is to be distributed (see oral question H-1135/05).
Nor is the European Parliament clear about this issue.
One basic condition for enabling postal services to be used in the future by people living in sparsely populated regions is that services be priced at a level comparable with that applicable in the rest of the country.
The European Parliament does not adopt a position on this issue in the report.
There is Community legislation on pre-packaging, but the current legal situation is neither satisfactory nor clear.
For around 70 other products, current legislation has introduced voluntary harmonisation to which Member States have adopted different approaches.
In other countries, for instance Sweden, Community legislation on package sizes has been made optional for manufacturers.
Some national rules are entirely based on the existing optional Community directives, but in other countries, such as Germany, national rules are different from Community provisions.
From a legal point of view, the situation is therefore quite confusing, to put it mildly.
At the same time, products freely move from one country to another and consumers find a wealth of products on the market.
In substance, the Commission proposes to leave the free choice that consumers currently enjoy and to regulate package sizes only for a very limited number of sectors, in particular wines and spirits.
The Commission notes that the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection endorses this approach in principle.
However, we have different views on the number of sectors that should become subject to the Community regulation fixing nominal quantities.
As far as the Commission is concerned, and based on a wide consultation of consumers in all Member States and European Trade Federations, only the wine and spirits sectors should be regulated.
However, on the basis of a prior commitment to Parliament, the Commission has also included in its proposal the regulation for soluble coffee and white sugar.
European industry, with the exception of the coffee sector, is not in favour and consumers have not requested regulation that limits their choice.
The Commission appreciates that the Parliament has carried out an impact assessment of these amendments.
To conclude, in the Commission’s opinion, consumer protection today should not be based on limiting consumer choice, but should concentrate on providing correct information to consumers and on the prohibition of misleading practices, allowing consumers to make a well-informed and deliberate choice.
It is fair to say that the Commission, as well as the European Court of Justice, takes as the benchmark the average consumer, reasonably well-informed and reasonably observant and circumspect.
Vulnerable consumers do not become less vulnerable with rules on nominal quantities, but by better implemented existing Community law on consumer protection, such as labelling and the prohibition of deceptive packaging.
The Commission also proposes retaining mandatory ranges in some specific sectors: wines, spirits, soluble coffee and white sugar.
The Commission calls for this derogation to be restricted to a period of 20 years.
I was therefore led to propose that other basic products be subject to mandatory ranges.
Firstly, to protect the consumers, particularly those most vulnerable, such as the elderly and the partially sighted, who have far from fully understood the unit pricing laid down in 1998.
Therefore, we regret that this proposal was rejected by the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
The ability to decide freely on package sizes is in the interests of the smaller business, the new entrant, the innovative enterprise and, therefore, also in the interests of the consumer.
The Commission proposal did not even mention milk.
There will be further discussions about it, but nevertheless I would not want this to go by without congratulating the Commission overall for the direction in which it is trying to take this.
Secondly, but more fundamentally, bread is a commodity that is regulated nationally under many specific regulations.
I think my group will also support these amendments&#160;–&#160;that will not be a problem.
As a social democrat, however, my benchmark in such cases is precisely those people who are not average, because they are disabled, because they are elderly, or because, for whatever reason, they are taking the various opportunities that are available in the Member States and are provided by companies.
It therefore strikes us as a little odd that Parliament should now respond with a host of exceptions.
We in the Netherlands, a country that rejected the Constitutional Treaty, consider it unnecessary for Europe to get involved in matters such as the measure of coffee or milk, for that is what the internal market is for and measurements and products are subject to mutual recognition.
We are therefore very unhappy about the additional exceptions or additional products that are now being included to qualify for harmonisation.
We will therefore vote against those exceptions and if we cannot throw them out and cannot stick to the Commission proposal, we as Liberals will vote against the proposal as a whole, which we would regret, for this could ultimately set an example.
I hope that we will not have to deal with this now and I hope that I will not, when I return to my own country, have to admit at some future referendum on the Constitutional Treaty that we in this Parliament do get involved in details, which should be left to the man and woman in the street.
What consumers expect is, of course, protection against dangerous additives and an overhaul of those additives that we do use.
I think that the proposal produced by the Commission, namely not to increase EU legislation, is a well-balanced one. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Verheugen, Mr&#160;Toubon, I wish to welcome the Commission’s proposal for deregulating packaging.
The rapporteur, Mr&#160;Toubon, has shown that he is ready and willing to accept my amendment rescuing Swedish milk packs, so that people can still have milk for their coffee at work.
Those of us who come from a small country cannot accept the report in that form.
A lot remains to be done before this matter has been satisfactorily concluded. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, for many countries, Mr&#160;Toubon’s changes to the Commission’s proposal mean new rules being laid down at EU level for an already functioning market.
As has been pointed out, however, the regulations are, in this case, unnecessary, and we shall therefore vote against the report. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; I welcome this report on rules of nominal quantities for pre-packaged products.
