&#160;&#160; The sitting is open. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the annual report of the Court of Auditors for 2003.
Chapter 1 of the Court's Report contains the Statement of Assurance – the DAS – which is published in the Official Journal together with the Community's consolidated accounts.
As in the previous financial year, the Statement of Assurance is based on four pillars, which are the result of changes in the methodology employed by the Court in order to make the results of its work more solid.
As a result of this auditing work, the Court believes that the consolidated annual accounts for 2003 presented by the Commission were drawn up in accordance with the Financial Regulation.
The plan which the Commission adopted in 2002 to modernise its accounts is due to take effect in 2005.
For this reason, and in spite of the considerable efforts made by the European Institutions in recent years, the European Court of Auditors recommends that a greater effort should be made as regards the management and control systems in these areas.
The total payments budget in the financial year 2003 was EUR 98 000 million; payments amounting to EUR 90 500 million were made, that is, an increase of approximately 6% when compared with the financial year 2002.
The main cause of the surplus is still the difference between estimated and actual expenditure.
In February 2004 the Commission published a report on the degree of implementation of the actions proposed in the White Paper on reform.
The Court of Auditors recognises that the Commission has made progress with the new control framework but believes that the results are still not satisfactory as regards the implementation of the system.
In the Court's view, in the case of eight of the actions that had theoretically been completed by the end of 2003, including those relating to the minimum standards for internal control or the internal audit capability within each Directorate-General, the degree of implementation is still not satisfactory.
To this end, in the financial year 2003 the European Commission presented, for the first time, an analysis of the reliability of its supervisory and control systems with regard to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
In other areas of management, the Commission relies on the declarations of the Directors-General, 21 of which contained reservations.
As you are aware, my term as President of the Court ends in January 2005.
In addition, the Court has undertaken an internal reform of its organisation and structure in order to make the institution more effective in the performance of its duties and to make a Court of 25 Members more flexible and efficient.
All four institutions should work together to formulate a joint plan of action for achieving a positive statement of assurance in the near future.
In my opinion, this type of approach will enable us to improve the quality of our dialogue.
The minimisation of risks requires much more effective supervision and control measures, which in turn means filling in the gaps in the audit, and the elimination of any overlaps.
When the Court of Auditors presented its report to the Economic and Financial Affairs Council last week, my main message to the council was that the discharge is not simply a bilateral affair between the Commission and Parliament.
Let me simply note that we are of course pleased with the positive statement of assurance that the Court of Auditors has given on the reliability of the accounts.
And we certainly appreciate the unconditional positive statement of assurance that the Court of Auditors has given in respect to its own resources, commitment appropriations and administrative expenditure.
I would like to thank Mr Fabra Vallés most sincerely for the invaluable contribution of the Court.
The report also points to continued shortcomings, particularly in the case of agriculture and structural measures, where EU money is spent jointly or directly by the Member States themselves.
President Fabra Vallés offered a comprehensive evaluation for the fiscal year 2003.
In conclusion, the integration of the European Court of Auditors in the discharge procedure and the emphasis on the role of the rapporteur was overall well-received, as Mr Terence Wynn will talk about later in detail. &#160;&#160; .
Yesterday, we held a debate on the new financial perspectives.
It states that the increase in outstanding commitments has never been as high.
Mr Fabra Vallés, I listened with great interest to your contribution and, like Mr Mulder and many other Members of this House, I have to say that we get the same story every year.
I think that there is, overall, a problem in the follow-up and in that respect, I should like to ask the Court of Auditors specifically to pinpoint legislation and regulations that promote fraud.
The great tragedy is that this decade-long saga of corruption and mismanagement is funded by the poor old taxpayers.
Yet Marta Andreasen was sacked for telling the truth and Parliament adopted a resolution requiring the Secretary-General and President of the Committee of the Regions to present their apologies to an internal auditor for the harassment that he had endured, but this was not forthcoming.
The first relates to the accounting system.
We also need to ensure that we bring the Member States into the system and make the national administrations responsible, so that European monies are fully and properly accounted for. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ten years ago I was the rapporteur for the discharge and ten years ago I made the statement that we will never have a positive statement of assurance – DAS.
I said that because, regardless of the failings within the Commission or whatever was wrong as regards irregularities, we could see quite clearly ten years ago that there were two incompatible systems: the system being used by the Court to do its audit and the system being used by the Commission in the way it functioned.
The American federal budget has failed to get any clearance of its accounts for the last six years.
As one of the Members of the Court said in the hearings, it is not a problem of control, it is not a problem of audit, it is a problem of management.
Imagine Barcelona playing Manchester United in the European Cup Final.
The financial statements and annual auditors’ report that have now been presented are the first to be based on the new Financial Regulation.
As all of us in this House can see, it is however in itself a scandal that this is now the tenth time that the Court of Auditors has not been able to deliver a Statement of Assurance.
That is OLAF’s task and, moreover, there are plenty of such scandals throughout the range of EU activities.
What I expect of you, Mr Fabra Vallés, is that you now think about what you are doing in the light of what has been said so far, and then I expect us to get stuck in to this debate on matters of principle. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when I say that the Court of Auditors’ Annual Report is a sound tool for Parliament, that is also a compliment to its outgoing President.
Before I go into the report in more detail, though, I have two political comments to make.
Both the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament have commented on agricultural policy.
I should like to home in on one specific point in the report, namely the EU’s animal disease policy.
The Commission bears a great deal of responsibility in this respect.
The people at the Court of Auditors are not historians, nor are we in this House.
Nothing changes because Europe has become a huge bureaucratic machine in which no one is really responsible any longer, a conclusion also reached through the analysis in the Independent Experts’ Report that led to the resignation of the Santer Commission in 1999.
In recent days, two important issues have been debated here in plenary: this auditors’ report and the issue of the EU’s financial perspectives.
There is a very great deal that is of fundamental importance in the report and that will pass the EU by if no account is taken of it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I, too, should like to praise the work carried out by the Court of Auditors over the past few years and to mention, in particular, that its annual report for 2003 states that the services of the Commission, and in particular OLAF, did not follow up various cases of fraud involving the Community’s agriculture budget.
This is utterly incredible and demonstrates the seriousness of this unresolved problem of large-scale fraud in the large-scale food industry in Europe, as I have said countless times in this House.
It is this problem, more than any minor formal irregularity, to which I should like to draw the attention of this House, of the Commission and, especially, of Mr Kallas, who is attending this debate with us. &#160;&#160; Mr President, yet again we are presented with a Court of Auditors’ report that questions the reliability of the Commission’s accounting practices and the accounts themselves for the tenth year in a row.
The lack of financial control by the UK Government resulted in the EU Commission disqualifying nearly two thirds of Britain’s claim and some GBP 948 million of emergency EU funds.
We are convinced that Colombia’s vibrant civil society, too, plays a vital part in these peace negotiations by engaging in ongoing dialogue with the Colombian Government and with the international community.
While we must hold to our commitments as regards financial aid, the Colombian Government must also abide by those it has made, particularly those relating to respect for human rights, which it made to the United Nations High Commissioner responsible for these matters.
The meeting called by the Colombian Government for 3 and 4 February 2005 will present a very good opportunity both to reiterate the international community’s solidarity with the Colombian people and to issue a reminder regarding the undertakings that have been given.
The European Union and the Commission are deploying all the foreign policy instruments available to them in order to achieve these objectives.
By the end of 2003 we had already committed EUR&#160;136 million, and I am persuaded that we will, between 2004 and 2006, have allocated all these amounts, which are in fact substantially in excess of what had been promised.
It is thanks to the reforms to the administration of Community aid set in motion by my predecessor Chris Patten that net payments have increased to an enormous degree, reaching almost EUR&#160;30 million as early as 2003.
It is in fact the FARC who have been responsible for more than 6&#160;000 kidnaps and more than 300 murders over recent years and also for anti-personnel mines, which regrettably kill an average of two people every day in Colombia, of which 40% are civilians; and of that 40%, half are children.
President Uribe has implemented a democratic security policy which has promoted a whole series of improvements.
Over recent years, there has been a 26% reduction in kidnaps, and the murder rate is the lowest for 18 years, but very many mayors are being threatened.
We must not forget that President Uribe has been one of the few Heads of State to come to this Parliament, to appear in plenary and who, furthermore, has appeared before the committee in order hold a frank dialogue with Members on the human rights situation in his country.
We shall fund the peace laboratories and the support for civil society in Colombia.
The best way in which Europe can help promote peace in Colombia is to support initiatives of this type and the local authorities in Colombia that follow these up. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, although I partly welcome what the Commissioner has said in this Chamber, I believe the various issues need to be examined more carefully.
The first issue, as far as Colombia is concerned, is the policy begun by President Uribe.
Only a few months ago, a respected US weekly, , put a photograph of the Colombian president on its cover and claimed that when President Alvaro Uribe was at the US Defence Department in 1991, before he was president, he had links with the Medellín drug cartel and was a friend of Pablo Escobar.
Even the relatives of Ingrid Betancourt have claimed that it is President Uribe who is opposed to any humanitarian exchange.
I believe the Commission and the Council should bear this in mind to a greater extent. &#160;&#160; Mr President, regrettably terrorists from Northern Ireland have helped destabilise Colombia.
In two earlier visits organised by Sinn Féin's representative in Cuba, the IRA had already passed on to FARC its skill in making car bombs and mortars.
Finally, for me the Colombia adventure illustrates just how far Sinn Féin has to travel before it could be considered fit for government in any part of Ireland. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Álvaro Uribe was elected two and a half years ago.
Drug production and exports have decreased, although Colombia is still a leading player in international drug-trafficking.
In view of the acknowledged difficulties of this process, the European Union should take a much more active role by exerting pressure on the parties involved and ensuring that victims’ rights are respected.
Commissioner, we cannot stay on the sidelines in this particularly sensitive period for reasons of political correctness. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am grateful to the Commissioner for her report even though I believe we need to find the courage to establish some figures that tell us what is really happening in Colombia.
I direct this particularly to Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra, who accuses anyone who does not acknowledge that Colombia has made progress in respect for and quality of human rights in recent years of bad faith.
I should like to recall something that Amnesty International wrote only a few months ago, when it pointed out that Colombia is the country where trade unionists run a greater risk than anywhere else in the world: 500 have been killed in the last four years.
In this war of everybody against everybody else – I repeat: everybody against everybody else – everybody is to blame, including the guerrilla groups, of course, but also the armed forces, who in collaboration with the paramilitary groups – I am just saying what the international human rights agencies have told us – are directly involved in the killings, the torture and the intimidation carried out against human rights workers, trade unionists and local community leaders, who are summarily labelled as guerrillas or sympathisers.
The government’s strategy in this situation seems dangerously short-sighted.
I shall conclude by asking the Commissioner, Parliament and our institutions to take a very careful and objective approach when giving support to the peace process in Colombia: in this process and in these negotiations the country cannot do without the involvement of all sides in the conflict – all sides, not just the paramilitaries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, there is no doubt that after forty years of armed conflict, Colombia is still seriously lacking in peace and social justice.
The conflict in Columbia is therefore political, economic and social, and anyone putting forward arguments about terrorism and all the rest is seeking to conceal the political problem and give this barbaric regime an alibi.
Probably many people are unaware, or do not want to know, that in addition to the former presidential candidate, Ingrid Betancourt, over 3&#160;000 Colombians are currently being held hostage by guerrillas in shocking, inhuman conditions in the jungle.
Not long ago, various MEPs from the previous Parliament welcomed President Uribe by leaving the Chamber in protest at the lack of democracy in Colombia.
The case of the FARC is different, however.
Let us not forget that five years ago President Pastrana sought to negotiate; but there was never any social support for the FARC, in a society weighed down by pain and the blood of loved ones.
The same applies in the case of Colombia. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all I would like to mention the role of Parliament and thank it for the efforts it made to guarantee the Peace II Programme for Northern Ireland, which was negotiated with the Council through conciliation in the last few days.
In my intervention, I said that the FARC guerrillas had taken 6&#160;000 people hostage over the last few years: politicians, civilians, and soldiers, many of whom are sick, are being held hostage in the jungle in sub-human conditions and experiencing great suffering and deprivation.
We also demand an addition to the legal service’s opinion, since they themselves admit in paragraph 50 that they do not have sufficient competence to judge whether all the measures come within the framework for the legal basis.
What is more, the American Court of Auditors has written a report that sheds light upon the costs and the problems associated with biometric data, so I also question the effectiveness of the measure as such and wonder whether the Council has sufficiently investigated these matters. &#160;&#160; .
This is what is in the report adopted in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and this is also what I call on all Members of this House to adopt today. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, as chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, I should simply like to provide some information.
One expects that requests by the Member States in this area will increase in the final years of the current financial framework.
All of the foundations must therefore be laid for the Structural Funds to be implemented in full, which is incompatible with Parliament’s acceptance of a level of payments for 2005 limited to 1% of Community GNI.
We would never oppose, however, greater tax coordination aimed at taxing the unbridled circulation of capital, at combating tax fraud and tax evasion, at putting an end to tax havens and at stopping money laundering.
The savings directive, which forms part of what is known as the Monti package, contributes, in spite of dangers and shortcomings, towards setting up a system in which the Member States’ tax administrations exchange information – including lifting banking secrecy – so that they can tax interest accrued in another Member State.
Accordingly, the Council has authorised the Commission to negotiate agreements with Switzerland, the USA, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco and San Marino under which those countries would adopt equivalent measures to prevent the flight of capital.
We welcome these agreements, not, as the rapporteur claims, due to the internal market, but because coordination is required to tax capital and to combat tax havens, particularly when the bulk of the tax burden falls on employees.
We would never oppose, however, greater tax coordination aimed at taxing the unbridled circulation of capital, at combating tax fraud and tax evasion, at putting an end to tax havens and at stopping money laundering.
The savings directive, which forms part of what is known as the Monti package, contributes, in spite of dangers and shortcomings, towards setting up a system in which the Member States’ tax administrations exchange information – including lifting banking secrecy – so that they can tax interest accrued in another Member State.
Accordingly, the Council has authorised the Commission to negotiate agreements with Switzerland, the USA, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco and San Marino under which those countries would adopt equivalent measures to prevent the flight of capital.
We welcome these agreements, not, as the rapporteur claims, due to the internal market, but because coordination is required to tax capital and to combat tax havens, particularly when the bulk of the tax burden falls on employees.
Out of a suspected 60&#160;000 individuals portrayed in current abuse images, only 250 identifications have been recorded.
Measures must therefore be taken, whilst ensuring that fundamental rights and freedoms are not affected. &#160;&#160; Following the ‘Safer Internet Action Plan (1998-2004)’,here we are, faced with a new programme: ‘Safer Internet Plus’.
Not only illegal content, but also ‘unwanted’ and ‘harmful’ content are prohibited.
The PES position was carried in committee, a position which afforded necessary data protection and civil liberties protections (see amendments 5,7,8,9,10,11,12).
Furthermore, the Socialist group supports the protections in article 2 and article 4 paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the Council position of 23rd November.
The Council expressed its desire to take a final decision on this issue during its meeting of 3rd December 2004.
The PES group urges the Council to recognise the Parliament's good faith shown in respecting the Council's desired timetable on this report. &#160;&#160; The Moderate delegation in the European Parliament has today voted in favour of the Coelho report because Parliament’s views of the document would considerably have improved the original proposal if Parliament had had the right of codecision.
It is the Council that is, and must be, the sole decision-making body in issues concerning standards and procedures to be followed by the Member States when they carry out checks on people at the EU’s external borders.
The manner in which the specific measures are being promoted, in violation of the supposed powers of consultation of the European Parliament, demonstrates the hurry the EU is in to come into line with the US internal security doctrine and the theory of zero tolerance.
This decision is therefore disproportionate to its objectives.
My vote sends a clear message to the Member States in anticipation of the next Council.
The Council must respect its commitments by moving as quickly as possible to codecision in this area. - Situation in Ukraine &#160;&#160; Mr President, there has been discussion, in connection with this resolution, of the term ‘Euro-Atlantic’.
I am glad of the European and Atlantic solidarity with Ukraine, as we cannot resolve this crisis and give effective support to the democracy movement without partnership with the United States.
It is a European country, and one that must definitely have a firm prospect of EU membership as soon as it fulfils the criteria, as soon as the European Union is in a position to give closer attention to its Ukraine policy, and as soon as its structures are re-established. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when democracy and freedom are at stake, you are either for or against.
The time has also come to acknowledge, as has already been stated in this House, that, broadly speaking, in terms of core values, our priorities are identical to those of our transatlantic allies.
We have therefore stated that we are in favour of a peaceful solution to the conflict, without external interference, bearing in mind that there has already been too much interventionism throughout this process.
The crisis which is raging does not seek to resolve the problems of the Ukrainian people and satisfy their demands for a socially orientated state and fair society.
Instead, we support the Swedish Government and the other five countries that, in a joint statement, have made it clear that the EU budget, when it comes both to payments and commitments, should not exceed one per cent of the EU’s joint gross domestic income.
The June List believes that a strict expenditure framework and a flexibility instrument within the framework of a one per cent budget would release a lot of creativity and provide a stimulus for new savings. &#160;&#160; We are fixing the budgetary ceilings for 2007 to 2013 in accordance with the ‘Delors packages’ and the ‘Santer package’.
World aid to combat AIDS has tripled in the last three years.
In 2004 there has been a terrible increase in the number of cases in Russia and Ukraine, our new neighbours.
They were as follows: - Calls on the Commission and the Member States to contribute at least EUR&#160;1&#160;billion, on a sustained basis, to the Global Fund to fight HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria; - Calls on the European pharmaceutical industry to set aside a significant proportion of its resources for anti-infective medicines and other essential medicines; calls on Sanofi-Aventis, for example, the largest European pharmaceutical group, to start researching this disease, instead of dispersing its team of expert researchers in this field; - Calls on the Commission to draw up a proposal aimed at safeguarding the public interest more effectively when it comes to the orientation, research, development and production of medicines, at cutting prices and medical spending on public health services, and at guaranteeing the right of universal access to medical treatment and essential medicines; - Calls on the Commission to oppose – both within the World Trade Organisation and in its bilateral relations – the insistence by the USA in its bilateral agreements with developing countries that those countries renounce the right to import the generics that they need to protect their citizens’ public health. &#160;&#160; The global fight against HIV/AIDS is a very pressing issue that demands comprehensive international commitment.
The statistics are disturbing: in Africa, only one in a hundred Africans can meet the cost of drug treatment.
