Citizens' petitions during the year 2007 (debate) The next item is the report by David Hammerstein, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, on the deliberations of the Committee on Petitions during the parliamentary year 2007.
rapporteur. - (ES) Madam President, I would like to thank all members of the Committee on Petitions, especially all the shadow rapporteurs and our Chairman, Marcin Libicki, for their cooperation and daily work on petitions.
The number of cases is continually growing yet the same number of people are working at the Secretariat and the same number of people are working at the European Commission to process the petitions.
One of the most important cases in recent years, in 2007 and previously, was the petition on the Via Baltica, a roadway which goes through an area protected under Community law; the European Commission and the Court of Justice have already acted in an exemplary manner to prevent irreparable damage to the environment.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I am taking part in this debate on behalf of my colleague Margot Wallström.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done and for his concrete proposals.
Petitions are about guaranteeing the rights that the European Union confers on its citizens.
The number of inadmissible petitions is significant.
Our primary role in this Parliament is that of legislators, but, in order to be good legislators, we need to be aware of the impact of our legislation so that we can improve our efforts in Parliament.
In my opinion, any legislation emanating from this House should improve the quality of life of citizens in some way, and in the Committee on Petitions we see that this is not always the case.
I am very pleased that Mr Hammerstein prepared this report, since he is one of the most committed and outstanding members of the Committee on Petitions.
Tens of thousands of signatures on the petitions concerning area management plans in Spain, concerning Equitable Life and Lloyds.
Unfortunately, I do not have the time to speak any more on this subject.
We therefore consider it crucial that all the matters addressed in these petitions be followed up appropriately so that public confidence in the institution of the European Parliament can be maintained.
My third example is a reminder that petitions sometimes relate to aims that the European Union proclaims but does not subsequently pursue, as in the case of the Open Parliament initiative.
The 2007 report is full of examples of cases where the Committee on Petitions was quite right to take action.
We have not seen any benefits from the increase in the number of committee members from 25 to 40.
Never as many as the 25 who first made up the Committee on Petitions.
Above all, everything should be conducted in a transparent, independent manner, so that we are equal to our task. (PL) Mr President, in 2007 the European Parliament received over 1 500 petitions, which is 50% more than the previous year.
Over 500 petitions were discussed during meetings of the Committee on Petitions, 159 of these in the presence of the petitioners.
Taking into account the fact that Member States do not always display the political will to find practical solutions to the problems described in petitions, the Committee on Petitions should move in the direction of increasing the effectiveness of its work in order to serve its citizens better and to fulfil their expectations.
The fact that activities of the Committee on Petitions are effective gives inhabitants a clear signal that their justified concerns are being investigated effectively, which creates a real link between citizens and the European Union. (ES) Mr President, this is another report on the standard function and operation of the Committee on Petitions, and the truth is that we must acknowledge that from one report to the next the Petitions Committee and the European Ombudsman continue to be excellent tools that European citizens can use to flag up and request solutions to misapplications of European law.
The Petitions Committee offers citizens recourse to Community law when remedies in their countries have been exhausted.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 23 September 2008.
