President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, the Council is fully aware of the importance of horizontal measures to combat discrimination and has, in fact, already adopted legislative acts in this area.
The Commission also monitors closely the effective implementation of the existing Directives, and on 2 July it adopted a proposal for a directive to ensure protection against discrimination on grounds of age, disability, sexual orientation and religion or belief outside the labour market.
It is very important that we get this anti-discrimination legislation through to complete the Article 13 package and, as Claude Moraes says, implementation afterwards is a key point. - (DE) I would like to break this question down a bit more.
I suppose the reason I used 2011 as the European Year of Volunteering is because I and four other MEPs have a written declaration down to that effect and I believe today we reached the required number.
As I said, we have reached the required number today and that allows us to put in place plans and policies to have real input into 2011 if the Commission so decides.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, it is true that in March 2007 the European Council approved a 10% minimum target for the share of biofuels in overall transport petrol and diesel consumption by 2020.
The European Council of 19 and 20 June highlighted the importance of ensuring the sustainability of biofuel policies, for example by improving the production of first-generation biofuels and by encouraging the development of second-generation biofuels made from by-products.
As regards Mrs McGuinness' comments, I believe that you are right - and it is also the Presidency's intention - that we need to move towards more sustainable agricultural production in order to avoid the surpluses we have seen in certain areas, and you mentioned, in particular, the example of the US, which is quite true.
However, in light of the Council's recognition of the extreme vulnerability of children exploited for child labour, is the Council concerned with closing the gap between MDG 2 and the ILO Child Labour Conventions?
MDG 2 only calls for states to provide universal primary education, while the ILO Conventions set the age of 15 - or 14 in some developing countries - as the threshold for child labour.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Ó Neachtain, Council Decision 2007/845, adopted by the Justice and Home Affairs Council, concerning cooperation between asset recovery offices of the Member States in the field of tracing and identification of proceeds from, or other property related to, crime was, as you know, adopted on 6 December 2007.
To date, the General Secretariat of the Council has unfortunately not received any such communications. (GA) Madam President, I would like to ask the President-in-Office if the Presidency supports the recommendation that these offices, once established, will have the capacity to seize criminal assets, thus making this trans-European union effective in reducing crime and seizing assets - as is done in other countries - but, of course, is not now possible on a European level in crime prevention. (FR) Mr President, I am going to agree with the honourable Member because, having followed these matters at other stages in my career, I believe that this cooperation genuinely has to be stepped up at European level.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Ryan, this is a very important question.
At the same time certain Member States, namely France, along with some other countries - the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg - organised on 12 June 2008 an exercise to trigger a cross-border abduction warning.
Further to Mr Ryan's point, there is a number that I believe has already been reserved in most European countries - 116 000.
Mr Rack is quite right in that regard.
Given the situation in the world today, what we realised was that, in order to succeed, a coherent development policy needed to be part of a wider regional framework; hence the 'wider neighbourhood' action plan that was launched by the 2004 strategy in Seville, which seeks to strengthen the regional integration of the outermost regions in their geographical position, in other words with certain ACP African and Caribbean countries.
What I want to say to Mr Ortega in general is that, notwithstanding the difficulties linked to the delay in the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty under the French Presidency, we are going to try to genuinely add a new dimension to these policies and to ensure that their horizontal dimensions are reflected as far as possible in concrete actions.
Subject: Sri Lanka The Council will be aware of the escalating violence in Sri Lanka and the increasing likelihood of all-out civil war breaking out.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Evans, the Council shares your concerns about the situation in Sri Lanka.
From 16 to 18 March a troika of senior officials visited Colombo, where it met four government ministers and other senior politicians.
I should like to thank the President-in-Office for that response, but I have two brief points I would like to put.
The conditions for granting GSP Plus to Sri Lanka are primarily based on economic vulnerability criteria and on the fact that the international conventions that I mentioned concerning fundamental rights must be applied.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, the French Presidency obviously welcomes the Commission's presentation at the start of this year of an 'energy and climate' package, which correctly reflected the goals laid down by the heads of state or government at their summit in March 2007: reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, whatever happens, and even by up to 30% in the case of successful negotiations on a global agreement on a regime for the period after 2012; proposing a regulatory framework for the capture and geological storage of carbon dioxide and, Mrs Doyle, launching demonstration projects in this field; and achieving by 2020 a 20% share for renewable energies of the European Union's total energy consumption.
Question No 37 will not be called given that its subject is covered by another item on the agenda for this part-session.
