Council's approach to revision of OLAF regulation (debate) The next item is the debate on the oral question to the Council by Mrs Gräßle, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the Council's approach to revision of the OLAF regulation - B6-0492/2008).
Another discovery is that Member States work out all their payments to the European Union to the last cent, but when it comes to spending this money, they start feeling generous and even make it easier for fraudsters, for example, by still taking an average of 36 months to even report irregularities to the European Union.
Our opinion on the legal basis, Regulation 1073/99, covers all these points.
We want to provide a solution to OLAF's problems.
In this context, we should remember the Council's 2007 invitation to present a consolidated legal instrument covering the various aspects of OLAF's work, which would provide the clarity we are all seeking.
The Council has taken due note of the European Parliament's amendments adopted on 20 November concerning the modification of the rules for OLAF investigations, and of the debates on this issue, which took place previously within the Committee on Budgetary Control.
The question of the Council's work schedule has already been raised in the budget trialogue of 13 November and in the consultation meeting with the European Parliament of 21 November, by my colleague Mr Woerth, president of the Ecofin Council (Budget).
I can therefore gladly re-affirm what the Council has already stated, during the trialogue of 13 November, and at the consultation meeting of 21 November, namely that the Council will examine diligently, and with the greatest attention, the outcome of the European Parliament's work on the proposed amendment to Regulation No 1073/1999, and the working document due from the Commission.
This assessment took place in 2003, and we have a proposal for a regulation.
The 2005 assessment contained 17 proposals, including the creation of a European prosecutor, since, although OLAF has investigative powers, it is an administration which is uncontrolled by an independent judicial authority.
You said that you would study those proposals with the utmost vigilance, avec la plus grande attention.
The latest report on the Communities' financial interests reports over 3 800 instances of irregularity, which represents an increase of 19% on 2006.
Up to now, Member States have been taking an average of 36 months to even inform OLAF of irregularities.
The vote will take place on Thursday 18 December 2008. (The sitting was suspended for a few moments)
