Preparatory work for the European Council in Brussels on 24-25 October The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the preparatory work for the European Council in Brussels on 24 and 25 October 2002. - (DA) Mr President, I have been asked to make a statement entitled 'Preparation for the European Council meeting in Brussels on 24-25 October 2002'.
As we know, the agenda will be dominated by the important topic of enlargement and also, in this connection, the subject of Kaliningrad, in which the European Parliament has of course taken a great interest.
The outcome of the meeting will be of great importance as regards the possibility of realising the common goal of concluding enlargement negotiations with up to 10 countries.
At the European Council meeting, the Chairman of the Convention will inform the European Council of the status of the Convention's work, and the President of the European Parliament will also speak to the European Council.
It is very convenient that the discussion with the President of Parliament is taking place immediately before the working meetings on enlargement and Kaliningrad.
In addition to the contribution of the President of Parliament, it is of course our hope that the meeting, including the opportunity to exchange information and ideas for use in further work, will prove beneficial to the President of Parliament and Parliament as a whole.
It is strongly to be hoped that decisions will be taken in Brussels on a number of very important subjects that could pave the way for enlargement.
It must be decided which of the candidate countries will be able to conclude accession negotiations this year.
At its meeting in Copenhagen, the European Council will also discuss those candidate countries which are not expected to be able to conclude negotiations this year (Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey), with a view to making decisions on the further course of the accession process for these countries.
There was agreement on the institutional issues at the General Affairs Council yesterday, and the European Council will amongst other things lay down, as part of the financial package, the total amount to be allocated to enlargement, candidate countries' participation in the common agricultural policy, including their share of direct income support, and the total aid from the cohesion and structural funds to the candidate countries.
The European Council in Seville concluded that the EU's positions concerning the outstanding, financially onerous, chapters will be presented to the candidate countries at the beginning of November.
That means that the Brussels European Council must take decisions on these matters if the timetable laid down in Seville is to be met.
The Danish Presidency will insist on this, and so the meeting must go on until a solution has been found.
Together with the Commission, the Presidency has held a series of talks with Russia and consulted Lithuania, in particular, which is the candidate country most affected.
The Council has agreed to give Lithuania a guarantee in that respect, and ultimately the Council agrees that Lithuania must be compensated for any additional expense arising from a solution to the transit question.
The EU has not, however, ruled out examining the possibility, and the Presidency will continue to work towards a solution which satisfies all parties to the greatest possible extent and can win the support of the European Council.
The Convention has got off to a good start, and has now moved on to the important analysis stage.
That is not, however, the case where this debate on the future of Europe is concerned; and this, I believe, bodes well for our ambition to create European cooperation which is more democratic and has grass-roots support.
As will have been clear from my statement, we have an extensive and ambitious agenda for the Brussels Summit.
The forthcoming European Council in Brussels is therefore crucial.
The debate will focus on our proposals regarding the ten candidate countries with which we recommend winding up negotiations by the end of the year.
We may have the opportunity to review the international situation, focusing particularly on how best to continue combating terrorism in the light of the recent tragic events in Bali and the Philippines.
We will also hear what the President of the European Convention has to report and we will hold our customary exchange of views with the President of the European Parliament.
Peace, stability, democracy and the rule of law are the essential ingredients for political stability.
We expect to see a positive impact in very many areas: more efficient public administrations, more robust judicial systems, greater protection of minorities, more effective crime prevention, especially where cross-border crime is concerned, more stringent controls on illegal migration, enhanced monitoring of products on the market and, in particular, of food safety, and, lastly, stricter environmental standards.
Europe will be in a better position to defend human rights and to help reduce the North-South divide.
If we succeed in uniting faithfully and speaking with a single voice, we will be able to make a difference in issues such as climate change and managing the impact of globalisation.
Indeed, we must not forget that the ten candidate countries are already growing at a consistently higher rate than the present 15 Member States.
Most importantly, the ten candidate countries will bring highly qualified human resources to the Union.
European industry will have new scope for development and expansion because there will be a great need for new technologies and because the new Member States will provide a market for our goods and services.
The unification of Europe must always take precedence over narrow sectoral and national interests.
The ten countries have made enormous progress in recent years.
There is clear unanimity on two principles: firstly, on accession, the ten candidate countries must not find themselves in the position of net contributors; and secondly, all expenditure commitments must fall within the strict limits set at Berlin.
It will mean that the per capita amount received by the cohesion countries - the existing countries - will be EUR 231 in 2006 while the citizens of the new Member States will be entitled to EUR 137 per capita.
I know that some of the present Member States have reservations regarding the budgetary sustainability of these proposals and that they have asked for further guarantees.
On all the financial issues outstanding, I expect the Brussels European Council to give the Danish Presidency and the Commission a mandate to conclude the negotiations with a view to a final decision being taken at Copenhagen.
The latest Eurobarometer survey, published two days ago, tells us that half the current Union citizens are in favour of enlargement while one third are against.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the signal we got from Luxembourg yesterday was a strong and positive one.
The Council has accepted the Commission's recommendations that the negotiations with ten countries should be concluded.
The Commission's statement that these ten countries will have completed their preparations by the scheduled date of accession is not a rough estimate, but rather a firm prognosis, founded on knowledge, experience and the actual stage that preparations have reached, and one that we will defend fair and square.
I think it important to note that the Commission came to this decision unanimously and that all my fellow-Commissioners, who bear responsibility for the extent to which policies work, said unequivocally that there remain within their fields of responsibility no problems that cannot be rectified by the scheduled date of accession.
If one considers what has to be done in the remaining 12 to 15 or 18 months, as against what has already taken place over the past five years - for it is only then that the complete picture becomes apparent - it is very clear to see that we are not being over-optimistic when we say that the nature of the preparations will be such that we can tell the citizens back home that the enlargement is as well prepared as it possibly could be.
This is where we need a new instrument, because we find ourselves in a completely new situation.
The internal market and the single currency have, in the meantime made rapid progress and are almost fully developed.
The Commission therefore considers it right and proper to have a very broadly framed safeguard clause, permitting us to intervene wherever unforeseen or unforeseeable problems crop up.
As again became clear yesterday, however, political momentum is strong enough to carry us onwards to Copenhagen and make Copenhagen, too, a success.
I would therefore like, briefly, to set out two expectations for the Council in Brussels to consider.
The very least that we need from the Heads of State and Government is an agreement permitting us, in the time between Brussels and Copenhagen, to get together with the candidate countries and properly sort out those financial and agricultural policy issues that are as yet unresolved.
The Commission does not believe it to be possible to reach compromises as late as the Copenhagen stage, as we would then be putting the candidate countries in a position where they would have to 'do or die', and we have to take the democratic rights of our future Member States seriously.
The enlargement process cannot be forced, but must be the outcome of mutual agreement and founded on mutual trust.
Discussion of the financial problems connected with enlargement no longer focuses, essentially, on the financial issues of 2004, 2005 and 2006; we are indeed already doing the groundwork for discussion of the next financial perspective for the post-2006 period.
I am glad that France and Germany in particular are currently making special efforts, including bilateral contacts, at coming to an understanding on this fundamental issue.
I do not believe that Germany and France have a responsibility in this area markedly different from the responsibility shared by others, but it is certainly true that it was always good for Europe when these two countries took a common line on a great, important, and forward-looking European project.
I would be very glad indeed if it proved possible for them to give this common line its final shape by the time the Brussels Council begins.
What matters now is that everyone should understand that the enlargement project is political in nature.
Political leaders in all the European institutions, in the Member States' governments and parliaments, the economic, political and cultural elites in all our Member States - these must now take upon themselves the responsibility of engaging in dialogue with the public.
What we have heard indicates that the prospects for the summit now being held in Brussels are not very rosy.
On behalf of our group, I would again like to make very clear that we had always envisaged a timetable according to which negotiations would be concluded by the end of 2002, with the treaties then being signed in March or April and the accessions formalised in 2004, so that the candidate countries would be able to take part in the 2004 European elections.
Now, Commissioner Verheugen has just made reference to Germany and France.
Whatever the necessity of resolving the problems Russia has with transit - and there is no doubt that Russia has a major interest in this - it is important for us that we make sure that Lithuania does not get the impression that we in the European Union are now making decisions over its head.
I urge this House to bear in mind the need to, on the one hand, guarantee security, and, on the other, to use flexible solutions to make it possible for people on either side of the border to meet each other.
In Brussels, you will hear a report from Valéry Giscard D'Estaing, the President of the Convention.
First of all, I shall address the question that I believe to be the most decisive: we must not only be able to talk about negotiations and money, which is always important, but we must also be able to provide a political impetus and vision for this entire process.
In my personal experience, in the process of the integration of my country - and also of Portugal - into the European Union, budgetary issues were extremely important and defined the current framework, the 1988 Brussels Summit, the MacSharry reform and the Edinburgh Summit.
My group believes that we cannot wait until 2006, because there are important questions that need to be resolved.
The Commission has put forward a proposal, which my group considers to be of interest and which we should debate, which does not refer to changing the ceiling of the common agricultural policy, but of making this a possibility in future, and, in particular, of introducing criteria of sustainable development and solidarity, which this policy is lacking.
It is therefore our responsibility to address these problems now, without waiting until 2006.
We must make the effort to consider how we can achieve better agreements that enable us to protect our interests and, at the same time, extend them to the candidate countries.
Lastly, Mr President, in this case we must also talk to the candidate countries knowing that we are on the threshold of a decision that involves a shared destiny in the future.
And we must also make a joint effort in Parliament to be able to adhere to a complex timetable which is an obstacle course we must overcome with a common political will.
Due in no small part to your efforts, Ireland's 'yes' vote has put us back on track for Europe to be reunited in 2004.
But the Heads of State and Government must not allow themselves to flunk this historic opportunity by fighting over how to pay the bill.
My group believes that enlargement can be financed under the financial arrangements agreed in Berlin.
The final package must guarantee that new Member States will not be net contributors before 2007.
Otherwise we will feed resentment and face the risk of more cliff-hanger referenda in the aspirant countries.
While the Liberal Group does not regards CAP reform as a precondition for enlargement, it is clear that significant reform of our farm policies is essential to the success of enlargement and also for other reasons.
We support the Commission's proposals to phase in income support to farmers for the new Member States, but we also expect all existing Member States to commit themselves to far-reaching reform of the CAP, as proposed in the mid-term review.
We share the concern expressed in the Commission's progress report about corruption in a number of these countries and the need for progress in implementing EU legislation, particularly in the field of justice and home affairs.
Commissioner Verheugen's approach has demonstrated the latter, but a touch more enthusiasm in the Council for enlargement and for the new Europe it heralds would not go amiss.
They have the right to expect that the EU does its share of the work and that no obstacle now arises to prevent the ten countries identified by the Commission being admitted into the European Union as planned.
Our group does not share the opinion that the Treaty of Nice was an absolute condition for enlargement.
In addition, there is a problem with the Treaty of Nice as regards the distribution of power to the new countries.
The Czech Republic and Hungary are in actual fact discriminated against in terms of the number of seats in the European Parliament allocated to them.
It has to be said that the negotiations have gone well from the EU's point of view.
It is our own inability to reform agricultural policy which has given rise to a situation in which the new Member States are actually going to be treated significantly worse than the previous Member States for quite some time.
In other areas, too, we must be able to revise our own policies so that they are suitable for enlargement.
The Schengen Agreement is one such area: its strict border controls are in danger of becoming a serious obstacle to cooperation for new Member States and for countries which are not in the next wave of enlargement of the European Union.
On the subject of the Kaliningrad area, we wish to see a solution whereby Russian citizens are able to travel between different parts of their country without needing a visa.
It is crucial that workers' rights are respected in all countries from day one, so that a situation does not arise in which we have social dumping or in which workers from the candidate countries are discriminated against on the labour market.
The important thing now is to avoid enlargement giving rise to an 'A team' and a 'B team' in the European Union.
Naturally, the candidate countries also have a choice.
If they choose to vote 'no', the alternative is close cooperation with the European Union.
I therefore want to argue that the Convention's draft treaty absolutely must be capable of being adopted in 2003.
Mr President, I wish the Danish presidency well in the run-up to the EU Summit this week in Brussels.
The other issue - Kaliningrad - is also directly linked to enlargement.
I welcome the measures proposed by the Commission to ease the direct transit of goods and people between Kaliningrad and the rest of Russia.
All of us have benefited from the in-depth and often intense debate on enlargement that has just taken place in my own country.
The decision taken by the people of Ireland underlines their strong commitment to European integration and enlargement of the European Union.
I welcome the fact that their decision clears the way for the conclusion of the accession negotiations for the first new Member States.
The lesson we can all learn from the recent debate during the Irish referendum campaign should not be taken lightly.
I endorse very strongly what President Prodi and Commissioner Verheugen have said on the need to keep people informed.
Mr Haarder said earlier that there is an exciting debate in progress in the Convention.
It may be exciting to insiders, but outside, as he well knows, it is hardly mentioned in the newspapers.
Would Mr Rasmussen have stopped enlargement following an Irish 'no'?
The Irish voters by no means declared themselves in favour of losing their Commissioner.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Council is about to approve the list of the ten candidate countries which, according to the Commission, are ready to join the European Union on 1 January 2004.
The Commission itself admits that only two out of the ten countries have an economy capable of contending with competition and administrative and legal structures in place capable of enforcing or respecting Community law.
Because of a semi-religious taboo surrounding the sacrosanct Community acquis, no one has asked themselves whether a Europe that has 25 Members should do the same things as a Europe of six, nine, twelve or fifteen.
Consider the costs of German reunification, twelve years down the line: the social and economic divide still exists in spite of the West providing financial assistance to the East estimated to be more than EUR 850 billion over this period.
Lastly, the summit in Brussels will also look at beginning accession negotiations with Turkey.
Turkey is a wonderful country, a bridge between Europe and Asia, but it is not a European country, geographically, linguistically or culturally speaking.
Very briefly, this Europe which is handing over the interests of nations to oligarchies that have interests so different to our own ?we do not want it for our countries nor do we want it for our counterparts in the East.
The Danish Presidency of the Union recently indicated that, if necessary, it would prolong the summit which is due to take place in Brussels on 24 and 25 October, so that it could complete all the items on a particularly demanding agenda, as President Prodi reiterated earlier.
On Monday last, Commissioner Verheugen expressed regret that France is not adopting a more flexible attitude regarding the possibility of reducing direct aid to farmers, before deciding on the amount of aid to make available to the farmers of the future new members, and he considered that the sudden increase in agricultural expenditure would make the CAP a logical area where money could be saved.
By undertaking a thorough review of the financial commitments of all the Member States and by ensuring they are fairly balanced, we will succeed in finding a solution acceptable to all, so that enlargement can be carried out under the best possible circumstances.
This could not be achieved, however, by sacrificing a sector of our population, in this case, farmers and the rural community.
The financial contribution that is justifiably anticipated must be divided equally between all the Member States of the European Union.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in 1957, next to the huge Soviet bloc, the Europe of the founding fathers was, in the words of Paul Valéry 'the little peninsula at the end of Asia'.
Less than 50 years later, the European Union has become the third greatest power in the world in terms of population, rivals the United States in terms of GDP and is the greatest trading power in the world.
This extraordinary example set by Europe must be maintained when the Community is enlarged to encompass a further ten countries.
It is not enough, however, to grow in body; one must grow in mind as well - this European mind that the German philosopher Karl Jaspers characterised as 'the meaning of History, Science and Freedom'.
We must develop the European spirit and prevent this spirit from being discredited at the forthcoming Brussels Summit by ridiculous displays of haggling and national self-interest, by arguments about who should pay more and who should pay less.
A Union in which so many inequalities remain must concern itself with this issue.
Lastly, Mr President, we must consider the case of Turkey: the most basic sense of loyalty obliges the European Union to set a timetable for negotiations with Turkey.
Mr President, Commissioners, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I just want to look at the problems that will arise for the people of Kaliningrad as a result of transit arrangements, and the solutions that have been proposed for them.
The transit permit, or Kaliningrad passport, as proposed by the Commission, is in my opinion a good solution for both sides.
It is good that the Council since yesterday has had a common position on transit arrangements for the people of Kaliningrad.
It is regrettable to find that people are unable to view the drawbacks or dangers which that would bring realistically.
Only one in five Europeans feels 'well' or 'very well' informed.
I have said it before in this House, and I will gladly say it again: EU information and communications policy is in need of improvement.
Admittedly, there is need for a radical reform of agricultural policy, but let us first put all the arrangements in place.
Obviously, this problem needs to be resolved, not with a Gordian knot but with a clean sweep, by which I mean a harmonious, rational, functional solution that respects nations and states.
Thirdly, in connection with other issues which may have prospects or require decisions, the European Union of the 15 or of the 25, or of however many other members there may be, must remain an area of social cohesion, development and democracy.
In other words, they must be predicated on the need for the European Union to maintain the values which it has already acquired and which must continue to apply, they must be predicated on peoples' priorities and not on petty political perceptions which, in the final analysis, are short-lived and are sometimes to do with antagonism of one sort or another, which gets us nowhere.
Having said which, I am positive that two new steps forward will be taken over the next two days and, as we continue on this course, we at the heart of the European Union, the European Parliament, must generate the political spirit and climate which, unfortunately, tend to be lacking, reducing the debate from a debate on overcoming problems to a mean, tight-fisted debate.
The impending enlargement is one of the most important political events since the initial inception of the European Communities.
The healing of this rift is a jewel in the crown of the present European Union and also of the acceding countries.
I therefore lend my wholehearted support to the ten accessions proposed by the Commission.
The Dutch Government is in support of enlargement despite the opposition of two coalition partners, namely the Liberals and the Fortuyn group.
If a number of conditions have not yet been met, however, the acceding countries will be required to make a final effort and, if necessary, introduce safeguards in areas such as food safety, the internal market and justice and home affairs.
The enlargement receives the support of both the Christian-Democrats here and the Christian-Democrats in the Netherlands.
This removed a serious obstacle to enlargement.
Enlargement is a historic occurrence for which, in my opinion, both the Commission and the Danish Presidency have prepared the ground most competently.
Now, therefore, it is up to the Heads of Government of the 15 countries to show leadership and responsibility in order that the Presidency can in the coming week obtain the required common mandate to conclude the negotiations with the ten applicant countries on the basis of the Commission's January proposal.
No new conditions for enlargement should be imposed.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission and Commissioner, the electorate has spoken in France, Germany and latterly also in Ireland.
There are still a few countries in which they need to have their voices heard, which will cause the necessary problems, as there are still questions on this score.
I am convinced that future enlargement will make this possible.
I think, though, that we ought to make clear that, whatever else we might rightly or wrongly desire, no new conditions for the enlargement of the European Union must be allowed to be imposed.
That has to be made clear and - as you, Commissioner Verheugen, know better than any of us - those things that were neglected when negotiating Agenda 2000 cannot now be put right again a quarter of a year before Copenhagen.
Now that Saturday's events make it possible for us to get back to discussing Nice's critical aspects, it is right and proper that we make it clear that, in structural policy for example, the Convention must accept majority decisions, thus giving us better decision-making structures for the reforms in 2006, and enabling us to implement the necessary reforms at the right point in time.
I take the view that, in today's battle order, the Commission and the Council are indeed doing their best to achieve a result in October.
Information work and information campaigns will be of great importance, both in the Member States and in the candidate countries.
The ten countries have made considerable progress since last year and will be ready in 2004.
I believe that the justifications contained in the report will also be included in the report currently being drawn up by Chairman Brok, and that they will not be very different from what has already been said.
I represent a fairly straightforward case - Slovenia - which would actually appear to be pretty representative of other small countries in the sense that, without the hard schooling from Europe, these countries would have been psychologically much, much further away from Europe than they are today.
Economic, administrative and political problems and the desire to respect the Copenhagen criteria have placed Slovenia and other countries among those which have recently tackled the various chapters on reconstruction of the administrations and the economy most vigorously.
Other countries have also been named.
The last word has not been said on this subject.
In order to reassure people in Bratislava, Warsaw, Riga and Vilnius, I wish to say that the President of the Council and the Commissioners confirm that there is no cause for concern.
There is no information in the country reports to demonstrate that, in general, any countries are in a worse position than others.
As Commissioner Verheugen emphasises, there is nothing today to show that there are any problems in any of the ten countries which cannot be solved.
The historical and moral reunification of Europe is irrevocable.
Mr President, we are facing a very complex European Council, and I should like to wish the Danish Presidency every success in this.
Crucial decisions will need to be taken within a few months, and in my view it is especially regrettable that we are still finding out that 79% of the people in Europe are claiming to be badly informed.
This uncertainty and lack of information about enlargement only serves to intensify these negative feelings.
I think it is high time we explained to people that enlargement could be a springboard for a safer Europe, a Europe that gives them greater security, and it is also high time we reassured them that Europe need not become less social, less prosperous or even less democratic as a result.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, taking into consideration the fact that quite a number of governments in Europe have left a great deal to be desired in this area, will you be quizzing your fellow government leaders about this?
The information campaign is not only about public relations.
In this Parliament we must understand that the time has come for the politicians to repossess the enlargement agenda following the highly complex work carried out by the Commission.
This is the message we must deliver at the summit meeting on Friday.
Mr President, enlargement is not just meant to bring peace, democracy and the rule of law; it is also, of course, meant to help raise the standard of living in the countries that will be joining us.
Economic cooperation ended up being a formula for the European Union's success, and this formula is to be applied more widely to give us stability in the sense of peace - not only external, but also internal and social peace.
This has also had an effect on jobs in the candidate countries and cannot be organised without it running the risk of rejection.
I am confident that the process of reform in the candidate countries will continue; indeed, it must continue and be a success, as it is not only the failure to inform the public in the European Union that is an issue here; it is also the lack of information in the candidate countries.
Mr President, this enlargement project is to the little country I hail from, Denmark, a matter of national pride.
The criteria for the accession of new Member States were drawn up at the Copenhagen Summit in 1993, and the process is to be concluded at the Copenhagen Summit in December.
The Belgian negotiator of the Maastricht Treaty, an economist by profession, has stated that there is a long series of funding problems which have not been solved.
These problems have not been dealt with, and the question to my Danish friend and former colleague, the Danish Minister for European Affairs, is: what do you intend to do about this badly neglected problem?
They feel aggrieved that their ambitions for EU membership in the long term are being ignored and decreed unrealistic, particularly by the Commission.
Since the break-up of the former Soviet Union ten years ago, they have moved some way towards democracy, human rights and good government, although a great deal remains to be done.
If Turkey has been granted candidate status, surely a country like Ukraine has just as much, if not more, of a claim to be a candidate for the European family of nations in an enlarged, wider and looser European Union.
Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the Irish people, as well as the Danish Presidency, which has done a tremendously good job, and the Commission, which has been working on the issue for a long time.
The President said that we need to have information campaigns.
It is not the candidate countries' responsibility, but our responsibility - the responsibility of all of us - to make a change in agricultural and structural policy.
We should not forget another aspect, which is that there is a risk of the gulf between Kaliningrad and Lithuania widening when Lithuania undergoes improved development as a Member State.
It is important, therefore, to make efforts in the social and economic fields for the people in the Kaliningrad area, too.
Mr President, I wish to appeal to the Heads of Government and Foreign Ministers who are congregating in Brussels: that appeal is that they take seriously their responsibility in respect of enlargement.
It is not possible to be willing to pay more for enlargement and, at one and the same time, to compel others to pay less.
There will be no pre-enlargement agricultural reform without postponing enlargement for ever and a day, and nor can we prejudice future, post-2006, Budget frameworks.
It is with this in mind that I can say that we in the Austrian People's Party, and I as a representative of it, take the line of 100% support for enlargement.
Given the years of preparation and the importance of enlargement, we hope that we can complete the process with all ten candidate countries within the next eighteen months.
The European Parliament has also pointed out the weaknesses on several occasions.
Most candidate countries are still lacking in areas such as implementation capacity and the fight against corruption.
The rate at which reforms have taken place over the past few years gives me hope that the remaining problems can be resolved quickly. 'Keep at it!' is the message we should like to pass on to the new Slovakian Government.
Fortunately, it was set up promptly after the elections in September and, like the previous government, will be able to work well with the European Union.
The Bulgarian pensioners fought in the Second World War, they lived under the yoke of communism for very many years, and now that they are old, living on miserly pensions, they hope that their quality of life will improve when they too become part of the European Union in a short while.
I can inform my fellow MEPs that as a member of the Convention on the future of Europe, I have the privilege of already working very closely with our colleagues from the candidate countries and that their commitment and enthusiasm for the European project are a pleasure to behold.
If we want to make a success of this Union of 25, I do believe that the Convention members should aim a little higher in terms of a strong and democratic Europe with proactive institutions.
We at our end all do our utmost to explain to the citizens what enlargement is about, but we cannot do this alone.
I would therefore like to join those fellow MEPs who ask how the Commission, the Member States and the Heads of Government can help us in our duty to inform.
You spoke about monitoring in the context of police, justice and the internal market.
The intense and exorbitantly expensive advertising campaign to sell integration cannot mask the harsh reality, which is that, even in the run-up to enlargement, these countries have given the shirt off their back to the mandarins of the European Union.
It is now becoming clear that not only will certain candidate countries have no net income; they will be funding the budget.
As agricultural spending is cut and subsidies are abolished in order to release funds for imperialist policies, direct farm subsidies will start to fall at something in the order of 25% to 35% per annum, with unpredictably disastrous consequences for farmers in both the Member States of the European Union and the candidate countries.
The trade deficit of the candidate countries is several times larger than the funds being allocated to them from the Community budget.
The Cypriot Government is being coerced in the run-up to integration into accepting solutions which go against the interests of both communities and the Cypriot people in general.
We, the Communist Party of Greece, oppose all these procedures and we shall stand with all our might shoulder to shoulder with the people fighting for their rights.
He made every effort to point out to his Dutch fellow party members that their attitude towards enlargement was totally untypical of true Liberals, because we know that the Liberals have always been keystones of European integration, that they are particularly kindly disposed towards extending the international rule of law and have always used this as a basis of their movement on principle.
I have to say that the European Parliament, from all manner of quarters, has also done what was necessary in this matter.
After all, if we set up a joint committee together with the Duma to discuss issues surrounding Kaliningrad, the Lithuanian parliament will also need to be represented in this committee, not with a view to putting Lithuania under any pressure, but so that this representation could clearly protect Lithuania's interests.
This means that, since Turkey is very different from the other candidates in terms of meeting the political criteria of Copenhagen, we have to put another problem to Turkey.
This may be difficult for the Turks at the moment, but in my view it is of major importance for Turkey to clearly develop in the direction of a democratic constitutional state that functions well as such, and for them to realise that they cannot participate in the game until they have reached that stage.
We shall now move on to the second round of speakers listed for the political groups.
No new conditions for enlargement should be imposed.
It is clear that a debate on agricultural and funding reform will follow, but, as so many have said here in the House, these must not get in the way of enlargement.
I think we have to realise this, because different countries see things in different ways.
It is a very simple message, and I think that it is the pivotal element in this connection.
The money for the candidate countries up to 2006 represents one thousandth of the GDP of the EU and is 10% of what Germany has spent on its own unification.
The costs are nothing compared to the economic benefits that will flow from enlargement.
The costs are nothing compared to the costs of not enlarging and are nothing compared to the costs of trying to maintain the stability of the continent by other means.
Now is the time to bring that investment up to an entirely new level for the future.
I am concerned that this debate seems to be taking it for granted that the ten countries are already in, when they are not.
We welcome the three-fold safeguards set out by the Commission in the form of economic safeguards, internal market safeguards and justice and home affairs safeguards.
But we expect Parliament to be involved if these safeguard clauses are ever invoked.
The Socialist Group will also be monitoring the social component of enlargement, because we must make sure that enlargement makes things better for people and not worse.
They cannot have a veto on the future of the EU.
What we must respect absolutely is Lithuania's sovereignty in this matter.
The Irish referendum taught us one important lesson.
Mr President, in two weeks it will be 9 November.
On that day, we shall celebrate the fact that it is 13 years since the joyful masses clambered over a crumbling wall, and the long journey towards reconciliation and unification began.
Now we are almost there.
The Commission's report confirms that ten countries can become members in just over a year.
Support for the candidate countries is waning, and several Member States, leading politicians and parties are speaking of waiting or postponing on the grounds that 'we are not ready'.
Internal policy considerations are overshadowing the historic task of unifying Europe for the first time ever; by means of agreements, negotiations and compromise, not by means of threats, tanks or invasion.
It is deplorable that internal policy considerations, mean-mindedness and populism are what are communicated to our citizens instead of talk of visions, opportunities and Europe's big chance.
Forked tongues arouse distrust in our countries and the candidate countries.
I hope, therefore, that the Council meeting over the weekend will be crystal clear and unanimous in saying: 'Yes, you are most welcome.' Mr President, the process of enlarging the European Union by ten more States is now entering its final and decisive stage.
Our group has always followed it and played its part in shaping it; we have been active in doing this, but have kept a critical mind.
The stertorous political utterances, heard over and over again in this Parliament, about overcoming of the division of Europe and doing away with the inheritance of Communism, block out any more sophisticated view of Europe's post-war history and, there being so many different problems in the central and eastern European states, go over people's heads.
The process went ahead along largely administrative and technical lines and was seen by Brussels as having to do with the acceptance of the acquis communautaire.
The governments of the candidate countries were sometimes not allowed to say much, and their parliaments were programmed to give approval after largely uncritical debates.
What is demanded of us is to talk less about transparency and democracy, and do more about them!
As fellow MEPs have already pointed out, this was mainly due to the Liberals, who are conspicuous by their absence in this debate, and who, in my view, have adopted a small-minded bookkeeper's attitude in a bid to obtain short-term electoral victory.
Fortunately, an attitude of this kind cannot count on much support from other European Liberals.
Another reason why it will be all right in the end - and I do want to add this - is because we have before us a sound report from the Commission which is very open and honest about the long list of shortcomings which candidate countries are still displaying - something which I think is very brave - but, crucially, which also offers solutions to all the problems that still exist.
I should like to ask you for your observations on two specific points.
For example, because Turkey could play a very positive role in the case of Cyprus in the next few months and because it is able to prove that it is taking the reforms seriously.
I would urge both the Commission and the Council to remain critical about Turkey, as we are doing, but also to continue to reflect on how the reform process can be promoted rather than frustrated.
I am very pleased at the outcome of the Irish referendum and I am convinced that it was Parliament that established the conditions which enabled the Irish people to review their positions.
Mr President, enlargement by ten new members puts the EU before major difficulties.
Many of the candidate member states still have a great deal of work to do in order to be able to join the EU by 2004 in a proper manner.
The argument that 'not enlarging' or 'enlarging at a later date' also carries a hefty price tag is heard very rarely.
Or the fact that the candidate member states have already made huge sacrifices.
It is a process that cannot be changed or broken off at this stage without major damage being done.
It is therefore to be hoped that the Council will be able to reach a deal on the financial package, the CAP and the institutional issues without delay.
The Commission must table specific and unambiguous text proposals promptly in order to make these clauses concrete.
It has been suggested that the period of application of these safeguard clauses be extended from two to three or four years.
The week before last there came the Commission's recommendation, which won the support of a substantial majority yesterday in Luxembourg.
It must therefore be said that there are now extremely high expectations for the meeting in Brussels on Thursday, Friday and possibly Saturday, in which economic aspects are to be finalised, as Commissioner Verheugen so clearly put it.
The economic position of the present Member States should be laid down in order to make time for negotiations with the new Member States.
Mr Barón Crespo was quite right in saying that, just as a marriage must be built on love, so enlargement must be built on popular support.
Yesterday, the Council gave us a mandate to negotiate with Russia; and this is a mandate which fully respects both Lithuania's sovereignty and its right to join cooperation on Schengen at the same time as its neighbours.
The Presidency will do all in its power on Thursday, Friday and possibly Saturday to establish a common position on economic issues, too, which will make it possible to conclude negotiations with the new countries in Copenhagen.
Without wanting to jump the gun, we are incredibly pleased with all the progress made, which has brought us closer to a solution with every passing week.
One rapporteur said that the total cost of enlargement will be one tenth of the cost of German reunification.
Another mentioned that, in total, enlargement will cost one tenth of one per cent of our GDP.
Warm thanks to the rapporteurs, the President of the Commission and Commissioner Verheugen.
It has been an extraordinary experience for me to witness the continuous endeavours of the parties in the parliaments of these countries, parties which might be at loggerheads over other issues but which are in agreement regarding enlargement.
We need to make a greater effort to reassure our citizens and the citizens of the Member States.
This provision of information is carried out in cooperation with the Member States and, most importantly, using the structures of civil society and supporting them by using them to promote our action.
Nevertheless, the campaign will not have the desired effects if the political leaders of the Member States do not work together with us to set up a debate on these issues, as Mr Rovsing said in his speech on this matter.
I have to say, however - and I apologise to Parliament for this - that the new Eurobarometer statistics only reached me this morning because they were only published this morning, and that they are remarkably more encouraging than those I read out a few hours ago.
It is for this that I want, much more deeply and much more directly, to thank Parliament, the social partners and the great politicians who, after the fall of the Berlin Wall and, in some cases, even before these events, awoke in us this dream of a unified Europe.
It is not, of course, a debate which can be held today or tomorrow, but, clearly, enlargement raises the issues of our identity, our roots, our history and, by extension, our future.
I want to reiterate very clearly that we have been tasked with producing regular reports only on the future member states.
Nor do I believe that it might be possible for a member of the Commission to call on the head of a Member State's government to join with him in seeking out the worst civil and social blackspots and to announce to the nation's media that he is ashamed of these conditions and that he will do away with them.
If I may turn to the monitoring of the safeguards, the monitoring instruments are many and varied, and they will all continue to be applied.
It is of course the final monitoring report six months prior to accession that is crucial.
The political pressure alone that this report will exert will be so strong that we really can safely assume that the remaining deficits will be dealt with by then.
The situation as regards the safeguards is that I have told both the Council and, as recently as last week, the Dutch Government, that the new instrument on safeguards, which we are proposing, must be of limited duration.
The two-year period that the Commission has proposed does not yet, however, exhaust the possibilities offered by the law.
Perhaps I have expressed that in rather complicated terms, so, to put it another way, there is still a certain amount of room to manoeuvre as regards the timeframe, and the Commission has no objection to the Council making full use of it.
It is simple, practical things like this that are at issue, and the European public will not be mollified if we have to tell them that such an instrument can only be applied if it has gone through a procedure lasting for months.
Let me say this in all frankness: nothing is any use unless it can be put into action quickly and decisively.
Let me end with a brief comment on Kaliningrad.
I think the real problem is how to conduct a policy that prevents Kaliningrad from remaining socially and economically backward in a region that is developing very rapidly - which this region will do.
The inevitable consequence of that will be the growth of economic and, eventually, political tensions.
I hope that, when this vexatious issue of visas and transit is sorted out - which I believe it will be in a matter of days - the way will be open for us to discuss this question, which is of such importance to the future of Europe. (Applause) Thank you, Commissioner.
You yourself will have experienced some of the extreme difficulties faced by many Members in travelling to Strasbourg.
We have 517 amendments, 25 split votes and 56 roll call votes.
The committee was concerned that the Commission's strategy document was rather vague in terms of the action to be taken in the health and safety field.
I can now tell the House that, in a meeting with Commissioner Diamantopoulou yesterday and during the debate last night, I received assurances that the Commissioner will come to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to detail the action to be taken and that a report will be presented on an annual basis to facilitate the monitoring of progress by the committee.
For example, the national security services must find that Members of Parliament involved in examining secret documents are trustworthy.
It also reflects the request from the House in an earlier report asking the Bureau to draw up a proposal to bring to Plenary.
So the Bureau tabled this proposal on the basis of debates and votes in the House.
I can assure you that this matter has been considered very carefully and was put to the relevant bodies in the House some time ago.
Mr President, I simply wanted to thank the Group of the Party of European Socialists for this gesture.
I therefore strongly urge the members of my group to give their full support to the compromise that we have reached.
These linguistic amendments included a number which, in my view, are not strictly linguistic, since they relate to the Portuguese, Italian, French and Greek versions.
Mrs Berès, I shall raise the issue and seek the advice of the legal services at the Conference of Presidents, so that each group can give its opinion when the time comes.
The fact that a large number of amendments tabled at first reading have been adopted by the Council in its common position is also to be welcomed.
Against a backdrop of increasing professional mobility, it is crucial that Community measures are adopted to harmonise the various levels of protection for self-employed workers in each Member State, in addition to the recognition and implementation of legislation in this field.
I should like to take the opportunity of this debate and the vote on the Hughes report on a new Community strategy on health and safety at work 2002-2006, which contains some good points, to raise the question of the Commission's negligence when it comes to applying health and safety at work regulations.
Despite repeated questions to the Commission from me and other honourable Members, the Commission has been waiting to examine statistics from Greece for the last five years.
We cannot monitor, issue warnings and impose sanctions for public deficits and turn a blind eye and a deaf ear to health and safety. . (PT) Community data on health and safety at work reveal a general trend towards improvement.
I have voted in favour of this report, and I wish to highlight the following points: The need to codify and simplify current Community legislation in this field and to encourage the Member States to apply this more rigorously; The Commission must, as a matter of urgency and together with Parliament, draw up a detailed action plan, including financial commitments and timetables, incorporating the gender dimension and new types of risks and illnesses; The need to encourage working within partnerships in order to facilitate better data collection and communication between the various actors involved; The incorporation of the candidate countries into the institutions and bodies concerned in order to be able to provide effective technical and financial assistance; Lastly, the importance of a preventive approach to the aspects of health and safety at work, targeting both workers and employers.
The British Conservatives support the Commission document on Health and Safety at Work, which talks of the importance of health and safety at work and the need to strengthen the prevention culture and secure a better application of existing law.
A fundamental flaw in his analysis leads us to conclude that the rapporteur's conclusions are wrong.
The report deals with working-environment problems at workplaces in the EU and expresses concern that the situation is deteriorating instead of improving.
The rapporteur proposes a long list of measures, including better application of the existing legislation in the area.
Existing directives on the working environment are not working well, principally because employers oppose them and because trade unions are too weak, and often set minimum levels that tend to commit the social partners to agreements affording levels of protection which are far too low.
If, on the other hand, we had strong trade unions, and national governments with social ambitions, we could bring in legislation at national level which was more precise, afforded higher levels of protection and could be implemented more effectively.
All the agreements which are made between the Council and Parliament must, however, observe the fundamental principles of loyalty and the obligation for the institutions to make information mutually available.
In other words, it is not fair for the Council to take decisions on the internal working procedures of Parliament, thereby arranging the institutions in a clear hierarchy.
There is also a risk of information being withheld from small countries and small political groups.
An interinstitutional agreement in this sensitive area should be combined with strict confidentiality rules (compatible with those of NATO).
Rules like these could have been drawn up for documents concerning external security without this resulting in any change in the interinstitutional structure.
The rapporteur calls for the right, for the European Parliament, to have access to documents on security and defence that are classified as 'confidential', 'secret' or 'top secret' whilst pointing out that 'public access may be refused' to these documents, which are therefore kept from the people of the European Union, whereas the latter claims to ensure their defence and their security.
This only serves to highlight the derisory nature of this claim and the hypocrisy of the European institutions which never fail to take an opportunity to boast about the so-called 'transparency' of their work.
As for knowing whether the agreement between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament (which, in any case, excludes 'top secret' documents) would even enable a few hand-picked Members to have access to other documents on security and defence, the rapporteur states that 'the manner in which this Agreement is used in practice will be decisive'.
Clearly, for security and defence issues, as for all other subjects considered to be of some importance by the Council and the Commission, these two institutions only provide the European Parliament with as much information as they wish.
This objective of secrecy has even survived the introduction of universal suffrage.
This could be justified in the short term if the majority of the population is being threatened by a dangerous minority of profiteers who want to abolish their constitutional rights.
On the other hand, secrecy can also protect powerful profiteers from popular anger.
The solution opted for, namely a voluntary agreement between Parliament and the Council, seems more appealing than it really is.
In practice, the vast majority of MEPs, and even entire parliamentary groups, will be kept in the dark.
Today's final steps are the culmination of a long, painstaking and arduous process of political weighting and interinstitutional negotiation, which has led to a very positive and balanced result.
What was really needed was to achieve a reasonable and fair balance between on the one hand, the necessary transparency and, on the other, the essential caution required by the highly secretive nature of this type of information.
Without this balance, no progress would be possible in this sensitive area.
In the Grossetête report, on Amendment 63, we voted to be consistent with our approach in committee.
Competing companies and competing methods benefit from legislation that results in companies selling as many of their own products as possible, thus pushing other products out of the market.
Some of these natural products are centuries-old remedies that work well according to their users, but whose effectiveness has never been scientifically proven.
The manufacture of the generic medicinal products should therefore be able to begin before expiry of the above-mentioned ten-year period.
Therefore, we also voted against the amendments which obstruct the placing on the market of generic medicinal products by protecting small changes in the original medicine.
On behalf of the British Labour Delegation, I would like to explain that with regard to the proposals in the Grossetête report concerning veterinary medicines, we believe that the Commission should accept the current practice in the United Kingdom and Ireland.
Mr President, the pensioners which I have the pleasure of representing in the European Parliament tell me that they are very pleased that I have voted - as I did - for this text, for I feel it is important and am waiting impatiently for Europe to have either a Constitution or a founding Charter with the status of a Constitution to which they can all appeal in order to call for justice whenever they are the victims of an injustice.
The Charter states that the rights of elderly people are to be respected by Europe, and that is why pensioners and elderly people throughout Europe are waiting impatiently for the Charter to become the Constitution of the European Union.
I therefore want to make it perfectly clear that we voted in favour of the report even though I see some of the problems as being the other way around.
My primary difference of opinion with the rapporteur is that I believe that the possible problem of the supreme courts coming to divergent judgments in matters of basic rights has not been resolved.
Mr President, I welcome Mr Duff's report.
It is unthinkable to have a modern European Union constitution - which is what the Convention on the future of Europe is looking at - without a binding bill of rights.
Far from giving more rights to the European Union institutions, the Charter limits the exercise of power by the EU institutions because they must explicitly respect human rights.
The Charter should be legally binding and enforceable under EU law.
It is unthinkable that the European Union should draw up a constitution without first drawing up a bill of rights, which is why the Charter of Fundamental Rights should be given constitutional status and incorporated into the European Union's constitutional texts by revising the Treaties of the European Union before new members join.
That is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report.
We voted in favour of the report, as we support, in principle, the incorporation of the Charter in a future treaty (constitution).
We would rather see a system like the one which characterises the current right to plead before the Court of Justice of the European Communities: the rights under the Charter are applied indirectly, via the right of the national courts to refer cases to the Court of Justice.
The report adopts a rigid stance on changes to the Charter's horizontal clauses.
We share the opinion of the Convention's working group on this.
By way of a general observation, we also wish to emphasise that a binding charter in all events must not undermine the model for collective agreements which is applied to the labour market in the Nordic countries.
The Duff report, which calls for the Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated into a European constitution, was adopted by a broad majority in spite of our opposition.
It turns out that, the day before yesterday, we discussed the pact on budgetary stability, and that ultimately, many speakers found, like Romano Prodi, that it is stupid because it is too inflexible.
For its part, the MPF delegation, has proposed a radically reformist treaty for Europe, which would be very different from the constitution of a super-State, since it would recognise the need for flexible relations between the sovereign national democracies.
If you read all the articles of our Charter very closely, you can see the obvious benefit of having a document that is common to the current 15 members and to the future 25.
That is why, as rapporteur, and supporter of a European Constitution, I want our Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated into this Constitution.
Of course, this does not prevent me from strongly criticising the Europe we have today, which is too liberal with regard to economic issues, too submissive to financial bodies and the stock markets, non-existent in the political arena when working with the United States to manage major global problems.
Upholding the content of the report will only make it more difficult to protect the binding incorporation of this Charter into a future 'constitution'.
This content is characterised by a drafting of rights that represent, in practice, a step backwards in comparison with what has been achieved in national constitutions, such as that of Portugal, for example or in comparison with what has been achieved in European conventions to which EU Member States are signatories.
In a society that is based on universal equality, as well as the right to individual diversity, individual and social constitutional rights that are legally enforceable are indispensable.
The EU's Charter of fundamental rights that was produced in 2000 does not go as far as some provisions enshrined in Member State constitutions, the European Social Charter and the Council of Europe's European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which applies to an area greater than the EU alone.
A weightier status for the Charter can lead to two quite conflicting results, namely more scope for propaganda on the part of the EU and, at the same time, fewer guarantees for rights of EU residents.
This is why the suggestion to start accession negotiations to sign up to the ECHR is, in my opinion, the most positive part of this report.
The Charter, which was drafted under very controversial circumstances, in no way seeks to strengthen the protection of fundamental rights within the Community legal framework; this is a mere pretext.
Several instruments already exist: the case law of the European Court of Justice, the European Convention on Human Rights, and, above all, the national constitutions (the status of which should be profoundly re-assessed) which perform this duty perfectly well.
This constitutes, by means of a text whose legal force could be significant (it will have priority status within primary legislation) and whose scope could seriously affect the constitutional traditions of the States, a decisive attack on the national sovereignties.
Furthermore, in placing the main elements of the national constitutions under the exclusive control of the European Court of Justice, this report shows an intolerable and offensive lack of confidence in the Member States.
A binding charter which is as broad in its application will be a driving force for further integration and supranationality.
The Court of Justice of the European Communities is to be given increased powers to rule on human rights cases.
I share the opinion of the Swedish parliament in saying 'no' to a binding charter, and I think that the EU should instead only join the European Convention.
We are discussing this subject today in the shadow of the horrific terrorist attack in Bali on 12 October, in which more than 200 people lost their lives.
The terrorist attack in Bali, coming as it did out of the blue, has shown that no one is immune.
The fight against terrorism is a global one, in which close cooperation between the EU and the USA is an essential prerequisite for success.
On 21 September, the Heads of State and Government adopted the plan of action which has become the backbone of the EU's efforts.
Particular examples are the introduction of a European arrest warrant, the establishment of a common definition of acts of terror, and joint investigation teams.
In addition, negotiations have been initiated with the USA on a cooperation agreement on extradition and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, and it is expected that an agreement between Europol and the USA on the exchange of personal data will be finalised by the end of the year.
Another main point is putting an effective stop to the financing of terrorism.
The necessary legal acts for the implementation of Security Council Resolution 1373 were adopted as early as December 2001.
The Presidency is fully in agreement with the emphasis which the motion for a resolution places on the principle that there must be no rewards for terror.
It is the objective of the Danish Presidency to achieve progress in integrating the fight against terrorism into all aspects of the EU's foreign policy.
On top of strengthening the EU's international role by increasing the emphasis EU foreign policy places on combating terrorism and by means of a systematic evaluation of the contribution of third countries to the fight against terrorism, it is our ambition for the EU to become a standard-bearer in the UN and other international fora.
Maintaining the international anti-terrorism coalition and cooperation with the USA are essential aspects.
The Council Conclusions of 22 July 2002 on the EU's external action against terrorism opened a new chapter in the fight against terrorism.
In its future agreements with third countries, the EU will take more account of the contribution of these countries to the fight against terrorism and conduct a more targeted and if necessary tougher political dialogue with third countries.
It was also decided to identify specific measures with a view to helping third countries to fulfil their obligations under Security Council Resolution 1373 and to concentrate on a smaller number of countries with a view to initiating a pilot project in cooperation with the UN's Counter-Terrorism Committee.
In the latter areas, in particular, it is hoped that concrete results will have been attained by the end of the Danish Presidency in the form of the launch of one or two pilot projects.
An accurate and comprehensive assessment of the threat is, however, a prerequisite for being able to re-evaluate the substance of contractual relations with third countries from the point of view of entering into agreements, for being able to tighten up the political dialogue if necessary and for being able to assess the possible need for aid to third countries.
We must send the message to our discussion partners in third countries that the way in which they handle the fight against terror will have a considerable influence on their relations with the EU.
The EU can certainly be proud of its efforts in the wake of the 11 September terrorist attack.
We have put our own house in order in conformity with the UN resolutions, and we have done this in such a way that legal certainty for our citizens has been respected.
Now it is important to turn our gaze outwards and play the international role which is expected of us.
I therefore hope for the continuing support of Parliament for the line taken here and I would thank the two Commissioners for their cooperation in this field.
Mr President, Mr Haarder, ladies and gentlemen, the recent tragic events in Indonesia are proof that terrorism, a mindless and cowardly crime, can still strike and inflict devastating consequences, despite the efforts, over the last year, of the international community in general, and the European Union in particular.
These events can only strengthen our belief that we must relentlessly combat this terror using all the resources available and from a global perspective.
Our response to terrorism is based on the determination to rapidly provide the European Union and its Member States with the resources to cooperate more effectively, and for this cooperation to be undertaken with full respect for our democratic principles, with a view to enhance both the protection of fundamental freedoms and the rule of law.
Furthermore, it must be noted that the reason why the European Union's reaction in the wake of the 11 September attacks was so swift is largely due to the synergy between our institutions, namely Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
This synergy was equally evident in the implementation of an inter-pillar approach which was able to respond to the magnitude of the challenge posed by terrorism, whether it be international terrorism or terrorism within each of our Member States.
I shall instead speak about the fact that, following the Commission proposals, the Union adopted a common definition of terrorism, harmonised the penalties applicable to acts of terrorism and created a European arrest warrant.
With regard to police cooperation, considerable progress has been made in strengthening operational collaboration between the national anti-terrorism forces and Europol.
The Commission can only welcome the efforts made to improve analytical capabilities, especially as far as Europol's assessment of the terrorist threat is concerned, and particularly as regards the specific measures which have been taken to increase the amount of information provided to Europol, including the exchange between police forces and information services of the Member States, and to ensure that this tool for cooperation and analysis is improved and used more widely.
Following the European Parliament's initiative, the Commission itself proposed to the Council to finance, from the Community budget, specific activities designed to provide Europol with the additional resources required to strengthen and coordinate the action of Member States in the fight against terrorism.
As far as the fight against the financing of terrorism in Europe is concerned, I note that work is continuing on the development of instruments which facilitate the freezing of assets and block the funds of terrorist organisations, and also in the area of mutual recognition which will make it possible to act upon instructions to freeze assets that are issued by a judiciary authority of one Member State in another Member State.
The protection of our external borders has also been the subject of intense work and of some initial innovative proposals, which some consider to be audacious, but which, in my view, are perfect for weighing up the many challenges that the Union must be prepared to face in order to safeguard its stability and domestic security.
Turning to matters beyond our own borders, and without going into too much detail with regard to our actions, as Commissioner Patten will come back to this subject, our cooperation with the United States deserves a particular mention.
The agreement on strategic cooperation between Europol and the United States, which provides for the exchange of strategic information and liaison officers, is a good example of this cooperation.
The agreements currently being negotiated, whether they relate to the exchange of personal data, extradition or mutual assistance, will also play a crucial role.
The Commission welcomes the fact that the mandates issued by the Council enforce the guarantee of the full respect of our values and our principles of law through these future cooperation agreements.
Let us reiterate, however, assuming that this is necessary: what is currently at stake in the fight against terrorism is not only the protection of our principles, it is, first and foremost, the protection of our fellow citizens as well as the guarantee, in times of misfortune, that solidarity can be demonstrated.
I will also point out that, last week, the Commission proposed that all victims of crime and terrorism in the European Union will be compensated for the personal injury and losses that they have suffered, and that a minimum standard will be determined with regard to this compensation.
Solidarity and prevention are also at the heart of the very practical initiatives taken in the area of air safety and civil protection in order to improve coordination and cooperation between Member States, including issues relating to public health and the protection of public facilities essential for community life, such as water supply or electricity or nuclear power stations.
For the first time, on 27 and 28 October, a European civil protection exercise will simulate the consequences of a terrorist attack involving radiological and chemical materials, in order to test the new surveillance and information centre established by the Commission.
The Commission will put forward proposals for institutional reform so that the Union has all the resources necessary to contend with, in a diligent and effective manner, the challenges we currently face and, above all, the challenges that the future holds.
Mr President, I welcome the chance to contribute to this debate.
We think in particular of our friends in Australia and promise them that we will be exploring ways in which we can work closely with them to confront terrorism in all its manifestations.
We will shortly be sending a high-level troika to Indonesia to discuss the contribution we can make to this campaign.
Our actions in the immediate aftermath of 11 September demonstrate a point I have made in the context of the debate on the effectiveness of the European Union's foreign and security policy: when the political will is there, we can take effective action regardless of the institutional architecture.
A week later the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 1373 - a truly landmark resolution setting out for the first time a clear set of actions which all Member States must follow to combat terrorism.
It is a resolution adopted under Chapter VII of the UN Charter, which means that it is mandatory.
It is a mark of the strength of international outrage following the 11 September attacks that such a resolution could be adopted with universal support.
The European Union's action plan is not cast in stone.
We have taken practical steps at Union level to outlaw terrorist organisations and cut off their funding, as previous speakers have said.
The new challenge now before us is, therefore, to help those countries which cannot - for reasons of institutional weakness, lack of expertise or lack of financial resources - fully implement Resolution 1373 themselves.
Here the European Union clearly has a crucial role to play.
Much of the work which needs to be done is in areas where the European Union has built up an enormous amount of expertise through its programmes such as Phare, Tacis, Meda and CARDS.
I am thinking here of the work we are already doing, helping our partner countries establish effective law enforcement institutions, improve border management and fight money-laundering.
In addition to the work under way, the European Council conclusions of 22 July asked us to consider what more we could do.
We have just agreed a strategy, endorsed by the Council at Coreper on 3 October, of identifying pilot countries where we judge there is a clear need for help and we feel the Commission has a comparative advantage.
We are looking at the possibilities for action in countries of high importance in the fight against terrorism: in Central Asia, South and South-East Asia and the Gulf.
We have also incorporated the fight against terrorism into all aspects of our external relations.
We are systematically evaluating our relationships with third countries in the light of the support those countries might give to terrorism.
In this context, we are examining where counter-terrorism cooperation elements can be added to, or form part of new agreements, as has been the case in our association agreements with Lebanon, Algeria and Chile.
The European Union is a massive provider of development assistance.
This is an often forgotten contribution to international security in its widest sense.
If we are to deny Al-Qaeda and other terrorist networks the territory from which to plan future atrocities, we must do all we can to bolster weak or failing states.
Our action in Afghanistan is a case in point.
But there is a wider view too: our actions must be seen in the context of our unswerving support for democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
We have a wide range of instruments at our disposal to tackle the root causes of terrorism, both in terms of poverty and economic development, and of institution building and the rule of law.
It is here that our contribution to the fight against terrorism will have the most impact.
I suspect that, for our generation, it was almost as important a document in shaping our attitudes as any by the great political philosophers.
When Karl Popper wrote the words quoted, he was referring to the enemy of totalitarianism - a much clearer enemy.
In response to that, drawing on other political philosophers like Burke, he argued that, to some extent, liberty had to be limited in order to be maintained.
The ability to deliver terrorist assaults on free societies is much easier in open societies.
The only way to make terrorism absolutely impossible is by a sort of global Orwellianism, which would itself provoke from liberals, like the President-in-Office and myself, the sort of assault others might regard as terrorist.
To prosecute the campaign against terrorism will require international cooperation of unprecedented breadth and depth: political cooperation, economic cooperation and security cooperation.
I do not think it right or proper that my colleague from the other committee is not also heading the list of speakers.
The fact that the group's amendments refer to work we did and presented together makes it clear that we are dealing here with something completely new, the need for the fight against the cancerous growth of terrorism to be the common cause in which internal and external security unite.
No longer can traditional methods of policing and repressive measures within states bring us success, nor can this situation be got round by traditional military means any more.
What is in any case quite clear in all this is that there is a need for cooperation in all military and internal security matters on the part of the armed forces, the security services and the secret services, by which information may be gained as to how to take action against terrorism.
I do think that, however important the steps taken in the aftermath of 11 September, only a part of what was discussed at the time has become reality.
It must be made clear, though, that they can be successfully combated only if we respect the rule of law, including international law.
In any case, I confirm what he said, taking into account, furthermore, that, when the mandate was given for this resolution, the Conference of Presidents consulted the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
You are confusing Rule 37 with Rule 42 or Rule 50, the effect of which is that the authors or committee chairmen take the floor first.
I am therefore obliged to apply the Rules of Procedure.
When the time comes, you will be given the speaking time allocated to you, but I am obliged to follow the order of speakers that has been specified.
Mr President, quite apart from whatever the Conference of Presidents may have determined, I would nonetheless like to insist that we should actually stick to the Rules of Procedure.
You said that the authors come first.
The authors are the two appointed by the committees.
Perhaps the bureau, and in particular its officials, are flexible enough to concede such a mistake, so that we can try something really completely new and not let our lack of flexibility show how incapable we are of policy-making.
Mr President, on a point of order, I would like to insist that the chairman of my committee, Mr Hernández Mollar, speaks ahead of me.
As the Liberal Group spokeswoman on the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, I wish the chairman of my committee to speak ahead of me.
Mr President, the procedure followed in drawing up this resolution was rather strange and has presented difficulties for all of us.
Clearly, the fight against terrorism currently has aspects of both internal and foreign policy, and I would not like to see the importance of the work carried out by my own committee diminished.
Mr President, in politics, dogmas are overcome by the will of the majority and in this case I believe my fellow Members, whose speeches I heartily welcome, have made their will very clear.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, the latest 2002 barometer published by the Commission indicates that six months after 11 September more than two out of three European citizens considered that the fight against terrorism was a matter that should be addressed at European Union level rather than at national level.
And consequently, what are the next steps we should take?
We should think about the adoption of the action plan in the fight against terrorism, the approval in record time of a common definition and penalties, and the arrest and surrender warrant, in addition to the establishment - as has already been said here - of Eurojust and the revitalisation of Europol.
Nevertheless, we must be honest, not only with ourselves, but also with our citizens.
The 11 September attacks brought to light all the obstacles to the full creation of an area of freedom, security and justice.
In the event of another crisis situation, do you believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the citizens of Europe, and, to a greater extent, the victims of terrorism and their families, would be satisfied if we explained that the lack of effectiveness of the reaction of the European Union is due to its very architecture comprising pillars, the difficulty of adopting decisions unanimously, the attitudes of certain Member States, the refusal to exchange data with Europol?
September 11 made us realise that the European Union is not fully adapted to the new world context.
The aim of terrorism is to foster conflict between citizens of the same community.
The repulsion felt by society itself towards all those who use crime and threats is therefore a fundamental aspect of the fight against terrorism.
The terrorists take advantage of the eradication of physical borders and the remaining legal and police borders between the Member States, and it is therefore vital to progress in the creation of this space to prevent it from being abused through the courts.
In the committee I have the honour of chairing, we shall continue to give the same attention to the results of the application of the action plan against terrorism and the future strategy of the Union.
We also reserve the right to inform Parliament should we see that the Union's commitment against terrorism is weakened or if the disputes between authorities or governments endanger the safety of European citizens.
Thank you, Mr President.
On behalf of my political group, I would like to highlight and record here that the speed at which decisions have been taken by the European Union since 11 September must be a sign of political will and the great things it can achieve.
We need political will, but - and I reiterate the words of the chairman of my committee - we also need new procedures that will enable us to fulfil the citizens' demands.
The Convention needs to address this issue and propose the necessary amendments in order to achieve a single structure that covers the area of internal justice.
I hope that you are and that you will fully involve Parliament in this work, as you did in reacting to 11 September, thereby showing this to be positive.
We also believe that these measures cannot be separated from other measures designed to reinforce our society's defence.
Defence of the Rule of Law, increased citizen confidence in the institutions, democratic dialogue, great care to avoid racism and xenophobia, respect and compensation for victims - and in this regard I welcome the Commissioner's proposal - and also a foreign policy based on these principles: strength in the fight against terrorism, strength also in the establishment of conditions that allow us to address at source situations of instability which are extremely dangerous for us all.
In this regard, I would also like to ask you how the negotiations with the United States on cooperation in this field are going.
I would also like to ask you whether you are going to inform Parliament of the progress of these negotiations and their result, and whether you are going to take account of Parliament's resolution of last December in this regard.
We need to ensure greater freedom for our citizens by safeguarding cooperation between the Member States in pursuit of greater effectiveness.
But we must make a special effort to keep up a dialogue with Muslims and include them in European societies.
The international fight against terrorism inevitably overlaps with the question of combating weapons of mass destruction.
The danger is that any pre-emptive action in the form of a war of conquest geared to regime change will leave the United States looking like an imperialist power in the Middle East.
The backlash could create a whole new cause célèbre for terrorism.
We must ensure openness and respect for liberty and democracy in the adoption of anti-terrorism measures, but in the 30-page terrorism roadmap you will only find Parliament mentioned four times.
The Council is negotiating agreements on mutual legal assistance, extradition and exchange of personal data with the United States, involving Europol-FBI cooperation.
In principle, that is fine, but there is no democratic or judicial scrutiny.
Mr President, there are many fine words in the report on combating terrorism.
The truth is, however, that we currently find ourselves in a crucial situation, in which the EU must make up its mind whether it wishes to follow the USA blindly, irrespective of what the latter may come up with in relation to Iraq.
Now we are in the process of putting a vital player in a peace process on the EU's list of terrorist organisations.
If that does not go completely against all of the pretty words on crisis prevention, I do not know what does.
As Commissioner Patten mentioned a moment ago, the most effective strategy for fighting terrorism is conflict prevention.
These are all elements which my group very much applauds because they are the key elements of the non-violent fight against terrorism.
Add to this the concern about the US's unilateralism and the rejection of so-called pre-emptive strikes, the strong emphasis on the protection of fundamental civil rights and the recognition of the need to lay down minimum standards in the field of criminal law, and I think it is right to say that what is being presented in this resolution is a balanced inventory of causes and possible actions.
As far as I am concerned, this is a European view of terrorism, not necessarily compared to an American view of terrorism, but as a basis for an even-handed dialogue on terrorism between equals.
I am convinced that only if the practice becomes as balanced as and is like this paper resolution, will we manage to fight terrorism successfully without creating new causes of terrorism.
I have also re-read the debate on Galileo.
It is not possible to prevent and combat terrorism effectively while so many million people are living in a hopeless state of ignorance, poverty, political and economic stagnation and lack of freedom.
No leader in the Arab world has been toppled by a popular uprising in the last 80 years, and nothing will change if we remain passive.
Europe has simply come to where we were in 1938, when Chamberlain returned from his meeting with Adolf Hitler in Munich and proclaimed that there would be peace in our time.
If we mean anything by our professions of freedom and democracy, it is our duty to stand together with the USA in the showdown with the whole clutch of dictatorship states which are responsible for breeding terrorism.
I would thank Minister Haarder for his clear emphasis on the need to do this.
Mr President, on that unforgettable day of 11 September 2001, I was in Washington with a delegation from this Parliament.
That day is the point of reference for the worldwide fight against so-called international terrorism.
The resolution does not go beyond offering possible solutions to counter the spreading of Islamism.
For this very reason I should very much like to hear from the Council and the Commission how the Lebanese Republic fits into the European strategy of a global fight against terrorism.
After 11 September, the United States, although undeniably bound up in what is, not least, a political web of interests with the oil-producing countries, attacked without hypocrisy the issue of fundamentalist terrorism, declaring out and out war on the many-headed hydra of Al-Qaeda.
It would seem that Europe wants to play down the contribution to terrorism of certain Arab and Islamic countries such as Iraq, Syria, Libya, the Sudan, Iran and others.
The Antimafia Commission has condemned the collusion between the Mafia and terrorism on a number of occasions: in my country, the Mafia organisation, the Camorra, regularly supplies terrorists with false documents.
It is our duty to clamp down on such attitudes and behaviour and bring to justice the people, groups and organisations which promote terrorism.
Mr President, at this stage of the debate nobody can doubt that the main threat to our security as Europeans today is terrorism.
No distinction should be made between national and international terrorism because, in the world in which we live, terrorism is global and the Member States alone do not have the capacity to combat it effectively.
In this regard, it should be recognised that, since the tragic attacks of 11 September 2001, we have made considerable progress at European and international level in combating this scourge.
It is not, therefore, appropriate today to make a declaration on our commitment to the fight against terrorism - which is a given - but it is appropriate to debate with the Commission and the Council the practical measures adopted, the effectiveness of their implementation in all the Member States, and, above all, what more we can and must do.
In order to accomplish this, we must use, as a framework, the action plan that has already been adopted and, as an objective, the necessary transfer to the Convention on the future of the European Union of the mandate to develop the third pillar and continue to extend the Community legal basis in this field.
I am briefly going to talk about a few ideas which, at the proposal of my group, have been included in the common resolution upon which we are to vote tomorrow, as they are in keeping with the role of driving force which the European Parliament has been playing, even since before the September 11 attacks.
We also need to introduce democratic clauses into association and partnership agreements signed by the European Union with third countries - the agreement we are shortly to sign with Lebanon can set a precedent - and we must adopt shared measures between the Member States which avoid instrumentalising the democratic framework to the benefit of both terrorists, directly, and their necessary accomplices and collaborators, indirectly.
Within the scope of current legislation, and within the scope of the Rule of Law, the European Union must always be vigilant in the face of any attempt to justify recourse to violence, because there is no such thing as good and bad terrorists.
The motive behind their crimes is always the same, and their result, which is equally unjust, is that there have already been deaths in the Basque country and in Indonesia.
I think this is a good time to take stock of the progress that has been made in the fight against international terrorism, but also of the guiding principles on which this progress should be based.
The European Parliament would like to be informed more frequently and more effectively about the implementation of the action plan.
Parliament's motion for a resolution devotes a great deal of attention to the role of the United Nations in the fight against international terrorism, and rightly so.
This is not only a question of principle, it is also desirable in view of the need to create the widest possible support for the fight against international terrorism.
We would like to see aspects such as the promotion of democracy and the fight against poverty playing a clear role in this.
We are, in fact, talking about a form of conflict prevention, which is surely the EU's general priority in its foreign policy.
These countries, or regions, offer an excellent home and operating base for criminals and terrorist activities, two things that often go hand in hand.
The European Union should, I believe, adopt a more pro-active stance, particularly in the case of a few regions closer to home - one of which I mentioned a moment ago - and not leave the solution of the Transdniestria problem, for example, to other countries and organisations alone.
Finally, we are of the view that the European Union could easily be a little more ambitious in its thoughts about its role in the fight against terrorism when it comes to the deployment of the new instruments of the common foreign and security policy in combating terrorism.
This would also fit in with our more general view that our activities to fight terrorism should take place more at EU level than at national level.
Terrorism is not a new phenomenon in itself.
It was not 'invented' on 11 September 2001.
On the other hand, global terrorism with a worldwide network, high-tech weapons and apparently inexhaustible economic resources is a new and extremely frightening phenomenon.
The attacks in New York and Bali made it clear to everyone that the fight against terrorism must be carried out at global level, in the form of police and judicial cooperation, intelligence and investigations.
However, it is also important to engage in long-term, preventive cooperation to eradicate, or at least minimise, the causes of terrorism.
The international alliance must therefore prioritise massive efforts to strengthen democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
Trade, aid and cooperation in international organisations are also important.
In the fight against terrorism, peace in the Middle East would be an extremely important contribution to the jigsaw.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party fully realises the need for increased cooperation in order to combat terrorism.
That is why we must not, in our eagerness to combat terrorism, undermine the heart of democracy.
I should like to ask the Council what is being done to obtain a clear picture of, in particular, the situation of the European citizens in Cuba.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Council and the Commission, first of all I would like to express my full support for the resolution and the words of the representatives of the Council and the Commission here present.
I do not need, either on behalf of my group or on behalf of my own Galician political organisation, to reiterate my categorical rejection and condemnation of terrorism.
In this regard, I would like to emphasise that the resolution requires the creation of conditions to combat terrorism within the context of absolute respect for the law and human rights, both through the eradication of poverty and marginalisation, and through the fight against fundamentalist ideology, which - even more than poverty - is often given as the main justification for terrorism.
First of all, I believe it is necessary to talk about a practical policy and reject - as the resolution also does to some extent - the militarist unilateralism of the United States and its doctrine of pre-emptive action which contravenes all international rules.
I would also like to draw attention to the problem in the Middle East.
It seems to me that we all agree that the problem of Palestine is at the root of international terrorism, and in any case, it is apparently the justification for this terrorism.
And frequently the necessary dialogue is not promoted, not only between political groups, but also between different institutions which are affected and which suffer the effects of terrorism.
Mr President, the attacks of 11 September 2001, and more recently on the island of Bali, have demonstrated the unpredictability of the terrorist threat, its lethal seriousness and our vulnerability in the face of it.
It is true that there are other motives for terrorist activity, of a political, nationalist or separatist nature, even on European soil, which we find equally repulsive but which are today, unfortunately, outweighed by this predominant form of terrorism, which is especially dangerous because it attacks anywhere, uses indiscriminate violence and believes itself to be unfettered by any moral or human constraint.
At European level, the strategy of the Member States must be underpinned, as has already been said, by the effective use of all the mechanisms of judicial and police cooperation and information sharing, also strengthening an extended concept of security and defence that takes account of the need to confront this renewed international threat.
We realise that the prevention and suppression of terrorism can also involve the promotion of dialogue between civilizations and the adoption of effective policies to combat social, economic or cultural factors, which, although they cannot by any means justify terrorist violence, are systematically exploited and used by terrorist activists.
It is, Mr President, on the basis of these principles of the unity of ideas in the fight against terrorism, which obviously outweigh the differences we have with some of the conclusions of the joint motion for a resolution that we are discussing, that we shall support this motion and vote in favour of it.
There will never be peace between rich people who are too rich and too arrogant, and poor people who are too poor and too humiliated.
It is a fact of life, ladies and gentlemen, that any empire which cannot grow and cope with excessive ambitions and the arrogance of power without having recourse to violence will inevitably bring about rebellions; it is another fact of life that the rebellion of oppressed people is violent, mindless and savage and nothing could be more serious for us, the nations of Europe, who are familiar with history, than to become embroiled in a problem which, under the pretext of combating terrorism, could lead us to feel widespread mistrust towards the developing world which represents, I would point out, three quarters of the peoples of the world.
Moreover, not all categories of citizens in the Member States will be faced with a threat of the rule of law.
There are certain categories of citizens in the Netherlands and in other Member States who are victims of such extortion, and we must fight for people in that position, so that the rule of law is no longer under threat for them.
Those responsible for the serious attacks were well-educated, well-to-do people who were perfectly able to fit into any developed society, including Western society, and could even have achieved high status there.
There is always a handful of people who are susceptible to this.
Mr President, yet again we are discussing the issue of terrorism in the context of the appalling atrocity in Bali in which hundreds of people lost their lives.
It is clear what needs to be done: respect for the rule of law, protection of rights, scrutiny of the action our states take to deal with terrorism, democratic dialogue to try and deal with underlying issues and so forth.
It is not enough to contain terrorism, although I have no doubt of the power of our states to do so.
Not all the European Union Member States have experienced terrorism since the end of the Second World War, but a significant number have.
Mr President, the events in Bali have underlined that there is a need for a multilateral approach to the fight against terrorism.
We acted rapidly in Europe following 11 September: we can congratulate ourselves on this.
We want to live in an area of security, freedom and justice, and the fight against international terrorism is the most important challenge on the foreign and security policy scene.
The USA and Europe are united by the fundamental values and principles of democracy and freedom and justice, of human rights and the right of individuals to achieve their potential.
Despite our differences of opinion, that which unites us is much stronger than that which divides us.
Mr President, an interesting debate, but one wonders what the point is of tracts fifty paragraphs long on the subject of terrorism, over and above their value as a medium for a series of internal exchanges of views between the political groups of the European Parliament.
If, however, you turn on the mass media to which the citizens of Europe are listening, you will see that the main terrorist-related issue today is the question of the attack on Iraq, a country which is harbouring or is considered to be harbouring weapons of mass destruction which might be used to support terrorist and other activities.
I think the European Parliament should have taken a stand on these issues, but it has deliberately avoided doing so in the vague wording of this motion for a resolution which, I think, responds neither to the interests of the citizens of Europe nor to the demands of the time.
Firstly although the largest terrorist attacks in the last year have taken place in New York and Bali, it would be interesting to consider what Europe's response would have been if the original attack that drew our attention to the scale of terrorism, that of 11 September 2001, had taken place in Europe; if the aeroplanes, instead of flying into the twin towers in New York, had flown into the Eiffel Tower, the buildings of the European Parliament or any other major European building.
Perhaps such self-examination would have given us a greater insight into the ambiguities and the difficulties we face in dealing with the phenomenon of terrorism, which we have not yet entirely renounced.
The second aspect that I should like to mention - in addition to praising the Council's intention to maintain close cooperation with the United States in this field - is that, in fact, and this is an important point, terrorism has little to do with poverty.
Poor people are clearly involved in terrorist actions, but those directing operations are not poor.
And this does not, of course, come from the poorest, or at least not directly from the poorest.
Lastly, I should like to refer to something Commissioner Patten said, quoting Popper.
The problem we face today is also one that Popper raised: it is not so much the tension between the need to preserve freedoms and our perception of what the security and defence of free society means, but our inability and unwillingness to believe in the moral superiority of democracy and of freedom.
Unfortunately, some ambiguities in Europe today are preventing us from doing so.
I now note, however, that although we in the European Parliament have already made as much as EUR 2.8 million available for Eurojust, for example, this money cannot be spent because our European authorities are not able to operate effectively for national, petty reasons.
If the national police forces are not prepared to cooperate with Europol and if the national ministries of justice are not prepared to support Eurojust, then we can carry on getting up on our soapboxes to say how important it is to fight terrorism, but we will never succeed in doing so because it is preventive action that is needed.
To be able to take preventive action we also need functioning authorities, and we will only achieve this if the national countries, the 15 Member States of the European Union, finally make it possible for our authorities, such as Europol and Eurojust, to act.
At the same time, however, I note that Members were basically positively disposed towards the anti-terror legislation and voted in favour of it.
This does not, however, in any sense serve primarily to combat terrorist activities; above all it gives the EU greater powers to conduct investigations through, for example, the Schengen Information System II and the European arrest warrant.
The completely arbitrary definition of terrorism provides the clearest indication of all that the war on terror has little to do with combating terrorism and instead has as its primary objective the erosion of fundamental rights in the EU.
On 31 August 1995, however, by supporting the action of the UN reaction force deployed on the Igman mountain to put a stop to the Serbian batteries which had resumed their indiscriminate bombing of the city of Sarajevo, the UN played an essential part in resolving the crisis, enabling the signature of the Dayton Accords and the introduction of a lasting cease-fire.
Since then, UN forces have been successfully deployed in Kosovo and more recently still in Macedonia, helping to restore calm to the area, although it has not resolved all the political problems.
Today, the same debate has started on the role that the Atlantic alliance could possibly play in the fight against international terrorism.
The vocation of the alliance to this day is to intervene in European territory and neighbouring countries, wherever there is a potential threat against its values that Pacheco Pereira has just reiterated.
The choice is simple, either the European Union continues to leave the Americans to deal with military problems on its continent by being happy to play some minor role in resolving problems that threaten peace, much like the Athenians in ancient Rome, or it finally becomes their equal and shares the burden of defending itself against all the threats, which is what they have been asking us to do since the Atlantic Alliance was formed.
The approach taken by the EU in developing its strategy for the fight against terrorism is extremely important.
The resolution that the two committees are tabling jointly here is, therefore, an important one.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy has made its contribution by delineating the main instruments which the EU has at its disposal for the prevention of conflicts, for example the development of democracy, and also trade and diplomacy.
International law is a crucial element if we are to have a society based on the rule of law.
This applies to smaller states in particular.
For this reason, it is crucial that the EU stands up for the UN and its charters, even in difficult times, and does not undermine the central role of the United Nations as the world's peacekeeper.
The first is that we should extend the network that we have already formed to include Europol liaison officers and that we should use it for analysis purposes and for criminal prosecution, but also to provide support to third countries.
What we need are better ways of channelling information into our files, not only in the Member States, but also from third countries into the European Union.
The third point is that in some cases we are still working with extremely antiquated systems such as the fingerprint system.
Fourthly, we must not only think in terms of cooperation with the USA, but should accept the offer and take the hand that is being extended to us by the Asian states and work together with them in the fight against terror.
Today, Commissioner, it is not enough to simply imprison the terrorists.
It has demonstrated its solidarity and will to support the United States, it has alerted people to the risk of linking terrorism to the Islamic Arab world and has speeded up integration in the fight against terrorism by means of an action plan consisting of more than 60 measures and a series of framework decisions, including the European arrest warrant and police cooperation in the fight against terrorism.
The determination to eradicate terrorism and the urgent need to set up new and effective instruments to achieve this cannot, under any circumstances, disproportionately affect individual rights, freedoms and guarantees.
By the same token, the relentless fight against the terrorist threat must be definitively limited under international law.
Totalitarian societies hold the primacy of the law in contempt both at national level and in international relations.
The concept of international legality is the invention of democracies.
This fact must not be interpreted as any kind of justification for the odious attacks against civilian populations but as a factor that is crucial to understanding this phenomenon of violence.
At the strictly European level, we must here emphasise and condemn the inability and lack of will persistently demonstrated by the governments of the Member States to follow up the proposal to harmonise policies and to create common instruments to combat terrorism that were put forward, in a timely manner, by the Commission.
When the United States justifiably initiates a global campaign against organisations responsible for terrorism and the regimes that sponsor it, it is important for us to remind them that they allied themselves to Osama Bin Laden and Saddam Hussein when it suited their foreign policy objectives.
A global fight against terrorism will be successful only if it is free of inconsistency and hypocrisy in its approach and if it tackles the injustices that feed terrorism in the first place.
If today, the entire world has taken up the fight against terrorism, it has done so because terrorism violates precisely that which the entire world - all the States and all the citizens - has subscribed to in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
If we have to take a step forward, we must do so not least by sending out a message as the European Union, calling for monitoring of the penal systems of all the States which have signed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, for, very often, the penal systems which have produced their own internal definitions of human rights are not consistent with the Declaration.
Yet there are still those who seek to apologise for the terrorists and try to establish some sort of moral equivalency between terrorist acts and, for example, the actions of the security forces of the democracies engaged in counter-terrorism.
We never fought the IRA politically, because we were never clear on our own political objectives.
Now we have IRA terrorists in government.
The message of recent years is that terrorism works.
The resolution contains some elements that are indisputable, but it is very skewed and contains the usual ingredients of anti-Americanism, excessive concern with the rights of terrorists and extremists and those that support them, and further support for the federalist ambitions of the European Union.
The reference in paragraph 4 of the resolution to the right of self-defence is incorrect and a distortion of the United Nations Charter.
Madam President, the relentless escalation of terrorism is turning the fight against it into a priority objective of a number of policies, and, therefore, of the policy we want here in Parliament.
Recent events, such as those in Bali, the Philippines and Israel, show the urgency of coordinated, joint action to eliminate this social scourge which attacks the most fundamental rights, such as life and democracy, the system of government that we have chosen for ourselves.
Fortunately, we reached a swift agreement, and, ten days after the attacks on 11 September 2001, we had already signed a plan to combat terrorism jointly.
We must go into detail and say which States are cooperating more or less than others, because this is a problem that we are also experiencing on our doorstep.
Last Tuesday, we interrupted the Plenary to condemn the attack in which a sergeant in the Spanish Civil Guard, Juan Carlos Beiro, died in Leiza (Navarre).
This is a priority objective, which should encourage all European citizens to call on you to come here to provide explanations, and the Council to identify those States which are fulfilling their duties, implementing the action plan we implemented on 21 September 2001, and those which are not.
Many have talked about the balance we need to find between the effective combating of terrorism, on the one hand, and consideration for citizens' rights on the other.
With regard to the EU's role and position, I want to say that we are actively involved in this confrontation with international terrorism.
With regard to financial resources, the Council has, as a follow-up to Resolution 1373, taken steps to freeze funds belonging to terrorists and terrorist organisations.
The first terrorist lists were adopted in December of last year.
As quite a few rapporteurs have also mentioned, the relationship between the EU and the United States is basically rock-solid and founded upon a community of values.
It is binding upon us, and it has been a success that will now hopefully be crowned by the signing of an agreement on mutual legal assistance and extradition.
It is the case in this field as in others that, when the EU and the United States stand shoulder to shoulder, there is a lot we can do for justice and freedom in the world.
It is crucial that we maintain the close cooperation with the United States, both in this and other areas, and we must of course constantly work to ensure that the United States chooses to act multilaterally rather than unilaterally.
I would just like to say on behalf of the Commission that I am sure that one can conclude from this debate that the measures that have been taken at European level and in the Member States concerning the fight against terrorism have been adopted with a strict respect for the rule of law and the characteristics of an open society.
Nobody can criticise the measures adopted by the Union or the Member States as being emergency or exceptional rules.
They are fully integrated into our common legal framework.
Of course, they demonstrate that democracy is not weak when it comes to fighting organised crime or terrorism.
A perception by citizens that democracy is not efficient enough in fighting terrorism and organised crime is one possible source of disaffection.
You know from your own national experience how difficult it can be to ensure proper exchange of intelligence between police forces and secret services in your own Member States.
The cooperation between intelligence-gathering services and police forces at European level in the fight against terrorism since 11 September can be successful.
However, we need to recognise that there are two other very important areas.
The first is the fight against the financing of terrorism, which is much more complex.
The Commission will give priority to this issue in 2003.
We must not forget the important role of the Council of Europe in the fight against terrorism.
I hope that the negotiations in progress in the Council of Europe on a convention on terrorism will be successful.
In the dialogue with the United States of America on the fight against terrorism and on police and judicial cooperation, we should recognise the important contribution the American debate on civil liberties can make to our own European debate on fundamental rights and civil liberties.
That is why we are engaged in a dialogue with the United States on a mutual legal assistance agreement and an extradition agreement in which we defend our own points of view and our values.
We will also test the political will of the United States to accept and respect our positions.
As you know, the framework decision on terrorism will have to be transposed into the national laws of the Member States by the end of this year and the European arrest warrant by the beginning of 2004.
However, seven Member States have, as you know, committed themselves to adopting the European arrest warrant in their legal systems in the first half of 2003.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The next item is the Council and Commission statements on Echelon.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have the floor.
The decision states that there is no longer any doubt about the existence of a worldwide system for intercepting communications.
The decision was based upon a report from the Temporary Committee on the Echelon Interception System.
The report drew attention to a number of arrangements for protecting private individuals and enterprises in the EU.
The report has done a lot to contribute to there having been particular awareness of this area in the EU, the Member States and the national parliaments.
The focus that there has been on the ability to intercept communications with a view to obtaining commercial advantages has also helped the people of Europe and European companies to appreciate the need to protect communications.
In connection with Parliament's reading of the report, the then Belgian Presidency's contribution dealt with the basic principles that ought to apply to any interception system.
In this context, the Presidency referred, for example, to the central principles for protecting privacy and the right to free communication, expressed in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 7 of the European Union's Charter.
In my capacity as representative of the Presidency of the Council, I want to focus on the protection of our communications.
This has most recently found expression in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector.
It is the Presidency's view that, over and above this, efforts should be made to obtain an increased use of encryption, just as there should be a focus upon IT security, both in the EU institutions and in the nation states.
IT security is a top priority in the common European action plan, 'eEurope 2005', which covers, for example, the development of secure communications used for the secure exchange of qualified public information within the Community.
The action plan is also aimed at promoting a security culture in all areas in which work is done on developing and using information and communications systems.
Finally, the action plan also includes the establishment of a Cyber Security Task Force which, in cooperation with the Member States and the private sector, is to operate as a catalyst for initiatives in the security area.
Allow me to note in conclusion that the Presidency would also like to work towards a Council resolution's being adopted, aimed at establishing a common strategy for network and information security with a view to establishing a common European security culture.
The proposal for a resolution calls, for example, upon the Member States to ensure that IT security becomes an essential feature of the individual countries' rules, just as the Member States should adopt satisfactory measures to prevent and respond to events involving security.
Finally, the proposal calls upon the Member States to encourage partnership between the university world and companies, with a view to bringing about secure technology and maintenance.
A few days later, on 11 September, the entire world was in shock.
The world changed.
The role of network and information security proved to be crucial.
We also found that European society was increasingly vulnerable to problems related to network and information security.
Before responding to the main concerns raised by the European Parliament, I would like stress, as I did last year, a strong and solid underlying principle: the European Union is founded on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, based on Article 6 of the Treaty and the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
It is important also to keep in mind that Member States remain responsible for the conduct and supervision of intelligence operations, unless the Council decides otherwise, as specified in Title V of the Treaty on the European Union.
In today's debate, network and information security is about ensuring the availability of services and data, preventing the disruption and unauthorised interception of communications, securing the confidentiality of data and protecting information systems against unauthorised access.
Governments have wider responsibilities towards society and are making efforts to improve security on their territory.
This was the underlying objective of the Commission Communication on Network and Information Security, which proposed a number of measures, such as awareness-raising actions and improved exchange of information mechanisms.
The newly adopted eEurope 2005 Action Plan aims to strengthen the exchange of information and good practice, to establish a European centre of competence, to create a culture of security and to establish a secure communication environment.
We need to assign responsibilities to all the sectors involved in information and communication technologies in order to create a culture of security.
The Council resolution of 28 January 2002 on a common approach and specific actions in the area of network and information security also developed this concept further.
The European Parliament has dealt with the issue by preparing a report on the Commission's policy proposal, which was adopted yesterday, calling for a strong European answer to the increasing information security problem.
With the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission advocating closer European coordination, the setting up of a 'security entity', as the most efficient way to achieve this objective, is now under consideration.
The proposal being considered at present suggests a number of issues, interests and concerns that are addressed by Parliament.
Article 17 of the general data protection directive contains the principle of data security.
The new directive on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector was adopted last July.
It will provide a high level of protection for processed personal data.
It includes a provision that requires Member States to guarantee confidentiality of communications and to prohibit any form of interception.
However, Member States can, according to the European Convention on Human Rights, take measures where this is necessary to safeguard national or public security interests or to investigate crime and prosecute criminal offences.
The Commission has launched initiatives to ensure compatibility between data protection and privacy rules on the one hand and law enforcement needs on the other.
As far as the interception of telecommunications for criminal investigation purposes is concerned, the Commission believes that the interception rules in the EU Convention on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters constitute, at the current stage, a balanced approach.
The dual-use regulation, which includes export control provisions for information security products and services, in place since September 2000, guarantees the availability and free circulation of encryption products and technologies throughout the European Union.
As for the technology itself, support through the Community's framework research programme, in particular the information society technologies programme, has improved the conditions for developing top-of-the-range encryption products.
As a result, a Commission decision has been adopted containing security provisions and extensive rules on IT security.
As you see, we have achieved quite a lot already, but there is still a substantial amount of work to be done.
The recently adopted data protection directive, the report from the European Parliament on the proposed information security policy, the eEurope 2005 Action Plan and the plans to establish a European cyber security unit will further lay down the modalities for future work in the area of network and information security.
These guidelines emphasise the importance of applying certain common principles for information security, underpin the work which is taking place at European level and are in line with the 'culture of security' principle as addressed in the eEurope 2005 Action Plan.
In December, the Telecommunication Council will debate and monitor the status of implementation of the common European strategy on network and information security, an issue the Danish presidency sees as a top priority.
Through these actions by the European institutions and Member States, we hope to sharpen the focus and step up efforts on network and information security as a vital measure to prevent illegal interception or economic espionage, underpinning the smooth functioning of our economies and societies.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to confine myself to making a few comments to the Commission.
Even when we were still drafting the report, however, it was already clear that the Commission was treating the matter like the famous three monkeys who, in the Buddhist tradition, are supposed to report on mankind at the Koshin festival in accordance with the dictum, 'Hear no evil, see no evil, speak no evil'.
Commissioner, you will be aware of what we call on the Commission to do in items 27 to 44 of the report.
Your data protection directives, which are very important and very far-reaching, are actually only of limited interest here.
Nevertheless, I see no evidence that the Commission has in the meantime carried out the security analysis that we requested, which actually also requires the development of a comprehensive system for classifying people and documents so as to protect secrets.
That is why we are going to give you a helping hand by adopting a new resolution and, Commissioner, should progress on this continue to be as disappointing as it has been so far, and should our points continue to be almost ignored, then we would also have to reach an understanding on the basis of the forthcoming Commission discharge.
I assume that other Members will also be expanding on this point.
In the resolution we adopted last year on the worldwide interception of telecommunications, a great deal of attention was devoted to the political importance of international cooperation on the part of the intelligence services.
An important point in that debate was that the vast majority of this Parliament is not opposed to interception per se and that intelligence services are necessary even in a democracy.
In the report drawn up by the temporary committee, it was emphasised that effective intelligence services are necessary in our modern society.
Not only in the fight against terrorism and international crime, but also as a key element in the development of our own European security policy.
If we want to accomplish autonomous capacity in the area of defence and our own intervention force within the framework of the Petersberg tasks, then the ability and capacity to gather intelligence forms part of this.
According to our report, this aspect too leaves a great deal to be desired in a number of countries.
Under pressure from international terrorism and the events of last year, cooperation between the intelligence services seems to have improved, not only within the European Union but also with the United States.
European citizens are entitled to know that the privacy enshrined in their national legislation is also protected in the event of international cooperation between the intelligence services.
Needless to say, we should like to thank Commissioner Liikanen for informing this House about the technical aspects of the worldwide interception of communications on behalf of the Commission.
It is, however, regrettable, that Commissioner Patten is not here to inform us further about the international aspects I mentioned a moment ago.
Without sufficient clarity on this score, EU policy is not only incomplete but also lacks credibility.
The Liberal group opted for a dual-track approach in this respect, namely the protection of the rights and privacy of the individual citizen on the one hand, and the safeguarding of the EU's economic interests by means of measures to prevent industrial espionage on the other.
My next point is that we also asked for very specific measures to stimulate awareness among citizens and the business community.
Madam President, until a few years ago, any attempt at dialogue with the Council or the Commission over Echelon would be cut short on the pretext that it was just a rumour in the press on which there was no comment to be made.
We poured time and human resources into the issue but we have very little to show for it, for, until today, neither the Commission nor the Council have made any effort to protect the citizens.
Well then, thus far, nothing has been done in Europe in this area and I feel that the failure of the institutions and Parliament itself to take any practical steps regarding Echelon and the matter of interception of communications damages their legitimacy.
If I may be so bold, it is my opinion that the Council and the Commission should, at least, consider drawing up a framework decision protecting the citizens from arbitrary interception of communications and giving them the right to plead their cause before a court, to appeal to a national court for prosecution of these types of interception.
The Council should adopt a framework decision which provides protection against the activities of intelligence services of other Member States or third countries.
The very existence of systems for the indiscriminate interception of communications is a violation of Article 6 of the EU Treaty, as the Commissioner himself has recognised.
My group is strongly opposed to the actions taken by the Council with a view to bringing telecommunications interception capabilities into line with the new technologies.
Finally, the promotion of encryption cannot be a substitute for efforts to find political solutions - more strict legal guarantees and effective parliamentary control, for example.
To say that encryption will solve our problems is an admission of failure.
We clearly stated our concern about the low level of protection given to our individual freedoms against this threat, about the security of communications sent and received by our businesses, and even about 'fair trade' in the international market.
Furthermore, in this plenary, we adopted 44 recommendations intended mainly for the Council, the Commission and the Member States.
My feeling is that everyone has chosen to forget this report and its conclusions.
I can, first of all, only deplore the decision by Parliament's Bureau not to promote the publication of the report.
And, returning to the Council and the Commission, it is time to state clearly that little activity has been seen this year.
Our situation today vis-à-vis the citizens and our businesses is not substantially different to that of a year ago.
I would just like to point out that, last year, the Italian Socialist Party delegation abstained in the vote on the Smith report because the report did not place sufficient emphasis on the fact that the indiscriminate interception of communications by Echelon are contrary to any human rights legislation.
After 11 September, of course, all this was forgotten, and people said to each other: 'You see how necessary the secret service is!' It is necessary, but the objection could have been raised that, considering its failure to prevent terrorism thus far, it might not be very effective.
Of course, the problem then arises of democratic control of the secret services in the various States, which is, in effect, largely non-existent.
In actual fact, we have a situation where some Union Member States are intercepting the activities of the institutions, citizens and firms of other Member States.
These indiscriminate systems of data and document interception and communication violate the fundamental right of respect for one's private life which is enshrined in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
As Commissioner Liikanen stated just now, these systems flagrantly violate the European citizens' freedoms, and thus undermine the concept of free trade and the security of the Union too.
We consider these violations to be unacceptable, and the Commissioner's words, tossed as they were into the middle of the debate, will only be sufficient if they are borne out by subsequent action.
Basically, we cannot address such sensitive points relating to the interception of communications and the supervision of police and intelligence services without dealing with a key issue which is a source of discrimination - judicial and parliamentary control, or democratic control.
Madam President, it is good that this debate is taking place here today.
After a year's work, the Echelon Committee tabled recommendations and requests.
Allow me to make a preliminary remark.
A few days after the debate that we held last year, there was the horrific attack of 11 September on the United States of America.
There were two reactions to this.
The majority of this House was convinced that strategic telecommunications controls could be a useful instrument for intelligence services, provided that legal safeguards and a proper system of checks and balances were in place.
What happened on 11 September does not in any way change our demands for clear legal bases, for parliamentary control and for the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights to be complied with.
The Commission is doing too little here.
Madam President, intelligence work is important if the open society is to be defended.
That is why many countries have wisely chosen to strengthen their intelligence services in the light of 11 September, and there is, of course, also cooperation between the individual nations' intelligence services.
I am, however, obliged to say, ladies and gentlemen, that, as things are at the moment, this is a national concern, and the cooperation that takes place between the countries' respective services is therefore an intergovernmental concern and not a matter for the Council.
The Council is able, and would like, to help strengthen cooperation on the protection of our communications.
It is something I naturally take on board, but I am not in a position in which I can tell my esteemed colleagues that, yes, we shall do this or that.
Mrs Flesch, I mentioned Echelon exactly as many times as it was mentioned in Parliament's resolution.
That means I would have 20 seconds for each.
On paragraph 27, the Commission's proposal for a cyber security task force will come in early December or in November, if we are lucky.
This applies to both paragraphs 27 and 28.
Paragraph 29 concerns research work on encryption technology.
So it does not solve all the problems, but I am very much in favour of it.
Paragraph 31 concerns standardisation.
Their working group on NIS was set up in June 2002.
Paragraphs 32 and 34 call for European institutions and the public administrations of the Member States systematically to encrypt e-mails.
There are now a number of measures in the Commission's strategy which are based on preventing intrusion into the Commission's internal network, ensuring a good overall level of security.
Paragraph 34 calls for particular attention to be paid to the position of the applicant countries.
Paragraphs 36, 37 and 39 concern our internal decisions.
A new decision on the Commission's security provisions was taken in November 2001.
Our security directorate has drafted a new information systems security programme.
In paragraph 40, you call on the Commission and Member States to invest in new technologies in the field of decryption and encryption techniques as part of the Sixth Framework Programme.
Paragraph 42 calls on the Commission to put forward a proposal to establish a coordinated network of advisory centres.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Madam President, on a point of order, I appreciate the Commissioner's answer, which is very clear, but he said that he had organised a special meeting on open software to stimulate the use of open software by the public sector.
I will check this with my colleague who is running an in-house computer system and will reply in writing to the honourable Member about the exact situation at present.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Mr President, I would like to make it clear that the unusual response given by the Commissioner and Vice-President of the Commission to Question No 93 in the corridor was made worse by the fact that she was accompanied, and her words - which she uttered as a representative of the Commission - clarified, by two MEPs, the Member from the Group of the Party of European Socialists who tabled the question and a Member from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
I hope that this kind of manipulation, regardless of our political positions, which are all respectable, will not happen again in this Chamber.
I was waiting for Question No 2 from 'Further questions'.
I assure you once again that not many questions were answered in this Chamber yesterday and that therefore, in principle, the Commission will answer all the MEPs in writing.
Mr President, I would like to say that the words of the speaker who preceded me are inadmissible.
They are inadmissible, with reference to a complaint tabled correctly by me with regard to discriminatory treatment, without making any reference to the content of any question, for the discriminatory treatment received by the Members to be mixed up with a situation in the Basque country that, I am sad to say, is due precisely to the narrow-mindedness and lack of democracy we suffer in the Spanish State.
Ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that, despite my origins as Member for the Spanish electoral region, which is an honour, I must speak here solely in my capacity as President of the sitting, in Questions to the Council.
As soon as the Commission, which of course has the right of initiative, has presented the Council with the proposals for which it believes there is a need, the Council will give the matter its full attention and will, in any case, take account of Parliament's statement before a decision is made.
The Council has taken note of the various reports accompanying the Commission's communication on the Mid-term Review and, as recently as this month, held a thorough debate on, for example, dairy products.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I wish to say that, were it not for the obstacles put in the way of the Spanish State and of Galicia, my country could achieve a level of milk production similar to that of Ireland or Denmark, whereas today it produces only 1.8 million tonnes.
In any event, it would be able to meet its own requirements and double its level of production.
Bearing this in mind and taking account of the farming structure in Galicia, which is based on family ownership, with a clear focus on milk production, I wish to ask the President-in-Office of the Council: would the Council accept specific measures - that could also be applied to another country - that would enable Galicia to increase its production whilst temporarily maintaining the intervention price system?
Mr President, it is the Commission that has the right of initiative.
Question No 2 by Josu Ortuondo Larrea (H-0608/02): Subject: Declaration by the EU Presidency concerning the island of Perejil On 13 July 2002, the EU Presidency issued a declaration in which it voiced its concern over the situation created by Morocco on the island of Perejil, expressed its full solidarity with Spain and urged Morocco to immediately withdraw its forces.
When Morocco infringed this understanding and this status, the Danish Presidency issued a statement expressing its concern about the situation, as well as solidarity with Spain.
Mr President, the presidency of the Bureau has acted quite correctly in supporting a Member State with regard to the erroneous and unjust attitude of Morocco - a privileged partner of the European Union, as has just been made clear - in the light of action that is unacceptable from a legal and political standpoint.
The President-in-Office of the Council may respond as he sees fit.
I would ask you not to try to tell the Council what its response should be or how it should respond.
The head of the main opposition party in the Spanish State said this recently.
I should like to draw attention to the fact that last year's Council Regulation No 1051 came into force, according to Article 23 of that same regulation, on 1 June 2001.
The Council cannot alter a provision in a legal act without a proposal to that effect having been tabled by the Commission.
I should also like to remind the honourable Member that it is the Commission that is to use the procedure in Article 21 of the regulation I mentioned, and that is something the Commission has already done in adopting transitional measures.
Nor has the Council received any request from a Member State along the lines referred to by the honourable Member.
I have listened to the minister's reply, I have heard that not one government has called for transitional measures and I merely wish to ask the minister if the Council is prepared to approve national subsidies to save thousands of small and medium-sized cotton farms in Greece, if it intends to allow Greece to pay national aid to make up what is, for them, a totally inadequate, ruinous income.
I can safely say in reply that a proposal by the Commission is also, of course, required for a solution such as the one intimated here, and I do not believe that there is any Member State that has requested such a proposal.
The problem is that this situation does not only affect last year's harvest, it also affects subsequent harvests.
For the second year running, producers are tearing their hair out because the Greek government has arbitrarily set production at 275 kilograms per decare, whereas output is much higher and no-one knows what will become of it.
In February 2001, this House voted almost unanimously for an increase in cotton production because the European Union has a 70% deficit.
Not only has the Greek government made no attempt to push this European Parliament resolution through, so as to protect Greek cotton growers and their produce; it has, as you have heard, been in an untimely hurry to apply the new regulation and has refused to make use of the European Parliament resolution.
Mr President, I call on you to stand up for us here and I call on the Council representative to take a stand on the Greek cotton farmers' request for an immediate overhaul of this disastrous regulation in order to protect farmers facing ruin and their product, which has the status of a national product in Greece.
The rules of procedure are quite clear.
It is the Commission that, in particular cases, must put forward such proposals and, as I said, there is no Member State that has requested a proposal.
I most definitely cannot blame them for doing so.
Decisions concerning the authorisation of export licences are taken individually by each particular Member State, with full account being taken of the Code of Conduct on arms exports and the criteria established in this Code.
The implementation of arms export policies and, therefore, of the Code too continues to be the responsibility of the Member States.
Mr President, I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply.
Question No 7 by Sarah Ludford (H-0681/02): Subject: International Criminal Court The General Affairs Council of 30 September 2002 decided guidelines on the basis of which Member States can negotiate bilateral agreements with the United States to give American personnel some immunity from the International Criminal Court.
How do the GAC guidelines of 30 September accord with the legal advice given previously by the Commission and Council?
Mr President, I should like to answer the three questions together.
I would first of all, however, emphasise that the Council's conclusions concerning the International Criminal Court do not encourage the signing of bilateral agreements on immunity.
It is emphasised that account must be taken of existing agreements between the United States and the individual Member States.
It will be up to each individual Member State to assess whether its bilateral or multilateral treaty relations with the United States can be considered adequate to make allowances for the American requests.
We would also make it quite clear that, if states that are parties to the International Criminal Court were to enter into agreements such as those now proposed by the United States, this would be incompatible with their obligations in relation to the statutes of the Court.
In accordance with the EU's guiding principles, any solution should include suitable operational provisions that ensure that people who have committed crimes that come within the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court do not enjoy immunity.
Legal proceedings must therefore be taken against them, and they must, if necessary, be punished.
Such provisions should be able to ensure that suitable investigations take place and that, if there is sufficient evidence, the national authorities take legal proceedings against people at the request of the Court.
The EU and the United States are agreed that individual responsibility shall apply in the case of the most serious crimes affecting the international community.
For many years, the United States has, in close cooperation with the EU, adopted a leading role when it comes to setting up international criminal courts with a view to bringing criminal prosecutions for such crimes.
Moreover, the EU has carefully defined the category of people to whom this might apply.
Any other solution would have caused cracks to appear in the EU's strong support for the Criminal Court and would have weakened the Court.
A simple rejection of the American proposal would, however, have had very negative consequences for transatlantic relations, and it would have endangered the absolutely vital American commitment to worldwide peacekeeping operations.
With regard to what EU citizens, NGOs and legal experts think, I should like to emphasise that the Council did not discuss this subject in a vacuum and that it certainly did not reach the stated outcome in a vacuum.
The Council's conclusions are based upon extensive consultations between the Member States and upon valuable contributions from the Council's legal service and from the Commission.
The Council has also taken account of the points of view expressed by the NGOs affected.
Throughout the whole process, there have been contacts with third countries that are parties to the Court, and the Presidency has also had exploratory talks with the United States.
It goes without saying that the Council has also taken full account of the views expressed by the elected representatives in the EU, both in the national parliaments and in the European Parliament.
With regard to which Member States may possibly enter into immunity agreements with the United States, I am not, unfortunately, at the moment in a position to provide information, but I should like to answer questions about Romania's bilateral agreement with the United States, signed on 1 August 2002.
The Council remained in close contact with the candidate countries during all of the preparatory work on the position, and the Council intends to maintain these contacts in order to keep the candidate countries fully informed about further developments.
The Council has noted that Romania has still not ratified the agreement in question and hopes that it will take account of the position established by the EU after the agreement had been entered into.
What does interest me is, do you intend to say to Romania, within the hearing of other candidate countries, that their integration depends on their respecting the European Union's common position on the International Criminal Court?
This solution will be of great help to, for example, the candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe which have been in some doubt as to what they should do.
Mr President, Mr Haarder, by way of an introduction to my question I shall say that I do not agree with the Council's decision.
If it forms part of the Community acquis, the Member States and the candidate countries are obliged to observe it and, therefore, clearly cannot ratify bilateral agreements with the United States that run counter to any Council decision.
Lastly, how does the Council think it can control the decisions of the Member States such as, for example, those that could be taken by means of any real bilateral agreements with the United States through amendments to other existing agreements with the US?
Mr President, I was not of course asked about this in the written question.
I shall merely point out that we are concerned here with a common position.
Whether they do or not, will the Council at least seek to strengthen these rather vague guidelines of 30 September which allow loopholes contravening the Statute?
With reference to the first question asked, I want to say that a common position is a common position.
There are no punitive measures for countries that might disregard a common position, but we are normally accustomed to complying with common positions in the EU, and I believe that the candidate countries too will be so.
Mr President, I have to say that the answer by the President-in-Office of the Council shows signs of there being considerable elasticity of interpretation but, as we say in Denmark, it requires a very firm character to sell elastic by the metre.
This is in line with the fact that the United States has persistently and continually refused to ratify the International Criminal Court Treaty.
Yes, in response to the last question I can say that a solution has been found that, in my view, will ensure there are no other candidate countries that enter into agreements corresponding to that entered into by Romania.
As the author is not present, Questions No 8 lapses.
The proposal has no connection with the increased cooperation with the United States, involving talks concerning an agreement on mutual legal assistance and mutual extradition.
I should like to draw attention to the declaration issued by the Council on 30 September 2002 concerning the death penalty and particularly cruel forms of execution.
An article appeared in the English newspaper, the Guardian on 3 September, expressing concern about the fallout from these talks with the USA.
If the Guardian is worried, Mr President-in-Office, we are right to be ten times as worried.
I should like to ask you a specific question: what will be the national parliaments' and the European Parliament's input into these agreements and, on a more general note, what part will they play in ratifying these agreements?
Mr President, it is of course clear from the documentation produced by Statewatch that negotiations concerning these agreements were embarked upon as early as last autumn and that they have been conducted in the greatest secrecy.
Looking at Titles V and VI of the Treaty on European Union, it is apparent from Article 24 that, when it is necessary to conclude an agreement with one or more States etc in implementation of these Titles, agreements may be entered into on behalf of the Council without Parliament's being consulted and without any public debate.
As the author is not present, Question No 10 lapses.
Question No 11 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0626/02): Subject: New opportunities as regards relations with Libya How does the Council view the latest statements made by the Libyan head of state Colonel Muammar Gadaffi, the U-turn in his policy, and the tone of his televised address on the occasion of the 33rd anniversary of his accession to power?
The Council has not discussed Colonel Gadaffi's speeches.
Libya has still not given an answer where this issue is concerned.
The first prepares the way for a rapprochement with the EU and clearly signals a break with the past, while the second reflects the fact that Libya's ambitions on the African continent are incompatible with participation in the Barcelona Process.
The relative weight of the two Libyan points of view naturally depends upon Colonel Gadaffi's ambitions.
Such participation in the Euro-Mediterranean partnership would also mean that Libya, in common with the other partners, would enter into an association agreement and be covered by the MEDA regulation.
I have listened carefully to his words, which at times seemed contradictory insofar as Libya would be invited to participate, but does not appear to be contemplating a change in the situation.
I said quite specifically that those things are not necessarily in conflict with each other.
There would appear, however, to be two conflicting trends in Libya.
Both sides emphasised the importance of taking account of the fact that relations between the EU and the countries concerned vary in character and are at different levels of political and economic development.
The working plan for implementing the EU's common strategy for Ukraine has been presented to the Council, which examined it on 22 July of this year.
The Presidency believes that it should be the EU's overall objective to make the dialogue and cooperation with Ukraine more focused and results-oriented.
The priorities in this working plan are as follows: first of all, the consolidation of democracy, the rule of law and public institutions; secondly, support for the economic transition process, including Ukraine's integration into the European and world economies, and for regional cross-border cooperation with neighbouring countries; thirdly, cooperation on strengthening stability and security within and outside Europe; fourthly, the strengthening of cooperation in the environmental and energy fields and in the context of nuclear safety; fifthly, support for reinforced cooperation in connection with enlargement of the EU; and sixthly and finally, the development of cooperation on legal and internal affairs.
The Council reiterated its conviction that EU enlargement will offer a good opportunity to strengthen relations between the EU and its new neighbours with a view to creating stability and narrowing the gap in prosperity at the EU's new borders.
Secondly, I wonder how you feel that relations between the EU and Ukraine have been affected by the claims concerning military cooperation with Iraq on the part of Ukraine.
It is important for us to remember Ukraine, which is a very important country in Europe.
I am able to add that the Danish Presidency expects the Council, again this year, to request the Commission to submit proposals for the development of an overall EU policy towards the EU's new neighbours, and it can safely be said that Ukraine is a very important nation among these neighbours.
The Council encouraged this new government to lose no time in putting full implementation of the framework agreement and stabilisation and association process at the top of the agenda and emphasised that it is looking forward to close and fruitful cooperation.
The Council is also looking forward to the planned census being held in accordance with international standards.
As part of a multi-annual programme for the years 2002-2004, the European Community has appropriated EUR 130.5 million to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in order to support the country as it prepares to fulfil the obligations associated with the interim agreement and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
The Member States and the Commission are following carefully the progress in fulfilling these criteria that is being made by the authorities in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you very much for that very good, detailed reply and for your formidable knowledge of the situation, which of course explains why we hold you in such high regard.
You also once spoke of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
We are seeing that the term Yugoslavia in expressions such as 'the former Yugoslavia' and 'the remains of Yugoslavia' has actually disappeared and is to be replaced by the term Serbia-Montenegro.
I should like to ask you whether it might not be possible, in the long term, to find a diplomatic solution to the name issue, because it certainly places a strain on this country, which, while it may not threaten its existence, does have profound psychological consequences.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in Macedonia's case it is particularly important to consider how the support that we provide can most effectively bring stability to this region.
That is why I would be interested to know whether within this support programme that you mentioned, which will provide EUR 135 million for the period from 2000 to 2004, funds are also available to promote small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Council has not received any information about this abduction, but I am able to tell you that the Council is still very concerned about the situation in Chechnya and that it can only condemn the many abductions that exacerbate the already very difficult humanitarian situation in the region.
You say that the Council has not received any information on the abduction of Mr Khanbiev.
The second thing is that you are working on preparations for the important meeting that is to take place in Copenhagen, namely the EU-Russia summit.
The agenda for the EU-Russia Summit that is to take place in Copenhagen on 12 November has still not been prepared.
Moreover, she repeated the European Union's position on the matter in order to dispel any misunderstanding of what had been said during the discussion in question.
Human rights issues - and, specifically, the use of cruel forms of execution such as stoning - have always been high on the agenda of the comprehensive political dialogue that takes place at the half-yearly meetings between Iran and the EU.
At the most recent meeting in Teheran on 10 September 2002, a number of specific human rights issues were also discussed.
There must be no doubt at all that the Council will follow these cases very carefully.
More generally, I can inform you that the EU has discussed an initiative aimed at establishing a formal human rights dialogue with Iran on the basis of the guidelines for dialogues with third countries approved by the Council in December of last year.
I should also like to add that human rights are one of the four essential areas in which the Council has stated that it wishes to see progress, now that the EU and Iran are in the process of developing close trade relations.
On 21 October, that is to say a couple of days ago, the Council emphasised that it considers it very important that a human rights dialogue should offer an opportunity to achieve practical improvements regarding respect for human rights.
It was also decided that the first meeting within the framework of this dialogue should take place as early as this year in Teheran.
Finally, the Council has, on the basis of an initiative by the Presidency, very recently brought up a number of matters in quite a few different countries, including Iran.
On the basis of this initiative, the Council adopted, on 30 September, a declaration on the death penalty and, in particular, cruel forms of execution.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I offer you my sincere thanks for your direct answer.
The number of executions reported in Iran has trebled in the last three years and, given these circumstances, the question is this: is the European Union going to conclude a trade agreement with Iran in the wake of these systematic breaches of human rights or not?
I said that the Council never comments on press reports.
My esteemed colleague is undoubtedly right that, in Iran, the death penalty is not just something that exists in theory but also something that is practised.
That is deeply tragic, but the Council has devised a strategy for nonetheless being able to embark upon human rights dialogues with countries that impose this penalty.
Furthermore, our experience of association agreements with a number of third countries, particularly with countries that are quite closely linked to us such as Tunisia, shows that the clause on human rights has had no effect in terms of urging the national authorities to make progress towards democracy and the rule of law.
If, however, something along the lines of an answer is desired, it can often be a good idea to ask the democratic forces in the country concerned.
Question No 17 by Konstantinos Alyssandrakis (H-0648/02): Subject: Promotion of police-state mentality and informer culture in EUROPOL text A report in the newspaper Rizospastis claims that a EUROPOL document entitled 'European Best Practice for Handling Informers' gives guidance and instructions for the 'recruitment and handling' of informers.
This document describes best practice for handling informers with a view to helping the police authorities in the Member States.
It is based partly upon the Executive Committee's decision of 29 April 1999 on general principles governing the payment of informers and upon the Decision of the Central Group of 22 March 1999 on general principles governing the payment of informers.
These decisions have therefore been integrated into the European Union's prior regulatory framework, cf.
It is difficult for passengers to accept being denied boarding.
Although it acknowledged that the airlines needed flexibility in order to manage capacity, the European Community adopted in 1991 - on the eve of the adoption of final legislation on liberalisation - a Regulation on denied boarding due to overbooking which guarantees the passengers affected financial compensation and assistance, but which is extremely limited.
The Commission has therefore proposed a new regulation in order considerably to reduce the number of people denied boarding and to improve protection for those concerned.
We have therefore proposed a significant increase in compensation, above the current levels, which have partly been absorbed by inflation and which these days do not dissuade airlines from denying boarding.
Our proposal will also eliminate the restrictions of the current Regulation.
First of all, it will extend the rights of passengers who are denied boarding to all passengers whose flights are cancelled.
Lastly, our proposal will grant all of these rights to passengers flying on both scheduled and charter flights.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the essential points of our proposal, which substantially increases protection for passengers in the event of problems with their flights and which aims to significantly improve the quality of service and therefore increase guarantees for citizens.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at this difficult time for the civil aviation sector, whose future we debated recently in this Chamber when we discussed the single European sky rules, the European Commission has proposed a new regulation on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding.
As the Commissioner has just pointed out, overbooking, the principal cause of denied boarding, is a negligible consideration when seen against the backdrop of the annual flow of air passengers in the Community area.
We must be very careful and identify precisely the best solutions for achieving the objective without causing repercussions, bearing in mind, not least, the economic impact.
Neither the criteria established for the definition of the new compensation amounts nor the impact assessment satisfy the members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
As far as we are concerned, the important thing is to preserve a balance between protecting passengers and the vitality of a major economic sector such as the air transport sector.
We have therefore proposed a three-category division on the basis of distance and a reduction in compensation amounts.
So there was a warm welcome for Commissioner de Palacio's proposals to move ahead from the 1991 regulations, not just on denied boarding but on delayed and cancelled flights as well.
I think most of the airlines have responded well to this debate, with the air service passenger commitment as a gesture of intent.
In our opinion, we are offered an amendment to Article 7 which called for levels of compensation to be based on specific impact assessments, so that it could not be argued that they were frivolously levied.
I am still concerned that this does not necessarily apply under Amendment No 31, which refers back to Article 9 and not Article 8.
She was left with serious injuries and initially offered GBP 15 compensation.
So why did Mr Collins and our committee go to the trouble of taking his report through Parliament when the Commission clearly had a legislative proposal in its back pocket?
In particular, it concerns proposals on cancellations and long delays, hence the inclusion of the tour operators, as supported by our committee.
The many regional and low-cost airlines would be more critically affected, as their margins are much smaller.
In addition, none of these rules will apply to third country airlines.
Finally, under the leadership of our rapporteur, we have achieved a more sensible and realistic conclusion.
I live in hope that the Commission will listen to Parliament and act accordingly.
The public quite rightly expects and deserves good customer service but this proposal is a step too far.
In our view, the compromise that was struck in the committee constitutes a significant step towards greater consumer protection.
Clearly, the issue that we most need to discuss is the level of compensation.
The objective of the regulation cannot be to abolish the practice of overbooking, but it can be to ensure that this procedure is used in a more reasonable, customer-oriented way.
The economic argument is even more persuasive.
A further reason why we can support the compromise struck in the committee on compensation levels is because we think it is important for consumers to benefit from these improved and binding rules as quickly as possible and not have to wait for them for years because the legislation is, as is so often the case, still sitting in the Council.
In the interests of consumers, my group will be voting against part of Amendment No 29, because we think that compensation only for flights that are cancelled up to 48 hours before departure is unreasonable.
The fact that the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has advocated the introduction of a scheme to rank airlines by user-friendliness is a strong vote in favour of the consumer.
A ranking system of this kind, as is quite usual in the USA, can help to stimulate competition between the airlines on quality and on which provides the most consumer-friendly overall service.
In my opinion, however, the Commission proposal is seriously lacking when it comes to flight cancellations and delays.
The definition of a superior power or force majeure, given by both the Commission and our own Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, does not contain enough certainty to be able to properly distinguish between delays and flight cancellations which fall outside the responsibility of the airline companies.
Travel insurance aimed specifically at flight delays and cancellations might be a possible solution.
My amendments are a necessary supplementary measure intended to provide a decent balance between ticket price and compensation.
The first amendment relates to denied boarding and flight cancellations.
This applies to both denied boarding and cancellation.
I hope that this type of compensation will eventually be introduced for train passengers as well, and indeed for all individuals who are the victims of high prices and poor service.
The proposal has a clear two-pronged approach.
If there are not enough volunteers, however, and everyone wants to go home or to their business appointment and passengers are denied boarding, then they must have some legal redress.
Our view is that if excessive compensation is paid to passengers who are not taken on board, the carriers will pass on these costs to all passengers, and then general price levels will rise, which will affect more people than those denied boarding.
I therefore believe that our proposal is quite sensible.
This states that the regulation does not apply to passengers travelling at a reduced fare which is not available directly or indirectly to the public.
We should state quite clearly that a passenger travelling at a reduced fare also has a right to full compensation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the liberalisation of air transport has brought countless advantages for passengers.
In order better to protect consumers, the liberalisation of air transport requires better market management and rationalisation.
I also believe the intervention of the authorities is extremely important.
I would reiterate here the issue of the competent authority: the proposal for a regulation reveals the importance of Article 14, which deals with the obligation on the part of the authority in this field to inform passengers of their rights.
I would also emphasise the importance of Article 17, concerning implementation, which obliges Member States to designate the body responsible for the implementation of the regulation, to provide them with information and to force them to comply with measures ensuring that passengers' rights are respected.
And in this case, we can see that there are certain discrepancies between the Commission proposal and what is now being suggested by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
I understand the difficulties involved and congratulate both the rapporteur and the Vice-President on having the courage to address this matter.
I believe it was necessary and timely in light of two phenomena: on the one hand, the democratisation of air traffic that we must anticipate in all its forms and with all the consequences it entails and, on the other, the increase in denied boarding, which occurs sometimes and quite often - increasingly often, in fact - for reasons that are not openly declared and which are often commercial.
A balance first of all between passengers' rights and a flexible service.
I must also, however, express one regret: perhaps we have not been firm enough on waiting lists, which are often unclear and on which we should have forced airlines to allocate passengers seats in the order in which they booked.
Often it is even very unpleasant.
In this situation, the European legislator has to act in the interests of consumers, but also in the interests of the air transport sector as a whole.
Much has already been said about the rules that we are examining here at first reading and on which we will vote tomorrow, about how best to tackle the problem of denied boarding, and about reasonable rules in the case of delays.
As several of you have pointed out, we are all significant users of this type of transport and therefore victims of low quality service.
We believe that it is also necessary to protect this type of passenger.
It is true that the specific Regulation provides for this protection, but not in an automatic way, but following a series of very complex procedures, including in some cases hearings before the courts.
What we need to do is provide a simple, immediate and automatic solution for users of combined transport; we cannot therefore accept Amendments Nos 2, 3, 13 and 15.
With regard to the sums of compensation, I said at the beginning that we are prepared to be flexible in relation to our initial position and, in this regard, the Commission cannot accept amendments such as No 23 and part of No 24 and No 31, which eliminates compensation in cases of slight delay.
Furthermore, it should be made very clear who is responsible for compensating passengers and offering them assistance in airports.
The Transport Committee has recommended joint responsibility between the company and the carrier, but this could create uncertainty for passengers.
Therefore, we cannot accept Amendments Nos 16, 17, 18, 19 nor part of Nos 28, 29, 30 and part of No 31.
Amendments Nos 4 and 21 could restrict the flexibility that airlines need to negotiate with possible volunteers and Amendment No 7 and part of Nos 14, 17, 20 and part of No 22 could hinder the practical application of the rules.
A significant proportion of Amendments Nos 25 and 33 would unnecessarily restrict the rights of passengers and we therefore reject them.
Finally, Amendments Nos 5, 35 and 37 propose measures which are outside the scope of the Regulation we are discussing.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, Mr Khanbhai sends his sincere apologies for not being here to present his report.
I would like to stress that this is his report, and I thank him for his work and his willingness to cooperate with other parties.
It is therefore a pleasure to stand in for him today.
It is unacceptable that even today, more than one billion people are living on less than a dollar a day in rural areas of developing countries.
More than 40 years of international aid have not eliminated poverty.
I have been travelling in the ACP countries for over 20 years.
The major cause of poverty is the lack of investment in rural areas.
Asian countries like China, India and Bangladesh were food-deficient and net importers 20 years ago.
Subsidies to farmers, selecting appropriate seed, irrigation, micro-finance for small farmers, establishing food cooperatives and other rural investments transformed the agricultures of these countries.
Sadly, international aid for rural areas in sub-Saharan countries has dropped from EUR 14 billion in 1988 to EUR 8 billion in 1998.
A decade of famine and malnutrition has precipitated disease, fear, social tension and civil war in many poor countries.
The EU needs to encourage land reform, the efficient and fair utilisation of water resources and the transfer of technology for the rural populations of poor countries.
We need to teach them to grow their own food, create their own employment and sustain their own economies.
I hope that the House will accept this report.
The Commission fully shares the main thrust of the report on the importance of rural and agricultural development for poor people in developing countries.
Beyond rural development, the report also addresses issues related to EU trade and agricultural policy.
The Commission has recently sent to the Council and Parliament a communication that will provide the policy framework for this type of assistance.
The Commission wants to highlight the positive trade agenda promoted by the European Union and adopted in Johannesburg to complement the WTO process.
We hope to see similar initiatives adopted by other developed countries.
As regards agriculture, the Commission supports the emphasis on the multifunctionality of agriculture, a concept of particular relevance for developing countries.
However, I would like to draw your attention to the reference made in the report to the dumping of European agricultural production.
The Community provides an export refund, which reduces the difference between the higher Community price and the world price.
Ceilings on export subsidies, in quantity and value, are regulated by the WTO, and these ceilings have been reduced between 1995 and 2000.
These positive efforts should be recognised.
To address it, it is necessary to combine interventions at different levels.
At an international level, we need to improve the coherence between developed countries' domestic policies - in particular trade and agriculture - and their development objectives.
They include the importance of promoting gender equality, maximising the impact on poverty, supporting national strategies and the participation of stakeholders, as well as mainstreaming environmental protection.
Similarly, the Commission also broadly shares other, more specific recommendations, such as the importance of supporting the development of arts and crafts, rural training centres and domestication of wildlife.
Support for such activities will therefore have to be addressed on a case?by-case basis and in line with the priorities defined in national strategies.
The report rightly emphasises the importance of good governance for the sustainability of all development efforts.
Agriculture and rural development are of central importance in the EU and developing countries alike.
The Commissioner has already pointed out that the EU has substantially increased market access for the poorest countries in recent years.
I hope that other industrialised countries will also follow the EU's example.
The war on poverty must continue to be the overriding aim of development policy.
To support the process of building appropriate capacities in the developing countries, the European Community should provide more technical help for farmers and also pass on technical know-how, for example on renewable energies and in many other areas.
Clearly, as other speakers have said, the European Union and its Member States have a very important role to play.
I think we need to show much more understanding of the real reasons for the so-called urban drift from rural areas and of the effect of the systems and structures which conspire to destroy the livelihoods of millions who live by the land.
Rapid opening of their markets threatens food security and sustainable livelihoods in developing countries.
The parallel negotiations which will be going on at the WTO and between the ACP and the European Union must be used as an opportunity to show that the European Union clearly understands that trade and market access and tariff levels are directly and inextricably linked to our understanding of how we meet those critical millennium development goals.
The paradox is that, in a time of global plenty, farmers in developing countries are abandoning the land and agriculture.
If you go down to the Sheraton in Kampala, you pay one thousand Ugandan shillings for one single cup of coffee.
He also gives us a very timely reminder in his report that 75% of the 1.2 billion living on less than one dollar a day are in rural areas.
Mr President, the existence and the development of an agricultural industry are key issues for the countries of the South.
This is why, from the outset, I wish to support my group's call for the right to food sovereignty, in other words, people's right to define their own policy, to be recognised in a specific United Nations convention.
Over and above this, as the report quite rightly states, unbridled global free trade has devastating effects on the agriculture of the South.
The opening up of agricultural markets forces farmers to produce at prices set by the international market.
These are so low that they allow neither the farmers of the North nor those of the South to produce in a way that respects the environment and at the same time to earn enough money to support their families.
Given these circumstances, as one NGO working in Burkina Faso has expressed it, how can we persuade people that international trade is the key to development in the countries of the South?
Enabling developing countries to safeguard their basic right to food security and to the survival of their farming methods therefore requires clear principles to be brought to international negotiations, starting with the recognition, by the WTO, of the need for preferential and differentiated treatment for developing countries, which must be interpreted with this aim in mind.
As far as we are concerned, the European Union cannot continue, on the one hand, to call for the development of the countries of the South and, on the other, to uphold an agricultural policy which ruins much of their efforts in this sector.
There is now, therefore, an undeniable need to speed up the elimination of export subsidies granted by the Union, and we must also condemn the major increase in subsidies for agriculture determined by the US agricultural guidance law, with subsidies of around USD 180 billion over ten years.
Next, the EU ought to play a much more active role in ensuring that fair prices are set on the world market and thereby prevent the deterioration of trade terms.
The burden of debt also contributes to an increase in export crops in order to obtain the currency needed to pay back this debt.
Mr President, we have a long way to go before successfully bridging the gap between Third World poverty and living standards in the developed world.
The proposed enlargement of the European Union reminds us of the inequalities between existing Member States and the applicant countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
While the Commission proposals for a further reform of the CAP are likely to be more compatible with Third World development needs, I fear that our aspirations to protect Community farmers, particularly those on the margins, are not going to be easy to achieve.
The fact that 1.2 billion people living in the rural areas of developing countries live in poverty is a shocking indictment of the developed world, but equally the long-term development and sustainability of Third World economies depend on our efforts and - hopefully - success in helping them to develop and add value to their natural resources, with corresponding measures to assist with market access for their products.
I agree with Parliament's Committee on Agriculture's viewpoint that uncontrolled free world trade has had devastating effects on the development of food crops in developing countries and their entitlement to protect producers by tariff barriers.
It is wrong to place all the blame for the problems of developing countries on the common agricultural policy, particularly for the reasons I have stated.
I should like to make three observations about this well-balanced and explicit report.
Dumping product surpluses onto world markets at extremely low prices in many cases makes world market prices drop to very low levels.
These subsidies account for 8% of the agricultural budget, which runs to EUR 40 billion.
Secondly, the situation for poor countries can be improved by giving them greater access to the European market for products that are essential to them.
The report correctly refers to the need for facilitating support.
The report should therefore leave the setting of priorities with regard to spending this money to the donors and recipient countries themselves.
Mr President, Commissioner, this report contains some very important statements, particularly where it recognises that mechanisms to protect EU farmers through the common agricultural policy are competing with the interests of farmers in developing countries, where it calls - as Members have done repeatedly - for the progressive elimination of trade and tariff barriers and increased access to markets for producers from developing countries and regrets the EU subsidised produce dumped on developing country markets.
The report contradicts itself on this matter, predicting devastating effects of free trade which I am sure will not come to pass in the agricultural sector, but the central concern, which, I repeat, has been mentioned several times in this evening's debate too, is - and, at European level, must be - the barriers which the European Union continues to erect to access of goods, including agricultural produce, from developing countries.
The report helps us to understand the devastating impact of this on the developing countries.
Firstly, the report does not acknowledge the fact that the EU is today the largest market in the world for agri-food products from the poorest countries.
Lastly, I should like to point out that, fundamentally, farming in the EU complements farming in developing countries, since these are major importers of products from temperate zones, whereas the European Union is a major importer of tropical products.
The conflict is often seen more from the point of view of the interests of certain companies operating in these countries than from the point of view of the interests of local communities.
Mr President, in this year 2002 during which the international community has met successively in Monterrey, Rome and Johannesburg, setting as a priority the challenge of leading two-thirds of humanity out of the situation of hunger, poverty and under-development that affects them, it seemed that the European Parliament was obliged to consider and adopt a position on how the European Union can support agricultural and rural development policies that contribute to the development of the countries of the South.
But there are principles that we should take more account of when assessing the different policies of the European Union and also, of course, Community agricultural policies.
To this end a particular policy was considered by us to be positive insofar as it offered added value in terms of the cohesion of our societies and negative insofar as it increased inequalities between the Europeans.
And therefore, every Community policy deserves our support insofar as they contribute not only to social cohesion within our borders but also to reducing inequalities at world level.
For us, the common agricultural policy was something to be welcomed, since it supported our farmers, so that they would not be left behind in a process of prosperity which was benefiting other sectors of society.
But, later on, when it comes to evaluating the Community's agricultural policies, it will not be sufficient to measure whether they contribute to maintaining or improving the situation of our farmers and breeders.
Furthermore, we should consider whether subsidies to our producers also contribute to improving the situation in the Third World, or whether they actually devastate it, increasing the chasm separating it from our developed world.
In this case, those policies will not be acceptable and, however difficult the exercise will be, others will have to be found which are good, fair and provide a balance for the North, while being good and fair for the South, and providing a balance in terms of relations between the South and the North.
The objective of the proposed draft is to resolve the food security problem and it sets an interim date of 2015 for halving the number of people forced to live on a dollar a day.
With its endless reforms of the CAP, the European Union is becoming more and more product-deficient, ruining farmers and, at the same time, forcing developing countries, with extortionate agreements and price mechanisms, to sell their agricultural produce at knock-down prices, tightening the noose around the neck of their people and protecting the multinationals' profits.
The solution is not to abolish subsidies in developed countries, ruining their farmers and bringing them into line with farmers in developing countries, but to maintain a parity in international trading relations between developed and developing countries in practice, so as to improve their standard of living, reduce their foreign debt and increase their overall domestic output.
Mr President, of the world's six billion inhabitants, more than 800 million today suffer from malnutrition and of this figure, three-quarters live in rural areas; poor peasant farmers who are poorly equipped and have no market on which to sell their goods and who therefore restrict their production to their own consumption needs.
The countries that have been most successful in staving off famine, particularly India and China, are those that, as a result of policies supporting agricultural prices, subsidies for chemicals and for transport and irrigation infrastructures, have enabled their farmers to access their own internal market and thereby increase their buying power, their productivity and their production.
On the other hand, the countries in which famine has spread are those in which the fall in agricultural prices has thrown peasant farmers into poverty, destabilising marketing networks, and has forced many of those living in rural areas, oppressed by poverty, towards ill-equipped suburbs or into emigrating.
Access to a profitable local market is the primary right of any agricultural producer, the primary condition for growth in agricultural production and a prerequisite for eliminating hunger from the world.
Countries which act as propagandists for this single world market, not least those that are members of the Cairns group, are not countries suffering from famine, but countries which, as a result of particularly low production costs, huge areas of farmland, low wages and top-rate agricultural investment are capable of ruining the farming of those countries that do not share these advantages.
As for the policies maintained by the European Union, there are three conclusions to be drawn.
Second, we must help developing countries, or groups of countries with similar production costs, to protect their domestic markets against dumping prices set by the world market, by means of instruments without which their producers would face ruin.
Third, we must bring all our influence to bear on international trade negotiations to ensure that the right to agricultural exception, i.e., a nation's right to protect the farmers that provide its food, is recognised.
As European politicians working on agriculture, we know only too well that the European Community's common agricultural policy regularly comes in for harsh criticism for the impact that it has on agriculture in the poorest countries and this has again been the case this evening in a number of contributions to the debate.
It is true, however, that the critics often think that the answer is too easy, because it is wrong to think that a greater opening up of trade will inevitably lead to better development of the food sector in the developing countries.
Many have said it: the EU is already the largest importer of food in the world and against this background the agricultural problems in the vast majority of developing countries will not be resolved solely by more intensive trade and agricultural deregulation.
In conclusion, allow me to mention three facts: we need production for domestic consumption and for export on the basis of a reformed system of land tenure; we need better employment; we need sustainable management and we should consider new ways forward.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The CAP must be revised in this area by including all the measures that are likely to enable these countries to develop a competitive agricultural industry with respect to production costs, and also product quality.
The preservation and rational use of water resources are also of the greatest importance for these countries.
In addition, we must help the developing countries to develop effective strategies for the conservation of wild species.
As you know, in September the Commission proposed guidelines for the Community with a view to the Conference in Santiago.
Our proposal was based on respect for the scientific criteria that determine which appendix to CITES different species are listed in.
The Commission agrees with the recommendations concerning cetaceans, freshwater and sea turtles and seahorses.
I am also pleased that the Committee has decided to introduce a recommendation on the ratification of the Gabarone Amendment, which enables the Community to become a contracting party to CITES.
The Commission supports the inclusion of commercial fish species in the appendices provided that they meet the relevant criteria and that their management is not adequately regulated elsewhere at international level.
The Commission's opinion on the proposal to include species of Patagonian and Antarctic toothfish in Appendix II is based on the same principle.
We must, however, make a distinction between commercial trade in ivory and the question as to the most appropriate CITES list for the elephants to be entered in.
These populations are managed well and their numbers are increasing.
Therefore, the proposal by Kenya and India to include all the African elephant populations in Appendix I is not justified on the basis of the relevant scientific criteria laid down in CITES.
Finally, I wish to inform the European Parliament that, in addition to the points you raise in your resolution, a large number of further proposals has been presented to the organisers of the Conference, which would have positive consequences for the conservation of species and which have the support of the Commission.
Finally, I am convinced that protection does not work without commitment from the local authorities and local population.
Five countries in southern Africa have presented alternative plans.
There are, therefore, good reasons not to transfer the African elephant to Appendix I tomorrow.
Unfortunately that was approved by the Commission with the majority of the fifteen EU governments, but against the wishes of the European Parliament.
The Commission must abandon its cowardly, half-hearted position.
There are only 10 000 elephants left in Asia and 300 000 in Africa.
It reminds us that such a decision would be directly contrary to the scientific advice given to the parties by IUCN, who are the official advisers to the CITES conference on species listing proposals.
This advice points out that the elephant populations of the southern African countries mentioned do not meet the criteria for Appendix I, but meet the criteria for Appendix II.
So, scientifically we have absolutely no reason to move them.
Nor should we if we want to maintain the populations because it is quite clear that the use of wild living resources, if they are sustainable - and they are in southern Africa - is an important conservation tool.
Mr President, I am going to comment on paragraph 3 of this motion for a resolution and, specifically, on the species with the scientific name of Dissostichus, which is known as the Patagonian or Antarctic toothfish.
The Dissostichus is of great commercial value (it is known as 'black gold') and its balance is very delicate.
The Committee on Fisheries, of which I am a member, has produced three reports on this resource and I am rapporteur for the one which relates to the creation of a system for documenting catches.
The proposal to include Dissostichus in the CITES Convention did not come from us but from Australia.
Together with the United States, Canada is the main commercial destination of the species Dissostichus and Mauritius, a significant place of transit.
Their entry into CAMELAR gives this international organisation control of 98% of the world trade in Dissostichus.
For us, CITES would be useful as a complement to CAMELAR.
Mr President, Commissioner, as you - and also my fellow Members - have already said, the issue of elephants will once again be discussed at the forthcoming CITES meeting.
If we move elephants back into Appendix I, at the request of India and Kenya, will this be enough to prevent these animals from tragically becoming extinct in some countries of Africa, even though their numbers are on the increase in other countries?
Elephants are poached for their ivory and their natural habitat has been considerably altered and reduced.
Even if their use is authorised, whatever the precise and restrictive framework that might be decided upon, there is a danger that poaching will once again become widespread and that this, in the long term, will led to elephants becoming extinct in some countries of Africa.
At the same time, I acknowledge the excellent record of a number of southern African countries in managing their elephant populations.
It is easy to understand why these countries sometimes feel they are penalised rather than rewarded for their efforts.
If their concerns are not addressed, there is a real risk that these countries will be unable to maintain popular support for elephant conservation or for CITES in general.
We should avoid measures such as the proposed stricter classification for elephants in CITES which will only serve to polarise the debate, without achieving any real additional protection for these animals.
On toothfish, we must respect the competence of CAMLAR and other fisheries organisations, at the same time taking a constructive approach to any proposals that might achieve better protection for commercial fish species.
The next item is the joint debate on two reports by Mr Blokland, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy: (A5-0291/2002), on the proposal for a Council regulation concerning the export and import of dangerous chemicals (COM(2001) 803 - C5-0320/2002 - 2002/0026(CNS)), (A5-0290/2002), on the proposal for a Council decision approving, on behalf of the European Community, the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Informed Consent Procedure for certain hazardous chemicals and pesticides in international trade (COM(2001) 802 - C5-0095/2002 - 2002/0030(CNS)).
The Commission proposal for an implementing regulation reflects the position of both the Commission and the Member States: that the provisions should go beyond purely incorporating the Convention, which was the result of a compromise between all of the parties to the negotiations.
The Community called for stricter provisions in certain respects but did not manage to push them through.
The Commission considers that the proposals are well balanced and that they will contribute to the achievement of the Community's objective of improving the protection of human health and the environment in importing countries - especially developing countries - from hazardous chemicals, without preventing the smooth application of the Convention.
I propose that we do this as quickly as possible, given that the Treaty can enter into force from the moment that it has been ratified by sufficient parties.
The report concentrates mainly on the following three points: First of all, parties to the Treaty can only export chemicals included in the Appendix to another party to the Treaty if they have obtained prior approval from the importing country.
More has also been done in respect of providing information to third countries, especially developing countries.
A more difficult issue is that in the original proposal by the Commission, the Commission itself wanted to impose a monopoly on the procedures.
This is not sensible, as Member States do not all have the same legislation with regard to chemical products.
It is also possible that, even after this period, Member States will make use of exceptional provisions.
The Council sent a letter which promised that if the European Parliament accepted the total package of compromises, the Council would lay down the common position accordingly.
I would like to request that special attention be paid to Amendment No 22.
This is also part of the whole package of measures.
The voting slip comprises 4 blocks.
Block 1 covers the compromise amendments with the Council.
If block 1 is adopted, block 2 will no longer apply.
Block 3 comprises the amendments of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy which were approved by the Council, so we must vote in favour of these.
Mr President, Commissioner, we are dealing with two proposals: a proposal for a Council Decision and a proposal for a Council Regulation on the trade, export and import of dangerous chemicals.
The proposal for a Decision requests ratification as soon as possible of the Rotterdam Convention, whose main objective is to regulate the international trade in hazardous chemicals, but also, and this is what we believe in Parliament, to protect human health and the environment, and it is important that this be done now.
We have therefore asked that the legal basis be changed from Article 133 of the EC Treaty, which regulates commercial trade, to Article 175, in accordance with codecision.
The proposal for a Regulation, which is exhaustive and very strict, lays down very strict rules for intra-Community trade in pesticides.
We can therefore assume that this issue will be delayed.
This is not only valid for the Member States of the European Union but also for non-Member countries, to which we must apply the same requirements.
We would like to see a solution as quickly as possible.
The intentions of the Rotterdam Convention are important, and it is also important that it be ratified as quickly as possible, because it concerns the trade in extremely hazardous chemicals.
The proposal actually goes beyond the Convention, for example in proposing that the export notification procedure, too, must be extended to cover articles containing so-called 'unreacted' forms of chemicals and that the export of certain chemicals must be banned outright.
For this reason, I also believe that it is reasonable and fair that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, with the help of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, has changed the legal basis from Article 133 to Article 175, which means that the European Parliament has codecision powers and, at the same time, enables the Member States to have stricter rules.
Our rapporteur, Mr Blokland, has, as always, done a precise and excellent job, for which he deserves our thanks.
The Convention has the objective of increasing shared responsibility and cooperative efforts among parties to the agreement in the international trade of certain hazardous chemicals, thus promoting environmental and health protection.
At the same time the intention is to encourage the environmentally sound use of chemicals with increased transparency and information exchange.
All these are aims worthy of support from the point of view of the EU's targets, but some of the provisions now being discussed go even further than the Rotterdam Convention.
For example, the rules relating to the timing and frequency of export notifications and the level of information required are clearly more advanced than the rulings of the Convention.
Parties to international agreements on the environment are countries at different levels in terms of commitment and the levels agreed in the Convention do not necessarily go far enough at all with regard to the EU's targets.
The rapporteur's suggestion that this proposal for a regulation should take into account the Stockholm Convention concerning POPs concluded in May last year should be supported.
The objective of the proposal for a regulation is the protection of the environment and human health.
Mr President, I shall make short comments on some of the amendments tabled for the vote tomorrow.
Most relate to the draft implementing regulation.
Firstly on the legal base, as the Commission has already made clear in the Council, it believes that Article 133 - not Article 175(1) - is the correct legal base.
The Commission has to reserve its right to make use of the legal means at its disposal.
Given our position on the legal base, the Commission cannot accept that national regulatory actions taken by Member States should only fall within the scope of the regulation and be subject to the procedures for export notification and PIC notification.
It follows that the Commission cannot accept Amendments 3, 6, 7, 8, 13, 16, 17, 20, 26, 33 and 34.
Article 14 of the Commission proposals provides for the possibility of an export ban for certain chemicals to be listed in Annex V.
The Commission knows the wish of Parliament and the Council to add the chemicals subject to the POPs Convention to Annex V, in accordance with the provisions of the relevant annexes to that convention.
The remaining amendments are technical, mainly aimed at giving greater precision to certain provisions.
The Commission can accept all these amendments.
Three amendments have been tabled and, for the reasons I have already explained, the Commission cannot accept the change of legal base proposed in Amendment 1, nor can it accept Amendment 3 that stems from it.
Finally, the Commission can accept Amendment 2 which reintroduces the principle of a key Commission role in the Community's participation in the different bodies implementing the convention.
In 1998, this Parliament and the Council approved a programme designed to improve the operation of taxation systems within the internal market.
Just one year ago, in 2001, an assessment was made of the three first years of operation of this system.
I am happy to say that the development was satisfactory, and also that this programme was, in itself, subject to that assessment.
This year we have been presented with a Commission proposal to extend the programme - which will expire on New Year's Eve of this year - for a further five years, in other words, until 2007.
I believe that the Fiscalis 2007 programme which we are now studying has three broad objectives.
With regard to the first idea, that is, that the taxation systems should function properly, with this programme it is not a question of taking a step further in terms of tax harmonisation - as the Commission and, explicitly, the Council have stated - although I would have liked to have seen a little more ambition, a more decisive step in the process of Community harmonisation.
Secondly, cooperation is an idea that is repeated in all the Commission's documents.
I could not agree more with these three objectives, but I must make a few comments on the specific objectives in relation to VAT and direct taxes.
At first reading we presented certain amendments that we have not wanted to reproduce at second reading, in honour of the Commissioner.
The Fiscalis 2007 programme, in relation to VAT, states that it is good to know how VAT works, and this enthusiasm for knowledge, cooperation and coordination sits well with the four objectives set in the VAT strategy for 2003: to simplify, modernise and apply the tax in the most uniform possible way and to increase cooperation between the different administrations.
We are told that if we are not making progress towards VAT at source it is because the Member States do not have faith in the compensation system and the system for reallocating resources, which was initially based on the declarations of taxpayers and then on statistical data, but which has never satisfied the Member States.
We should have moved forward with this programme in order to become aware of the information and the framework which, as well as making compensation possible, would also have made the desired transition to VAT at source possible.
Our amendment therefore recommended that this programme of exchange of information, knowledge and training be used to make better knowledge between taxation policy and other Union policies possible.
I would insist, however, that the broad objectives of the programme seem to me to be good ones: to understand the operation of the taxation systems and to cooperate between administrations in order to eradicate fraud.
Many of the matters that he discussed are important but, at the present time, the Fiscalis programme is more restricted than he would have liked.
However, it is important that the programme should be adopted before the expiry of the current Fiscalis programme, which ends on the 31 December of this year.
As you may be aware from the Commission's communication to Parliament on the Council's common position, the Commission has expressed its satisfaction that the Council endorsed the general approach adopted in its original proposal.
The Commission has noted that the Council has supported the continuation of the actions currently carried out under the existing Fiscalis programme.
In particular, the Commission has welcomed the Council's support for extending these actions to the area of direct taxation.
Nevertheless, the communication regretted the reduction in budget from the Commission's original proposal of EUR 56 million to EUR 44 million.
I am satisfied that an agreement between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission has been possible, so that the new programme may be adopted shortly.
Mr President, I also welcome the progress made in this report on the Fiscalis programme for the next five years.
I would particularly like to welcome and draw attention to the statement in the common position.
As the rapporteur has already mentioned, it points out that this is not a political programme, but one designed to enhance administrative cooperation between Member States' tax officials.
We are talking here about improving administration, and not in any way about tax harmonisation.
We therefore welcome the fact that the common position clearly states this will not happen.
We think it is very valuable, so I would certainly be concerned if anything happened to detract from the programme and make it more difficult for certain Member States to take part in it.
The programme has much to offer.
What we are always trying to do in these sort of situations is improve the way that the systems work and get things to work better.
So, on the whole, I welcome the common position and the fact that it looks as if we are going to be able to achieve an agreement and get the programme extended.
I also welcome the fact that we are very clear now that this is not about tax harmonisation in any way, but about administrative systems.
Mr President, the absence of an institutional agreement would lead to a delicate situation as the rapporteur has already acknowledged, given the urgency of adopting a new Fiscalis framework that is operational on 1 January 2003.
Even though it may be acceptable to classify the Fiscalis programme as a mere tool for strengthening administrative cooperation, the European Parliament will nevertheless have to concern itself with the political effects of implementing this type of programme.
It should be added that the EU is on the threshold of an historic round of enlargement, which means that, with the entry of new countries and different tax policies, new and hitherto unseen problems will also arise.
In fact, the new programme extends the scope of the programme to cover not only direct taxation, but also the candidate countries.
Improving the functioning of tax systems in the internal market is, in itself, a praiseworthy objective, but combating tax fraud and evasion as well as launching bases with a minimum degree of harmonisation are also opportunities that should not be wasted.
I therefore regret the fact that the Commission has invoked Article 95 of the Treaty with regard to this matter, and has not dared to invoke Article 93.
