Natural disaster in China (debate) The next item is the statements of the Council and the Commission on the natural disaster in China.
President-in-Office. - (SL) We are following with great concern developments in China following the disastrous earthquake, which destroyed a large area of the country, and the Province of Sichuan in particular.
The current estimate of fatalities has grown to almost 50 000 people.
In our message we also expressed our deepest sympathy with those who have lost their closest relatives in this disaster, to those who have been injured themselves, or those who suffered serious damage to property.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, I also wish to thank you for placing a debate on the agenda on the humanitarian situation in the Chinese province of Sichuan following the earthquake on 12 May.
Mobilisation by the Chinese authorities and the army in particular was swift and large-scale.
It must be said that the crisis management was efficient, and the authorities deserve our congratulations.
In view of the extent of the damage and its needs, the Chinese Government appealed for international assistance on 13 May and the EU was quick to respond to the call.
Following a report by the expert on 16 May, the Commission adopted an emergency relief decision to disburse two million euros.
The total EU contribution is already over ten million euros.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my Group endorses the expressions of sorrow and sympathy made to the Chinese people by the Council and the Commission following the horrific earthquake of 12 May.
We also welcome the fact that the Chinese authorities have initiated rapid rescue measures, and we welcome the Chinese Government's willingness to accept foreign aid.
What they need is practical help, and we Europeans and our Member States can provide that help, and we thank the Commissioner for the aid measures he has already initiated.
We shall support every action designed to help the people in the disaster areas and to assist them in the reconstruction of their villages.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (CS) Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Lenarčič, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I want to join with all those who have expressed their deepest sympathies with the bereaved families of the tens of thousands of victims of the terrible earthquake that hit Sichuan province.
I also want to express my full solidarity with the hundreds of thousands of people who lost the roof over their head or were forced to leave their homes as a result of this disaster.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) First of all, I should like to express my sympathy with all the victims on behalf of our Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
At any rate, I think it is important that we in the European Parliament have shown our solidarity with the Chinese in this debate.
Other worrying matters, already mentioned, loom over this drama: the strength of hydroelectric facilities such as the concrete dam at Zipingpu makes us fear the worst for the 600 000 people living downstream.
The earthquake also caused damage to 391 reservoirs.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Europe should offer China as much support as possible, for both humanitarian and political reasons.
On the other hand, however, we must take advantage of every opportunity to show the Chinese people that the demands we are making of their leaders are not motivated by any feeling of enmity towards their country and its traditions.
When the 30 000 journalists expected in Beijing for the Olympic Games arrive there, they should take time out to investigate, beyond mere appearances, the reality of this country which, through overriding power and efficiency, risks losing all respect for human beings, the real basis of the political order. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, during the public minutes of silence ordered by the Chinese authorities, people stood still - people in the streets, on buses and in shops - and their facial expressions left no doubt of the sincerity of their feelings.
This question has already been answered to some extent: besides sending aid materials, disaster plans and, of course, technical equipment, there is a need to pool the experience gathered in the aftermath of the major earthquakes in Armenia, where more than 100 000 lives were lost and a nuclear power plant was damaged, in Turkey, where tens of thousands lost their lives, and in China in 1976, where several hundred thousand people died, and to use that collective experience to develop principles of good practice for the international community and apply them for the benefit of China.
The European Union has acted as it should: it has activated the civil protection mechanism and it has supported the Chinese authorities.
In the meantime, Taiwan has pledged EUR 42 million of relief for the earthquake victims.
I can fully endorse that. (NL) First of all, I should like to express my sympathy for the relatives of the many victims of the natural disaster in Sichuan province on 12 May.
The Chinese authorities fortunately acted promptly after the disaster.
The Chinese authorities themselves have said that they can use every possible assistance to deal with this widespread disaster.
Let us thank the rescue teams and aid organisations for their help; they worked around the clock to improve the situation of the people living in the region, and let us assure the Chinese people of our unconditional solidarity and sympathy.
We can only offer our condolences to all those who have lost family members, and in particular parents who have lost children.
The European Union has already contributed EUR 10 million in aid, as Commissioner Michel has said.
But at the same time, as a human rights politician, I have to report to Parliament that, according to the Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, 55 nuns were arrested on 14 May.
The earthquake cannot become a pretext for human rights abuses. (HU) Madam President, the terrible tragedies of the Chinese earthquake and the cyclone that preceded it in Burma shocked the public around the world.
I would also like to thank the European Commission and Council for the way they have acted in dealing with this tragedy.
Saving lives is the priority in China; let others like the junta in Burma learn from this experience. (PL) Madam President, I should like to express my very sincere condolences to all those who have suffered and lost loved ones in China.
I wish to express my heartfelt sympathy to all those who have lost their children, wives or husbands.
I was myself in China last week when this dreadful disaster occurred.
President-in-Office. - (SL) I think that it is very important that the European Parliament has decided to dedicate today's debate to the natural disaster in China.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Very briefly, Madam President, you may be sure that I take due note of your remarks, and I wish to reply by saying that we will naturally still be willing to add to the aid we have already committed, aid based on analysis of needs.
