Enforcement of the ECJ judgment on the 'Turco' case (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Council by Marco Cappato and Michael Cashman, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, Anneli Jäätteenmäki and Costas Botopoulos, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the enforcement of the ECJ judgment on the 'Turco' case - B6-0470/2008), and the oral question to the Commission by Marco Cappato and Michael Cashman, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, Anneli Jäätteenmäki and Costas Botopoulos, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the enforcement of the ECJ judgment on the 'Turco' case - B6-0471/2008).
Therefore, this should be used as an opportunity for a radical overhaul of document access and publication procedures.
It is very important that our citizens can understand how European decisions affecting them are taken - this is the case for European legislation - and we must of course make progress in this area.
The Turco judgment is important because it is the first time that the Court of Justice has ruled on individual cases, as you said, of legal opinions and the conditions of their access by the public.
It is true that there are exceptions - although it was the Court itself that defined them in the context of this judgment - concerning opinions that are particularly sensitive or have a particularly wide scope.
First of all, in terms of direct access to working documents - this is the point of your question - I can confirm that the Council fully applies the provisions of Article 12 of Regulation 1049/2001 and Annex II of the Council Rules of Procedure, which requires a public register to be kept and specifies the arrangements for direct access to Council documents by the public.
To do this, a public information service has also been created - and it is this point that strikes me as the most important - because the area in which we are least well equipped is doubtless the practical information that we give to the public.
The first one concerns better lawmaking, our interinstitutional relations and Regulation 1049/2001.
A public register of documents has been up and running since 3 June 2002, as required by Regulation 1049/2001.
In that opinion we acknowledge that we still have to increase the coverage of our public registers and we confirm our commitment to further develop our public registers in the interests of enhanced transparency.
The whole process is influenced by the fact that the digital revolution is transforming our society into an information society.
In the Turco case I welcome the fact that the Court recognised that citizens' control of the legislative process takes absolute precedence.
author. - (FI) Mr President, this court decision is important and categorical.
In view of the answers that we have been given, I believe that this should also be seen more as an opportunity than a risk for the functioning of the European institutions.
Mr Cappato and Mrs Jääteenmäki are right that we must be more transparent and explain how we work.
The French Presidency has embarked upon a review of Regulation 1049/2001 and we need to act quickly.
However, it has been partly confused with the discussion we had on Regulation No 1049/2001.
The Turco judgment is one thing, and then there is Regulation No 1049/2001.
On the specific issue where I mentioned that we have a target date for 2010, that is on a very specific project and I was just giving you the date for this.
