Preparation for the EU/Latin America Summit (Madrid, 17/18 May 2002) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the preparation for the EU/Latin America Summit, which is to be held in Madrid on 17 and 18 May 2002.
The profound changes which took place in European and in the Americas during the 90s and the mutual desire to establish a general framework for bi-regional relations were the prime motives for staging the Río Summit.
At the end of that Summit, the Heads of State and Government adopted two important documents: the Río Declaration, which established the general principles to be applied to relations between Europe, Latin America and the Caribbean and a second document, designated as an Action Plan, which identified the 55 priority areas in the political, economic, cultural, educational and social fields, amongst others, which should form the basis for a strategic bi-regional partnership between the two sides of the Atlantic.
The Rio Summit had the merit of introducing this new bi-regional approach, which has undoubtedly added weight to relations between the European Union and the sub-regions and individual countries.
With a view to this second Summit, the Spanish Presidency has worked intensively to make substantial progress on the three strategic dimensions I have mentioned.
Furthermore, we must stress that we have wanted this strategic relationship between the European Union and Latin America and the Caribbean from now on to be the framework or benchmark on which the European Union's relations with each of the subregional areas or individual countries of Latin America and the Caribbean will be built.
From the point of view of political dialogue, the European Union's priorities in relation to Latin America and the Caribbean, during the short period between the Rio Summit and today, have essentially been the strengthening of democracy and the Rule of Law, the defence of human rights, the fight against drug-trafficking, as well as the promotion of regional integration and coordination between the different positions of both regions in relation to the international agenda within the framework of international organisations and conferences.
At the Madrid Summit, both regions wish to take a further step, in not only a quantitative but also a qualitative sense, which would consist of a better structuring of political dialogue and a broader range of issues for discussion, which would also cover those not relating to regional problems.
We hope that this step forward will lead to the development of a common approach to world issues.
From an economic point of view we should begin by stressing that the European Union is very different from Latin America and the Caribbean in economic and social terms.
Average per capita income in Latin America and the Caribbean is little over EUR 3 000 per year, while the average in the Union is seven times greater.
Between 1990 and 2000 European exports have increased from approximately EUR 17 billion to EUR 54 billion, in other words they have almost trebled.
Despite this spectacular increase in volume, imports originating from Latin America and the Caribbean have gone from 24% of the total in 1990 to just 12% of the total in 2000.
There has also been a considerable increase in direct European investment in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Investments have risen from EUR 66 billion in 1997 to EUR 122 billion in 1999, which represents almost 11% of all European foreign investment and almost two-thirds of European investments in non-OECD countries.
Furthermore, and above all, the Europe of the Fifteen shares deep historical, political and cultural roots with Latin America and the Caribbean, which help in the development of a genuine identity and a genuine strategic partnership.
These common positions and values are creating important ties in terms of identity and solidarity and are encouraging both regions to exchange more and more of their own experiences and to combine their resources in order to resolve common problems.
Amongst the challenges which the European Union and the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean must face is the need to modernise education systems, to create an economic and social climate favourable to sustainable development and to establish mechanisms for good governance.
The promotion of a strategic partnership cannot be based purely on a common identity, whether this be historical, cultural or political, but must be the result of a shared interest in order to turn principles, values and objectives into practical mechanisms for dialogue and cooperation, so that the two regions can confront all the great challenges of this new millennium in a united fashion.
On the 17th and 18th in Madrid, the Heads of State and Government of the 48 countries of Latin America and the Caribbean and the European Union who will attend the Summit - let us remember that this Summit of Heads of State and Government is the largest and broadest to be held in the Union, since we are talking about 48 Heads of State and Government - are going to try to give significant impetus to the strategic bi-regional partnership, which, as I said earlier, began in Río de Janeiro in 1999.
In each of the strategic pillars on which this partnership is based, the political, the economic and cooperation in the social, educational and cultural fields, both regions have wanted to take a significant step forward.
I would like to make a special mention of the joint fight against terrorism, through compliance with all the international conventions in this field, as well as the application of all the relevant United Nations resolutions.
Efforts will continue to strengthen democratic institutions and the Rule of Law, paying particular attention to human rights and the strengthening of judicial systems, with a view to guaranteeing the equal treatment of all people before the law.
Equally, account will be taken of the entry into force of the Rome Statute on the International Criminal Court which, as the honourable Members are aware, has been ratified by many Latin American and Caribbean countries.
The intention is to strengthen political dialogue and consultation within the United Nations system, as well as other international fora, on the most important issues on the international agenda.
In terms of economic and commercial issues we must stress that on 25 April we were able to successfully complete the process of negotiating an association agreement between the European Union and Chile.
Since it is relevant here, I would also like to mention the recent approval by the General Affairs Council of a proposal for future European Union relations with the Andean Community and with Central America which opens the way for the consideration of the creation of free trade areas between the European Union and both regions and in order to intensify not only cooperation but also political dialogue, which is an added value which did not exist previously in the agreements with these countries.
We all know that the difficult internal situation being experienced by certain South American countries is hindering the complex negotiations for a partnership agreement between the European Union and Mercosur which I referred to earlier.
The truth is that the Summit wishes to acknowledge the results of the negotiation, in which the political, institutional and cooperation chapters have been completed and the small amount of progress which has been made in the fields of commerce and the measures for facilitating commerce so that we do not abandon this important project of a future free trade agreement between Mercosur and the European Union.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to repeat that at this Madrid Summit, which, as I have said, we expect to be attended by 48 Heads of State and Government, a bi-regional process based on a strategic partnership will be consolidated.
The fundamental aims of this Summit are: to reinforce the bi-regional strategic partnership that was launched nearly three years ago at the first Summit in Río de Janeiro, and to set out new objectives for the next two years.
Rather than repeat what has been said so eloquently already, I would like to address two main questions regarding the Summit.
Firstly, what has the Commission done to ensure the success of Madrid?
And secondly, what results do we expect from the Summit?
It goes without saying that the Commission is strongly committed to ensuring the success of the meeting in Madrid.
And, we are equally committed to ensuring that the bi-regional process initiated at Rio succeeds.
As Parliament knows, public opinion has been increasingly critical of summits in recent years.
These summits are frequently derided as high-level talking shops that too often produce little more than hot air.
Instead, I shall concentrate on the Commission's accomplishments in the priority areas of cooperation that it committed itself to work on.
Firstly, the Commission has launched several programmes aimed at supporting and strengthening those institutions that explicitly defend human rights.
These include a regional programme in support of ombudsmen in Latin America and two multi-annual programmes on democracy and human rights.
In addition, the Commission has co-financed a bi-regional conference on the work and cooperation of ombudsmen and national human rights institutions, as well as an inter-continental conference on human rights protection.
Moving on to information society, which the presidency referred to, our most notable achievement has been the adoption of the @LIS programme.
We have promoted the participation of different civil society groups and have financed a series of meetings that will submit their conclusions to the Summit.
As evidence of our ongoing commitment in this area, it is worth noting that in programming cooperation for the period 2000-2006 the Commission has allocated a substantial part of its existing financial resources to the social area.
In addition, the Commission is currently working on all initiatives aimed at increasing public administration capacity in social policies, through exchanges of experience, best practice and know-how.
Finally, in the field of education, the Commission has approved an ambitious scholarship programme under the name of ALBAN.
That would be good for us, and I hope it would be good for the next generation of leaders in Latin America.
Let me move on to my second main question: what does the Commission expect from the Summit?
First of all, Madrid should be an opportunity to enhance the political dimension of our bi-regional strategic partnership.
This partnership is about more than just developing cooperation projects: indeed, 48 heads of state and government have not come together simply to endorse a new list of projects.
I am convinced that what is really important is the opportunity that Madrid presents us with to give political weight to fresh and bold initiatives.
In particular, we need to bring our political dialogue into sharper focus.
We must also commit ourselves increasingly to assert these convergent positions in international fora.
This will result in the strengthening of the multilateral system.
Europe has a particular responsibility, through our actions and cooperation with others, to make it clear that, in our judgment, the only way in which we can tackle international problems is through international cooperation.
Secondly, the Commission expects the Summit to address what is one of the most important questions for the people of Latin America and the Caribbean: the fight against social inequities and the search for social cohesion.
We know - some of the figures were given by the presidency - that Latin America faces a potential problem of political instability because of social inequity.
Perhaps most significantly, the Summit will mark the conclusions of our negotiations with Chile.
It is one of the most important agreements we have ever concluded with any country.
Elsewhere, the Summit should welcome the fact that the negotiation of the political, institutional and cooperation chapters with Mercosur is practically finished.
I hope it also encourages the efforts being made to conclude the outstanding negotiations in due course.
With regard to Central America and the Andean Community, the European Union has been particularly sensitive to the requests of these two regions significantly to enhance their relations with us.
The General Affairs Council conclusions of 15 April have paved the way for the negotiation of a political dialogue and cooperation agreement with both regions.
These negotiated agreements will seek to enhance our trade and investment relations and prepare the ground for still closer cooperation in the future.
By doing this, the European Union has satisfactorily responded to the legitimate aspirations of these countries, and I hope the Madrid Summit will wholeheartedly support this move.
I should like to congratulate Parliament in particular on the ambitious and far-reaching initiatives contained in the resolution of 15 November 2001.
We in the Commission have been working hard with the Spanish government and others to make this Summit a success.
We have been working for almost 18 months with that objective in mind.
This provides the basis for a good Summit, which will further strengthen our bi-regional relationship and prepare us to take things forward even further when we next meet - probably in two years' time - almost certainly with a larger European Union.
Mr President, by including this item on the agenda within a very difficult international context and coinciding with the visit of President Fox and a large delegation of Mexican parliamentarians, we have wanted to stress this Parliament's interest in relations with the countries of Latin America on the eve of the Summit.
Our task now is to give substance to this ambitious objective of the strategic and regional partnership which the Heads of State and Government drew up in Río de Janeiro.
Having said this, I believe it is important that the Summit should take account of the fact that the great and profound social inequalities in Latin America may jeopardise the progress made through so much effort in the fields of co-existence and democratisation and that therefore we must send a very clear message of support for normalisation and democratic consolidation in countries such as Venezuela and Argentina, the inclusion of FARC and the LN on the list of terrorist organisations, also the will to normalise relations with Cuba, on the basis of the principles of the democratic clause, and its gradual incorporation into the Cotonou Agreement.
And I believe it is essential for the European Union enthusiastically to create an ambitious global relationship with Latin America so that the United States is not the only protagonist, since they do not ask too many questions about the degree of regional integration in Latin America.
But may I take this opportunity to point out in all modesty that the European Parliament has cultivated very close relations with Latin American parliamentarians for years now; in fact, the longest-standing relations between the European Parliament and other parliaments are with Latin America and date back to the early 1970s.
How Latin America develops over the coming years and decades will also depend to a very considerable degree on its relations with Europe.
If I had the time, I could work out what emissions trading might mean in the future for Latin America.
The President has signalled to me that I do not have the time.
Mr President, the first Summit in Río de Janeiro in June 1999 ended with the decision to establish a strategic bi-regional partnership, but the 54 priorities of the action plan decided on at the end of the Summit have largely not been complied with yet.
Moving beyond words, for us the challenge of the Madrid Summit and the initiative of a global strategic partnership consists of offering an option which is fundamentally different to that of the United States.
We will also have been too unambitious if we allow our multinationals to treat their workers in a way which would be considered unacceptable in Europe, as is the case with the German company Continental Tyres in Mexico, or if we intend to intervene in the Colombian conflict simply by producing prescription lists to try to define who is a terrorist and who is not.
Finally, Mr President, we do not want to forget that the Spanish Presidency was very careful about accepting the attempted coup d'état in Venezuela - I do not know how else to describe this acceptance - and that this had a very negative effect in Latin America, whose governments, in contrast, recognised the democratic value of the Chávez Government.
We cannot pursue the aggressive militarist policy of the United States because that would cause us to lose all credibility in the eyes of the world and of Latin America.
Mr President, with the second summit between the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean taking place in Madrid this weekend, it is quite right that the European Parliament should today be reviewing its position on relations with these two regions.
The summit is, therefore, an excellent opportunity for defining the strategic framework needed by the European Union to develop a foreign policy involving more balanced association and cooperation with the countries of that area.
The starting point for this common strategy and for EU policy on Latin America should be the principle of association, and it needs to enjoy the support of both sides.
This does not mean that the European Union should not encourage ever closer cooperation with the individual countries in that part of the American continent, especially given that some of them, such as Argentina and Venezuela, are for various reasons passing through a particularly difficult period.
The objective of sharing prosperity by creating a free trade area by 2010 is very important and must not fail to take account of the differing weight of the various partners.
In the context of this bi-regional political dialogue, both the European Union and the countries of Latin America need to marshal their forces so as to identify specific initiatives and actions that will provide their relations with a strategic framework which is both authentic and well structured.
For example, we need to define a global plan for combating drug trafficking, and also to strengthen agreements on security, which have become increasingly urgent since the terrorist attacks of 11 September.
It is also essential to step up trade and to encourage investment in both regions, which implies support from private initiatives in the countries of Latin America as a key aspect of this mutual development strategy.
I therefore support the proposal for a joint resolution whilst recognising that compromise texts like the one we are debating sometimes lack in clarity what they may gain in parliamentary support.
It therefore gave me great pleasure to attend the EU-Latin American Parliamentary Conference in the same city last April.
I am hopeful that Chile will shortly become the most recent signatory to a wide-ranging cooperation agreement with the EU, as Mexico - whose President Fox is visiting us here in this House today - did following the first summit meeting in Rio in 1999.
Nevertheless, in spite of these problems, I retain a degree of optimism that Latin American countries will eventually realise that to reach western-style prosperity and security they will have to put aside their petty divisions - which are small compared to the linguistic and cultural differences that we face here in the EU - and unite in developing strong and stable functioning market economies, based on the Rule of Law, good governance, democracy and human rights.
It also established for the first time embryonic clauses on human rights and democracy to which all the states signed up except, shamefully, Venezuela.
I therefore welcome the second summit of the heads of state and government of Latin America, the Caribbean and the EU in Madrid on 17 May.
I wish it well in its challenging project of bringing about much closer cooperation between these two great regions of the world.
I agree with the words of many of my fellow Members, but I believe that one of our obligations is to point out the possible problems and as far in advance as possible.
From 1984, the European Union played a very positive role in the development of the peace processes in the region.
I believe that the conclusion of a peace agreement should always be viewed as a starting point rather than a point of arrival.
And it would be a mistake to be content with the management of the past and not appreciate that there is a risk in the region, and in the whole of Latin America, of a lack of prospects which leads to the most disastrous thing in political and social terms, which is stagnation, not conflict, but a total lack of prospects, the development of stagnant situations.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten hit the nail on the head when he said that the danger of these Summits is that they might turn into talking shops.
The Spanish police have just countered a terrorist operation which was apparently aimed at overshadowing the Madrid Summit.
I believe that this should reinforce our desire to combat terrorism both on this side of the Atlantic and on the other, and to cooperate with the democratic governments of Latin America in order to consolidate the democratic options.
I would like to state publicly that the Presidency of the Council has had invaluable assistance from the European Commission in relation to fulfilling our desire to give this Summit substance.
The Commission, together with the Member States, has made a great contribution to this.
Following the so-called 'lost decade', everything seemed to indicate, during the 1990s, that the Latin American continent was moving forwards, that democratic systems were being consolidated and that great progress was being made in the social field, which is extremely important, because the great problems of Latin America stem from the huge differences between classes, with a very high percentage of people living in a dispossessed class and living without hope.
I therefore believe that the examples that have been provided, such as the free trade agreement with Mexico and the one we are now going to sign with Chile, offer a means for fairer and more intense exchanges at the highest level.
This will enable us to take a clear initiative with regard to the policy of the United States which actually is restricted to a great free trade agreement, the FTAA, and offers nothing else.
Therefore, the Presidency takes good note of the fact that the European Parliament's sentiment is precisely that: we must go further than the commercial field, without ignoring it, in order to increase the quality of our relations with Latin America through dialogue between closely-related countries, because we share a culture, language, history and values - above all values - and because the values which have made European society what it is must also make Latin American society more prosperous, more egalitarian, more just and more protective of human rights.
It is in this spirit that the Presidency will approach the Summit and furthermore it now has the support of this Parliament in order to move in the direction we consider to be appropriate.
After 11 September quite clearly one partner, America, feels that it is a nation under attack.
My report is very clear on this.
A number of different concerns have been raised by colleagues, of a political nature: the lack of US participation in the Kyoto Protocol, the biodiversity convention, the Ottawa Convention on land mines and, recently, the refusal to sign the treaty establishing the International Criminal Court.
Secondly, economic concerns.
Finally on foreign policy, where the US seems to wish to continue its ideas for action against Iraq, this is seen by many as not perhaps the best way to deal with that problem.
The key element of the report is that we need to continue to update NATO, update the new transatlantic agenda to develop a sustained and strengthened transatlantic partnership based on a new confidence pact and concept of mutual recognition in which our respective roles can be clearly defined.
NATO remains not only the fundamental guarantee of Euro-Atlantic stability and security, it is the essential framework for coalition operations.
NATO needs to respond to new global challenges, realising the form of political and military structures is shifting from collective defence to collective security.
We need to develop a common and comprehensive definition and concept of security and risks to security.
We need to engage the US in constructive multilateral dialogue and to strengthen parliamentary involvement in this whole dialogue.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, my colleague's closing comments make an excellent introduction to my intervention.
The consequences are considerable.
The question is: what can we do?
We can achieve this paradigm shift in three ways: first, through a sectoral analysis of economic interdependence, secondly, by strengthening bilateral methods upstream of the WTO dispute settlement procedure and early warning system and, thirdly, through greater rapprochement.
Examples of these are the agreement on security in the Middle East on the principles of the end to violence, recognition of states and recognition of the Palestinian Authority as a legitimate participant along with support for the Mitchell and Tenet plans.
As stated on previous occasions, both parties believe it is a key issue and a priority, especially following the events of 11 September.
Parliament is doubtless aware that the Presidency made a considerable effort over this item, to the extent of calling several Clearing House meetings and an extraordinary Coreper to deal exclusively with this issue.
The European Union undertook to include non-proliferation as one of the issues to be dealt with in the political dialogue within the framework of the negotiating mandate for the free trade and cooperation agreement the Union hopes to adopt with Iran.
Furthermore, the European Union took advantage of the opportunity to announce measures aimed at strengthening multilateral instruments.
The High Representative, Mr Solana, and Commissioner Patten reiterated the need to rebuild Palestinian infrastructure.
It should also be mentioned that Mr Solana drew attention to the unfairness of the accusations of anti-Semitism levelled against Europeans by American public opinion.
President Bush admitted these accusations were unfair.
The United States expressed its appreciation of the efforts made by the European Union in this field and stated that it would always invoke the precautionary principle to avoid compromising American credibility in the area.
Concerning the Balkans, the European Union placed particular emphasis on the importance of the association and stabilisation strategy, and also on the common interest in the deployment of the APTF police mission in Bosnia-Herzegovina from January 2003.
The exchange of views on Russia took place in anticipation of the United States/Russia Summit of 24 to 26 May, the NATO/Russia Summit on 28 May and the European Union/Russia Summit on 29 May.
It was reported in yesterday's news that such an agreement has been achieved.
Concerning steel, as is already known, the United States envisages the possibility of reaching a negotiated solution to the issue of compensation in the medium term, without prejudice to the complaint the European Union is to lodge with the World Trade Organisation.
Nonetheless, the European Union continued to argue in defence of its intention to pursue compensation further as the key to protecting its rights.
The item on the Foreign Sales Corporation was dealt with in a positive way, thanks to the favourable climate generated by postponing the panel's decision until June.
In the positive agenda we have brought together under this heading all those issues on which agreement is likely to be reached in the medium term, and for which the basis of agreement by both parties already exists.
Few could have imagined then the horror of the terrorist attacks on the United States of 11 September , which have dominated international affairs and have greatly influenced the relationship between the United States and the European Union ever since.
The attacks demonstrated the extent to which Europe and America are united by the values we share, as the scale of the outpouring of grief and sympathy in European countries in the weeks after 11 September made very clear.
Our cooperation with the US in the months after 11 September in the campaign against terrorism testifies to that.
We have made significant progress in the field of police and judicial cooperation - through the US/Europol agreement signed last September, the mandate for a US/Europol data protection agreement and for a mutual assistance/extradition agreement, and through the decision to adopt a European arrest warrant.
The European Union has played a full part in stitching together the coalition against terrorism.
And the European Union is making a formidable contribution towards the reconstruction of Afghanistan, which I am looking forward to seeing myself when I visit that country next week.
On all these matters, we are working closely with the United States, and to good effect.
We are showing how much we can achieve when we operate together with each other, and in partnership with other nations.
We are doing so too in the Balkans and, more recently, within the so-called Quartet to try to seek a peaceful solution in the Middle East.
All of that demonstrates that the world is a safer and better place when the European Union and the world's most formidable power work in harmony.
But, as honourable Members are well aware, there has been for some time in Washington a debate about whether the US - now so powerful - should focus on its own rather narrowly defined interests, the so-called unilateralist approach, or whether it should continue to give a lead to multilateralist efforts, at the head of the international community's concerted drive to deal with common problems.
Europe will necessarily be on the multilateralist side in this debate.
That is in the nature of how we see the world and of our experience.
For example, our disagreements on trade sometimes seem to overshadow our relationship.
The trade flow increases, but the number of disputes does not.
Too little attention is paid to the close cooperation we enjoy in protecting and developing the international trading system.
Our cooperation to help developing countries has gone beyond trade; we have both substantially increased development assistance; we have agreed on a financing for development strategy in the "Monterrey Consensus"; we are now working very closely in preparation for the Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development.
It is worth keeping these points in mind - while not glossing over our profound disagreements on issues like steel and our new concerns about the impact of the New Farm Bill.
The 1995 New Transatlantic Agenda (NTA) is still valid.
The approach we suggested, which aimed at more stringent priority-setting, was endorsed not only by Member States, but also by our US counterparts.
I might add that - ironically, perhaps - counter-terrorism was one of the priorities identified at last year's Summit.
The Positive Economic Agenda, which was agreed at the Summit in Washington early this month, is another good example of this approach.
The report before us calls for the transatlantic dialogues to be strengthened and for a greater involvement for the European Parliament and the US Congress in the NTA process.
I am a strong believer in the role of Parliament and of civil society.
Occasionally, when an important relationship in international affairs hits a few problems, the reaction of critics is to say that what is required is a new vision or a new strategy.
I have to say that I do not think that the problems we face in managing the European-American relationship result from a lack of vision.
There are always likely to be problems, even in an important partnership, when national interests collide.
One last point: Mr Elles has done a great deal to promote, to deepen our transatlantic dialogue and our transatlantic relationship.
The Farm Bill, and I direct the honourable Member's attention to this current edition of the Economist magazine, is not a result of a lack of strategic thinking on the part of the Commission.
The biological weapons disagreement; the disagreement over small arms; the disagreement over the International Criminal Court are not a result of a lack of strategic thinking on the part of the Commission.
The relationship between the European Union and the United States is of enormous importance to the future of the world.
Maybe some would argue that geostrategically the relationship between China and the United States is going to be more important in this century - over a fifth of humanity and the world's leading power - but our relationship is also important.
A "super duper power" which was responsible for 40% of the world's growth between 1995 and 2000.
I do not think that we, in the Commission, show an absence of strategic thinking in considering the importance of that relationship.
But the problem is today that there are rather too many issues on which we disagree, and we want to work to reduce them and ensure that where we do disagree, we in the European Union can fulfil our responsibilities of international leadership without that aggravating our relationship with our friends in the United States. (Applause) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank both the two previous speakers and the two rapporteurs for their work.
I wish to thank them because transatlantic relations are currently going through a very difficult phase.
The European Union has agreements with almost every country on earth except our closest allies, the United States of America.
Mr President, since 11 September, we have all said that Europe and the USA must stand shoulder to shoulder because we share common values.
We must support our ally in its time of need in the same way as America came to Europe's aid twice in the darkest hours of the last century.
We must say candidly that on some issues Europe believes the US has got it wrong.
American arguments at the UN summit on children against safeguards - because they would prevent judicial execution of minors in Texas - offend the European concept of justice, just as US treatment of Taliban prisoners in the Shibarghan camp in northern Afghanistan seems to us to violate the Geneva Convention.
The failure of Member States to back the Commission in its response to the steel tariffs dispute undermines the credibility of the Union and weakens our negotiating hand.
It is no use establishing a 60 000 strong rapid reaction force if we cannot get it up and running in practice or reach agreement on a common arms procurement policy.
Finally, the Union could take a leaf out of the US book in its policy towards China over Taiwan.
In conclusion, the European Union would be better placed to engage in a real dialogue of equals with the US, if we displayed more unity and demonstrated more backbone.
Liberal Democrats look to the Convention on the future of Europe to deliver a federal European Union with a real common foreign and security policy, so that Europe can use active diplomacy to strive for a new approach to global development and convince our American friends to follow.
They do not have the same level of awareness, they do not have the same definition of security and of their role in the world.
The world does not need two United States, the original and a copy.
The European Union differs, deviates and should continue to do so.
In my view, this specifically means three things.
One: the EU must consistently adhere to multilateral agreements in the area of security, the environment and international criminal law.
The third possibility is for us to choose a quite different role, namely that of being the civilian and global power that can intervene before crises arise and before weapons become necessary.
They have this capacity and need because, in my view, they are quite unable to conduct a proper foreign policy, that is to say a sustainable foreign policy capable of forestalling crises and preventing war.
The European Parliament plays a modest role in the transatlantic relationship, but that does not stop the House from holding strong views.
Pleas for more integration have never been fruitful; the interests of the Member States are simply too diverse for this.
In this light, the criticism in the resolution loses some of its essence.
I gladly refer to the ongoing danger which the regime of Saddam Hussein in Iraq represents for us.
Precisely in situations where there is a difference of opinion, these dialogues can help foster mutual understanding and work towards solutions.
I too feel that attempts are, in effect, being made in Europe to develop a European identity based on totally unfounded and purely rhetorical anti-Americanism, which is ultimately just irresponsible.
I therefore place great hope in the Convention and the new Treaty and I believe that we must concentrate intensely on that.
I call upon Europe to make this position quite clear in its dialogue with our US friends and for much more durable stability to be achieved in the region.
The report deplores American unilateralism.
In the case of European security and defence policy, this is still very much lacking.
As has been stated before, these steps are far more important than the increase in the Member States' defence budget.
I feel we must emphasise how paradoxical this situation is, because, as Commissioner Patten said, the expression of European solidarity following 11 September was indeed absolute and exemplary and Europe expressed this solidarity using the resources at its disposal.
We can, of course, always criticise Europe for the disparity between its international ambitions and its defence means or the coherence of its common foreign policy, but the fact remains that Europe did display its solidarity.
However, there are several points which are crucial for Europe because they directly affect our lives.
This debate has certainly stimulated interest in what the Commissioner described as one of the most important relationships that exists: the relationship between the European Union and the United States.
The rapporteur was right to state that there was no long-term view.
At this moment in time we must appreciate how difficult it is for Americans to achieve that long-term view because of the events in the United States on 11 September, which, to some extent, meant they turned their attention to other issues, such as their "homeland" security.
At times we Europeans do not understand the effects that 11 September had on the people of the United States.
However, we must pursue our dialogue to try to resolve those issues.
The steel issue will be resolved eventually.
We must not allow the issues as they come forward to distract us in any way from this vital relationship between the European Union and the United States.
However, it would be a mistake to say that we need the same level of military spending as the United States of America.
And that will only happen if we move towards common European defence structures.
I hope that Mr Elles is willing to move with us in this direction and create common European defence structures one step at a time.
Mr President, in order to give some substance to EU-US dialogue, which brings together two partners with very different competences, we should focus the dialogue on the areas where we have similar responsibilities.
It seems that this was the approach taken on 3 May, when the specific economic programme was adopted at the Washington Summit.
European citizens should not simply regard the new farm bill as an instrument that will disrupt trade, since its objectives, scope and length also acknowledge each country's right to support its agricultural industry, given the practical challenges, such as social, territorial and environmental balance, which cannot be left to the mercy of free trade mechanisms alone.
I must say that I could not express the European Union's feelings on relations with the United States better than Commissioner Patten has already done in this House.
This was at the heart of the report adopted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy by 40 votes to 5.
We hope that in time the Commission will fall into line with most of this House and the Council in understanding that there is a need for a longer-term review.
That is what we have requested, and we expect a strategic report to be presented by 30 September 2003.
The debate is closed.
Recommendation for second reading in the form of a letter, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 95/93 of 18 January 1993 on common rules for the allocation of slots at Community airports (6661/1/2002 - C5-0149/2002 - 2002/0013(COD)) Amendment No 1: Mr President, my group will be withdrawing the amendment.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said yesterday during the plenary debate, the Commission welcomes the agreement on the Caudron report on the Sixth Framework Programme for research.
I can confirm that the Commission is able to accept the 34 compromise amendments adopted by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on 13 May and presented to the House today.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now contemplating the possibility that, for the first time, a framework programme for research will be approved without a long and complicated conciliation procedure.
My thanks go to Commissioner Busquin and to Mr Marimón Suñol, both of whom just reiterated that we reached agreements thanks to the 34 compromise amendments which were adopted on Monday evening by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
It is now my pleasure to welcome to the official gallery a delegation of 20 parliamentarians and senators from Mexico.
For the first time, the President of the United Mexican States will address our House, and your presence here today underlines the growing quality of relations between Mexico and the European Union.
The priorities that you have marked for your government - strengthening the Rule of Law, reform of the justice system, promoting economic growth and opportunity, developing human resources and dialogue with the Zapatistas - are all priorities which the European Parliament has strongly supported and continues strongly to support.
Mexico shows how a country with an age-old culture can combine its strong historical links with Europe with a new strategic role and partnership in Central American politics.
The links between Mexico and the European Union are strong: your country was the first from all the Americas to sign an Association and Free Trade Agreement with the European Union.
This agreement is a milestone in our relations.
It aims to include the promotion of democratic principles and respect for human rights which, for this Parliament, are indispensable parts of our association agreements and association councils with other states.
In a couple of days, in Madrid, you will attend the second EU-Latin America and Caribbean Summit of Heads of State, which aims to renew and boost relations between these two regions.
The European Parliament also will be present and earlier today had a lengthy discussion on the summit meeting which you will attend.
I thank you in particular, as President of the European Parliament, that in coming to Europe and in going to a summit meeting, that you should take the time to address parliamentarians and to celebrate an awareness of parliamentary democracy itself.
In the case of Mexico, this House has played a leading part in strengthening and developing the relationship between my country and the European Union.
Since 2 July 2000, I have been committed to guiding the Mexican people along the new course they have set for themselves.
One of my priorities in office has therefore been to ensure that the actions of each and every one of my Government's officials are utterly honest and entirely transparent.
In the realm of social services, my Government has carried through wide-ranging programmes to improve the levels of health and education of vast numbers of citizens, especially those living in the poorest areas of the country.
This is evidenced by the complete independence the Congress demonstrated in dealing with the various initiatives passed to it by the executive.
They account for 10 million Mexican citizens.
Firstly, it aims to promote support and cooperation by international bodies and the international community to assist with all those actions designed to bring about the necessary changes in areas where we might have fallen behind.
Secondly, it aims to ensure that human rights are recognised as fundamental values of a universal nature, and to promote them as such in the international arena.
Our concern for respect for human rights within our borders and beyond has led us to mount a sustained attack in defence of Mexicans working in the United States, regardless of their status as immigrants.
Through our foreign policy we aim to play a part in creating the international structures societies will need in the new millennium.
In signing up to the Inter American Democratic Charter in September last year, Mexico allied itself with those other nations in our hemisphere determined to defend democracy in the region.
Only if we pool our efforts will we succeed in these and other ventures concerning environmental protection, combating drug trafficking and the illegal trade in arms, intellectual property and human beings, the fight against abject poverty and ensure world-wide compliance with international law.
Let us build a shared and prosperous future on the foundations of our present democratic achievements.
Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to ask the PPE-DE Group and the PSE Group to withdraw Amendment No 1 to this resolution.
It is important that we vote on the second part because it reads: It was deemed incompatible as it would be against the spirit of Amendment No 40, if it was carried, to then vote on Amendments Nos 1 and 2 on paragraphs 16 and 17.
The original text of Paragraph 16 states that it is inevitable that "a significant increase of defence expenditures to fill the current capability gap" will be needed.
I agreed in discussions with the Socialist Group to alter that to "an increase" on the assumption that our Amendment No 40 would be the basis for our compromise.
The draconian conditions that the Council is imposing on what it describes as new aid - namely, the privatisation of large enterprises, breaking up the public sector to benefit small businesses, liberalisation of prices and sector reforms - provide perfect support for the so-called adjustment programme desired by the IMF, the initial implementation of which had no other effect than to aggravate the situation in Ukraine in 2000.
The fact is that the potato starch support system is a significant burden on the Community budget, yet only benefits a few countries.
We have, therefore, not voted for this report.
The GUE/NGL Group endorses and supports the joint motion for resolution on Euro-Mediterranean relations.
We of course believe that it is vital to develop a true cooperation policy and not just trade agreements that essentially benefit multinationals, as has sometimes happened.
Mr President, this is a directive which combats noise, and I was very happy to vote for it because I am against noise.
I feel that we should emulate Orlando in Ludovico Ariosto's opera 'Orlando Furioso'.
It is a difficult project but it is one that should be a high priority in our research activities, for too many people have lost their reason, especially politicians.
Mr President, the funding of destructive embryo research is against the constitutional position of Ireland, as it is against the constitutional, legal or political position of four other Member States.
The European Union does have competence in research and technological development - Title XVII of the EC Treaty.
This has to be exercised complementing the activities carried out in the Member States - Article 164 of the EC Treaty - and always in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity - Article 5 of the EC Treaty - and respecting the national identities of its Member States - Article 6 of the EU Treaty.
I believe that in this way Europe can make real added value and move towards its goals of the Lisbon Process.
While subsidiarity dictates that each Member State can decide what kind of research may be carried out within its territory, we must not forget that we are talking about European taxpayers' money here.
Research also affects the daily lives of all European citizens and priority areas such as food safety, the fight against major diseases and the improvement of public health demonstrate the desire to associate research and well-being.
However, the definition and scope of the fundamental ethical principles, which the Council common position states must be observed when carrying out research, are not clearly explained.
Attitudes towards research on human embryos differ from one Member State to another.
I therefore regret that we do not have a majority in favour of re-launching this debate which is essential for the future of research.
Nevertheless, there should be two exceptions to this ban: supernumerary embryos and the 64 available cell lines.
The actions carried out within the framework of the Sixth Framework Programme for research and technological development 2002-2006 will, for the first time, be implemented in line with the general research objectives set by the Treaty establishing the European Community, namely: strengthening the scientific and technological basis of European industry; encouraging it to become more competitive at international level; promoting research activities in line with principles of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
I am referring to the rejection of Amendments Nos 89, 91, 92 and 95, which undermines a very important milestone for Europe's scientific community and for EU research policy.
I personally particularly regret the rejection of Amendment No 89, which I tabled, which upheld the "principle of legislative unanimity" which in my view offered the only firm and indisputable legal solution to those issues, while entirely respecting democratic legislative decisions taken by Member States.
Accordingly, we could be faced, because of this obstinate blindness on the part of the majority, with a situation in which - through the European Union - the taxpayers of one Member State in which a particular substance, method or technology is considered illegal could find themselves financing something that is banned or illegal in their own country.
I was one of the signatories to Amendment No 92, all four sections of which were defeated (193-284 with 22 abstentions; 183-293 with 21 abstentions; 182-303 with 21 abstentions; and 184-312 with 18 abstentions).
There are therefore serious shortcomings in the ethical standards for the Sixth Framework Programme, especially with regard to research involving human embryos.
Without endorsement of this Programme, Europe could never hope to become a world player in the field of research and technology, where we are lagging seriously behind the US.
I feel that the European institutions can congratulate themselves for coming to a reasonable and effective agreement on this issue.
The first Schnellhardt report concerns the regulation on the hygiene of food products in Europe.
Well then, I would like them to have even greater protection and for us to tell all the European citizens loud and clear that their traditional regional products will never be missing from the European tables.
I did vote for this document on hygiene rules for food of animal origin, but I did so unwillingly, Mr President.
Trained hunters already take full responsibility for the healthy state of the game which they provide and will continue to do so in future.
I should therefore like to state, as rapporteur, that I reject Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 17 and only accept the end of Amendment No 11, i.e.
However, as the report contains other, far more important amendments, I did of course vote in favour of the amendments voted en bloc and I voted in favour of the legislative resolution itself, even though I do not agree with the content of all the amendments.
It was with this in mind that we decided how to vote and we will continue to be guided by the same principles on this issue in future.
He has sorted out the taxation system, which makes the very valid point that reducing rates of tax very often results in an increase in revenue.
Now, however, the enlargement of the European Union towards the east means that a small area of this foundering Russia - the region of Kaliningrad - will be completely landlocked by two Member States.
The European Union does not, in fact, have a solution, and the report acknowledges this.
Over the past decade, western Europe has occasionally mooted the idea of assigning the Kaliningrad region to Volga Germans who lost their own Soviet Republic during the Second World War, or to other population groups, such as the Russian minorities in the Baltic states, without taking into consideration the current population which flocked in from all corners of the former Soviet Union between 1945 and 1991.
Fortunately, the rapporteur is making a deliberate attempt not to reclaim Kaliningrad for Germany by separating it from Russia and replacing the current population with another.
I support the course taken, namely to treat the Kaliningrad oblast as an experimental part of Russia that, with Russia's approval, is strongly involved in its EU surroundings and is granted financial aid for this purpose.
Mr President, stability and growth programmes are what allow governments to trample on the weak and the poor, including pensioners and the elderly, telling them that they have no money to support them or pay their pensions because they have to respect the Stability and Growth Pact.
These differences of opinion express, with increasing urgency, the need for the national economies and societies to develop at their own pace, in accordance with their own specific characteristics, without being encased in a rigid straitjacket that aims to make everything uniform.
The answer to that is more difficult, and this is why we have always thought that the euro adventure gives cause for concern. - (PT) We voted against the Marinos report because it essentially supports the application of the Stability and Growth Pact, as the Commission has indeed just advocated in Commissioner Solbes's speech, which emphasised the importance of stability and of achieving a near-balanced or surplus budget outcome by 2004 at the latest.
I am certain that these efforts on the part of the new Portuguese authorities will be recognised and appropriately supported at political level by all the European institutions and that those efforts will be supported by a majority of Members of this House.
Mr President, when we look at relations with the United States, we have to ask ourselves whether or not the United States is prepared to adhere to multilateral agreements.
We have seen what has happened in relation to Kyoto; we saw the attempt to sabotage the UN Conference on the proliferation of small arms and we now see the Farm Bill, which threatens to exceed the limits set out in the WTO in terms of subsidies for farmers.
First of all, however, I would like the United States to abolish the death penalty and reduce the indiscriminate sale of weapons in all large stores, in all the department stores in the country.
Its main objective is to add to the debate on enhancing relations in a new global context by setting out the Parliament's official position in this area.
We consider that the strategy adopted in drawing up this report was reasonably effective.
Mr President, firstly I would like to apologise because I was not present on 24 April when I was supposed to come and take part in the debate with Commissioner Patten.
I am glad that Arab leaders are now publicly condemning these terrible suicide bombings.
Violence against civilians can never be justified as an expression of political aspirations or frustrations.
We should also be clear that a Palestinian state will require a return to the 1967 borders, or something very close to them, and it cannot be divided up into parcels of land separated by settlements.
Let me focus for a moment on the Palestinian Authority, as the High Representative did.
We have been saying this for a long time and we have actively worked for it together with many Palestinians and the international community.
The Commission, as Parliament knows, has been funding a project on these reform issues under the chairmanship of Michel Rocard - who is a distinguished Member of this House - and with Henry Siegman as Project Director.
We want to see the financial control mechanism strengthened.
We want more detailed reporting on Palestinian Authority budget execution and public debts.
We want the development of a unified pension system covering all public employees and we want the integration of the Palestinian Authority's donor-funded investment budget into the overall budget for 2003, bringing the investment budget under the direct control of the Ministry of Finance.
What the High Representative said is absolutely right: the Palestinian Authority has to look and act more like a government, and that covers not only the ordinary areas of government activity but also the security services in particular.
With the rest of the international donor community, including the United States, we are committed to supporting the Palestinian Authority in its reform and reconstruction efforts.
A team from the Commission is currently conducting an infrastructure damage assessment, and assessing the institutional capacity of the Palestinian authorities and of the municipalities.
We are already providing EUR 230 million this year to the Palestinians through the Palestinian Authority, through UNRWA, and in humanitarian assistance.
The Israeli Government has prepared a dossier claiming that Yasser Arafat and the Palestinian Authority secretly used budgetary support provided by the Arab states, Norway and the European Union to finance supporters of terrorism or even directly to fund acts of terrorism.
Similar charges have been made about the CIA - so we are in interesting company.
These allegations should be seen in the context of efforts to delegitimise President Arafat and the Palestinian Authority and to weaken donors' support at a time when the international community is putting pressure on Israel to engage in serious negotiations.
Such misuse could not be condoned, any more than we can condone Israel's destruction of EUR 20 million worth of EU-funded projects.
That is my responsibility to this Parliament, and it is both my responsibility and our responsibility to all European Union taxpayers.
What is needed now is a strong and concerted effort by the international community to reform and rebuild the Palestinian Authority as the legitimate governing body in the Palestinian territories, and as the only valid interlocutor in the forthcoming peace talks, about which the High Representative has spoken.
There have been so many debates on the Middle East when we have all expressed our horror at the descent into the abyss and our shared approach to political recovery and the building of a durable peace.
Today, rather than repeat what has been said so often before, and what is widely reported in the media, I thought it right to focus on a practical role that the European Union can and must play as effectively or even more effectively than any one else in constructing a better future.
Finally, I should like to associate myself wholeheartedly with the remarks the High Representative made at the end of his speech.
Any act of anti-Semitism is intolerable, any act of anti-Semitism should be condemned out of hand in democratic pluralist societies, just as any act of racism anywhere should be condemned.
Mr President, unfortunately the situation in the region is still very critical.
I am happy with the speedy and thorough explanation by Commissioner Patten, but, as he himself has said, we must be very scrupulous.
On previous occasions my group has expressed its concern about the destination of certain aid for education.
The parties in the conflict recognise that the participation of the international community is essential.
Mr President, Mr High Representative, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the information presented today by the High Representative gives us hope despite the gravity of the situation.
It is true that attacks are still taking place and it is also true that there are still summary executions, but there has been a change over the last month: there is the Mukata Agreement, the issue of the solution to the problem of the Church of the Nativity, and there are other important issues.
Secondly, I believe we agree that we must speed up the creation of a Palestinian State, and I refer to the resolutions which began in 1948, at the time of the creation of the State of Israel.
The High Representative said during his last appearance that, surely, on the basis of the Mitchell and Tenet plans, what we had to do was speed up and create a Palestinian State.
I therefore believe that we must try to ensure that this process is as quick as possible.
On behalf of my group, I regret that there has been no follow-up to what happened in Jenin and that the International Commission of the United Nations has not been allowed to investigate events; if there has not really been a genocide, I believe that that investigation would even have helped Israel to present and justify its action.
In any event, I believe we have to continue working with the Quartet and with the Arab League in order to stage this Conference without excluding anybody.
Finally, Mr President, with regard to the accusations which have been made in certain sections of the media in the United States and also in the US congress - and we have just approved our resolution on transatlantic relations - branding us as anti-Semites, I would like to refer to the resolution we approved last month which reiterates our condemnation of anti-Jewish attacks in Europe.
Therefore in reality the anti-Semites are the ones who really want to monopolise this issue.
If Israel had nothing to hide, then it had an opportunity to show the world that no massacre had taken place.
Doubtless, some resources have ended up in the wrong pockets, but to say that we are funding terrorism is a very, very serious accusation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning, we discussed transatlantic relations.
All that has been said regarding the need to help establish a Palestinian Government is based on straightforward common sense, because a State needs a government.
Given this context, I feel that the statement by the Likud is to be welcomed, for the simple reason that it at last requires Israeli society and the Israeli leaders to shoulder their responsibilities.
Israeli political leaders have been saying for years that they support a Palestinian State whilst doing everything they can to thwart it.
In this context, I believe that the statement by the Likud will stimulate the debate, because peace, one of the keys to peace, is to be found in Israeli society; the 70% of Israelis who say that they are in favour of the Palestinian State must take political action!
There seems to be a greater degree of questioning, especially after the terrible revelations in relation to Jenin, about the consequences of the military offensive against Palestinian towns and camps in terms of Israel's image around the world, and even about the possibility of international legal proceedings against Israeli leaders.
His staunch opposition towards the Palestinian Authority and Chairman Arafat, his decision to systematically destroy the infrastructure and assets of the embryonic State established by the Oslo Accords, the construction, according to Peace Now, of 35 new settlements and the organised dividing up of Palestinian territories leave no doubt whatsoever as to the strategy being pursued, unfortunately with complete impunity.
This is the clear message that, on behalf of our peoples and the majority of the House, an official delegation made up of Members from Parliament's highest level, should now take to Israel and Palestine.
Mr President, I would like to start by condemning the European Parliament delegation for relations with Israel, which held a formal inaugural meeting in March, for not holding its first official meeting until 12 June.
We have the utmost consideration for the personal problems of its chairman, but I feel that it might have been preferable for the delegation to have met and been able to debate during these extremely difficult and sensitive months for Israel and the Middle East.
Mr Solana, you have assured us that Europe will continue to call for a more democratic Palestinian Authority which shows greater respect for the rights of the Palestinians.
However, this means acknowledging that the principle cause of the tragedy we have witnessed in recent months and years was the denial of freedom and democracy to the Palestinian people and all the other peoples who live in that region under the yoke of tyrannical regimes, satrapies and dictatorships.
I condemn the fact that the Member States have not yet managed to deliver an opinion on the possibility of the international conference, the urgency and importance of which Mr Solana has just emphasised.
Lastly, I am concerned that Likud will push ahead regardless, even against the advice of Ariel Sharon, and I would like to know, Mr Solana, taking into account your knowledge of the situation on the ground, how you see the situation in Israel unfolding, were the coalition that is currently in power in Israel to collapse.
In all this, we agree with Commissioner Patten.
We met the Israeli and Palestinian political leaders as well as NGOs.
It is now up to the Council, as it alone can give force and vigour to our resolution, to agree to implement them.
As you know, the European citizens working on the ground form an effective force for peace.
This recognition would give confidence to the Palestinians and could set in motion genuine reform of the institutions of the Palestinian Authority.
The greater part of the majority party in Israel has just declared itself against a Palestinian State, thus undermining one of the bases of a political resolution.
Despite this outbreak of brutalities, the Council has not taken into consideration our resolution of 10 April which calls for the suspension of the Association Agreement with Israel.
The Council has not yet ordered the embargo on arms exports to Israel, which is a flagrant breach of the 1998 Code of Conduct, in which the Member States banned arms exports to regions in crisis.
If you sit back and do nothing, you must not be surprised if violence prevails over law in the Middle East and throughout the world.
It is true that Netanyahu took it upon himself to create a Likud central committee according to his own wishes before losing power in 1999.
Perhaps this puts the recent vote of that body against the creation of a Palestinian States into perspective, but the resolution exists.
Sharon - of course - has just said that Arafat has said nothing new.
There are some reasons to be hopeful, but there are still huge reasons to feel frustrated and hopeless.
What we have to do is to take advantage of this moment, this window of opportunity - and I believe that is what the international community is trying to do - to make progress.
That is what we are trying to do.
These three elements - in my judgement - should move forward in parallel and neither one of them should hijack another.
What we are offering today are commitments which, for the first time, are of a contractual nature.
President Arafat said something yesterday on television which he had never said or which, at least, I had never heard: he spoke of the State of Israel as a Jewish State.
I believe that President Arafat had never spoken in these terms before.
We must therefore carefully weigh up every word uttered by anybody, and not only one person, because sometimes we find, in certain phrases which we do not analyse in depth, thoughts which may have significant consequences for the solution of the problem and there is no doubt that the problem of the refugees will continue to be a fundamental problem in terms of a solution.
I believe that the agenda must be based on basic principles, that is, peace for territories, the Security Council resolutions and that, as I said before, it should include an essential element which is new: the Beirut Initiative, which does not only also offer a framework for the traditional Madrid lines of negotiation, but also introduces a regional aspect which could be of fundamental use in terms of resolving the problem.
It has been said that the Palestinian State must be recognised as soon as possible.
I agree, but it must not be before the Palestinians want it to happen.
If you came with me to ask Mr Arafat, at this moment, if he would like, this very afternoon, the Palestinian State to be declared, he would certainly reply: "do not be in such a hurry and wait a bit".
The other day I said to President Arafat that he needs 'the best' - his young people - in order to build a future, and the future will not be built if 'the best' are killing and being killed.
The best he can do is to convince those young people to support and participate in the construction of a Palestinian State.
And that teacher of mathematics or that teacher of literature who are killing or being killed would have been essential in order to teach literature in the university when the Palestinian State is functioning or to be a good mathematician.
That is a decision which does not fall to us, but to the Palestinians, but it is true that the sooner it is and the sooner they are ready the better.
I would like to say to my good friend, Jacques Poos, that I believe some people here may have been sitting back and doing nothing.
The honourable Members are well aware that this speaker has never sat back and done nothing, neither when he was a Minister representing his country - when I was a colleague of yours and we had many opportunities to speak; we must therefore be respectful in the words we use.
If you believe that I have been sitting back in relation to this conflict, I think you are wrong and, if you will allow me, I could look back and recall moments when the European Council has been sitting back.
However, it is very possible that, very shortly, that party's position may not be the same as the one expressed by the Council the other day, as our experience over many years suggests.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the Council and Commission statements on Council reform.
The first relates to a report which I had the honour of producing at the request of the Council with a view to studying whether, before the end of the whole process of reforming the European Union - in particular institutional reforms - the Council could operate more efficiently, naturally within the existing legal framework and in accordance with what the Convention and, later on, the Intergovernmental Conference, may decide.
The proposals which have been presented and which are being analysed at the moment, so that some of them can be approved at the Seville European Council, are very simple and easy.
We therefore have to do everything we can to ensure that the European Council operates in a speedier and more rational way, just as the cabinets in the majority or all of the countries of the European Union operate, with well prepared agendas which focus on decision making in those Councils which require it.
We should also try - and this is my suggestion - to hold European Councils of at least three different types: a European Council intended to take well-prepared decisions, with a clear agenda in which decisions could be taken, in my opinion, also by a qualified majority in the future; a second Council which would be of a more monographic nature, that is to say that the Heads of Government would concentrate on one part or element of Europe's great political life and in which they do not only try to give instructions but also, if possible, offer practical solutions which could aid the functioning of the European Union; and thirdly, European Councils of a more informal nature, in which the European Union leaders could sit around the fireplace - although it would be a huge table rather than a fireplace - and discuss issues which are of importance in terms of the present, the near future and the long-term future of the European Union.
However, these Ministers have an increasingly busy and packed agenda, on issues which strictly relate to the European Union's foreign and security policy.
If you see the agendas, you will realise that they are increasingly full and this raises the question of whether it is possible for the General Affairs Council, with its current structure and form, to devote sufficient time to horizontal issues which are ultimately issues dealt with by the European Council.
I am not going to point out any particular one: I suggested three or four which are now being discussed, but I do believe that in one way or another, we should opt either for separating the Councils or for dividing into separate sessions - which cannot be the same Council with different sessions - issues strictly relating to foreign and security policy, of which there are many, from those issues which relate to the preparation of the agenda of the European Council.
Therefore, there may be two or three models for Councils: one in which there is a separation of the General Affairs Council with the essential role of preparing the European Council, which will imply an increasing amount of work; another possibility is that the General Affairs Council could consist of general affairs in a stricter sense, where each government could send somebody to contribute more effectively to the preparation of the European Council, in accordance with the issues, and another formula which would mean that it devotes itself strictly to foreign and security policy issues.
I honestly believe that, as the number of countries increases and international life becomes more and more complicated, it is going to be more difficult to maintain the six-month rotating Presidency.
However, my comments on this issue are of a purely personal nature, because it is clearly something which the Convention will have to deal with, just like the other issues, and which ultimately the Intergovernmental Conference will have to decide on.
The fourth issue which I believe we should devote some time to - and that is why I put it in writing, so that it might be discussed - is the issue of the transparency of the Council in general, but, in particular, when it is acting as legislator.
But to return to the two fundamental issues, which do not require either the Convention, in principle, nor the Intergovernmental Conference, but simply political will, the will to get things done, I believe that achieving a more effective preparation and management of the European Council, ensuring that it focuses more on the fundamental issues, that it carry out more rigorous analysis, with more solid, serious and effective preparation, is something which can be done without waiting for tomorrow.
There are many other things to do in relation to the reform of the Council, which will no doubt be on the agenda of the Convention and the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference.
We are well aware, as Javier Solana has said, that the essential reforms will require amendments to the Treaties.
That is the Convention's work on the future of the Union.
We have launched quite a broad programme of administrative reforms involving the working methods of all our departments.
As for the Council, it has been carrying out its own reflections, initially on the basis of a report whose recommendations, made in 1999, have not yet been followed up.
It seems to me that the great strength of Javier Solana's report is that it relaunches the debate in very specific terms, even in a somewhat pedagogical manner, and, as he himself has said, that it provides - already in Barcelona and shortly in Seville - a basis for creating political willingness among the Heads of State and Government.
These basic documents remind us of the need for more structured planning of the Union's initiatives at the level of the Presidency, and confirm the need for better horizontal coordination of the various formations of the Council.
They envisage a European Council which is centred on its role of providing political impetus and, finally, they recognise the need for greater transparency in the legislative process.
On behalf of the Commission, I should simply like to assure you of our support for the four aspects of the reflections being undertaken regarding the reform of the Council.
As the Commission has already had occasion to emphasise in the White Paper on governance, each of our institutions must, of course, concentrate on its essential tasks.
As for making sure that the Council goes back to concentrating on its essential functions, I would just note in passing that the conclusions of the European Council in Barcelona, the Commission's proposals and those expressed by Parliament in its various resolutions, including those that you will be adopting at the end of this debate, are all in line with one another.
Thirdly, on behalf of the Commission I shall say yes to what I would call the rediscovery of the Community method, because this is the only method that gives us a chance of resolving certain difficulties immediately.
For example, one of the objectively important and delicate questions concerning the way the Council works is the question of the rotation of the presidency, a question which Javier Solana spoke about just now.
The annual policy strategy submitted by the Commission will thus make it possible, this year, for the first time, for Council and Parliament to enter into a real and stable dialogue on the policy priorities and the working programme for next year.
We also support the idea, without amending the Treaties, of creating a Council responsible for horizontal questions.
We support this idea, which would lead to such a body having assigned to it the original mission of the General Affairs Council, in other words the coordination of the Council's specialised bodies and in particular the preparations for the European Council.
This is now obligatory, following Regulation No 1049/2001 and the measures which Parliament, the Council and the Commission have already taken and will be taking shortly with regard to the question of access to preparatory texts.
This will make the Community legislative process easier to understand.
However, a number of documents are already accessible.
Secretary-General Solana, I should also like to offer you a heartfelt word of recognition for the almost superhuman work which you carry out around the world as our High Representative - with particular commitment in the Middle East - and as Secretary-General.
Mrs Maij-Weggen is not here today because she left for the Netherlands after today's vote in order to take part in the elections, the outcome of which we are all waiting for with bated breath.
The European Council in Barcelona last March finally tackled this recurring problem, though not without deciding, yet again, to postpone it to the European Council in Seville which is planned for June 2002.
The proposal to lighten the agenda and to get the European Council to concentrate once more on its role of providing guidance and impetus, as laid down in the Treaty, is an initial step in the right direction, and I should like to thank the Secretary-General for having emphasised this important point in his speech.
The restoration of the importance of the General Affairs Council and a radical reform of the way in which it operates are obviously the essential corollaries to a reform of the European Council.
That Community mechanism requires the Commission to propose and the European Parliament and the Council to dispose, all in the greatest possible transparency.
In the draft resolution that we have in front of us, the two rapporteurs remind us of the principles which, according to the European Parliament, ought to inspire the reform of the Council, and they emphasise the fact that there is now an urgent need for action.
The imposition of a board of directors of the Council would steal the Commission's right of initiative and destroy its critical role in identifying and expressing the common interests of all the Member States.
It is only the Commission that can ensure the equality of all the states.
So reform has much further to travel before the Convention will be satisfied that we have grappled satisfactorily with all the important questions.
From this point of view, we feel that the basic shortcoming of your proposals lies in the fact that you still believe, or appear to believe, that the role of the Council, be it the European Council or the ordinary Council of Ministers, is that of government.
In that case, you must explain to me what sort of relationship will be created between this future Presidency, which will last for two or two and a half years, and the President of the Commission.
I find it difficult to understand the criticisms made by some Members given that this document is largely in line with this Parliament's own views.
But we agree with the concrete steps proposed, especially regarding what must be achieved in the short term and as regards the so-called transparency of the functioning of the Council in its legislative capacity.
Publicising the workings of the Council in its legislative capacity or open meetings are in fact important ways of achieving reform in working in this area and a way of tackling the heart of the democratic deficit of the European Union.
I am associated with sectors that are calling for greater involvement of national parliaments in the building of Europe.
Our colleagues in the national parliaments will relate and react differently to EU legislative work done at Council level if they can directly follow what our governments, the governments of every Member State, are discussing and the positions that they are adopting within the Council.
So there is a serious contradiction in this secretive approach, a fundamental contradiction between the democratic basis of the Council and the undemocratic way in which the Council works.
I would like to see reform heading in this direction and to leave other subjects until later, in particular the more sensitive issue of the presidency of the European Union.
Mr President, the European federalists are not very happy with the report on the operation of the Council prepared by its Secretary-General, Mr Solana.
Therefore future reforms will have to take into account the Council's central position in order to improve its efficiency, its visibility and its transparency.
We are firm believers in an effective, transparent Council exercising all the powers currently conferred on it by the Treaties, but we certainly cannot deny that the model we have been following in recent years, in which the Council has the role of laying down political guidelines - which is certainly essential for the Union's progress - has been struggling recently and may well need to be adapted and brought into line with growth and with the global changes which have taken place in our institutions themselves.
These reforms are in the interests of the citizens and all the other institutions, they would not necessarily take long to implement and they can probably be carried out without amending the Treaty.
Mr President, all the institutions face a major challenge with enlargement bringing in more members to each institution, but none more so than the Council.
The Commission and Parliament are better placed to deal with these difficulties, but meetings of ministers flying in for a short time to Brussels, when it takes half a morning just to have a tour de table - really provide the Council with a challenge.
In the immediate future, in Seville, the Council will be facing changes that can be made within the framework of the existing Treaties.
In addition, where subjects which, in the ordinary Council, would be taken by a qualified majority, go to the European Council, they should similarly be dealt with by a qualified majority in the European Council.
It would also be a good idea to split the General Affairs Council from the Foreign Affairs Council.
That is the way to involve national parliaments, not by creating some new institution which would duplicate the Council, some sort of third chamber.
That applies to the plans for reform of the Council.
For this reason it would be very helpful if the Council could present these proposals to the Convention on the future of Europe in time for them to be discussed and incorporated, if that is agreed, into the outcome its work, which is to be presented to the Intergovernmental Conference next year.
In practice, this "intergovernmental drift" has not only deprived the Commission and the European Parliament of some of their powers under the Treaties, but has also deprived our national parliaments of means of effectively scrutinising their own governments.
For many of our citizens, Brussels is distant and needs to be given a human face.
I will say very briefly that in the 16 speeches I have counted, issues of all types have been raised.
I can see that the Convention will have an enormous job to do in order to agree on all of them.
As for myself, what I wanted to present to you was a much smaller and more modest idea, which can be carried out immediately with just political will and which could have positive results in terms of the good functioning of the European Union.
The majority of suggestions made go much further than what I wanted to discuss with you and are not within my remit, but will fall to the Convention and subsequently the Intergovernmental Conference.
The debate is closed.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0017/2002).
I would point out to the honourable Member that, in the Council recommendation on the discharge of the 2000 budget, the Commission is asked, with the cooperation of the Member States, to be more accurate in its budgetary forecasts, both in relation to sources of funding and in terms of expenditure, with a view to preventing excessive surpluses in the future.
The Council believes that, within the framework of the legislation in force, we should insist on the need to improve budgetary estimates so that this situation does not arise to this extent again in the future.
On the other hand, with regard to the suggestions of the honourable Member, the Council would like to point out that it cannot go ahead with such a revision without a previous proposal from the Commission.
In its latest proposal to reshape the Financial Regulation which is currently being debated in the Council, it has simply insisted on the principle in accordance with which the balance for each financial year will be allocated in the budget of the following year, as income or as expenditure, whether there is a surplus or a deficit (in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 7 of Article 32 of the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977, which is now being reviewed) and this must be done by means of an amending budget.
Naturally, it does not fall to me to decide this; there would have to be a provision in the Financial Regulation which, as you know, would have to be approved unanimously by the Member States.
It would therefore be highly desirable for a provision of this type to be introduced and approved in the new Financial Regulation, which is about to be adopted.
Finally, it called on all political forces, without prejudice to the need to take measures against all crimes committed by those who use violence for political ends, to support the following resolution: 'The Basque Parliament expresses its firm belief that political dialogue is necessary to resolve conflicts.
I have a lot to say to her, but this speech is addressed to the President-in-Office of the Council, rather than to her.
I have put a supplementary question to the President-in-Office of the Council.
Mr Ortuondo Larrea, I believe that if the Rules of Procedure were applied as correctly as I apply them, we would probably not be discussing your question, as you have based it on a fallacy.
You talk about a State, a Basque Country that exists only in mythology or in your head and, in fact, asking the Council about something that does not exist may be all very well for a discussion around the fireside, but ?
I must say at the outset that I yield to no one in my condemnation of terrorism and terrorist acts, and this issue affects not just Spain but all countries in the European Union.
There are many people in this Parliament and in Europe who believe that at some stage it will be essential for Spain - however regrettable, however much it dislikes the idea - to enter into a dialogue.
If that is not the case, could he give me an example of some situation where non-dialogue has worked?
As President-in-Office of the Council, therefore, I have nothing to say, and as representative of the Spanish Government, I answer to my own Parliament, not the European Parliament.
There are questions that contain very important assertions or opinions, which are not always in agreement with the Constitution of the Member States.
A whole series of reports have been written on that subject, and it is therefore not unknown for this House to discuss Member States' internal problems where the fight against terrorism is concerned.
I was commenting on the Rules of Procedure and the assertions made in the question.
Question No 4 by Mihail Papayannakis (H-0272/02): Subject: Influx of immigrants from the Third World Every time there is a mass influx of immigrants across the EU borders, we see a revival of the public debate on the need for joint action by the fifteen Member States.
The conclusions of the European Council Meeting in Laeken of 14 and 15 December 2001 highlighted the need, consistent with the establishment and application of a common policy on asylum and immigration, cited in the conclusions of the Tampere European Council, to push through the proposals debated in the Council and consider the adoption of other actions and measures as soon as possible.
In the case of asylum, even though debates on the subject are under way with regard to certain proposals for directives, the Council, on 25 and 26 April, was able to establish general guidelines on the highly important directive laying down the minimum standards on the reception of applicants for asylum in the Member States, pending the opinion of the European Parliament.
With regard to reinforcing border controls and combating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, it should be reported that the Council of 27 and 28 February 2002 approved an action plan establishing the actions and measures that the European Union must adopt and setting deadlines for their implementation.
The said action plans establish, amongst others, actions to encourage and promote development in the countries concerned, and practical measures to reduce clandestine migration flows.
The difficulties experienced in the areas of immigration and asylum, to a great extent, relate to the significant differences between legislation in the Member States, which has changed substantially in recent years.
Be that as it may, my question is as follows: Mr President-in-Office, on 15 April, the Council decided on a number of measures which will apply to countries which do not cooperate with the European Union and which in fact facilitate, even if they do not exactly channel waves of illegal immigrants towards the Member States; however, it opted not to list these countries, while at the same time stating that it would be taking measures against these countries, which are clearly not doing their job and cooperating with the European Union.
I would like to remind Mr Papayannakis that just yesterday afternoon, the Spanish Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for the Interior appeared in Parliament solely for this subject.
I would like to say to Mrs Frahm that, naturally, it is true that there is tremendous pressure on the southern countries of the European Union.
With regard to the country I know best, however, my own country, I can tell you that Spain is well able to control its southern borders and that, currently, its problem is not border control, but the fact that there are no readmission agreements between the European Union and most Sub-Saharan African countries.
In this respect, the European Union could put great pressure on those countries that are signatories to the Cotonou Agreement.
That is what really concerns us, because in Spain as in Italy, which has common borders with the rest of the European Union, we are receiving more illegal immigrants across our borders with our fellow Member States than through crossings from the south by sea.
I would like Mr Nogueira Román to be aware that there are no provisions, either in Community legislation or in any agreement between the European Union and third countries, including Morocco or the candidate countries or other Eastern European countries, by virtue of which workers from a particular third country can have priority treatment to gain employment in a Member State of the European Union.
If these immigrants, who are hoping for something called "work", are living in these conditions, one can only guess at the miserable conditions being experienced by the five thousand Moroccans I referred to in my question, who are roaming around that region without work.
Mr President, I am not happy with the reply by the President-in-Office of the Council, because I was asking him about the humanitarian situation of five thousand persons currently living in Spain in wretched conditions.
The Spanish Ambassador, the President-in-Office of the European Union, referred to this, as well as to the association agreement signed in June 2001, although I would like to point out that this agreement did not enter into force due to the lack of parliamentary ratification in the Member States.
The Council is aware of the importance of the cases in question and, as it has done on many occasions in the past, it will continue to raise these cases within all our bilateral contacts, in every way possible, putting all the necessary political pressure on the representatives of the Egyptian Government.
In the final analysis, what counts in our political career, over and above the grand speeches we all make, is whether or not we are able to save or improve a few lives.
Question No 7 by Andrew Nicholas Duff (H-0278/02): Subject: EU Recruitment Office The draft decision concerning the establishment, organisation and functioning of the European Recruitment Office would seem to breach the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Article 21 of the Charter explicitly prohibits discrimination on the grounds of age.
Mr President, I still have three concrete questions which puzzle me concerning this troublesome issue of the recruitment agency of the EU.
Furthermore, they have a tradition of taking on staff which enables them to assess the qualities and the merits that they require in order to select their staff without needing to consult external sources.
Question No 8 by Jonas Sjöstedt (H-0281/02): Subject: Proposed new Danish immigration laws The Danish government has presented several proposals designed to tighten up Denmark's immigration laws.
This means that it will not be permitted for Danes under 24 years of age who choose a spouse from another country to live with that spouse in Denmark.
Question No 9 by Pernille Frahm (H-0285/02): Subject: Family unification and EU citizenship How does the Council view the discriminatory treatment which would result from the Danish government's proposal concerning the right to family unification in Denmark for married couples where one spouse is a foreign citizen?
One item in their programme proposes to increase the age limit for family unification by marriage to 24 years.
The appropriate body for determining whether a domestic law of a given country does not conform to the Community acquis is the Commission.
This is why we have the European Commission, an institution with supranational powers that we have conferred on it, which has the obligation to ensure that Member States comply with the Community acquis and which must act as guardian of the Treaties.
It therefore falls to the European Union to point the finger and tell each Member State whether its national legislation conforms to the Community acquis.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow me to put a question to you in your capacity as legislator.
If it now appears that, with the help of this type of legislation, a Member State can prevent the free movement of labour and of citizens and create problems in terms of EU citizenship, would you be willing to alter the common regulations so that it is quite clear that individual countries cannot introduce restrictions of this kind?
As you know, ladies and gentlemen - and I am bound to presume that, as a Member of the European Parliament, you do know - the Council only acts and only approves regulations at the proposal of the European Commission.
We are talking here about an extremely delicate institutional balance and about regulations that are laid down in the Treaties and which have underpinned our co-existence since 1956.
I shall, therefore, say that the Presidency is going to ensure that this institutional balance is maintained and that the prerogatives of each institution are respected.
Consequently, if a given Member State's legislation does not conform to the Community acquis or to the regulations laid down in the Treaty, let the European Commission start infringement proceedings against it and let the Court of Justice try the case.
Question No 10 by Rosa M.
Díez González (H-0286/02): Subject: Creation of a Euro-Mediterranean development bank The European summit in Laeken in December 2001 called on the Council and the Commission to consider the possibility of creating a Euro-Mediterranean development bank to remedy the poor economic results of the countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean and the social and political consequences thereof.
The Barcelona European Council of March 2002 consequently agreed to the creation within the EIB of a reinforced Euro-Mediterranean Investment Facility within the EIB, which would be set in motion as soon as possible, complemented by the Euro-Mediterranean Association Agreement and an EIB representative office located in the area.
It should be added that on the basis of an evaluation of loans provided by the Facility and taking account of the outcome of the consultations held with our partners in the Barcelona process a decision on the incorporation of an EIB majority-owned subsidiary dedicated to our Mediterranean Partner Countries will be considered and taken one year after the launching of the Facility.
The Ministerial Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs on the Mediterranean dialogue, held on 22 and 23 of April in Valencia, warmly welcomed Ecofin and the Barcelona European Council's conclusions on this matter.
It also formalised, first the opening of this new structure within the EIB and, secondly, the fact that a year after the project's launch, the possibility of opening an independent subsidiary of this European Investment Bank especially dedicated to Euro-Mediterranean financing will be considered.
It does not really need to be pointed out, but it was at the Laeken European Council that the recommendation was made, once again, to create a Euro-Mediterranean development bank to remedy the poor economic results of the countries on the southern shore of the Mediterranean and the social and political consequences thereof.
As Mrs Díez knows very well, Spain, before holding the Presidency and then as holder of the Presidency, sought to achieve the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean bank and this aim consequently appeared in the conclusions of the Laeken European Council.
This was no chance happening, since we were preparing the ground for the next ministerial meeting and for the Spanish Presidency itself and this desire was asserted once again at the Barcelona European Council, but in a much more low-key way.
I hope that we can continue to maintain our ambition and our objective.
The argument you put forward is that your country was the only one to have argued for this in Ecofin.
For this reason, the Bank was not approached directly, and for this reason we opted for this phased process and we hope that, with this phased process, the conditions will gradually improve and a new mindset will come into play in the Mediterranean countries to make better use of the monies that, both in the form of donations and of loans, we make available.
Question No 11 by Esko Olavi Seppänen (H-0289/02): Subject: The nature and funding of Galileo It has been decided to launch the Galileo project.
I would like to reply to the question by pointing out that the Council has stated on various occasions that Galileo is a civilian programme, under civilian control.
This is the result in particular of the Council Resolution adopted on 5 April 2001 and published in the Official Journal of the European Communities No 157/1, of 30 May 2001; and also of the Council conclusions adopted on 26 March 2002 and published in press communiqué No 7282/02.
Therefore, all these documents have made it clear that the Council wishes Galileo to remain a civilian programme, under civilian control.
Mr President, Minister, in its resolution, the European Parliament, for example, has asked that the Galileo programme should be used for military purposes.
We have clearly stated that this is a civilian programme under civilian control.
Question No 12 by Lennart Sacrédeus (H-0291/02): Subject: Child slaves on cacao plantations in West Africa The United Nations Children's Fund, UNICEF, has voiced its concern that child trafficking affects 200 000 children in West Africa, with the cacao industry accounting for a substantial number of them.
The working day for these children is up to 15 hours long.
Last year, the European Union carried out surveys in various countries in the region and urged governments to fulfil their obligations, in accordance with the corresponding United Nations Conventions or Agreements and to adopt measures, in line with these agreements, and to foster and develop cooperation between governments in the region and international organisations, in particular, UNICEF and the ILO.
A number of West African governments have informed the European Union that they have ratified, or intend to ratify, the Convention prohibiting the worst forms of child labour and immediate action for its elimination and that they are totally committed to the fight against the trafficking of children.
Those countries that have not yet ratified this important Convention were urged to do so without delay.
The European Union will continue to stress, in bilateral contacts and in international fora, the importance of taking robust action against child labour and the trafficking of children.
They all have, furthermore, what is known as the 'national indicative programme' agreed on with the European Commission to steer cooperation funds towards those sectors in greatest need, for their economic and social development.
The Commission is extremely aware of this problem, which affects not all but certainly some countries in West Africa, and is endeavouring to use all means available to it, by funding the European Development Fund, to promote programmes of the type that you have suggested.
Question No 13 by Alejandro Cercas (H-0296/02): Subject: The Lisbon strategy and full employment The conclusions of the recent European Council summit in Barcelona state that full employment in the European Union is the core of the Lisbon Strategy and the essential goal of economic and social policies, which requires the creation of more and better jobs.
Nevertheless, official estimates in the EU put unemployment at 7.8%, with Spain being the Member State with the highest rate of unemployment (12.9%, according to figures published by EUROSTAT in February 2002) and the least stable job situation, even though it has been experiencing a period of economic growth.
In the light of these figures, what initiatives will the Council Presidency take to ensure that national employment plans actually cut unemployment rates and promote quality jobs in all the Member States?
The Council similarly wishes to emphasise that, in order to achieve the objectives set out in Lisbon, the European employment strategy must focus in particular on the challenges that the European Union faces in the long term, especially those affecting the ageing of the population.
The European employment strategy must contribute to the creation of a dynamic and efficient labour market, in which motivated and well-trained employees are able to undertake high quality and highly productive tasks.
In the implementation of the employment strategy, the guidelines for Member States' employment policies, in 2002, which were formally adopted by the Council at the beginning of this year, broadly reflect the new political messages sent by the recent European Council, which examined the issue of full employment in Europe.
It is now up to the Member States to implement the employment policy, in accordance with the employment guidelines and in line with the principle of subsidiarity and with the Member States' own competences in the field of employment.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are quite right to say that it is now - and always has been, since Luxembourg - the Member States that have to make the policy of the employment strategy a reality and adopt practical initiatives and not confine themselves to emphatically reiterating objectives and claims which are regrettably not translated into action and which remain as nothing more than the bureaucratic accumulation of projects or already existing administrative dynamics, without finding a new way of encouraging the nation as a whole, involving social operators, all types of administrative authorities, parliaments, etc.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is the Member States that are responsible and Parliament has just said, in November, and has been saying for five years, that national employment plans have major shortcomings in terms of programming, evaluating and following up; that there are no concrete objectives, that there are no indicators, that financial resources are not properly discussed.
My reason for saying all of this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is to persuade you that in the 45 remaining days of this Presidency, the Spanish Presidency must really come up with a powerful initiative, because the problem is that the number of unemployed people in Europe is on the increase and we are not creating the jobs that we said we would in Lisbon and we cannot continue always saying the same thing, adopting a purely administrative approach, when faced with a problem of this scale.
I agree with you insofar as, very often, when national employment plans are put forward, they lack the necessary precision and, above all, quantified commitments, with clear objectives, in terms of how employment creation in less-favoured sectors is going to be tackled, how new opportunities are going to be created, and which measures and resources are going to be used.
However, as you know, there is no better way of obliging Member States to put forward truly substantial employment plans, than by applying the kind of pressure and political insistence that this debate represents.
Naturally, I will pass on this concern to the Spanish Minister for Labour and Social Affairs to see whether, in a forthcoming sitting of the Social Affairs Council - which has still to meet before the Presidency draws to a close - we can deal with this issue once again.
I would remind Mr Posselt that, on the basis of the Council Decision of 22 December 2000, which created the European Police College, a network of European police colleges was founded including all of the Member States.
The members of the College committed themselves to organising ten training operations on the priority issues set out in the Council Decision.
In 2002, in the absence of a definitive decision on the location of the Agency's headquarters, Denmark temporarily hosted the secretariat of CEPOL, having previously obtained a budget of EUR 2.2 million for 2002 to be used to finance 17 training operations.
With regard to cooperation between border control services in the Member States, the Council would refer to paragraphs 24 and 25 of the Tampere European Council Conclusions, in which Council calls for closer cooperation and mutual technical assistance between the Member States' border control services, such as exchange programmes and technology transfer, especially on maritime borders, and for the rapid inclusion of the applicant States in this cooperation.
Later, on 6 and 7 December 2001, the Council approved a document entitled 'European management of border control'.
On 11 April 2002 the first meeting of the aforementioned committee took place in Brussels with the participation of representatives from border control services.
This cooperation represents an initial stage in the implementation of other possible forms of cooperation, specifically in the light of the deliberations taking place on the forthcoming Commission Communication on border management, as well as the result of the feasibility study carried out by the Italian authorities with regard to the creation of a European border police service.
This study, carried out within the framework of the Odysseus programme, was started in October 2001 and consists of four phases.
Its results will be presented at a ministerial conference on 30 May 2002, in Rome.
The aim of this global plan is to define a common and integrated approach to all issues linked to illegal immigration and human trafficking.
However, I have two specific supplementary questions.
Mr Posselt, I would very much like to be able to tell you right now when the decision on the headquarters of the European Police College will be taken, but I am afraid that this is not an issue on which a quick decision can be made, because the headquarters of this college is included in a package relating to a whole range of European agencies that has been the cause of great controversy in the EU.
You will recall that in Gothenburg the Swedish Presidency tried to reach an agreement over headquarters; that in Laeken, the Belgian Presidency tried once again, and put forward a proposed agreement on headquarters, which was blocked by not only one, but by various countries at the same time.
And I would like to tell you, simply, in the intimacy of this hemicycle - which is certainly quite intimate today - that the Spanish Presidency is doing everything it can to put together a package that will allow all countries that aspire to host headquarters of European Agencies - given that to get a particular agency in one's country appears to be a matter of life of death to all concerned - to come to an agreement.
I shall not go into precise details right now about which countries are competing for the headquarters, other than to tell you that there are many, and often no-one knows if these countries really want these headquarters or whether they are choosing this option as some kind of decoy or bargaining tool to get something else.
Question No 15 by Anne E.M.
Van Lancker (H-0304/02): Subject: Availability of Council meeting and committee documents Since the start of the Lisbon procedure the Council, together with the Commission, has become the pivot of a number of coordination procedures.
Despite the current provisions on public access to documents published by the three institutions - Council, Parliament and Commission - there is currently no specific procedure regarding the official communication to Parliament of documents relating to the Lisbon objectives.
Having said this, within the framework of transparency, all the reports and other documents approved by the Council in this regard, particularly those which aim to coordinate economic policies, are normally published, once approved, on the Council website, and are therefore generally accessible to the public.
The open method of co-ordination can be very effective, provided that it is democratic and transparent.
Mrs Van Lancker, I have the utmost respect for all that you say, and it is clear that there remains much that can be done to improve transparency and the availability of Council documents.
It goes without saying that, as you say, Parliament is the body that represents the peoples of Europe.
Question No 16 by Richard Howitt (H-0306/02): Subject: 'Untying'of development assistance from commercial interests by EU Member States Can the President-in-Office confirm that Member States at the Barcelona Summit rejected the Commission proposal to 'untie' development assistance from commercial interests, and can he describe the objections made to the proposal?
The European Council, nonetheless, welcomed the agreement reached on official development assistance (ODA) by Foreign Affairs Ministers in view of the Monterrey Conference on Financing for Development, an agreement it supported.
In this agreement, the Council of the European Union affirms its willingness to apply, along with other commitments, the recommendation for the lifting of development assistance conditions for less developed countries and to continue the debates with the aim of continuing to lift bilateral assistance conditions.
The European Union will also study measures to continue the lifting of Community assistance conditions while maintaining the current price preference system within the framework of the ACP-EU agreement.
According to the World Bank, this increases aid effectiveness by between 12 and 20 per cent.
You will be aware that very often there is a series of special credits within the development assistance mechanisms dedicated to financing development assistance projects provided that they favour the implementation or realisation of contacts with companies located in the States.
Whilst I do not wish to make an assessment of whether this is a good or a bad thing, it has been an extremely powerful instrument in encouraging countries to allocate large amounts of money to development assistance, and has also been an extremely powerful instrument in encouraging many companies, boosted by these particular credits, to get involved in carrying out projects in countries where, if they had not been provided with these special credits, it would have been extremely risky to have started various projects.
Question No 17 by María Rodríguez Ramos (H-0311/02): Subject: United Biscuits' closure of the Fontaneda factory On 4 April 2002 the multinational company United Biscuits, which owns the Fontaneda biscuit factory in Aguilar de Campo, announced its decision to close the factory without giving any advance notice to workers, who discovered the news in the press.
With regard to the more specific issue of alleviating the negative effects of massive job cuts, in 1975 the Council adopted the Directive on collective redundancies, amended in 1992 and consolidated in 1998, in which specific requirements with regard to information and consultation from company executives were laid down.
In any event, it does not fall to the Council, in its capacity as a legislative body, to judge whether the case of United Biscuits, a multinational company, and the Fontaneda biscuits factory would be covered by these Directives or corresponding national legislation, nor if they have failed to respect the social rights of workers in this case.
In any case, with or without the trademark, there are various groups of investors that are clearly interested, who shall be given every facility to prevent this factory, in a town so small as Aguilar de Campoo, from having to close, which would have a very serious effect on the inhabitants of this town.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as you know, the Fontaneda factory and trademark are emblematic in Spain and are historically and geographically linked to the Aguilar de Campoo area.
I have always said that I would expect all MEPs to be fully aware of the institutional system in which we are working.
It is neither the Council nor the President-in-Office of the Council's duty to make any judgement on rules that have been adopted.
Questions that were not answered during Question Time shall be answered in writing, Mr Gahler.
It is the culmination of fifteen months of work.
Our first objective is therefore to bring the text within everybody's reach, in other words to re-write the Treaties in the spirit of a clearer, shorter and more coherent constitution.
Those paragraphs of the Treaties not included in the Constitution would remain applicable but would no longer form part of primary legislation.
The fact that this principle of Member States' competence is not expressly mentioned in the Constitution seems to us to reinforce it.
In those areas, it can act alone, as in the case of customs or currency, or it may have primary responsibility, as in the case of the internal market, competition or cohesion policies.
The Constitution will have to specify, in each case, the objective and scope of the Union's action, by applying the principle of subsidiarity.
As far as these two essential areas are concerned, ten years of applying the Maastricht Treaty have confirmed both the absolute need for joint action and, unfortunately, the inefficacy of the intergovernmental procedures.
The Court of Justice would be transformed into a Constitutional Court, and an emergency procedure would be introduced, allowing a qualified majority of the Council, the European Parliament or the Commission to bring matters before the Court between the time when a European law is finally adopted and the time when it comes into force.
The compromise text finally adopted invites Member States to make proposals to the Union so as to ensure that their territorial authorities are more involved in the activities of the Union.
Mr President, the timetable for Parliament's work has been particularly well-chosen, because next week the European Convention will be considering the subject.
Our resolution will therefore be the first working document of the Convention on this essential subject, and in fact, if truth be told, the only document.
Mr President, this report is intended as a contribution to the revision of the Treaties and as a contribution to a European constitution.
The Spinelli draft back in 1984 accepted the competences of the EU and the division of labour between the EU and the Member States, just as the Lamassoure report quite rightly does today.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs considers that the division of competences in the report is lacking in democratic legitimacy as far as policy coordination is concerned.
Positive policy coordination requires both clear democratic legitimacy and unified implementation.
The broad economic guidelines, for example, ought therefore to be set jointly by the Council and the European Parliament, based on a formal proposal from the Commission.
This would then serve as an example for other political areas in which coordination should and must be exercised.
The authority, indeed the moral obligation, to set up such a far-reaching framework in the interest of economic welfare is provided by the Principles chapter of the EC Treaty, which lists among Union activities the adoption of an economic policy based on the definition of common objectives which can and must achieve, in particular, harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of economic activities, a high level of employment and sustainable, non-inflationary growth, as well as social protection.
In keeping with the Lisbon process, I am calling in the strongest possible terms for the European Parliament to come down in favour of policy coordination which deserves to be described as such and which makes it quite clear that policies in the general interest can only succeed if the common interest factor is also visible.
Mr President, this is not the best time to debate the Lamassoure report.
We are in favour of a flexible interpretation and of the idea that, at any moment, through the mechanisms he has upheld, from Article No 308 and other Articles from the Treaty, Article No 99 specifically, we can accommodate the needs of the Union and the aspirations of its citizens.
Secondly, I believe that the Lamassoure report also puts forward a very solid position on one of the great issues in the Convention, the control of subsidiarity.
I believe that one of the main issues in the debate on the Convention will be how to control subsidiarity, for, as the rapporteur has very clearly stated, the great majority of competences are competences shared between the Union and the Member States.
I believe that we also have a very solid position in this regard.
I am going to make a declaration, because I know that some fellow Members still have doubts, in favour of the position taken by Alain Lamassoure: I believe the control of subsidiarity should be exercised by the body within whose competence it falls to make proposals - in other words - the European Commission.
I believe that the European Commission must have the right of initiative and that it must take charge of subsidiarity.
Finally, Mr President, I believe that the Lamassoure proposal is ambitious.
There is a William Faulkner character who I like very much and am very fond of, who says that we have to have very ambitious dreams, so that, as we go through life chasing these dreams, we know where we stand in relation to them.
I believe that the Lamassoure report allows this and that all our hopes and dreams are also permitted.
It means that the European Parliament will be there at the Convention with a set of proposals on the table.
We will have done our work in terms of contributing ideas and proposals to the Convention and that in itself is very important.
There are those who are alleging that the European Union has become an over-centralised monstrosity; that we need to take powers back to the Member States; that we should define a catalogue of competences specifying in great detail what the EU is allowed and not allowed to do.
In some areas we lay down detailed legislation - which the Member States have to comply with.
Let us remind ourselves who sits on the Council: national ministers, members of national governments, accountable to national parliaments - not people who are predisposed towards centralising everything in the European Union.
The Treaty of Amsterdam gave a protocol giving a six-week period for ministers to discuss with their national parliaments.
That is how national parliaments should be involved, not through some new chamber of subsidiarity or some new institution.
Where we in the Socialist Group have a reservation is on the legal control of subsidiarity.
We do not, however, think a new extra procedure - an emergency procedure - is needed, and the wording should be tightened up to show that on shared competences detailed legislation can sometimes be laid down and ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, the Liberal Group strongly welcomes the report for not simply revisiting existing powers to improve clarity but for boldly seeking to adjust competences to face the challenges that the Union knows, especially in the foreign and security field.
The report will serve as the first contribution to the Convention on the question of competences.
My group supports the idea of creating a new judicial procedure of constitutional complaint for breaches of competency, which implies the rapid evolution of the European Court.
Mr President, like others I take it to be a great privilege to participate in this debate - late in the day, though it is.
My own group has two particular points that we would like to ask colleagues to build into the report before it finally sees the light of day.
Further, we suggest - and colleagues on the left are very much in agreement with this - that a little more emphasis on the social, as well as the economic and political element - should be written in.
In that context, we raise the issue of subsidiarity.
Recital G makes a very important contribution to expanding and giving greater bite to the idea of subsidiarity, and that is also to be very greatly welcomed.
We in our group believe much in extended subsidiarity.
This report as it stands now represents a huge step forward in the thinking of Europeans and of this Parliament.
He has done a fantastic job, we are all greatly in his debt, and I hope my group will vote unanimously with him tomorrow.
Mr President, the issue with which Mr Lamassoure's report deals is indeed a complex one.
I abstained in the vote on this report in the Committee and would like to adduce a number of examples of things which, to my mind, the report has not yet addressed in a convincing way.
We set ourselves the objective of promoting economic and social progress, with a high level of employment as well.
The words to date have been splendid, but they need to be backed up by actions.
Employment and social security are not variables in competition, but every citizen's individual and fundamental right, and it is in that direction that the European Union must develop.
I would like to welcome this report as one of the most significant documents in the debate in this House.
We regret not being able to support this motion in the final vote because we are even in agreement with the first two paragraphs, and we agree that the time has come to update the division of competences between the Union and its Member States on the basis of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, in order to take account of the lessons of the Community's history - particularly those lessons that unfortunately point to so many excesses and infringements of the principle of subsidiarity.
And we also agree that a better division of competences is needed and will result in a strengthening of democracy in Europe, which for us includes restoring greater importance to national democracies and the role of national parliaments and a new interparliamentary process for building the Europe of the future.
Furthermore, we believe, because we are talking about competences here, that it is not within the competence of any European institution to draw up a European constitution.
It is within the competence of the Member States to draw up and revise treaties, and this is a contractual mechanism totally different from the mechanisms relating to constitutions, which are based on the existence of a sovereign people, a people governed by a sovereign body, and that is totally different from our mission in the European Union.
This is a very important point with consequences for the institutional framework and for how we see the competences of the European Union.
For example, the criterion of synergy is mentioned amongst the criteria identified in Recital G, but this criterion can only be considered within a very limited framework.
By way of conclusion, let me say that we welcome the report and would like to support it, but it is on the issue of this constitutional vision that we differ with the rapporteur, this vision of a European Union becoming ever more like a state, which we consider to be fundamentally at odds with the whole concept of Europe and with our vision of the future of the European Union - one which respects the individual nations.
Mr President, what the citizens want is not so much a division of competences between the European Union and the Member States, but rather the limitation of the competences of that Union, and that is also what the principle of subsidiarity requires.
Amendment No 34, for example, proposes that it should be made possible, at the request of one or more States, and thus of their respective national parliaments, to abrogate a text if no majority can be found to confirm it.
My group is very concerned to find that, every time it has been claimed that this clarification exercise is being carried out, the end result is always exactly the opposite.
It would make it possible, both in the normal procedure and in this accelerated procedure, by way of a range of groups and institutions possessing the right of action, to defend competences where it is believed that the legislature is exceeding its powers.
I would like to propose to you that the national parliaments should also be added to the list of those bodies that possess the right of action in the ECJ.
I feel that we need to be very determined in defending the Union's current competences and also in extending them, first and foremost, to the common foreign and security policy - as boldly suggested in paragraph 20 - not least because that is what is being demanded by citizens across Europe, who want to see Europe more united and stronger in its actions in critical situations and on major issues of peace and justice in the world.
Well then, the Lamassoure report puts forwards solutions that will bring greater consensus in all our countries on the further development of European integration.
It is not surprising that people do not trust the EU when it is so difficult to understand its decisions and division of responsibilities.
Mr Lamassoure's report is therefore an extremely important contribution to the Convention and to the domestic debate in our Member States.
The division of powers needs clarifying, perhaps not with a list of competences, but with a clearer outline of what the EU should do.
The local and regional level is extremely important, and I endorse the amendments aimed at re-introducing the regional partnership.
In particular I approve his efforts regarding foreign policy, defence and security.
The rules of competition must be balanced by common rules and tasks concerning security, public services and industrial policy.
As for the exercising of these competences, the democratic challenge and the requirement for efficacy, on these points the report is too brief and a few amendments would improve it.
As for the nature of the actions of the Union, I cannot accept the assumption of the rapporteur, who believes that the Union can manage things only in exceptional cases.
Let us therefore be brave enough to form a society in Europe.
Mr President, since I only have one minute in which to speak, I shall be very forthright.
This is why the SOS Democracy Members have submitted a minority opinion which is attached to the report.
This is also why the French MPF Members have drawn up a counter-report in the form of replies to the Convention's questionnaire on the tasks of the Union, 'Europe - what for?'.
Mr President, I would like to join the Members who have already spoken in congratulating our friend, Mr Lamassoure.
Indeed, there has been a great deal of discussion and a lengthy debate on the role of the regions in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
We, who want to build a Union for the citizens at the level of the citizens, would certainly be doing both ourselves and the future of Europe a great service in reflecting precisely on the role of the regional institutions and on an institutional architecture in which all the legislative institutions are part of the Union's future.
The report also has no truck with any catalogue of competences, which would make cooperation far too rigid a matter.
The report is in actual fact very realistic, and Parliament can now no longer be accused of consisting of extremists with their heads in the clouds.
That is something which I also hope that organised opponents in my own country, Denmark, will take account of.
I myself have proposed that an individual Commissioner be responsible for subsidiarity, for that would give us elected representatives here in Parliament the ability to hold the Commission responsible for the subsidiarity issue and so force it both to explain itself directly to people and to justify its actions to them.
It is certainly a mature decision to extend the Union's competences to the common foreign and defence policy - only thus will Europe be able to make its voice heard in matters of preserving order, peace, stability and world development - and to the management of the common area of freedom and security, because only thus will we be able to combat organised crime and drugs effectively and address the issue of extra-Community immigration in a civilised manner.
That said, in accepting and underlining the importance of the principle of subsidiarity and transferring all the other competences to federal sovereign bodies in accordance with this principle, it is true that, realistically, we need to acknowledge that, in the present phase of European history which is undeniably distinguished by the enlargement procedure, the Union we are building is a Union of States.
It is a fact that, in recent decades, the States have had to relinquish sovereignty upwards - as is the case with the Union itself - and, especially, downwards, towards the territorial, regional and local bodies which now represent the real identity and seat of democratic control in many parts of Europe.
The division of competences between the Member States and the Union must be judged not just on how efficient it is, but on how democratic it is.
We should remember what psychologists have to say about families with three children, about the child sandwiched in the middle which has a permanent identity problem and wonders, right into old age... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, not only on having succeeded, despite the conditions in which we find ourselves, in attracting a fuller House than we normally get at an evening sitting, but above all for the excellence of his report, for having successfully completed a very difficult exercise, and finally, for gaining tomorrow a vote which I believe could be to the honour of Parliament with regard to the quality of the support which the Lamassoure report will receive.
They see it as an important lever to enable our reflections to progress, so that finally we shall provide ourselves with institutions and a constitutional assembly which can enable us to complete an enlargement which, without such a structure, would run the risk of really turning us into a free trade area with no soul and no interest in taking part in it.
I believe that in the spirit of the Lamassoure report we shall be able to make progress in other contexts, on even more specific proposals, heading even more in the direction of a federally based Europe.
The second is that today's debate is not taking place in a sanitised vacuum, and what is happening in politics, especially the elections taking place today in the Netherlands, insofar as we have any information about them, shows that a certain segment of the population has a growing tendency to vote and act by reference to European policy.
The Convention ought to take this on board and include it in the final draft for 2003.
I would like to add that the agreements reached between the three institutions on the basis of the proposals in the financial services area are not yet adequate to deal with democratic control, but that they can at least serve to point the right way ahead.
Mr President, I believe that the best response we can give to the extreme right and to any fashionable populist discourse against the European Union is to build more and better Europe.
In my opinion, the Lamassoure report is particularly timely for this very reason.
I believe that the Lamassoure report is appropriate precisely for this reason, and more importantly, that its general approach is correct.
I also consider it vital for there to be increasing flexibility in order to develop the Community acquis and for this reason I agree that there should be no 'competence catalogue' in the strict sense.
I also consider that if there are three areas in which the competences of the EU should be increased, these are in economic governance and social Europe, foreign policy, and legal affairs and the internal market.
In this regard, it is appropriate that there is a review clause, in the fashion of the current Article No 308, and to establish a clear hierarchy of acts in order that what today is primary law continues to be considered in this regard.
I also believe that the regions, particularly those with legislative capacity, should have an increasing role in the future of the European Union, so that they can apply these very Community competences.
For example, it is not possible to create a fully functional internal market without strengthening the political Union.
In most cases the power of decision is still divided between the Union and the Member States.
In the debate on competence some are looking for a way to transfer competence back to the Member States, which would be a step backwards for integration.
The Convention should make good use of it and reflect carefully on it if we are to be given an opportunity to have a modern treaty in which the European Union provides added value for its citizens, its regions and its Member States.
No decisions are reached without the agreement of the Member States, and therefore without the national parliaments, when they see themselves as monitoring what the representatives of their national governments do in the Council.
Not all the problems faced by our countries' regions can be resolved through Europe.
Mr President, some of my fellow Members have complained that this debate is taking place at night.
I would remind him of the night of 4 August 1789, when the French Revolutionary Assembly abolished all mediaeval and feudal rights.
For example, if there is a clear distinction between the competences which fall to European institutions and those which fall to Member States, we can dispense with this word which, in any case, no-one understands - subsidiarity.
We had it in Spain and we had to remove it because it was a means of blocking the process of Community development.
I fully expect that tomorrow this Parliament will support the Lamassoure proposal en masse and I hope that this will serve as a basis for work in the Convention and later in the Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr President, sometimes I feel that this House is so preoccupied with its own debates that it has lost sight of what is going on beyond its walls.
The nation-states must be allowed to define certain areas of policy as being essentially domestic in that they have no direct impact on the internal affairs of other Member States.
Further, they should have the right to guarantee this judicial supremacy in their constitutions.
I do not have time now to elaborate a full list of these areas, although I have done so in a paper published by the SOS Democracy Intergroup.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the present allocation of competences between the EU and the Member States seems almost made to measure for populists of whatever stripe.
The missing competence thus ceased to be a problem.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am actually also of the opinion that this report represents a genuine step forward in the debate on the competences of Europe - not only intellectually, but also politically.
Above all, I see this report as carrying two messages.
The second message contained in the report is that we want more Europe in external relations, and more Europe in the worldwide representation of European interests, but that we are also ready to do without one thing or another in internal matters and leave detailed rules to the Member States.
It certainly represents a step forwards that sheds some light on the sensitive issue of competences at exactly the time when this issue is at the centre of the Convention's debate.
The impending constituent Treaty, which we are convinced will be the basic standard for the new Europe, must encourage the development of a Union with a single foreign and defence policy at last, a Union which is, at last, able to take action and work for peace in the Mediterranean area and elsewhere, a Union which is highly competent in the field of security, immigration control, the internal market and monetary policy.
As regards the latter, Mr Lamassoure, there is, in all probability, a need for greater clarity.
The objective is to create a new Europe which will be increasingly close to the citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the cultural diversity of Europe is reflected in, among other things, the political systems of the Member States.
Taking responsibility in Europe means mutual recognition of the Member States' constitutional arrangements, which are many and varied.
Some of these regions are larger, in terms of surface area and population, than the small Member States.
This disparity in political arrangements will be made greater by the accession of more Member States.
Item 34 and the compromise set out in item 39 are very important, as they highlight a new way of having recourse to law in disputes concerning subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality.
Let me draw my colleagues' attention to one thing, namely that, in its judgment dated 3 May 2002 in the Jégo Quéré case, the European Court of First Instance declared itself to be a constitutional court.
The latest Eurobarometer surveys indicate that 60% of the EU's citizens take pride in describing themselves as Europeans, and that two-thirds of the current population of the EU - as many as 80% in Italy - want a European constitution.
Mr President, Commissioner Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, our lengthy debate today has demonstrated that one topic on which we are taking a very positive line is the role of the regions in the European Union, and this has now, of course, been recognised in the Lamassoure Report.
The second point I would like to address concerns the powers reserved to the EU.
The practical cooperation that we engage in with the Commission is excellent, but I believe that things must not remain the way they are.
According to my information, Real Madrid are still leading two - one, and their second goal was scored by Zidane.
This information that I am giving you has not, however, prevented me from attentively following the whole of this debate, which has been of very high quality, on the issue of competences, an issue which lies at the heart of the Nice and Laeken declarations.
The resolution that you are about to adopt will in effect constitute a central element in the debate which has started on the future of the Union.
At the same time, however, as your rapporteur is well aware, it also raises far-reaching technical problems.
I should then like to thank the various parliamentary committees, in particular the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the quality of its work.
The resulting resolution retains a high degree of clarity in spite of the density and complexity of the subject.
The result of this collective step forward is undeniably constructive, because it leads to three important ideas, and I can tell you, on behalf of the Commission, that this is how we regard them, and I shall now comment briefly on each one.
The first idea is the clarification of the whole of the legal framework of the European Union.
The second important idea in this report is the classification of competences into three categories: competences exercised as a matter of principle by the Member States, the Union's own competences, and shared competences.
Of course I understand this interesting and useful attempt to describe the current organisation of competences.
The risk of the rigidity of watertight classifications, subject by subject, which several Members have already mentioned, could perhaps freeze the division of competences more than is required for the sake of clarity.
A third possible risk would be the risk of ignoring negative competences, those rules which directly impose restrictions on the exercise of the competences of the Member States, for example the prohibition of measures restricting the fundamental freedoms of movement.
Overall, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a balance needs to be struck between, on the one hand, the necessary rationalisation of competences, and, on the other hand, the sui generis nature of the system of the Union, which we do not wish to attack.
The question of strengthening controls to ensure that the division of competences between the Union and the Member States is respected forms a part of the most complex problems that we shall have to tackle.
To conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to these comments, which I was bound to give you, I should like to express my satisfaction, as usual, with the quality of the work carried out between our two institutions, and praise the contribution made by Parliament.
That is why I believe that at this point, one week before the next meeting of the Convention, this contribution from Parliament is extremely important, and will provide crucial indications on the issue of the competences of the European Union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at noon.
I commend it for the vote tomorrow and I hope and believe that as many colleagues as possible will support it.
The actions of one man and his regime have destroyed 5000 years of unbroken human civilisation, causing the worst humanitarian tragedy since the Second World War, according to the United Nations special rapporteur for human rights of Iraq.
Iraq has the capacity to be the wealthiest nation in the globe per capita with her oil and other resources.
She has the example, in the three governates of northern Iraq, of democracy and the Rule of Law.
So what does the report recommend that is different, that adds value to this very long-running debate?
Again we ask the international community and the European Union to take special note of the 3.5 million refugees who fled from Iraq in the last 11 years.
We see the future for Iraq, and I call upon this House to support the report.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union's attitude towards the Iraqi Government is, unfortunately, moulded by the stance of that country's rulers, which amounts to blackmail.
It is not the sanctions that cause the sufferings of the vast majority of the Iraqi people, but rather the aggression, cunning and incompetence of the totalitarian regime that provoked these sanctions.
The United States is openly preparing for a military intervention in Iraq and is searching among the opposition in exile for successors to Saddam Hussein.
It is neither the habit nor the task of Europe to overthrow regimes, and clearly we shall not be voting for the Nicholson report until there is no longer any doubt on this point.
My group also believes that the report's insistence on the Iraqi exiles should not make us forget the existence of a civil society within the country, which is still surviving, and with dignity.
However, in my view the most important question is missing.
Resolution 1409 of the Security Council of the United Nations, adopted yesterday, is still very restrictive, even though it has made the sanctions more flexible.
We are asking that Iraq should open its doors, without any restrictions, to the UN inspection missions, but that they should then serve as an example to Israel.
Europe must adopt its own stance in this regard, and not blindly follow the American policy which poses great risks to stability in the world and only generates hatred and frustration.
Mr President, my reading of this report differs from Mrs De Keyser's in that it is more positive.
Secondly - and it is this that I read in a quite different light - it raises what for me is the crucial issue of how the conflict is to be resolved, by emphasising, and I quote: 'the importance of achieving a multilateral political solution in the region, under the aegis of the UN, as the only means of guaranteeing stability and peace in the region'.
In this region of all regions, it would have the most menacing consequences, which would extend to every aspect of our relations with the Islamic and Arab world.
The Nicholson report is outspoken about this destabilisation strategy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, odd coalitions are sometimes formed in this House, and not only in this House.
Any assessment of the situation in Iraq is of course difficult for two reasons.
We want to restore the United Nations' authority and we want the United Nations to make it its concern that a change of regime should come about here.
The Kurds have no sympathy for Saddam Hussein.
Mr President, we all agree on the sort of regime over which Saddam Hussein presides.
We have never discussed how many smugglers have benefited from the embargo, we have never discussed which companies here in the European Union are collaborating with the regime and snapping up every project on offer in Iraq on very good terms.
This is another matter we have not discussed and, in 2, 3 or 5 years' time, it will be the main factor in political tensions and armed reckonings.
Let me first congratulate Baroness Nicholson for her excellent overview of the situation in Iraq eleven years after the Gulf war and the impact of international action over the past decade.
The report highlights many serious problems in Iraq, including the victimisation of political opponents of the regime, the humanitarian crisis, the systematic refusal by Saddam Hussein to comply with UN obligations on weapons of mass destruction, and the destabilising influence of Iraq on the region.
The report offers a horrific account of human rights violations.
Saddam Hussein has built up a double system of power.
We can only acknowledge the weak results achieved by UN sanctions over the past eleven years.
UN inspections have been suspended unilaterally by Iraq and there is good reason to suspect that the regime has re-started its chemical and biological weapons programmes.
The economic situation has worsened not so much as a consequence of the international embargo as non-cooperation of the Iraqi authorities with the 'oil-for-food?
The Nicholson report proposes an ad hoc international tribunal on Iraq.
This is an idea we need to examine carefully, also in the light of work under way in other relevant international fora.
I hope that this European Parliamentary initiative will help to identify common elements of a policy which could enable the European Union to play a more active role on this issue.
There is also a strong argument for closer monitoring of human rights, making more information publicly available and for putting more pressure on the Iraqi regime for protection of the population and of minorities living in the country, in the framework of the UN.
As for the strengthening of democratisation measures in cooperation with the Iraqi exile community, I must say that in present circumstances I am unclear as to what the scope and impact of such measures might be.
I note and welcome the invitation in the report to explore every avenue for initiatives in favour of the Iraqi population and refugees, and to reinforce the present activities carried out in the field of humanitarian assistance.
Since the Gulf War in 1991 the European Commission has been the major donor of humanitarian aid to Iraq with over EUR 270 million.
Over the last three years we have provided assistance of around EUR 10 million annually.
In this year we will provide some EUR 13 million.
A different regime - almost any other regime - would be better for the Iraqi population.
But we must not lose sight of our own fundamental values and principles in our quest to help the Iraqi people and to bring stability to the region.
That is why I am absolutely convinced that we must continue to operate within the framework of the United Nations.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at noon.
So I have already come to the conclusion that here we are submitting a report that is somewhat stringent, not stringent out of any lack of affection for the Albanian people, but because we perhaps care more for them than do some politicians in that country, who are less concerned with the well-being of the people than with their own pockets and their own positions.
I am therefore very grateful that Members have followed me on points 4 and 5, in which we asked the Albanians, before the Commission resumes negotiations with them, to at least comply with all the requirements of the OSCE/ODIHR election observers' committee, allowing that committee to begin its work in the parliament, checking that new electoral legislation is also set in motion and that the political forces should give some consideration to who, in Albania, can lead that country in such a way as to unite it.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Pack, ladies and gentlemen, I not only must, but can and may again congratulate Mrs Pack on her report and also take this opportunity to indicate my group's assent to it.
There is much still to be done in these areas, but they will not be done unless the political forces agree on a minimum consensus.
Unless the principal political forces in this country demonstrate the willingness to join together and put the country's destiny first, I am against us opening negotiations on an Agreement.
Mr President, Mrs Pack, ladies and gentlemen, any opinion on Albania can only be mixed.
Europe can help Albania by launching negotiations leading to the signing of an association and stabilisation agreement even before the year is out, if possible.
Their first test will therefore be these presidential elections.
The serious financial crisis in 1997 brought Albania to the verge of total collapse as a state.
Since 1998, we have seen the adoption of a relatively modern constitution and legislative framework, an overall improvement in macro-economic stability and fiscal sustainability, the effective implementation of the privatisation process, a considerable strengthening of the customs and tax administrations and real improvements in terms of security and public order.
Albania has also been positively contributing to the fragile stability of the region.
This progress allowed the Commission, in June 2001, to recommend, on balance, the opening of Stabilisation and Association Agreement negotiations with Albania, on condition, however, that it continued a consistent reform effort, including reinforcing democratic standards and administrative capacity.
Things have, alas, not gone nearly as well as we would have liked since June last year.
Although the 2001 parliamentary elections marked progress over previous elections, a number of isolated but serious irregularities were identified by international observers.
For several months, this decision impeded the proper functioning of Albania's democratic institutions.
The internal conflicts within the ruling Socialist Party - very present since last autumn in the Albanian political arena - ultimately led to the fall of the Meta government in February.
The reform process has slowed, there has been a loss of momentum and Albania is not in the position to afford this.
The Majko government needs now to refocus very rapidly on the needed reforms and accelerate their implementation; to regain momentum and to guarantee a long-term commitment to reform.
This is the only way for Albania to ensure that it will be in a position to implement a future Stabilisation and Association Agreement in full.
As a result of our shared messages, we have recently seen some attempts by the Albanian authorities to reinvigorate the reform process: important laws and bylaws are being passed.
Albania needs to ensure long-term political stability as a sine qua non to tackle the difficult challenges ahead.
The Commission shares the report's recommendation that a new president elected in a climate of consensus would be, by far, the best way to preserve - and further strengthen - stability.
The Commission's views coincide with the Pack report as regards the issues considered as important for the implementation of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
I am sure the House will have noticed that the recent Commission report on the stabilisation and asociation process makes very similar points.
I want to make one final point on the draft negotiating directives which, as the House knows, are being finalised in the Council.
Firstly, I fully share the view expressed in the report that the negotiating directives to be given to the Commission must enable us to ensure that Albania will be in the position to implement all commitments it may undertake during negotiations.
I can assure the House that the Commission wants to carry out serious negotiations, and does not intend to finalise them until it is satisfied that Albania can effectively implement its obligations under a Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
A final point: these negotiations, these agreements, are not a political fix, they are not a political gesture.
They are contractual agreements of very considerable importance and we cannot allow them to be determined by political lobbying.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at noon.
National rules are also jeopardised by commercial enterprises that also deal in books and unceasingly cause these national systems to be attacked by national and European courts of law in the hope that they will one day actually collapse.
That is why there is a need for a directive to create a stable economic and legal framework for present and future national systems of book price fixing, without any associated obligation on those Member States that do not want such systems.
That is what this proposal for a directive is about.
Mr President, some Members of the PPE/DE Group support Mr Rothley's report and some do not.
Having said all that I am a believer in subsidiarity.
I also thank Lord Inglewood, who, in one sentence, conceded that we are right.
England and continental Europe differ in many respects, and it is these very differences that matter in our united Europe.
My most especial thanks are due, of course, to Mr Rothley, and to all those who worked with him on this report.
The Commission, which has repeatedly argued that this EU of ours is above all an economic and monetary union, has changed a very great deal in the last twenty years.
A very great deal of interest in cultural aspects has been noticeable in the individual debates, albeit not enough in my view, but we have travelled a long way anyway.
I have to say that I have just had my birthday.
I began speaking this morning at 9 a.m., just after my birthday, and I am delighted - six debates later on - to be almost welcoming the honourable Member's birthday.
But I can assure him that he could have got many cheap copies among those that were pirated in Asia over the last three or four years.
Let me turn to this very serious subject, which I know has raised great passions and has produced a great deal of intellectual energy over the years: the question of the systems of fixed book prices in the Member States, which, as honourable Members have said, has been around for some time.
The Commission shares the Court of Justice's opinion that truly national book price-fixing systems are not contestable as long as they respect the principles defined by the Court and do not have a restrictive effect on trade between Member States.
The Commission maintains its position, based on the case-law of the Court, that it is not necessary to harmonise these systems.
This is consistent with internal market principles and the objectives of cultural policy.
Furthermore, as the House will probably know, the Commission has recently presented a proposal for a regulation on sales promotion which explicitly allows national fixed book prices.
At the same time, it provides that Member States should not impose a limitation on the value of sales promotion, except in the case of discounts.
I notice that the honourable Member's resolution aims to provide a Community definition of "circumvention" of the national price-fixing system and that this can be extended to booksellers in other Member States.
I also note that the honourable Member's proposal gives no guarantee against any adverse effect it could have on trade between Member States.
The cultural provisions of Article 151 of the Treaty state that the Community can encourage cooperation in this area but not legislate.
The Commission will examine Parliament's proposed directive in the light of the case-law of the Court and will assess, in consultation with the Member States, whether or not an initiative is necessary and what form it should take.
The Commission will continue to observe the markets and examine their effects on potential circumvention of national price-fixing systems, taking into account the cultural diversity of the book market and the existence of clear case-law of the Court of Justice.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at noon. (The sitting was closed at 12 midnight) Philosophical considerations aside, the Sixth Framework Programme on research sends a clear message to the scientific community about the responsibilities that the European Parliament is able to shoulder.
The Sixth Framework Programme also underlines Europe's clear and firm commitment to be at the forefront of technological developments, to be innovative, competitive, dynamic and to build our future.
