Members should bear this in mind when those records are published and it appears that the record of attendance does not correspond to the reality of the situation.
Thank you, Mr Wynn.
It is absolutely ridiculous that Members of the European Parliament cannot take part in debates.
Madam President, this proposal for a Regulation implements Resolution 1390, adopted on 16 January of this year by the United Nations Security Council, pursuant to Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
With regard to the 30 days required for signatory States to adopt the measures that correspond to the implementation of the aforementioned United Nations Resolution, the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs yesterday voted in favour of the urgency procedure and for there to be a procedure without report, that is to say, that it should pass directly to plenary with time for amendments to be tabled by the political groups.
I would like to make two further observations.
The first is that, in order to implement Resolutions such as Resolution 1390, the European Union should take two different types of action: one which corresponds to the second pillar, common foreign and security policy, and another within the framework of the EC Treaty.
Yesterday, the Commission almost unanimously came to the conclusion that Parliament should work on the development of instruments in the second pillar, in other words, the development of the common position that is being adopted at this time.
My second observation is that the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights has expressed a great deal of concern in this regard and will formally request that the Council and those Member States that form part of the United Nations Security Council make use of those procedural mechanisms needed to correct possible non-justified inclusions of names of natural or legal persons in these lists.
This is currently the cause of much public concern in EU Member States.
Parliament cannot seriously be expected to support this decision with only five days notice, for it is not really a question of issuing an opinion, but of supporting this United Nations Resolution, when the Resolution was passed on 19 January.
We would ask that in future we be more rapidly involved in the process of drawing up this type of Regulation in order that this Parliament can provide its support with full knowledge of the facts and not, as in this case, in a truly unbalanced effort.
Madam Palacio, I do not understand why you have let the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs accept this procedure.
If the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs had taken its tasks seriously, it would have refused to deal with such a matter until it knew how the list of names could be altered.
This is an act adopted by the United Nations Security Council that the signatory States and the European Union - as representative regional power in some cases of signatory States - should support, but in which it cannot participate.
What the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is asking - and we will implement it - is that the Council, as representative of the European Union, and the Member States that form part of the Security Council, keep an eye on the arbitration of procedures and mechanisms within the United Nations Security Council with the aim that, if there is any natural or legal person included in this list that should not be there, an exception can be made.
concerning discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the 2000 financial year: Section IV, Court of Justice (SEC(2001) 530 - C5-0240/2001 - 2001/2105(DEC)) Section V, Court of Auditors (SEC(2001) 530 - C5-0241/2001 - 2001/2106(DEC)) Section VI, Economic and Social Committee (SEC(2001) 530 C5-0242/2001 - 2001/2107(DEC)) Section VII, Committee of the Regions (SEC(2001) 530 -C5- 0243/2001 - 2001/2108(DEC)) Section VIII, Ombudsman (SEC(2001) 530 - C5-0244/2001 -2001/2109(DEC)) and concerning discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Union for the 1996-1999 financial years: Section VI, Economic and Social Committee (SEC(1997) 402 - C4-0197/1997 - 1997/2076(DEC) SEC(1998) 521 - C4-0353/1998 -1998/2011(DEC) SEC(1999) 414 - C5-0008/1999 - 1999/2166 (DEC) SEC(2000) 539 - C5-312/2000 - 2000/2156 (DEC)) 2.
concerning discharge to the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions for the 2000 financial year (C5-0126/2002 - 2001/2111(DEC)), 2.
That gives us some idea of the extent of the problem of administering these funds, and there are about 500 staff members in the relevant Commission Directorate-General.
All the institutions of the Union have to apply themselves to simplifying the regulations by which we implement European regional policy before the new programme comes in and before enlargement in four years' time.
It is the duty of the Committee on Budgetary Control to identify failure in administration and propose solutions.
That is why the message from the Committee on Budgetary Control must always be critical and risk sounding rather negative.
The final responsibility for failure always rests with the European Commission, but the national governments spend most of the money.
In the discharge procedure we expect to make a political decision on the performance of the Commission.
The Committee on Budgetary Control passed the discharge by a vote of something like 17 to 4.
However, we have not overlooked the weaknesses in the system and our motion for a resolution proposes changes and improvements both in planning and administration.
We would like to see figures for the rate of error.
The only information we have about the rate of fraud and error comes from the Commission's statement for the year 2000.
I tried to establish how other States deal with this problem and I find the only comparable systems are in the United States and the Netherlands.
Finally, I would like to see us aim for a situation where the Court of Auditors would present us with a statement which could be read in reasonable time by members of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
I have focused in particular upon quality in the form of the number of follow-ups of audit results this year.
It is two years since this was noted, and still nothing has happened.
I cannot countenance some members of a group being made to toe the line, with the result that we have to change the decision we voted in favour of in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
However, if we consider how very important these sectors are in the economies of many of the applicant countries, it is only reasonable to call on the Commission to initiate talks with the old Member States in order that the new members might also share in the information obtained from research in this way.
Similarly it will be important in the years to come to assess whether the ECSC's old activities are being wound down in the way that was planned.
The Commission intends to keep on more than thirty officials to be specifically employed in the distribution of the ECSC's estate.
The current system is too rigid and set in its ways.
The European Parliament is still a very old-fashioned place to work in.
In addition, the responsibility of the group as party to agreements in general and as employer in particular must be legally clarified so that the European Parliament is not always ultimately accountable.
Regarding Parliament's two places of assembly we state that just the variable costs of meetings alone at Strasbourg are 33% more than in Brussels.
In addition there are considerably higher costs mainly due to the fact that there is double the number of buildings in Strasbourg.
The biggest single problem is the cost of the Louise Weiss building in Strasbourg.
Considering that Parliament did not want two meeting places, but agrees to meet in Strasbourg under great pressure from France in particular, we must insist that the dispute over the construction costs of the Parliament are resolved immediately.
There is also reference in this report to the Council, which I will touch on later.
More consumer-friendly reports would be welcome, as would a declaration of interests by the Court on the Internet, as is currently carried out by most of the other institutions.
The Court must never feel itself to be too grand to conform to the standards we have learned to expect from other high-profile public servants.
A future report by the Committee on Budgetary Control may perhaps examine the value for money and impact assessment of this institution.
Both the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions performed quite well in relation to the Belliard and Montoyer buildings and played quite a good game with the poor set of cards that were dealt to them unfairly by Parliament.
I turn now to the area where the report's focus lies, and that is on the Economic and Social Committee: a committee which has been in existence since the beginning of this great project.
The massive costs of financing this institution, which will reach almost EUR 100 million after enlargement, also gives us great concerns.
The Budgetary Control Committee is recommending that discharge be refused to the Economic and Social Committee for the years 1996 and 1997.
It may perhaps seem strange that we have waited until now to assess the accounts and expenditure for 1996.
The whole sequence of events from the fraud itself involving 59 members of the Economic and Social Committee amounting to over EUR 1 million, to the scandalously relaxed attitude of Economic and Social Committee managers and their efforts to cover up the problem, to the botched and unprofessional approach of OLAF, the European Fraud Office, all reeks of incompetence, procrastination and amateurism.
It has taken six years to get to the bottom of this fraud that occurred in 1996.
It is important that the Convention on the Future of Europe should take heed of the message in this report.
This year, however, the Court of Auditors has prepared a critical report on the workings of the common foreign and security policy.
The Council is discussing that this morning, so we are waiting for the results from the Council before we take a vote on this.
In my view, cooperation has been excellent this year.
This discharge does in fact concern three bodies: the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions in Dublin, the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (CEDEFOP) in Thessaloniki and the European Agency for Reconstruction in Kosovo, based in Thessalonica and Pristina.
The Court of Auditors has closely examined the financial accounts of these three bodies, and in all three cases it has reached the conclusion that the annual accounts for the financial year 2000 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
As your rapporteur, I have been looking into what we said in the discharge report for 1999.
We asked CEDEFOP for verification of how cooperation with the European Training Foundation in Turin could be improved.
The Court of Auditors and everyone who reads the annual reports and the three-monthly reports can see for themselves how incredibly efficient our management has been over there.
The Commission welcomes the Committee on Budgetary Control's recommendation, by such a large majority, that the Commission should be given discharge in respect of the 2000 Budget.
One of the 2000 Budget year's results that got a very critical reception from the Committee on Budgetary Control was the large Budget surplus of EUR 11.6 billion, which, however, was welcomed by the Finance Ministers of the Member States.
What should, in fact, be seen in a more critical light is the issue of how outgoings were less than estimated in the Budget.
Let me again point out, with reference to the forwarding of information in the discharge procedure, that the Commission always immediately posts on the Internet evaluation reports on the various programmes and the different Budget items, and that the figures on the implementation of the current Budget are sent by electronic means to the Committee on Budgetary Control on a weekly basis.
It is though, very doubtful that those Member States with federal structures will be happy to be told, as is proposed in the report, that they must change the way their competences are allocated as regards the monitoring of European funds, as this is often enshrined in their constitutions.
One significant topic in discussions during this discharge procedure has been - and still is - the methodology on the basis of which the European Court of Auditors decides whether or not to grant a Statement of Assurance.
Mr Staes, in your report on the discharge of the Director of the European Agency for the Reconstruction of Kosovo, you express your agreement with the Court of Auditors' favourable judgment.
I would like to touch briefly on the observation and demand you made concerning the agricultural sector, especially on agricultural export refunds.
On transparency, I had an interesting time when I asked Parliament's officials if they could let me have a list of what the Commission had done on the 2000 budget in relation to those items to which Parliament had adopted amendments to the budget, in terms of both amounts of money and also remarks.
I was told that, even if it were possible, it would take several months to find this information.
That is totally ridiculous because, if Parliament adopts amendments to the budget, it is elementary that there should be a mechanism to follow up on those amendments to know exactly what has happened.
I do not blame the Committee on Budgetary Control but the individual committees which do not often take that responsibility.
There should be much better dialogue between Parliament and the Commission to identify very clearly what action has been taken on European Parliament priorities.
The imbalance between commitments and payments continues to give cause for concern, as indeed do the remarks of the Court of the Auditors in relation to the TACIS programme.
Sixty-four were performed in 2000 compared to 44 in 1999.
Having said this and all things considered, the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights has no objection to granting discharge in the sector for which it is responsible.
I am sure you can imagine, Commissioner, our astonishment and dismay when the Commission abandoned this programme in the year 2000, cancelled a call for tenders already published, causing huge inconvenience, and proceeded to spend no money at all throughout the year 2000.
I would like to thank colleagues from the Committee on Budgetary Control for their cooperation in helping us to undertake the very important work of scrutiny on which our committee, could spend all its time on if we wished to.
I say that not only because the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has responsibility for four of the agencies, but also in view of the fact that the number of agencies is constantly increasing.
The guidelines for the agencies drawn up in 1998 should therefore be examined from four angles: with a view to ensuring appropriate control machinery in the specialised committees and transparency in the Budget procedure, reinforcing the requirement for mutual information and clear demarcation of competences between the committees involved.
I will mention public health budget line B3-4301 on combating cancer.
It is true that the environment budget of EUR 200 million - that is GBP 125 million - was only half spent in the year 2000.
The reason for this was the Life projects, which make up half this budget, and which could not be spent in 2000 because the legal basis was not determined in conciliation until July 2000.
As he so rightly highlighted, that is the bulk of the problem in terms of the surplus that this Parliament is addressing.
So we are dealing with a situation where, in many areas, there has been almost no expenditure whatsoever under certain budget lines for the Community's structural funds.
As a regular item on our committee agenda, we have now decided to focus on budget scrutiny and, at each discussion, we invite the Commission and the Council to participate with us in a thorough review of expenditure within the structural fund area.
But that job is made very difficult by these wholly unrealistic budgets.
Our second concern really relates to the second point the rapporteur made in his opening remarks - the way in which the structural funds are currently managed.
We share his concern that the regulations are overly complex and make our job, as a Parliament, of scrutinising the budget very difficult.
However, we would ask the Commission that in future more funds be earmarked for social development and that these be more clearly reflected, as proposed by the Committee on Development, in both the budget and the EDF.
We hope that next year we will be able to analyse the figures for EU aid in accordance with the OECD's Development Aid Committee system, which will allow us to measure the impact of Community funds on the promotion of social development more accurately.
The Courts have also stated their opinion in this regard.
We believe that at this time of reform of the European Union, we have the perfect opportunity to remind ourselves of this fact and I would encourage all political groups to communicate this proposal, which Parliament has supported for many years, to the Convention.
The underutilisation of resources and the great extent to which resources have been transferred is a consequence of the problems accompanying the Structural Funds' initial operations in the programming period 2000-2006.
Procedures for structural measures had to be rationalised and simplified, as they are too complex at both Community and national level, and we must now work on preventing the recurrence of such difficulties when the new programmes are to be set up in the future.
What is most important is that women play an important role in sustainable development, and gender issues should therefore be taken into account at every stage of planning, implementing and evaluating development cooperation.
Everything else strikes me as inconsequential and as not in the long-term interests of the recipients.
I wish to expressly emphasise the demand in the chapter on personnel policy in Mr Virrankoski's report that the meagre representation of women in positions of leadership should at last be ended and that there be a serious attempt at an equal opportunities policy.
Parliament must set an example if it does not want to lose its credibility.
Mr President, my predecessors on the floor having almost all exceeded their speaking time by at least a minute, I crave your indulgence if I have to do the same.
I would, though, like to say something very definite on the subject of Parliament.
Mr President, for the first time in many years, it looks as if this Parliament will once again be granting discharge to the Commission by 30 April, as prescribed.
And this is the first budget for which the new Commission is responsible.
If we keep hearing every year that there is no positive statement of assurance, how should we explain this to the public if we subsequently keep on granting discharge?
The Court of Auditors can then verify subsequently whether the technique is sound.
We, as the Liberal Group, have tabled an amendment which extends the period which lapses before it becomes final from 24 to 36 months.
Finally, I should like to bring up a topic which has already been mentioned by various speakers, namely the European Union's new foreign and security policy.
We think that an agreement must be concluded between the Commission, Parliament and the Council about a new interinstitutional accord, thus allowing the expenses made by the Council in this respect to be better monitored.
Mr President, I too would like, on behalf of my group, to thank all the rapporteurs for their good work on the discharge of the General Budget this year, and make just a few comments.
We consider it extremely important that our committee should strongly reiterate that these years saw mismanagement of travel expenses and, even more important, that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs dragged its feet in clearing up this fraud, and that not enough was done to prepare the case for OLAF.
I am, though, far from satisfied with the way in which the Council has dealt with these matters in the past, and I fear that it will still not give us a satisfactory answer.
If we are to criticise the Council in the course of the discharge procedure, we in this House must handle our own discharge very carefully.
Mr President, I should like to begin by commending my colleagues in the Committee on Budgetary Control, together with the committee's chairman, and also thanking those who participated in the committee and in the groups and who have carried out a very notable and thorough piece of work.
This splendid work has led the majority to recommend giving discharge.
The only logical conclusion is, of course, to vote against giving discharge to the Commission.
The current financial correction system must also be changed as a matter of urgency, because it encourages Member States to cover up irregularities and fraud instead of reporting dirty tricks.
We have known this for years, but the Commission and the Member States are still doing much too little to improve the situation.
The findings in the special report drawn up by the Court of Auditors are disturbing.
The reform of the European Commission which was initiated in 1999 is still not evident in terms of specific results in 2000.
There is also considerable under spending in aid programmes for development cooperation.
Finally, I have made the shocking discovery that each part-session in Strasbourg costs approximately EUR 11.5 million extra per week, quite apart from the environmental pollution they cause.
This Parliament is forced into this situation solely in order to honour the wish of one Member State.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is customary for a speaker to congratulate the rapporteurs and this is something that I am very happy to do.
I do not think that this is acceptable behaviour - and I shall say no more - because, when they see the name of the rapporteur, Members will think that he has made technical amendments to a text that received a unanimous vote.
I think that this behaviour is totally unacceptable and I now urge my fellow Members and the political groups to reject these amendments.
I agree with tabling amendments to other reports, but not to one's own report.
Lastly, regarding the report by Mr McCartin - whom I would like to congratulate in particular - I want to stress that we can, of course, go over all the cases in all the Member States and highlight them, but we must not get hung up on specific cases.
I therefore call for paragraph 60 to be deleted immediately and I strongly urge the Members to amend the words in paragraph 60 which relate to a Member State that I hold in great esteem.
My primary job here on behalf of my group is to talk about the Staes and Seppänen discharges.
There is still no positive statement of assurance from the Court of Auditors.
Quite correctly, he notes that the majority of the EU's budget is administered in the Member States.
My party's representatives in this House were elected on a whole host of pledges, the main one being to sort out the accounts of the European Commission and other European institutions and make sure that the reform process that most people in this House are pleased to see going forward is actually driven through and achieves results.
John Wiggins, a former member of the European Court of Auditors, is quoted in a British newspaper saying that the situation in the Commission is unchanged.
The European Parliament's legal services wrote a note to the Budgetary Control Committee on 5 November 2001 giving an opinion on whether not granting discharge should lead to the fall of the Commission.
That is covered by a special procedure laid down in Article 141 of the EC Treaty.
This subject is both extremely technical and extremely political, and the consequences for both sectors of decisions taken in haste or under emotional stress can be - and, unfortunately, do often turn out to be - disastrous.
That is why I feel that we should ask ourselves before the vote, each year, not so much whether everything has been done perfectly but rather whether we are going in the right direction, whether we are setting ourselves the right priorities, whether, in the executive action of the Commission and - to a much lesser extent - all the other institutions, there is evidence of the intention to implement the will of the two arms of the budgetary authority as well as possible.
Secondly, although 2000 marked the start of a new programming period for the Structural Funds and preacession aid which stretches until 2006, this cannot have been very successful given that so many difficulties were encountered in implementation.
This is again confirmed in the reports before us on the discharge procedure for 2000.
We understand all that has been said in this House with regard to the irregularities of the Economic and Social Committee in 1996 and 1997.
It is true to say that today there are new administrators and new procedures; there is now no problem, as demonstrated by the 1998, 1999 and 2000 discharge.
We believe, however, that the best thing that we can do is to draw a line under this whole affair, put this case of poor administration behind us and to give the Economic and Social Committee a new opportunity to maintain a good relationship with Parliament in the future, a good relationship with Parliament and to properly represent all social administration - as it has up until now - and for it to be one of the most effective bodies in the European Union - one of the oldest, if not the oldest - of all those we are analysing today in this report.
I believe that the rapporteur could take steps to facilitate a more appropriate solution by taking the opinions of the Group of the Europe People's Party into account.
If this is not the case, we will have to vote against the report.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to congratulate all our rapporteurs on their excellent work and to offer my sincere thanks to the Commission for its cooperation.
The McCartin report is an important part of the process of reforming the common policy.
Well, in discussing the budget, it is important to note the important role that the European Union and the European Parliament have played in this peace process through the International Fund for Ireland, the establishment of the Peace and Reconciliation Fund, INTERREG and the removal, through the Single Act, of the economic border which affected the border region for many years.
The power that we have in Parliament, which we share as the Union's budgetary authority, is perhaps the greatest responsibility that we have.
We have a duty to subject this expenditure to the highest standards of scrutiny.
Parliament may have the final say in signing off the accounts, but it is important to recall that 84% of the Community budget is managed within the Member States.
It is also important that a strong culture of openness and cooperation exists between the Commission, the national, regional and local authorities.
Of course, the largest part of the budget goes to the common agricultural policy, one of only a few truly common policies in the Union.
I remain convinced that refunds constitute a fundamental element of the policy; they play an important role in the management of agricultural markets and must be defended at WTO level.
I want to congratulate the rapporteurs most warmly, but would also like to mention that the highest levels of the Commission were represented in many of our meetings, and this made management easier - something mentioned by you, Mrs Schreyer.
This time, the judgment on the way that the Budget was managed in 2000 was indeed lenient, especially, too, in the report on the Commission.
Mr President, considering this first discharge procedure for the new Commission somewhat dispassionately, we observe two explosive things: firstly, a gigantic Budget surplus, a massive underutilisation that actually shakes budgetary truth to its very foundations.
If, against that, we set the fact that the same year, 2000, also saw a doubling of the irregularities and frauds that were recorded in this Budget, then, in Budget matters, the first year of Mr Prodi's Commission seems not to have been much of a success.
I think it highly important, Commissioner, that we should, in the years to come, not spend all our time speculating about who should hand over which documents to whom - if any at all - and estimates differ as to how great this agreement between Parliament and the Commission is.
Mr President, I would like in the first instance to commend the rapporteur for his work.
Suggestions, for example, that export refunds should be ended, would have disastrous consequences, particularly for Ireland where we export up to 90 percent of our entire agricultural production.
Mr President, the report on the implementation of Parliament's budget is highly controversial.
In the report, Strasbourg gets more of the same treatment when it is mentioned that the variable costs of the five-day part-sessions in Strasbourg are 33% higher than for those in Brussels.
What is certain is that Parliament's nonsensical decision to cut the Strasbourg part-sessions down to four days led to the costs per day of the part-sessions now being substantially higher, quite apart from this plenary not having the time to deal properly with business, especially with legislative texts!
Mr McCartin is right to recommend the discharge.
The problems raised are not so much problems regarding the timing in the implementation as problems related to an increasing lack of realism, as has been said, between, on the one hand, the financial perspectives that were set in Berlin and the budgetary forecasts that the Commission sets on an annual basis, and, on the other hand, the genuine needs arising from the implementation of the budgets.
I therefore believe that the committee's positive efforts call for a positive response on our behalf.
As regards the Virrankoski report, I support the comments Mrs Lulling made earlier on the problems raised by paragraphs 25 and 33 of the resolution.
We may well agree to have a single place of work for Parliament in Brussels, but, until the Treaty specifies otherwise, if the Treaty provides for several places of work, it is our duty to ensure that this work can be carried out in the appropriate conditions.
Paragraphs 25 and 33, however, seem to insidiously call into question the provisions of the Treaty.
The Treaty is the expression of a collective will, the expression of political balance and we must all respect this.
We have agreed a new procedure for working together on setting priorities for next year, in which context, during April and May, there are to be many bilateral discussions between the relevant committees and the Commissioners.
The Commission will of course, in the coming months, be working on the other issues and demands raised in the reports and will give an account of this work in the follow-up report.
These issues will no doubt leave their mark on joint discussions in the coming months.
As regards the methods used by the Court of Auditors to produce a Statement of Assurance, it goes without saying that we are prepared to look deeper into this concept and the idea of a single audit, in order to enhance and improve the coordination between the Court of Auditors and the checks carried out on the spot by the Internal Audit Service on behalf of the Commission.
The debate is closed.
I refer to the fact that air travel should know no frontiers and regulations and safety measures affecting air travel should naturally, therefore, also be without borders, meaning, in this instance, that they should be organised, as is appropriate, on a uniform basis across Europe or at least throughout the Member States.
At the same time, supervision of the flight crew, as also maintenance and other measures, all of which are factors in aviation safety, are in future to be regulated by law, something for which we clearly expressed a desire during discussions in committee and during preparations for second reading.
Let me repeat the clear message that this regulation's principal objective is the creation of a uniformly high standard for aviation safety in Europe.
I will take this opportunity to thank all of those who set this legislative project in motion and supported it, especially my colleagues in the Committee on Regional Transport and Tourism.
I also thank the Commission and the Council for their willingness to seek compromises, and now hope that today's vote will enable us to complete this report, and that we will then begin a new chapter in the history of aviation safety in Europe.
It is fair to say that all of us in this House would have fully supported the creation of a pan-European body dealing specifically with the certification of aeronautical products, which is eminently sensible and which I fully support.
However, my own view was that the scope of the original Commission proposal was too broad and there were a considerable number of concerns regarding the issues of sovereignty, the regulatory framework and in particular the autonomy of the proposed agency.
It must be emphasised that, as with national civil aviation authorities which quite clearly deal solely with safety matters, this agency should not be drawn into dealing with other aspects, such as environmental and competition issues.
My group believes that guaranteeing a high and uniform level of safety and environmental protection in civil aviation is the key objective in setting up the European Aviation Safety Agency and drafting attendant legislation.
So-called third countries must be persuaded to participate in improving safety agreements.
The PSE Group praises the rapporteur's determination where the Agency's independence is concerned.
The safety of European airspace is in the interests of everybody.
In my opinion we should move towards a compromise as quickly as possible and avoid conciliation.
Mr President, Commissioner, with the creation of the European Air Safety Agency, the European Union is proposing to achieve and maintain a high level of safety and environmental protection, which are of genuine importance to European society and also to European integration.
All of this militates against the sustainable development that we must try to achieve from the points of view of both safety and economics and from the social and environmental angles.
We in Europe enjoy high levels of air safety but the growth in traffic continually obliges us to take more effective action.
In this we should learn from the United States of America, where they trust in people.
The Aviation Safety Agency should make decisions that apply to the world as a whole, whenever that is possible.
The crisis in air transport following 11 September appears in the meantime to have been almost overcome.
The restructuring of air transport is in full swing.
We therefore hope that we will quickly agree on a common document with the Commission, but above all with the Council as well.
As a result, we have a balanced compromise text and one which gives us every opportunity to avoid conciliation.
I would like to stress the quality of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur and the need to make up for lost time.
In the area of transport, as in many other areas as well, it is our duty to ensure that a similar, high level of security is provided in the Member States.
It is also high time that the aeronautics industry benefited from a single certification for placing its products onto the market.
The first test flight of the A 380 is planned for 2004, the first commercial flight for 2006 - just around the corner, in other words.
In order to fulfil its tasks, the European Aviation Safety Agency must be independent and rely on skills and qualifications that can be found in the Member States.
As we know, the European Agency must not be used to coordinate the work of the existing national agencies.
Ladies and gentlemen, Europe must offer practical advantages to its citizens.
To do this, we must provide the same level of security, for a single sky, and a single certification in a single market.
The text before us today is an important step in this direction.
This cooperation will allow us - we hope - to approve this text for the establishment of the Agency, foregoing the need to go to conciliation.
The main objective of the common rules in the field of civil aviation and the establishment of a European Aviation Safety Agency is to maintain a uniformly high level of safety throughout the European Union, and to better protect the environment, as mentioned by the last speaker a few moments ago.
The main instrument of the new system will be a common European certificate that will provide access to the whole European market and serve as a basis for recognition agreements.
As you are well aware, as this point has been highlighted throughout this debate, European industry is hoping that this Agency will be able to issue a certificate for its next star product: the Airbus 380.
Ladies and gentlemen, you approved the Commission proposal at first reading with several amendments.
The contacts established between the three institutions, which all want the European Aviation Safety Agency to be successfully established as soon as possible, mean that we have now reached a solution which is acceptable to all.
Therefore, I hope that today Parliament as a whole will be able to confirm its support for this text so that the approval of the Regulation can take place next June, with the establishment of the Agency from Summer 2003.
With regard to the fundamental issue at hand, the Commission is of the same opinion as Parliament, but, on behalf of the College of Commissioners, I would like to say for the record that the Commission has several reservations with regard to any wording that could interfere with its right of initiative, as set out in the Treaty.
Therefore, the acceptance of Amendment Nos 1 and 4 can in no event be taken to imply any restriction of this right of initiative, inasmuch as these measures were already set out in our own work programme.
In the specific context of this issue, the Commission therefore accepts the amendments and confirms its will to put forward these proposals, whilst underlining the fact that this was already set out in our own timetable and pointing out that in no way can this be considered as any kind of restriction of our right of initiative, as set out in the Treaties.
The Commission can fully support the other amendments.
The Commission can also unreservedly support those amendments which increase the powers of the executive director and the provisions that aim to facilitate his or her appointment.
These amendments have been written in such a way that Commission's right of initiative is preserved, for which I would like to thank Parliament.
Parliament, exercising its role as the budgetary authority, wanted to introduce an amendment, No 2, in which it calls for the establishment of common rules with regard to financial or other contributions that States often contribute in order that agencies may be set up in their own territories.
Finally, Parliament also wanted to send a clear political signal by means of Amendment No 16, whose objective is to limit the period during which both Community and National certification systems can function.
Lastly, with regard to Amendment No 15, Recital D, the Commission, like the Council and the rapporteur, understands - and I would like to stress this issue - that access to these locations must be strictly necessary and not indiscriminate.
Developments on this issue mean that we can expect the Regulation to be quickly approved and I would once again like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work and Parliament as a whole for its approval, like the Council, foregoing the need to resort to conciliation.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I thank the rapporteur for his clarification, which I had also indicated in my speech.
In this way we hope to maintain the interinstitutional agreement, which will therefore allow us to approve the European Aviation Safety Agency.
Mr President, before we vote on this particular report, I think that it is important that Members are aware of the legal advice given by our own legal services, which was not available when we voted in committee.
This makes it quite clear that certain aspects of this report fall outside the scope of the Community's responsibilities referred to in Article 175.
The good news is that voting for Amendment 28 will solve all those problems.
Mr President, I should like to draw your attention to the following.
In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the amendments adopted today - with thanks to the plenary - have been adopted by the European Commission.
Additionally, the Commission should, in my view, reconsider the amendments that have now been adopted in a letter, and all my fellow MEPs should receive a copy of what should actually have been said in the debate.
I hope that these initiatives, supported by other Members too, will have more impact on the Commission's work and the contribution made by the Members of Parliament and the responsible committees.
Mr President, last night I was in Strasbourg, as many of us were.
Mr President, I voted in favour of Mrs Oomen-Ruijten's report, although Austria was originally opposed to a directive.
The most serious objection is to Amendments Nos 19 and 27, which the Commission too is unable to accept.
We must be more careful with the principle of legality where this matter is concerned.
I voted against the Oomen-Ruijten report which supports the Commission's ambition to include, in the list of Community responsibilities in the area of environmental protection, the definition of the principle of criminal sanctions against offenders.
In reality, no one desires the ultimate consequences of this model, in which the nations would cease to exist.
If we have nonetheless voted today against the two reports on protection of the environment through criminal law, it is because we want this extension of sanctions and environmental protection to take place through an approximation of the penal regulations under the third pillar.
Indeed, calls to allow Member States to equate breaches of EU environmental law with a criminal offence will give a strong and positive signal that the EU is a serious player in the environmental domain.
By listing environmental crimes and a corresponding list of sanctions, the Commission draft directive provides a concrete means by which Member States will be able to enforce environmental law in symmetry, since at present, EU environmental policy is implemented in an ad hoc and asymmetric fashion.
Lastly, by adopting this directive, the EU will reinforce and bolster the explicit signal that it gave when signing up to the Kyoto protocol: that it is a responsible and key world player in the environmental domain.
Moreover, in the interests of male-female equality, I am also going to organise a football match between female married and single Members of the European Parliament.
Mr President, I proposed two amendments to this report.
One - Amendment No 20 - unfortunately failed to get through.
I am pleased that Amendment No 21 did.
The first amendment was to make sure that national information centres or relevant authorities or police forces, if offered information, would agree to their use in legal proceedings in the Member State where the football fan was arrested.
I was hoping that this report would lay down a marker to say that the authorities ought to be able to use information given by national information centres to other Member States.
The scourge of violence - often organised violence - has plagued international football for years.
Initiatives aimed at increasing cooperation between authorities in different Member States are to be welcomed as a vital tool in the battle against hooliganism.
I voted for amendments initiated by the European Free Alliance Members, drawing attention to the fact that in at least one Member State there exists more than one national football team.
Such a common-sense and workable solution to the problems of football crime and disorder is long overdue.
We are discussing the report on the European network of contact points in respect of persons responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes.
Mr President, this speech is very revealing: it indicates, first and foremost, the Transnational Radical Party's capacity for expansion, its strength in being able to make its voice heard in plenary too at a time when, as you know, we are fighting for the rights of the Unattached Members.
Well then, it is good to hear a voice raised in the explanations of vote on behalf of the Radical Party too.
Equally, it remains the preserve of the 15 Member States of the EU to maintain law and order within their own countries while safeguarding their internal security.
Parallel to the endorsement of the Amsterdam Treaty, the European Council has also launched two individual programmes to combat organised crime aimed at overcoming disparities in national procedures and establishing more efficient judicial co-operation.
The conclusions of the Tampere European Council certainly present strong political support for reaffirming the Union's wish to overcome difficulties with regard to prosecuting all forms of cross-border crime.
Europol has become fully operational since July 1999, and since 1 January 2002 Europol can deal now with combating broad-ranging types of serious international crime.
The conflict between the Commission's directive and the Council's framework decision over 'penalising' Article 174 of the Treaty gives rise to the question: who does what in Europe?
While the Convention is examining the division of competences between the EU and the Member States, this draft text requires Community law to be extended beyond the letter of the Treaties.
Within the framework of the Treaty of Amsterdam, this issue falls under the third pillar (judicial cooperation in criminal matters).
Furthermore, I do not support the option advocated in the report by Mr Di Lello Finuoli, when he urges the Council to refrain from taking any action on environmental criminal law before the draft Directive on the protection of the environment is adopted.
It is appropriate to punish some violations, provided that only the most serious are punished and that they are cross-border in nature.
If we have nonetheless voted today against the two reports on protection of the environment through criminal law, it is because we want this extension of sanctions and environmental protection to take place through an approximation of the penal regulations under the third pillar.
However, when he got home, his family had absolutely nothing to eat and nothing to live on for a whole week.
We have two reservations, however, which led us to vote against the Oostlander report.
The ARGO programme is organised by means of a partnership between the Commission and the Member States, but this partnership does not seem to be balanced.
For example, I seem to remember that, in African countries, in developing countries of the Far East and also in countries near to us, preparations are being made to send elderly people to apply to enter Italy because there they will receive a million lire per month, providing they are over 65 years old, once their asylum application has been accepted.
Such a system would also militate against harmonisation of the ways in which refugees are received.
Contrary to the proposals by the Commission and by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, Amendments Nos 14, 15 and 24 propose that appeals against decisions concerning which country should examine an asylum application should have a suspensive effect on the transfer of refugees from one Member State to another.
We are today examining a proposal for a Council regulation establishing the criteria and mechanisms for determining the Member State responsible for examining an asylum application.
The regulation takes over the existing provisions of the Dublin Convention and improves upon them.
The fundamental principle has been maintained, whereby the Member State of first entry is responsible for processing the asylum application, but an additional principle has been added: each Member State is answerable to all the others for its actions concerning the entry and residence of third-country nationals and should, in a spirit of solidarity and responsibility, assume the consequences thereof.
For example, when illegal immigrants apply for asylum in a Member State although they have previously stayed illegally in another, the latter must process the asylum application and it cannot shirk from this responsibility.
These provisions will obviously be applied in the case of France, which is allowing illegal immigrants to gather in Sangatte and the surrounding area, immigrants who then attempt to apply for asylum in Great Britain.
Several amendments to this proposal for a regulation were tabled by the highly active group of pro-immigration MEPs of the extreme Left.
Some questionable amendments were adopted however, which explains why we had reservations with regard to the Marinho report. .
These amendments ensure that decisions on transfers of asylum seekers will have suspensive effect.
Earlier today I voted against Mr Marinho's report on the proposal for a Council regulation to determine which Member State will be responsible for processing asylum applications lodged by third-country nationals.
We have always been responsible for our own policy decision-making on asylum applications and illegal immigrants and we should continue to do so.
the Protocol on Denmark's position.
The report makes some progress, however, and puts forward some positive points that must not be dismissed and that is why we voted in its favour.
A single Member State is responsible for the asylum application, the concern for family unity is given greater importance, and the personal details of asylum applicants and the members of their families are still relatively protected.
Well then, in the end, Mr President, I decided to abstain in the vote, to avoid such situations, which are probably beyond the objectives of the report.
We abstained from voting on the von Boetticher report on the changes to the cross-border surveillance procedure (Article 40 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985) as it has a tendency, as I said in yesterday's debate, to transform the right of pursuit in the area of surveillance into a more extensive right to intervene, which may mean that responsibilities become more confused in a Europe that has no internal borders.
Furthermore, the text also has a tendency to transform cross-border surveillance into a sort of isolated stopgap measure to compensate for the shortcomings of the police in some Member States, on whose territory their neighbours could intervene more easily.
I hope that the name of this mysterious Member State neighbouring Germany does not begin with the letter 'F'.
Whatever the case, the problem cannot be resolved by greater police intervention in the Member States. - (SV) We have voted in favour of the report on checks at the common borders but have certain reservations concerning Amendment No 4 through which the police would, in certain circumstances, be given the ability to carry out identity checks and provisionally arrest people in the territory of another Member State.
As is also stated in the Schengen Convention, police should only have the power to take action in another Member State in very special circumstances.
Mr President, this House has this morning approved the Minutes of yesterday's sitting.
The President stopped me exercising my right of free speech.
I would ask Vice-President Dimitrakopoulos to accept that he acts in an indelicate and partisan manner as a Member of the PPE Group of this Parliament.
This is the first time in the European Parliament that the emerging policy and politics of European security and defence has had a debate led by a Defence Minister.
Consequently, it has also been an honour for me to have the opportunity to receive the Chairmen of the Defence Committees of the Parliaments of the fifteen countries of Europe, together with the representatives of the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the WEU, in order to deal, quite rightly, with the objectives of the Spanish Presidency of the Union during this six-month period, which I also explained in this Parliament's Committee on External Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy on 18 February.
To start with the precedents, I must point out that our real mandate, following the Saint-Malo meeting, started in December 1999 in Helsinki when it was decided to create a European rapid reaction force, which would consist of at least 60 000 troops deployable within two months and for at least one year and including logistical support and air, sea and land resources for carrying out the missions we have christened 'Petersberg tasks', in a reference to the famous palace near Bonn where they were analysed, and which are basically the maintenance or enforcement of peace and rescue and humanitarian missions, which will have to be created by 2003.
Therefore, since the beginning of 2000, in just two years, we have largely been able to implement this main objective in such a way that, following the Portuguese and French Presidencies, bodies were created which were initially transitional and which are now permanent, and a catalogue of military capabilities has been created, which has since been updated and to which the contributions of six aspiring countries have been incorporated and which was revised by the previous Belgian Presidency, whose work I am grateful for.
The military objective slowed down somewhat during the Swedish Presidency, although that Presidency did make good use of its time to develop civil crisis procedures and management bodies.
As you know, the Laeken European Council declared this rapid reaction force operable, but I must say frankly that this operability is for the moment more virtual than real, and this means that the Spanish Presidency's mandate is even more urgent following the events of 11 September.
The second principle is that of mission speciality.
Hence one of the difficulties, Mr President, in including the contribution of European military capabilities to defending against external terrorism, when necessary, which is connected to the main priority of the Spanish Presidency, which is the fight against terrorism and which, nevertheless, in the current state of development of our missions as a result of the principle of evaluation, we cannot undertake without a prior Council declaration which I will refer to later if there is time.
The third principle is that of subsidiarity, obviously not in the traditional sense understood by this House and by all European law, the former Community law, but simply in the sense that our tasks as Europeans in the Europe of the security and defence policy are subsidiary to national defence, which corresponds - since it still forms part of that core, previously a hard core, of sovereignty - to national governments.
It is undoubtedly also subsidiary to collective defence, which for the majority of the countries of the Union is attributed to the Atlantic Alliance, so that our missions, in turn, are in this respect subsidiary to the collective defence which falls to the Atlantic Alliance, but are no less autonomous for that.
Please allow me now to refer, before listing the objectives of the Spanish Presidency, to the slogan chosen by this Presidency for this six-month period: as you know, 'more Europe', which applies both internally and externally.
More Europe internally means, in terms of the European security and defence policy, that the European citizens should acquire a greater awareness of the need for a common foreign and security policy.
If Europe wants to have a united presence in the world it is essential that it has a common security and defence policy.
I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that neither is it feasible in the long term to have a common monetary policy if there is no European common foreign and security policy to support that currency.
As I said earlier, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can group the objectives for these six months of the Spanish Presidency into the following three areas: operative or operational objectives, institutional objectives and objectives relating to public opinion.
Beginning with the operative objectives, which are clearly the most technical, I must tell Parliament that they were the main focus of the informal meeting I held with the my colleagues, the Defence Ministers of the Union, on 22 and 23 March in Zaragoza.
We have all decided to make the Headline Goal and its military capabilities our main priority.
And in this respect I must firstly point out that we are working on determining the immediate response elements for the possible carrying out of the Petersberg tasks agreed in Helsinki.
This need to determine the elements for immediate response also stems from the recently proven need to choose certain capabilities for the Headline Goal - its catalogue - so that there may be procedures to allow it to be mobilised immediately in the event of crisis.
We have not simply tried to construct a mini Headline Goal, nor to create a parallel Headline Goal, but to determine the procedures for selecting capabilities that would be available in the initial moments in order to confront a crisis more rapidly.
To put it clearly, with the informality which is normal in a parliamentary debate, the Laeken Declaration on Operational Capability does not for the moment tell us where the general operational headquarters to lead a force commissioned to carry out a Petersberg task in a situation of crisis would be.
We need to ensure - and we have established the requirements - the corresponding multinationality of its structures and the harmonisation of its procedures and operation.
The Presidency will continue to promote lines of action for the work on this issue: developing normalised operational procedures which will govern the operation of future general headquarters and, secondly, also participating in the general headquarters panel which has been created within the European Action Plan that I will now refer to.
In fact, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Laeken Council approved a Belgian proposal, sponsored by the Netherlands, for an action plan for European military capabilities.
Furthermore, and in accordance with the permanent objective of transparency in our actions with regard to the Atlantic Alliance, the European Union group of experts known as the Headline Task Force is already operating and carrying out studies and is meeting frequently during our Presidency together with NATO experts, who will continue to support this process with full cooperation and transparency with the work of the Atlantic Alliance in order to develop its defence capability initiative.
In this field I must also mention the need for us to create a mechanism for developing capabilities which can clearly indicate at any time our situation in terms of European capabilities or lack thereof.
There is no doubt that the greatest difficulty lies in the relationship with planning procedures of the Alliance forces in aspects such as the appropriate form and the tasks of the group of capabilities.
That no doubt brings us to an important, if not decisive, aspect, not just of our Presidency, but of the development of the European security and defence policy, which is the relationship between the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance, the development of the so-called Berlin Plus agreement, particularly in the chapter relating to the permanent access of the European Union during crisis management processes to NATO's capabilities.
The Barcelona European Council stressed the importance of reaching and concluding permanent agreements between the European Union and NATO as soon as possible and has charged the Presidency and the Secretary-General, the High Representative, with making the necessary high-level contacts in order to make the negotiations a success.
Our Heads of State and Government have simply stated that we cannot go on delaying the creation of a permanent framework for cooperation with NATO and that ad hoc or case-by-case solutions could lead to situations of stalemate similar to those we have already seen and would harm the Union at the least appropriate time, at the point of implementing, for the first time, a crisis management operation, seriously jeopardising its present and future prestige.
Mr President, I will leave, in case there is greater interest on the part of the honourable Members, the examination of the assumption by the European Union of the leadership of certain missions, both in relation to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the continuation of the Amber Fox operation, and the assumption of certain responsibilities in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it remains for me in this field to mention the importance of the CME 02 exercise, which will test our capacity for organisation by means of crisis management procedures in May.
In this regard I must point out that Spain, together with certain other countries, has promoted the need to create and formalise a Council of Defence Ministers.
Please understand, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not just a question of adding another Council to the European institutional galaxy; it is simply a question of those of us who hold this responsibility being able to fulfil it, being able to work.
And we wanted to take this step in a decisive manner.
It is in no way a question of interfering with the European arms industry, which would not fall within our competence, but it is a question of setting the bases, the elemental principles, of a European arms policy.
Amongst the concrete measures envisaged we also incorporate the harmonisation of operative requirements, the common use of capabilities, the possible acquisition of those capabilities via a European arms agency, which unifies or at least coordinates the existing ones, the study of an accounting system more suited to reality, which facilitates the long-term funding of certain systems and also the search - as I said before - for new common funding formulas.
The need to define a methodology to deal in the medium and long term with the lack of capability identified in the Helsinki catalogue brings us to these principles of a European arms policy, which will be examined by the national arms directors of the various countries at a meeting organised by the Presidency for 29 April.
Finally, Mr President, I am coming to the end of the time available to me and, in trying to sum up aspects which are no less important but which are clearly not the essential priority, the operational aspects, please allow me to refer, in the seconds remaining to me, to those aspects which relate to the creation of an awareness of European defence amongst public opinion and to aspects connected to that awareness.
Ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed events which require us to construct a legal acquis of humanitarian law for Petersberg tasks in the future.
When Spain made this proposal the events of 11 September had not yet taken place.
After 11 September, some months afterwards, certain events have demonstrated that it is absolutely essential for us to clarify the law applicable to crisis situations.
We thought that this could be a road which starts in Salamanca, European Capital of Culture during these months, where many years ago, in the sixteenth century, the ius ad bellum and the ius in bello were born, and to that end we have also called a meeting in Salamanca in May, to which the representatives of all the countries of the Union and also third countries are of course invited, as well as the International Committee of the Red Cross.
As you know, a meeting has been scheduled for 22 and 23 April in Valencia, which is very timely.
We did not want the CFSP to be left out of this Mediterranean dimension and, to that end, we have also scheduled a seminar in Barcelona for 20 and 21 April on the Mediterranean dimension within our common security and defence policy.
It is simply a question of letting the southern Mediterranean countries know that the Headline Goal is not a threat, even less against them: it is a question of establishing stable contacts with their armed forces, with their governments, which enrich the Mediterranean as an area of security and prosperity.
And finally, also with this objective, there will be a meeting in Cartagena, following a Belgian initiative, of the people responsible for public opinion within the various defence departments, together with specialists from various media, in order to give new impetus to the understanding and communication of our message to the European citizens.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have already pointed out that the Spanish Presidency - and President Aznar was able to say this in this House - treats the fight against terrorism as its main priority.
We also agree that the fight against internal terrorism in the Union should correspond to the Rule of Law by means of its normal procedures, by means of courts of law and State security forces, but we could not remain passive in terms of the defence of our citizens in the face of possible terrorist attacks from outside the Union, which would undoubtedly require these common military capabilities we are trying to create.
I am referring to our capabilities to tackle arms of mass destruction, NBC - nuclear, bacteriological or chemical - and also to our intelligence capabilities, the ability of our forces to protect themselves during missions and, finally, our capability to protect what has come to be known as the common space or European single sky.
Thank you very much, Mr President.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks for this debate, especially as we are also celebrating a premiere in the debate being opened by the Defence Minister of the Spanish Presidency.
Looking, though, at the post-11 September political landscape, I feel that here too we may have taken a lot of decisions and discussed a lot of things, but that a lot of momentum has been lost in the national ministerial machinery as regards the actual implementation of this campaign against terrorism and the clarification of the issues on the interface between external and internal security.
The decisions we have made in recent years, ranging from the Treaty of Amsterdam by way of Cologne to the present day, were outstanding, but their implementation is still, in many areas, deplorable in the extreme.
Yet we must, for example, get the idea of enhanced cooperation accepted, in order to bring into being a coalition of the willing.
We want, clearly, to do this jointly with our partners in NATO, which is indispensable to collective security.
In this sense, it is to be hoped that the agreements, which we have unfortunately not had officially submitted to us, represent steps in the right direction.
The Council, though, must take up a clear position, so that the European Union's autonomous right of decision as such is not thereby jeopardised.
This is true also of arms policy.
There are certain things that we can acquire jointly - transport capacity is one example - in order to synergise on that basis in maintenance, acquisitions and much else, thus achieving more reasonable costs.
We spend 60% of what the United States does on military requirements, but with 10% of the outcome that they achieve.
This means, if our budget resources really are tight even at a European and national level, that it must surely be possible for us to organise ourselves in such a way - that is, on Community lines - as to do what has to be done and achieve the desired effects in our common interest.
This naturally involves the arms exports issue and the clarification of European competences in order to remove the lack of uniformity in the code of conduct.
Some Member States have a particular concern about defeating terrorism in all its manifestations.
The European Security and Defence Policy is an integral part of the common foreign and security policy.
The European Union has international relationships and programmes in many fields covering, for example, energy, environment, economic cooperation, human rights, justice and home affairs, external assistance programmes and so on.
After a long period of bloodshed and inter-ethnic strife culminating in the successful military campaign to halt ethnic cleansing in Kosovo, the European Union launched a concerted effort to restore stability and to bring about thoroughgoing political and economic reform in the region.
All these have been elements - and important elements - of an integrated European security and conflict prevention policy in the region.
The European Commission continues to play a central part in the conception and execution of that policy.
The deployment had to be closely co-ordinated with what the European Union was already doing.
The Commission is not directly involved in that decision, which touches upon the physical security of national military personnel deployed in the region - nor do we seek direct involvement.
We need to be able to make our voice heard because, as I have said, military decisions also have implications for the European Union's comprehensive security policy in the wider sense, as I have described it.
The European Commission stands ready to play its part in using the potential of the Treaty to help to develop a strong, efficient and viable European armaments industry.
Most Members of this House, for example, would support the Commission's initiative to launch the Advisory Group on Aerospace - or STAR 21 as it is known - to consider the strategic challenges faced by the European Union in that crucial sector.
We welcome the participation in that Group of Carlos Westendorp, Chairman of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, and of Karl von Wogau.
It is not always easy.
The European Union needs mechanisms that will give it greater budgetary flexibility in the conduct of foreign policy, and will enable it to deploy funds more quickly in times of crisis.
We have put forward some Community budget proposals to that end.
These problems are not insoluble.
The Commission is not a 16th Member State; it does not have its own taxpayers responsible for electing it or discharging it.
But I do not want to enter any further into that debate, I just want to make one very important, realistic point.
The President of the United States has just asked for a 14% increase in defence spending - an increase of USD 48 billion in the United States defence budget.
And we should recognise the extremely important contribution we make to all those other aspects of security which, for example, we were talking about at Monterrey a few weeks ago under the aegis of the United Nations.
If social work in Afghanistan makes it unnecessary for us to be militarily involved in Afghanistan again in five or ten years' time, then that seems to be to be a very good investment in the security of the European Union and the region and the world.
Among the 14 items of the action plan, some of these measures require legislation, while others can be carried out using instruments already available to the Union.
A good deal of progress has been made with regard to most of the actions, in fact with 11 out of a total of 14.
However, until recently, Council discussions have generally been characterised by differences of opinion between the Member States preventing the adoption of a common position on the framing of a European armaments policy.
This made progress especially difficult with regard to measures requiring legislative action such as the action plan items on customs duties and intra-Community transfers.
I would like to underline today, however, that the Commission has begun infringement proceedings against 10 Member States on the question of the proper application of the Common Customs Tariff on military and non-military goods.
This action may serve to reactivate discussions on the issue.
Furthermore, as regards the intra-Community transfers of these goods, work on trying to find appropriate technical solutions continues and some progress has been made.
Despite the difficulties in moving forward on some of these critical issues as rapidly as we had hoped, I would like to stress that the analysis advocating a need for re-structuring the European defence industry and for creating a single market for defence products is as valid as ever.
Thus, the Commission expects that governments increasingly recognise the urgency for a change in attitudes in order to end policies and practices that prevent European defence companies from working together more efficiently.
Mr Brok also mentioned the question of standardisation.
As Commissioner Patten mentioned, these developments are acknowledged in the STAR 21 initiative: the strategic aerospace review for 21st century currently in progress.
STAR 21 aims to broaden the understanding of aerospace-related issues in Europe and trigger the action which will ensure that Europe's aerospace industry can play a full part in Europe's future.
I hope that this report, which we will present in July, will give a further push to our efforts to have a strong competitive European defence industry.
In this respect, I believe the United States is enjoying an unprecedented political and military hegemony.
If we consider that today the United States represents about 4% of the world's population - and I say this with admiration - and are capable of producing 30% of goods and services; that China, with five times the area and with a much larger population is only capable of producing 3%; if we consider that Russia's production levels have fallen below those of Switzerland and if we remember the military budget figures given here, we can see clearly that all this is highly disproportionate.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Commission, I would like to ask a question which refers rather more to the future.
The President-in-Office of the Council has referred to the fight against terrorism and it is clear that when freedom was attacked with the barbarity of 11 September it was perfectly demonstrated that in today's globalised landscape concepts of security, defence, diplomacy, trade, culture and religion are all interrelated and that this should be translated into a common awareness that, since the phenomenon of terrorism affects all of us equally, there must be a response that comes from all of us equally.
I therefore believe that it is essential that we accept the views expressed here on the normal elements of the Rule of Law in the fight against terrorism and the need to coordinate the information instruments we have as well as the instruments for fighting the threat of the NBC warfare.
I believe we must realise that, if we want a defence policy, we have to pay for it and that it is important to reconcile, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the desire of public opinion for the European Union to be present on the international stage with the need not to take on too much expenditure, which is apparently not very popular amongst our public opinion.
The common foreign and security policy is, in fact, the manifestation of Europe's history over the past 100 years.
Europe can only play a leading role on the world stage if it is prepared to pay a high price for doing so.
The political price that has to be paid for more effective policy is a reduction in the amount of say that individual nations have for the sake of greater European unity.
In this context, the rapid reaction force is a necessary precondition, but it is not meeting the mark by a long shot with regard to all the Petersberg tasks and the fight against terrorism.
National egotism and commercial interests have for too long got in the way of creating a defence industry.
If Europe is not prepared to pay the political and financial price for credible defence, it should stop complaining about its trivial role in the world, otherwise we will continue to yap without being heard.
Allow me to start by underscoring a remark made by Commissioner Patten when he alerted us to the crucial role of the civil dimension of security.
Talking of Macedonia, we all know that the European Union would like to undertake its first major action in that country.
I believe that, when building Europe as a hopeful and exciting project, it is essential to recognise the need for a security and defence dimension.
However, there are three aspects which I do not agree with and which may be crucial: Firstly, I believe we should move towards a concept of defence based on shared security: for example, it is true that we have to respond to terrorism, but a military response is not sufficient unless it is based on law - in this case, international law - and on the elimination of the causes of barbaric acts such as the events of 11 September.
It is therefore essential that the concept of shared security is a fundamental element in this proposal.
Secondly, I believe it is a mistake to focus our attention on treating NATO as an umbrella to protect us, and also on the special cooperation with the United States.
I believe that that approach hinders and slows down our ability to develop the autonomous, independent and effective security and defence policy that Europe needs.
There is a third aspect: the role to be played, now and in the future, by the European Union in terms of defence and security, which should be the promotion of peace, the promotion of different relations in the world, and therefore the consideration of the United Nations and international law as the only references for the actions of the European Union.
This is precisely one of the most necessary aspects at the current time in order to introduce sanity, rationality and a notion of solidarity into the situation in the Middle East.
In this respect, in view of the instruments we would need, the concept of the OSCE should be recovered in order to guarantee security in Europe and we should focus all our attention on what Commissioner Patten and other speakers have mentioned: the need to remove the current budgetary ceiling, because it is impossible to make sufficient progress in relation to the defence industry and coordination and cooperation with the miserly budgets laid down by the Union.
Indeed, in the globalised world in which we live, politics, diplomacy, information, internal security and defence complement one another to respond to these new types of threat.
The obligation of the European Union and its Member States is, therefore, to rationalise their military and arms production capacities and to strengthen their resources for diplomatic cooperation, information services and also judicial and police cooperation in a genuine synergy of national and transnational policies.
The strength of European security and defence policy lies precisely in its cooperation with NATO and not in the dangerous and pointless temptation to compete with that organisation in any way.
It is, therefore, entirely appropriate to call for the establishment of closer relations and for a greater exchange of information between the European Parliament and the national parliaments on issues involving the CFSP as a means of enabling the various parliamentary bodies to undertake democratic monitoring in a more appropriate and more suitable way.
Mr President, a nation has resources such as a police force, its own currency and an army.
My group has another vision for Europe.
The EU is the world's strongest trading block.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President, Commissioners, we must stop talking and take action.
The sad fact that we must face is that, despite some positive signs, such as the decisions to establish the GALILEO satellite navigation system and to build the A 400 M military transport aircraft by 2008, following prolonged and arduous negotiations, we are not succeeding in providing European defence policy with a definite structure and we usually fail to get beyond semantics or comitology.
The reason why European defence policy is not going well is because we are not clearly applying the method of variable geometry, which would enable the Member States that are determined to take action to define some common strategic interests and thus identify the resources to use.
We have no anti-missile defence programme: we should be developing a European policy in this area instead of condemning the American project.
The shock of the events of 11 September and the realisation of having to engage in a now ongoing battle against terrorism have not provoked European leaders into taking the necessary action - which is strange, as we are all exposed to the same level of risk.
In order to respond to these new threats, our countries must make a substantial increase in their defence spending.
The task will be even more difficult because we in Europe have become used to certain facilities; we need courageous politicians to fulfil this task.
It may be worthwhile to stress this at a time when election campaigns are underway in many of our Member States.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, over the last ten years, European public opinion has gradually become aware of the fact that the European Union needs to have its own defence system in order to enable it to have influence, political influence on world affairs, which should be acquired from its moral authority and its economic power.
The European Union, which did not play a part in resolving the crisis in the former Yugoslavia, was incapable of speaking with a single voice on this matter and engaged in a war in Kosovo which proved that it could not manage without American resources in a number of essential areas, is now absent from the international stage in Afghanistan and in the Middle East.
We must recognise that this request is a dead letter and that, with the notable exception of the United Kingdom, European leaders have imperturbably continued to decrease defence spending on a regular basis, thus stripping their declared will of all credibility.
By again proposing this difficult decision, I think it is worthwhile to reiterate that defence technologies developed today still have two purposes and that they will, therefore, have an impact on all the civilian and military capabilities of the European industry.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten challenged us to justify to our electorate a demand for an increase in defence expenditure.
However, what we can have is much more efficient and effective defence expenditure.
I welcome what Commissioner Liikanen has said, but I want to see more rapid progress.
As George Robertson has said, being ready for battle is like pregnancy: you either are or you are not!
So I want to see this agenda being driven forward.
In football terms, we need a Roy Keane to move this agenda forward to ensure that we have the capabilities we need.
What puzzles me is what exactly is the status of the draft agreement brokered between Britain, the US and Turkey, between the European Union and the non-European Union NATO European members?
The draft agreement allows for the Council to decide to invite Turkey to play a part where NATO facilities are not required.
I should be most grateful for a clear explanation of precisely what the problem is inside the Council.
On 15 January 2001, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for a moratorium on the use of these weapons and munitions.
More recently, on 27 March 2002, the United Nations Environment Programme published the results of a study on six sites in Serbia and Montenegro that had been affected by the use of depleted uranium munitions during the Balkans War of 1999.
The study confirmed that five of the six sites concerned were contaminated; in two of the sites, particles of depleted uranium were detected in the region's air.
The results of the measures show that dust particles of depleted uranium have been widely dispersed in the environment as a result of the impact from these munitions.
Although the United Nations Environment Programme considers the level of radioactive pollution to be low, the fact remains that this pollution confirms the risks of using depleted uranium arms and munitions for soldiers, of course, but also for the civilian population and certainly for several future generations.
According to the information at our disposal, the United Nations Environment Programme is due to begin a study on the impact of war on the environment in the coming weeks.
It is clear to the Communist Party of Greece and other peace-loving forces in Greece that this policy does not foster peace.
And let us be honest, the terrorist attack on 11 September is being used to serve this purpose, and to such a degree that one cannot but wonder exactly who was really behind it.
The coordination of national defence efforts, preferably within the larger framework of NATO, can do no harm.
Moreover, European industry is hardly unanimous at the moment.
The interests of the individual Member States weigh heavily.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that this debate today is also touching on industrial aspects of European defence policy.
Commissioner Patten has presented us with a challenge.
For 15 different nations finally to work together implies a certain standardisation in this area, as otherwise there will be enormous problems of incompatibility.
Lastly, we should not lose sight of the fact that the most important pilot project in this field is the crisis management force agreed upon in Helsinki.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, first of all, Minister, I would like to say how pleased I am that you could be here.
Equally, have you given any thought so far as to the future of NATO or as to what the effect of changes within NATO might be for our European security and defence policy, given the positions adopted recently by our American counterparts, the calls made by Russia and events since 11 September?
It relates to the consequences of 11 September, which concern both the civilian resources of the Commission and the military resources which are the Council's responsibility.
Mr President, the principle of European cooperation in defence procurement is well established.
I have witnessed many projects in my own region, such as the Tornado, Eurofighter, even Airbus and its derivatives.
Indeed, for a time, I was minister responsible for Aerospace and therefore for Airbus, so I am one of those who is very keen that the A400M flies as soon as possible.
The defence industrial base is hugely important to the Union.
But there is wastage.
On the other hand, it is quite right to say, as Elmar Brok and Gary Titley have done, that our military expenditure is marked by a high level of inefficiency, particularly from a European point of view.
Mr President, it has often been said that the European Union is a kind of economic giant, but a military and political dwarf.
Mention is being made of Macedonia and a specific role for the European Union, specifically in Bosnia.
Even more important is, in fact, the lack of return on our efforts.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, one specific but important aspect of the common security and defence policy concerns relations between the nascent European powers and NATO.
I am not sure if this second point has quite the same merit as the first.
Article 296 is a locked door which can be unlocked.
There is a key; there is the possibility of implementing it: we already have case-law from the Court of Justice which opens up this possibility and I hope that the Council will consider the possibility of implementing Community law specifically on Community level, in addition to the actions carried out at government level.
Mr President, I agree with the last comments by the honourable Member, Professor Medina Ortega.
If only such things could be heard every day and in every parliament.
We Defence Ministers of the Member States can only be grateful for any progress in the European Parliament and hope that it sets an example.
I confess that the gap that has been mentioned resulting from the 14% increase in the United States is unavoidable, but what can and must be avoided, are all those differences between our programmes, which must become common programmes.
I am obliged to speak very much in summary: firstly, constant meetings are taking place with Russia, which were unthinkable before 11 September.
I must confirm here that without the cooperation of Russia, the operations carried out by the international coalition in Afghanistan would have been impossible and would not have achieved the results that some people say they have had in two months, although they are not yet over.
This White Paper may be of great interest, since so far I believe we all agree on the same goal, but we have a different vision in relation to our understanding of what the objective of the European security and defence policy should be.
Secondly, missions.
We also have to think of strengthened cooperation mechanisms which have been mentioned here.
Mr President, Mr Titley asked the Commission to reply to a very detailed question about the Court of Justice rulings on the use of Article 296.
The Commission has used this case law to improve its regulation on the control of exports of dual-use goods and technology.
More recently, and as I mentioned in my speech, the Commission is challenging 12 Member States over their misuse of Article 296 regarding customs duties on arms imports, preventing a common customs tariff from being implemented.
Mr President, please forgive me but the necessary speed required by the time limits this House manages so well have prevented me from replying to the honourable Member.
Secondly, and with regard to your question on what protection measures had been taken: apart from being supplied with NBC detection equipment, in the units which the various countries have deployed, either in Kabul, or - as in the Spanish case - in Bagram, the medical units observe very strict rules of conduct and carry out constant monitoring, both of this type of injury in terms of health, and of the risks resulting from the internal situation of the country and any resistance.
It relates to our values, but it also relates to our security and our interests.
Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is the obligation of all of us, of all the institutions present here this afternoon, to seek formulae to resolve the situation.
We must not be part of the problem, but rather part of the solution to the problem.
And we must face this stark reality with the sense of responsibility we Europeans have always had.
I therefore believe that we must act on all possible fronts, not only to resolve the immediate crisis, but also to try to resolve its causes.
With the same frankness, we can say to our friends that we do not agree with the activities they are engaged in. (Loud applause) I believe that today we are obliged to say what we think, from the point of view of friendship, and with a frankness which enables us to see how we have spoken on other occasions.
Mr President, I honestly believe that the military response of the Israeli Government that we are witnessing in the occupied territories is intolerable and we must stop it immediately.
It must stop immediately, ladies and gentlemen, because it takes us nowhere and it does not lead to the solution to the problem, which is, as has been said, to put an end to terrorism.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the enormous suffering of the civilian population, which does not want to take part in a war, which wants to live in peace, together, with two countries living side by side.
Mr President, the Israeli Government had the right and the obligation to protect its citizens.
We have at least two clear, very clear, Security Council resolutions, which do not allow for differing interpretations, and the only possible interpretation of these resolutions is that the situation of the occupied territories at the moment must end.
The military operation must end, and not in stages, and not city by city, but immediately and completely.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, international law must be respected by everybody, and this implies that it must also be respected by the citizens who live on the other side of the northern border.
Israel must fulfil its obligations to the United Nations Security Council.
We also condemn the attacks taking place from Israel's northern border against Israeli citizens.
I insist: we will always be in favour of respect for international law.
Mr President, these military actions are not the right way to put an end to terrorism.
Unfortunately we do not think that this will be the case, that these operations will achieve this end, and therefore, honestly, as the United Nations Security Council has done, we ask that they stop.
This is of immense concern to us, because if we have to achieve a ceasefire, with whom are we going to establish that ceasefire if there is going to be nobody amongst the Palestinian Authority's people or institutions to speak to.
I have been able to do this on many occasions, on the many trips I have made in recent months - as the honourable Members know - with the security leaders of the Palestinian Authority.
Today some of them have lost their credibility and all means to act.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must make an effort to recover the Palestinian Authority.
Progress towards peace, after this military operation, is inconceivable with a ruined Palestinian Authority.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament, the European Union, must make a more serious and stronger appeal for the Palestinian Authority to be respected.
Having said this, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to act on all fronts.
Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said and written that Europe has been humiliated.
We are still working within the capacities and resources available to us, and with the will which we have all shown in trying to resolve this dramatic problem.
While a ceasefire is absolutely essential, we will not achieve a lasting ceasefire unless there is a political perspective for the future.
Our desire must therefore be to start as soon as possible to go beyond a ceasefire and move towards the possibility of a lasting political relationship.
I believe that the only solution is correct, frank and intense coordination between the players I have just mentioned, in order to try to find a formula which will allow us to achieve that end. (Applause) I insist, however, that a formula allowing us out of this situation must not be strictly limited to the ceasefire, which is an essential first step, because if we are not capable of providing a political perspective, the ceasefire will be signed but not implemented by the parties.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I humbly dare to suggest that the position we should take should be to have the willpower and courage to ask for more than a ceasefire, to ask for a political solution to be put on the table as soon as possible.
Ladies and gentlemen, I said at the beginning, and I would like to repeat, that this Parliament, the citizens of the European Union, everybody, is against terrorism, and Israel can always count on us to be a serious and responsible ally in the fight against terrorism.
We will therefore do everything possible to ensure that the United Nations Security Council resolution is complied with and on this basis to seek a ceasefire that will allow us to begin a political process which leads to the goal of two States, two democratic States with secure borders, which can live together within the context of the countries of the region, which have already offered a contractual peace to Israel in Beirut.
Ladies and gentlemen, that is what I wanted to say this afternoon and I would also like to say, Mr President, on my return, when the honourable Members deem it appropriate - on the 24th, if you like - I will be very happy to come back here to explain the situation or give my impression of the development of the situation during this period. (Applause) Thank you for your contribution and also for the offer to report back, which I am certain the House would be anxious to avail themselves of.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this Parliament has requested with some haste, which is justified given the drama and speed of the events, an appearance by the Presidency to explain the European Union's views on the crisis in the Middle East.
The Palestinian Authority's future is uncertain and the stability and security of the region are clearly in danger.
A spiral of violence created by brutal Palestinian terrorist attacks and by resulting Israeli reprisals is leading to ever-greater suffering within both populations.
We once again have to say that the conflict we are facing will not be resolved until the Palestinians are free from the 1967 occupation and the Israelis feel that they have peace and security; until the Israelis and the Palestinians can live in two States, with secure and internationally recognised borders.
Once again it is also necessary to insist that there can be no military solution to this conflict and that peace and security can only be achieved through negotiation.
The international community and specifically the European Union have a responsibility and a role which cannot be ignored.
It is also necessary that any intervention or initiative be rigorously coordinated, especially between the United Nations, the European Union and the main powers involved.
In the Barcelona Declaration of 16 March the European Union insisted on the need to deal with all aspects, both security aspects and political and economic aspects.
The Declaration also reiterated the bases for a solution to the conflict, that is, Resolutions 242, 338 and 1397 of the United Nations Security Council and the principles of the Madrid and Oslo Conferences and subsequent agreements which would allow the two States, Israel and Palestine, to live in peace and security.
As I said before, there is a double objective: the creation of a democratic, viable and independent Palestinian State, putting an end to the 1967 occupation, and guaranteeing that Israel has the right to live within secure borders, guaranteed by the commitment of the international community and the Arab countries in particular.
The latest phase of the current crisis practically coincided with the end of the Arab League Summit in Beirut.
The Presidency of the Union, represented by the President of the Spanish Government, attended that summit in order to demonstrate the European Union's interest in the whole process and with the aim of supporting the Saudi initiative, which would have implied the possibility of normalising relations between Israel and its Arab neighbours, in exchange for an Israeli withdrawal to its 1967 borders, and a fair solution to the problem of the refugees, on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions.
It was the first time a representative of the European Union has attended an Arab League Summit at the highest level.
The European Union has made constant efforts to achieve an immediate ceasefire, the withdrawal of Israeli troops from Palestinian towns, the restoration of total freedom of movement for President Arafat, compliance with international law and the return to political negotiations.
Israel's right to combat terrorism cannot restrict the operational capacity of President Arafat as the legitimate representative of the Palestinian people and of the Palestinian National Authority.
The Resolution of the Arab League Summit in Beirut forms a solid base for progress towards a political perspective for a just and global solution in the region and for the normalisation of relations between Israel and the Arab world.
The diplomatic contacts of the Presidency at all political levels with the other European capitals, with all the Arab countries of the region, as well as the United States and Russia, are attempting to impose the necessary coordination between all international players in order to end the conflict and begin resolving the crisis.
Recently, given the gravity of the situation, the Presidency of the Union summoned the Israeli Ambassador to communicate four points to him: firstly, there can be no military solution to the conflict; secondly, the Israeli troops must withdraw from Palestinian towns as laid down in Resolution 1402, which must be applied immediately, and the siege of President Arafat must end; thirdly, Israel must allow the special envoys to carry out their diplomatic mission and have free access to President Arafat; fourthly, Israel must guarantee free access by the European Union's diplomatic and consular representatives to their nationals, as well as guaranteeing that they can carry out their normal diplomatic and consular duties.
The European Union believes that subsequent steps must be directed towards the following objectives: the complete and immediate application of Security Council Resolution 1402; the urgent need for a real ceasefire and the withdrawal of the Israeli army from Palestinian cities, including the general headquarters of the Palestinian Authority in Ramallah, guaranteeing the safety and complete freedom of movement of President Arafat; the diplomatic efforts of the special envoys to the Middle East must not be hindered and in particular they must be guaranteed free access to President Arafat; the need for Israel's legitimate right to combat terrorism to be exercised within the framework of international law and in particular international humanitarian law; the Palestinian Authority, whose operability must be guaranteed, must make all the necessary effort to prevent terrorist activities; the grave humanitarian situation in the territories demands that medical and humanitarian personnel and institutions must be able to carry out their activities freely.
Subsequently, the meeting in Camp David in the summer of 2000 and the last-ditch attempts to find a negotiated solution at Taba in January 2001 also failed to bring a lasting peace.
Since then we have seen appalling destruction and misery.
This kind of behaviour seems not only to be aimed at the elimination of terror but also at the elimination of the Palestinian Authority and any achievements of the Oslo Accords. (Applause) Let me just give Parliament the latest report that I have received, which I cannot vouch for but it seems to me likely to be true.
It is a deliberate attempt to destroy the legitimate political ambitions of Palestinians to live in a viable state in their own land.
The European Union has made clear that it will continue to support the Palestinian Authority, that it will continue to support its elected president because, as the High Representative said, there is a need for organised structures to run the Palestinian territories and to represent the Palestinian people in peace talks and internationally.
We must obviously support initiatives such as the proposed mission by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mary Robinson, to look into the human rights situation and to recommend any appropriate action which may be necessary to protect human rights according to international standards.
We support the international community's call on Israel to stop its military operation in the West Bank and stop it now.
We also support the latest UN resolutions and we have expressed our agreement with President Bush's statement urging Israel to stop its military operation without delay.
The General Affairs Council next week will want to consider the gravity of the situation and to discuss how we can make our concern felt to Israel in the most effective way.
Just about the whole world is united in its calls for an Israeli withdrawal from Palestinian territory and in the call for a return to the negotiating table.
In the present frightful situation we strongly condemn all the terror attacks against Israel.
Furthermore, the isolation of the Palestinian leadership, and Yasser Arafat in particular, must be broken.
We are calling for total compliance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1402.
Some time in the very immediate future Israel, the Palestinians, the European Union, the United States of America, Russia and the moderate countries in the Middle East that want to see peace in their region must sit around the table and lead the region to peace.
Mr President, Mr Solana, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these are grave times in which we have to work together in order to break the infernal cycle of violence by achieving a ceasefire which creates a window of opportunity and opens the way to negotiations in order that the states in the Middle East may live together.
Therefore, on behalf of the Group of the European Socialist Party I propose that we send three messages.
Firstly, via the High Representative for the common foreign and security policy addressed to tomorrow's Madrid Summit.
We ask the Presidency-in-Office of the Council, together with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the United States' Secretary of State and the Russian Foreign Minister to express with one voice the need for a ceasefire and their joint willingness to send an international peace enforcement and observation force to support it.
The State of Israel was founded as a result of a decision of the United Nations, a David which is an expression of a world political and moral commitment and that David must listen to us and conform to the repeated declarations of the Security Council.
The second message we should send is to the Sharon Government, which must completely end its attempts to turn David into Goliath through its unilateral declaration of total war in response to the suicide attacks against the civil population by certain Palestinian elements.
The solution does not lie in an escalation of operations aimed at eliminating the Palestinian Authority and its elected President, Yasser Arafat, whose confinement must end immediately, nor in the flagrant violations of international humanitarian law or the law of war in the occupied territories.
In addition, the third message is a message of support for the Palestinian Authority so that it can play its role in the fight against terrorism, for which it needs resources that must not be destroyed - and we must remember that we, as the European Union, have actively contributed to these resources - and can act in the future as the core of a Palestinian State.
At the same time, we also want to express our concern at the occurrences of the conflict's spreading and polarisation that we are currently seeing throughout the world.
Within this framework, we wish to express our disapproval of the Israeli Government's refusal to accept the mediation of a mission from the European Union on 4 April and we believe that, under these circumstances, the Association Agreement must be suspended in accordance with its Article 2 until we see a clear and unequivocal sign that the Israeli Government is willing to resolve this crisis.
Furthermore, we support and advocate an arms embargo on both sides by the European Union and will ask my Group, in relation to the transnational compromise resolution we have negotiated - although we go further - to vote in favour of Paragraph 8 of that compromise resolution.
Finally, Mr President, despite everything, we want to reiterate our conviction that, despite the gravity of the current situation, peace is possible.
As you know, we have had a long and fruitful historic relationship with our colleagues in the Israeli Labour Party.
We have publicly criticised their participation in this government, but we want to continue talking to them.
I urge everybody not to cease in this effort and to use all possible opportunities for dialogue with our Israeli and Palestinian friends and partners to tell them that we are not condemned to endless violence.
Our own history demonstrates this and what we have to do is support coordinated international action within the framework of the United Nations, taking advantage of the proposals of the Arab League so that Madrid may offer another glimmer of hope. (Applause) Mr President, this week we are debating military conflicts in two places: Chechnya and Palestine.
Both have worsened since the Western World declared war on terrorism.
The impact on the lives of those caught in the crossfire, both literally and metaphorically, has been devastating.
It is probably the Saudi peace plan which currently offers the most promising pointers to peace.
The recent Israeli military incursions into Palestinian territory have been as shocking as they have been self-defeating.
The international community is clear on where the borders must be drawn to secure the co-existence in two states of six million Israeli and some 4 million Palestinian citizens.
If we vote in favour of suspending the Association Agreements, declare an embargo on arms exports to Israel and send a peacekeeping force urgently to protect the Palestinian people, we will be taking practical action to restore peace and security in these two states.
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for making your own contribution to peace by supporting this resolution.
I am crying for Hetty Hillesum who, even in the concentration camp where she was interned, wanted to be the thinking heart of the barracks.
You forced them to strip naked and then you blindfolded them and tied their hands.
With them was an old man whom I have seen year after year in Ramallah.
I am crying because, while the tank was firing on the building you forced us to evacuate - men, women and children - a young man was asking us for bread and cigarettes from the window of another house.
I believe, together with many Israelis with whom we have been working for many years for a fair peace that recognises the right of both sides to their own state, that the only way to save the Israeli State is to end the Israeli military occupation.
They are clear political policies dictated explicitly by Ariel Sharon, who, together with the parties of his coalition government, is demanding the transfer, in other words the deportation, of the Palestinian people, and not just the people of the occupied territories but the Arab citizens in Israel as well.
Shulamit Aloni, an Israeli woman, declares, every day: 'I fought in the Hagannah to establish a Jewish state in Palestine and I find we have a colonialist state.
We call upon the European Union to take up a firm, clear position in line with international law and the protection of human rights.
The first is, of course, the emotion that the House feels in response to the account of what is happening in this part of the world, which concerns us all.
We must be all the more attentive as there is a risk that this situation could have consequences in our countries, where we are beginning to see confrontations between representatives of various communities.
In December last year, the European Council demanded that the Palestinian Authority dismantle the Hamas and Islamic Jihad terrorist networks, arrest and prosecute everyone suspected of being involved in terrorist activities within its area of authority and publicly announce, in Arabic, the end of the intifada.
Mr President, four months on, we have to conclude that Arafat and the other Palestinian leaders have not met this demand by the EU Member States in any way.
It is legitimate that the Sharon administration, albeit only after numerous, extremely bloody Palestinian suicide attacks, has finally eliminated the Palestinian terrorist networks of its own accord.
Europe cannot claim that it is being completely neutral as regards Israel and the Palestinian Authority.
Always providing Mr Arafat has a choice of whether to say 'no' or not, as he has done thus far.
It would be a way of giving the Palestinian and Israeli citizens tangible hope of peace.
I have received six motions for resolutions to wind up the debate Mr President, we are clearly facing an unprecedented crisis in the Middle East, which is all the more serious given that there is a risk of it spreading.
We trust that tomorrow's summit in Madrid, with the Presidency-in-Office of the European Union, the United States, Russia and the Secretary-General of the United Nations, will serve to confirm the strong will and agreement of the sponsors of the peace process that the last resolutions of the United Nations be complied with.
Mr President, I come from a country in which terrorism is the main concern of the citizens and we therefore feel particular solidarity with its victims.
But not everything is acceptable in the fight against terrorism; the Rule of Law and international legality must always be respected.
Those of us who are friends of Israel, those of us who defend the Israeli state and its right to exist must react vigorously when the military and the government act as they do.
The hatred between Sharon and Arafat is bitter and long-standing.
The EU too must do more, however.
There would be no more important contribution to world peace and the international fight against terrorism than if this conflict were to be resolved.
Mr President, there is no military solution to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinian people.
Prime Minister Sharon has offered an uncompromising war on terror, but he has not offered any diplomatic solution to avoid the escalating spiral of violence and brutality.
The Tenet and Mitchell proposals are still on the table and, together with the recent proposals from the Saudi Arabian government, they too provide a basis for the resumption of peace talks if there is a full compliance with the recent UN resolutions by the Israeli government.
I firmly believe that Yasser Arafat is the political leader that the Israeli government must be negotiating with at this time, and that seeking to topple the Palestinian Authority is a recipe for long-term instability and will only intensify the hatreds between the Palestinian and Israeli people as well as between Israelis and other Arab countries in the Middle East.
The two sides will not be brought together unless there is an immediate and serious third-party mediation, and the US government must be seen to be vigorously involved in this process in a firm and meaningful way, as must the European Union.
Mr President, many people have called for action to be taken regarding Israel and for a ceasefire, and we would like to add our voices to theirs.
There are appalling violations of international law and human rights constantly taking place in the Palestinian territories at the moment, and the international community must stop this, as it must stop the madness of terrorism which is leading young people to sacrifice their young lives for a cause which, far from benefiting their own people, makes more innocent people victims and gives the leader of the Israeli Government the excuse to declare unilaterally outright war on the Palestinian Authority, its structure and members, starting with President Arafat.
One important development is that we have succeeded in organising a meeting, to take place tomorrow in Madrid, in which the United States, the European Union, Russia and the United Nations will, at last, be able to focus their efforts in the direction - it is to be hoped - of immediately sending an international peacekeeping force to the region which will be able to enforce the ceasefire and put an end to all the violations of rights.
Mr President, the other day, the Financial Times observed that the EU's Middle East policy lies in ruins, and Le Monde complains about the EU's impotence in the Middle East.
Mr President, for cultural as well as political reasons, I have always been a sincere friend of the Israelis and the State of Israel.
President Cox, we met with the President of the Italian Jewish Community, Mr Luzzatto, earlier today: you were with him a short while ago and he called for Parliament to take action.
I realise how difficult it is, Mr President, but I feel that, if we too as Parliament, as the Presidency of Parliament, can make some contribution, however little, to this quest for peace, then let us do so.
The sad conclusion we must draw is that there is currently no possibility of stopping the war in the Middle East.
The Italian Government has developed an initiative of this kind, an initiative to support the economy in the Middle East and, in particular, the Palestinian economy, an initiative which Mr Berlusconi recently proposed to all his European colleagues.
I feel that all those who are calling and hoping for genuine peace in the Middle East must support this proposal.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I support the proposal put forward in this debate by my friend, Enrique Barón Crespo, for the European Parliament to send three messages: to the Madrid Summit, to the Sharon Government and to the Palestinian authority, as he said.
As Commissioner Patten said, the fight against terrorism that we all support cannot be used as an excuse to disregard international law.
We must also insist that the United Nations sends a military intervention force to enforce the cease-fire.
Following the repeated statements by President Bush, which have not yet led to any action, there is no other way.
I used to have a great deal of respect for Israel, but - and it pains me to have to say this - its army is acting like a real colonial army and, in the war that it is waging on the Palestinians, is not even respecting the Geneva Convention.
Israel has constantly not only been threatened by terror, but terrorism has also been put into practice by organisations like Hamas and Jihad, who have been able to ply their bloody trade in the Palestinian areas almost with impunity.
Israel must withdraw from the Palestinian areas.
Mr President, Ariel Sharon is a man of war, it is part of him, he promised to destroy Oslo and that is what he is doing at the moment.
Using his tanks, and with our consent, he has managed to establish a new political-administrative category: now there are occupied Palestinian territories and re-occupied Palestinian territories.
I found Secretary of State Powell more lucid when he said that we may be radicalising a whole new generation of Palestinians and that many new terrorists are perhaps waiting to act when the current operation ends.
Mr President, I met both Shimon Peres and Yasser Arafat in the Middle East last summer.
The situation was desperate then.
There was a vicious circle of terrible violence but at the same time the recent knowledge that the ingredients for a solution had been on the table at Camp David and Taba.
Since then the security situation has deteriorated catastrophically.
It would certainly not be helpful for the EU to take one side in this matter by some policy of sanctions against Israel, for example.
Mr President, Europe does not believe in war, it only believes in peace, and therefore in a political solution.
Let us, therefore, shoulder our responsibilities, and I hope that tomorrow in Madrid, Mr Solana, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, you will be able to convince President Bush's envoy that the time has come to become involved in this conflict to find the solution, and this can only be a political solution.
The majority of French Socialists is in favour of suspending the Association Agreement, but we must ensure that we find a solution where we are still able to address all parties and that we do not put in place mechanisms which might be overturned, which would strengthen support for those whom we wish to punish.
Lastly, nothing that happens in the Middle East can ever justify acts of anti-Semitism being committed in any of our countries, whether ad hoc or organised, acts which take us back to the darkest hours of the previous century and revive our memories.
I hope that everyone here will be able to make every effort to make others aware and that, in all our countries, we maintain a spirit of tolerance, mutual respect and secularity.
Mr President, what can we say in response to the tragedy that is unfolding in the Middle East as we speak, other than to state our belief that the escalation to the use of extreme violence can only lead to increased levels of already unbearable suffering for the people of all backgrounds.
I recall that I once said, in this very Chamber, to our colleagues in the Knesset that this was the only way to restore peace.
It is on this basis, Mr President, that a motion for a compromise resolution was negotiated.
Quite the opposite: as a result of these contacts, of this passion we have applied to trying to resolve the problem, tomorrow's meeting in Madrid has been called and the major players in relation to this conflict will reach a collective agreement to try to resolve it.
I would like to say that, at least for tomorrow, I believe there are three fundamental messages.
Afterwards, we will return to this House to explain the development of the issue by means of a parliamentary debate.
The first message, which is fundamental, is that the representatives of the major players who are going to meet tomorrow must make an effort to ensure that the Security Council resolutions be applied immediately, without delay.
I believe it is essential that for the first time a joint and public declaration of this kind should be made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the European Union, the Russian Federation and the United States.
And I believe that we Europeans must support this proposal and this type of declaration.
Everything possible must be done to ensure that the Palestinian Authority recovers its capacities.
On leaving that city they have bombed and destroyed the general headquarters of the Palestinian Authority.
At the same time it is very contradictory tomorrow to ask the Palestinian Authority to lead the way in finding the solution for a ceasefire.
Therefore, and as a result of this reasoning, it seems to me fundamental that this message be sent rigorously and clearly.
It is a message that must be understood and that must be expressed clearly so that everybody understands it and so that our Israeli friends also understand it.
We all have many friends in Israel who agree on this point.
It follows from this approach that it is necessary for the international community to be willing to engage on the ground.
I believe that we must begin to think seriously about it.
But this is not going to happen in 24 hours, it is not going to happen without any mandate.
And that is what we have to work on: on ensuring that the next Security Council Resolution allows, once the necessary conditions are in place, for the possibility of an international presence on the ground.
I believe that is a reasonable measure which the European Union can support, but which it must support jointly with others, in particular the United States and the Russian Federation.
That is the difficult question that we have been working on for many months.
It is possible that the only way forward is the Tenet Plan and that, afterwards, the Mitchell Plan should be implemented, which I know very well since I drew it up jointly with Senator Mitchell.
However, if we have to seek some solution, I have said on previous occasions that we need an 'express' Mitchell Plan, a fast Mitchell Plan, not for the times in which it was conceived, but a much faster Mitchell plan, which would lead us as quickly as possible to a final agreement.
Finally, I think it is essential that we ask that the Beirut Resolution - which has not been read properly and it should be, since some of its points are very important - should also become a United Nations Security Council Resolution; that that commitment, this gesture from the Arab world towards Israel's security should also become a Security Council Resolution.
I have seen some people who have particularly suffered, some of whom have even been expelled from the region.
I have seen many Palestinians die and I have seen many Palestinians suffer and I have also seen families of old friends on the side of peace in Israel who do not take their children in the same bus to school and who separate their children into two groups for fear of dying in a terrorist attack.
This meeting is taking place on the EU's, and the Presidency's initiative, and therefore will be the most important event that has taken place until now with a view to achieving peace, and presents the only real opportunity to bring together all the major players, in one location, to break this vicious circle of violence.
We hope that all present will share the Presidency's, and, naturally, the whole Union's, determination to see this succeed, a determination that has been expressed here in Parliament, with whose support a final effort will be made at tomorrow's meeting.
The second observation I would like to make, Mr President, refers to the need, that many honourable Members and leaders of political groups have expressed, for us to review our Association Agreement with Israel, in other words, that we should use our Association Agreement with Israel as an instrument.
We are already well aware of this Parliament's determination.
I believe that this will also be reflected in the resolution that will be approved tomorrow and I hope that this will act as a wake-up call to the conscience of every EU government. (Applause) The debate is closed.
We are now discussing the first report of the second Erika package, which covers measures to improve traffic monitoring and information systems onboard ships, as well as to enhance risk management, especially in adverse weather.
In my opinion, we have stated this clearly in Parliament and this is very important point.
These concern ports of refuge, safe havens for ships in distress - the Erika proved that these are necessary - sound equipment - and for me, this not only includes station tugs but also installations that can limit pollution - timing (determining a strict period of time within which Member States must have made their measures known, namely 18 months) - Parliament added this provision - and compensation for a port or coastal point which accommodates vessels.
The Commission intends to look into this and to issue a report to Parliament within three years to assess the state of affairs.
In turn, Parliament approved 29 amendments at first reading which, I think, improved the Commission proposal and most of which, I should point out, were subsequently adopted by the Council, which took a constructive stance.
However, a number of questions have yet to be settled and I therefore think we are right - and this is the point of the nine amendments approved in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism - to insist on keeping to a specific approach to point the way both to the Commission and to the Council.
I should like to comment very briefly on three of these amendments.
Amendment No 1 basically clarifies that a Member State may, in exceptionally poor conditions, stop a ship from entering port or even from leaving port, because ships in port sometimes represent more of a threat to safety and of pollution of the port itself.
And Mr Sterckx's proposed 18-month deadline is essential if these proposals are to become law in all the Member States of the European Union, rather than just a 'to-do' list.
Mr President, we are taking action as a Parliament, as a European Union, to make our seas safer because of tragic events like the loss of the Herald of Free Enterprise, the Scandinavian Star, The Estonia and, most recently, The Erika.
The three key elements are monitoring and information, transponders on every ship and monitoring by every maritime authority, an essential component of our package of measures - the Erika package.
As the rapporteur has said, this will enable us not just to learn from lessons but prevent problems occurring in the first place.
Finally, I hope our amendments can be accepted in full in order to avoid codecision and to ensure this legislation, which will do so much to make our seas safer, comes on to the statute book at the earliest possible opportunity.
The committee has once again adopted some proposals to improve safety that are not contained in the Council's common position.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, I believe that it is vital for the Council to take a rapid decision on what we will be approving at second reading tomorrow.
The sinking of the Erika reminded the world of the constant risk involved in the transport by sea of oil-based products, and made the need for a better understanding and monitoring of maritime traffic off the European coastline perfectly clear.
The measures the Commission has proposed have gone much further and have not been restricted to proposals solely concerned with the oil sector, but have been extended to the maritime traffic sector as a whole.
I believe that cooperation between both institutions has paid off and today we are very close to reaching a definitive agreement on a text that, from the outset, involved sensitive issues, such as the prohibition of setting sail in bad weather, the aforementioned ports of refuge, for example, or the obligation to carry transponders or black boxes.
We share many of your concerns and we accept all the amendments you have tabled.
In this regard, I would highlight the follow-up of the report after three years and the true-to-life assessment of the situation, the issue of controls in places of refuge and assistance to boats.
In short, we shall accept all the amendments that have been tabled and I hope they will also be accepted by the Council, which will mean that we do not have to resort to the conciliation procedure.
We will shortly be presenting the last measure needed to complete this package, a package that will allow us to significantly improve safety in sea transport.
After Commission's approval of the measures relating to the transport of passengers, we shall present the measures relating to crews, which is the human element and always a decisive factor.
Thank you very much, Commissioner de Palacio.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I would like to begin by telling you that I am satisfied with this report, which is the result of a lengthy process in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, a committee that I have had the honour to chair over much of this negotiation, in addition to being rapporteur in this particular instance.
Today we are presenting the European Parliament report on the Community patent.
This is the first - I do not really want to call it an anomaly - but, in short, the first issue that, from Parliament's point of view, I would like to draw your attention to.
This characterises a debate that has not been easy, because the adoption of the Community patent is not a trivial issue.
These are the three axes that the European Commission took as a reference point and which subsequently the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market took as their starting point.
However, for us, Mr President, and above all for the reason that we only have one single report, it was crucial for the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market to reach a consensus.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market's report includes the possibility for national patent authorities to participate in the first phase of the negotiation of the Community patent - the research phase - provided that they can guarantee a sufficient level of quality.
Therefore, Mr President, after much debate, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has adopted exactly the same approach as the European Commission, without going so far: for there still to be a national Court of First Instance, albeit with many elements that are already communitarised, and I feel that this is a possibility that the Council should follow if we are to have the patent we need.
Thirdly, with regard to the procedural languages: the intention of the Commission proposal was to uphold the European patent system, that is to say, to have three procedural languages - English, French and German.
As rapporteur, and with reality in mind, given that English is much more than the language of one State of the European Union, that it is the lingua franca of research, I proposed the use of English alone.
Finally, given that Parliament adovocates cultural and linguistic diversity, we reached a consensus, advocating the Alicante system, that is, to have five procedural languages.
I think that in this regard also Parliament is sending an important political signal that should be considered in the Council in order that consensus can be reached.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, both personally and on behalf of my group, I would first like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for her report.
The Commission originally proposed that in parallel, as it were, to the existing national structures, there should also be a system of purely European jurisdiction.
We should not make the mistake that the United States has already made with its court system, so that on top of state courts there are also federal courts, with the guiding principle being that federal courts rule on federal law and state courts on state law.
As Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi pointed out, the European Parliament's role in this particular case is of a purely consultative nature, for the issue is really in the hands of the Commission and the Council.
The other day several lawyers from large North American companies told me that the advantage of the North American federal system is that state jurisdictions are, generally speaking, more favourable to local businesses and consumers, whilst large companies prefer to go to federal jurisdiction, which is more favourable to them.
I would like to refer to another matter, which is that we have arrived at this new European patent indirectly through adhesion to an existing international convention.
The European Community is not a federal union, but more like some kind of confederation, in which different cultures and national traditions are very important.
In specific terms, for a country like Spain and for the 500 million people who speak Spanish worldwide, submission to a language which is not their own is going to cause very serious problems when carrying out research, not only in Spain, but in all of those countries who have called on the Spanish Patents and Trade Marks Office to patent their inventions.
The European Parliament can only give a recommendation, using recital 2, with regard to Article No 5.
We notice that this system is particularly well suited to the European Union's requirements.
I agree very much with the three points she wanted us to focus on, although on one I take a different view.
As Mr Lehne said, there are wrong roads that we could go down that would end up with a dispersal of Community jurisdictions and parallel jurisdictions between the national systems and the Community system.
We believe that sustaining the existing system inside the European Patent Office is important.
Preserving the principle of linguistic equality is an important public good of the European Union.
As I see it, what is far more important is the purpose of this draft and exactly what a patent system of this kind is intended to achieve.
This report and other planned changes to the EU patent system are intended to make patent applications more attractive by making the protection offered by the patent directly applicable in the EU and thus extending it.
In fact, the OVV, the Flemish Associations Consultation Centre, a large representative umbrella organisation for a large number of Flemish cultural-political associations in my country, is making similar demands, and has decided in this case that if the European Union fails to come up with the goods, Europe is at risk of becoming an increasingly alienated occupying force instead of a co-operative based on equality, with respect for the national identity of all Members, as is, in fact, enshrined in the basic treaties.
Rather it seems to me that, as has already been mentioned by a number of other speakers, there has been a series of real conundrums - serious issues - at the heart of this proposal.
In my view, there is no point in having a Community patent, which could be a very useful development in intellectual property law, if those who use and work with patents find it no help.
But the system, as Lord Inglewood has said, has to be attractive to industry and business otherwise it will simply be an irrelevance.
Industry has given the Member States, the Commission and Parliament a very clear message: it wants consistent judgments under Community jurisdiction and a common jurisprudence, in particular regarding enforcement.
He cites to me in letters his problems in dealing with the European Patent Office and the litany of hurdles he has to go through to obtain a European patent.
We must be able to offer industry and SMEs a better deal to ensure that the protection of intellectual property is genuinely an opportunity to create and encourage innovation.
Like Lord Inglewood, I do not believe that the Council has the answers to these problems.
It will fall to Commissioner Bolkestein to try to find the solution.
However, we have had a rapporteur who has made a Herculean effort to try to achieve this.
Therefore I leave it to Commissioner Bolkestein to try to find a solution that will satisfy some of my constituents back in the north-west of England.
It is a service to the community of European citizens, and in my view, all European citizens should be able to address the Union's bodies in their own language, including in patent applications, and they should also be able to receive a reply in their own language.
Mr President, creating a Community patent at any price is not acceptable, particularly if this jeopardises the interests of the small and medium-sized countries either in terms of the language arrangements or in terms of the role of the national patent offices, quite apart from the basic issues of the existence of Community patents and the serious problem of the potential impact of patents on fundamental areas such as life, our natural heritage or medicines, amongst other things, in which unacceptable scenarios have already opened up, mainly serving the interests of the big multinationals.
In this context, we tabled our amendment suggesting that, at the forthcoming Diplomatic Conference on the Revision of the Convention on the Granting of European Patents, all the official languages of the European Union be used on an equal footing so as to ensure that everyone can use his or her own language throughout the process and in order to guarantee the legal security of the patent.
The second issue concerns software and the need for software to remain free of any European Community patent, as we also suggested in our proposal for an amendment.
The unimpeded development of software, specifically of what is known as 'free' software, is a prerequisite for promoting innovation and more widespread use, for guaranteeing the continuity of its creation and its use by the public and for providing added value.
It is, therefore, necessary to ensure that software remains, as it has done until now, free of any restriction imposed by any European Community patent.
Even though we all recognise this, the way in which opposing views have been expressed in the past reveals something which we would do well to take onboard: the huge problem of reconciling straightforward national interests with straightforward Community interests which, in the final analysis, are supposed to serve the individual national interests.
This would reduce the cost of granting a patent considerably, compared with the cost of a European patent applicable in 15 countries.
I therefore welcome the Commission's proposal to create a Community patent.
Since then, we have also witnessed a - fortunately frustrated - attempt to no longer translate even generally binding standards which enhance our book-keeping into all official languages.
We encountered the same problems in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market over the language issue.
As regards the legal arrangements, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market proposes that first instance jurisdiction should be at national level, such that appeals can be made to national courts with experience in patent cases as first instance courts for Community patent litigation, while second instance decisions would be the responsibility of the European Chamber for intellectual property.
Lastly, assurance is given that the national patent offices will be able to continue to play an important role in the procedures for granting the Community patent.
In other words, in our opinion, the solution adopted is not completely satisfactory, but it does mean that this complex issue is closed.
Firstly, there is the principle enshrined in Amendment No 8 to allow testing for the sole purpose of receiving market authorisation after the expiry of the patent - the so-called Bowler exception.
The Commission has already proposed a similar line in its revision and whilst not committing myself to the exact wording, I can inform Parliament that the Commission will carefully consider the issue, taking into account the need for the Community patent and Member States' national patents to produce identical rights.
But Amendment No 18 on the same issue goes too far and cannot be accepted.
A second example regards Amendments Nos 1, 6, 7, 21, 27 and 39.
These amendments refer to the national patent offices.
Partnership agreements with the European Patent Office, with quality criteria and mechanisms for quality control would constitute a proper framework.
Thirdly, the applicant should always be free to ask that his application should be processed exclusively by the European Patent Office.
Finally, national patent offices and their participation should be restricted by clear quantitative limits.
But even with this clarification, I should like to stress that the participation of national patent offices is a matter on which the Community alone cannot decide.
A third example is Amendment No 9 on the distribution of income from renewal fees.
While the Commission can agree to the principle of distribution of part of the fee income to Member States or their patent offices to be used for innovation promotion purposes, it nevertheless considers that this issue should be dealt with in the context of the European Patent Organisation.
Today the driving force for a Community patent is the competitiveness of European industry at a global level.
There is no point in creating an instrument unless it is affordable enough and offers a sufficient level of legal certainty for it to be used by our inventors and our industry.
The European Patent Office functions well with a three-language regime.
The European Patent Convention allows, in principle, EU citizens to submit the initial application in their own language and compensation is provided for those applicants who must translate their applications into one of the working languages of the European Patent Office.
If the amendments imply that the patent would have to be translated in its entirety into all official Community languages which soon will be either 19 or 20, depending on whether Maltese becomes an official language, this would make the patent so expensive that the Community patent system would simply not be used.
Surely we do not want to repeat the same mistake.
Let me give some examples of the costs that would be involved: there would be EUR 17 000 for translations just in the Community of 15 Member States.
For all these reasons the Commission cannot accept the following amendments: Amendments Nos 2, 22, 31, 32(2), 32(3), nor Amendment No 36.
The Commission would like to accept Amendment No 34.
After all, there is the patent in its entirety, a summary and the claims.
The Commission could accept such translations of parts of the patent provided that they were truly useful and that the overall Community patent system remains affordable, simple, cost-effective and legally certain.
Firstly, there is no reason to require a translation of the patent into the language in which the initial application has been submitted.
Thirdly, the patent should be published by the European Patent Office in the Community Patents Bulletin and not in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Fourthly, Article 44(3), as proposed by the Commission, offers sufficient guarantees to protect third parties in good faith.
On the other hand, Article 11(3) cannot be deleted because it corresponds to Article 44(3); it just applies in the pre-grant phase.
The Commission also has difficulties with Amendments Nos 23, 24 and 38 on the relationship with the European Patent Organisation.
The Commission continues to believe in a user-friendly system where applicants can obtain a European patent and a Community patent in one go from the European Patent Office.
Moreover, the formulation in the Commission proposals, which focuses on the costs for obtaining and renewing the patents, should already cover all relevant cost factors.
Therefore the Commission cannot, regrettably, endorse Amendment No 33.
Finally, the Commission considers that Amendment Nos 35 and 37 are unacceptable.
The Commission has presented a proposal for a directive on the patentability of software-related inventions, which is now before Parliament and the Council.
I would like to thank Members for their support and collaboration on this important regulation.
I hope that Europe will soon be able to improve its performance at the global level by offering its industry a competitive, unitary, affordable and legally secure Community patent.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
But the administration cannot seem to find any other solution.
We have seven to eight million tonnes of scrap in the European Community every year, and every year there is an extra million tonnes.
The EU Member States, and above all my own country, have very limited ambitions in this area and believe that it is not necessary to make such demands of the Member States and of Europe's citizens.
The Member States believe that an optional collection rate of 4 kg is the right way to go.
An important point here is of course who meets the costs.
There are a few individual Members of this House who believe that in future even a toothbrush should be collected by the producers from the user's bathroom.
I am convinced that in many cases this will impose a heavy burden on medium-sized companies throughout Europe.
That is why I believe that in future the costs borne by companies should be from the collection point and not from the front door.
It is not, because the companies alone are then responsible for how high the collection and recycling costs actually are.
Of course not, they should achieve the targets, and if they comply with those targets and rates and guidelines, then they should be able to keep their financing systems over a period of about 10 years.
Over the last few days, industry has written some angry letters, because a decision in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy missed the target, namely how can we prevent free-riders in future when it comes to new products?
I have made a very modest 10% increase in the rate of recovery, because in the foreseeable future we can expect a ban on landfill.
I have left the recycling and re-use rates, because they are entry rates and because industry, including smaller industries, needs to follow these entry rates.
Commissioner, I would be pleased if you would follow these initiatives and motivate your colleagues in the Member States.
Thank you very much, Mr Florenz.
Mr President, I fully support the idea behind this directive but there are certain tests to which we should submit the proposal and our amendments.
Parliament's amendments emphasise individual producer responsibility so that none can escape the net of the directive, but this means changing existing collective responsibility systems.
The rapporteur has dealt with this by allowing for such collective responsibility agreements to continue for 10 years after the entry into force of the directive.
The cost impact assessment in the original proposal is inevitably inadequate.
Thirdly, should we consider the interests of small businesses?
Clearly the rapporteur thinks not because he has deleted in Amendment No 15 the possibility of giving micro-companies five years' grace to comply with the directive and take advantage of the technical changes that bigger companies may pioneer.
Without revisiting these three points at great length, we can, in my view, ensure in this way that less new waste is produced, which is, therefore, the best prevention possible, that waste will become more environmentally-friendly and that it will be easier to recycle.
As far as the consumer is concerned, it is also important to us that he should be informed of the dangerous substances currently present in products, such as mercury, lead and such like.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party wants to encourage recycling, good product design, best-use resources and reduce pollution.
In particular I welcome his latest compromise proposal on paying for the costs of dealing with orphan waste.
Amendment No 82 attempts to address the concern of cable manufacturers by making clear that financial responsibility for WEEE rests with the producer of the finished equipment and not with individual component manufacturers.
Amendment No 71 represents a plea for help for plastic recyclers.
I conclude by saying with a certain mischievous glee, as someone who has campaigned for better recycling in my own country for 30 years, that I rather hope that this directive puts a bomb under my own local authorities and recalcitrant government.
Nearly the whole of Parliament will be voting in favour of individual producer responsibility tomorrow.
The new regulation will enter into force in 2006 if it is up to Parliament, or in 2007 if it is up to the Council.
A cleverly thought-out directive can also give a boost to better product design on the part of the big manufacturers.
It also means that we are in a strong position in relation to the Council of Ministers when we reach the conciliation stage.
When it comes to the directive on hazardous substances, there is one aspect we are particularly pleased with, and that is the proposal that a ban on hazardous substances such as lead and cadmium be introduced by no later than 2006.
Nor must this present any obstacle to those countries which wish to progress more quickly and which already have more progressive legislation in quite a few of these areas.
For example, small manufacturers should be included.
In actual fact, the same applies to fire retardants.
However, I believe that to prohibit all fire retardants would be taking matters one step too far.
Moreover, I should like to call attention to the risk of electronic waste being dumped in countries outside the European Union under the guise of re-use.
The European Commission's argument has always been that this review proposal could become a reality as soon as the proposal for a directive on electronic waste has been drafted.
The rapporteur, Mr Florenz, has had a difficult task in his attempt to produce a solid and effective proposal that can be accepted by all parties concerned.
Now, as is apparent from this debate, in dealing with a complex and pioneering initiative in this field, there are still, in my opinion, many gaps and problems coming to light in its practical application.
I believe that if we use this concept in an excessively wide sense we will be jeopardising those Member States who already have collection systems in place, in breaking up existing re-use circuits, inasmuch as we would be favouring recycling over re-use, before asking ourselves the question whether we are favouring the most ecologically sound system.
I think we should take on a demanding approach with manufacturers who do not face up to their responsibilities with regard to waste, in order to defend those responsible manufacturers who have no reason to take on costs caused by these 'free-riders'.
Mr President, like everyone else I should like to congratulate the rapporteur for the work he has done on this proposal.
This is the most extensive recycling scheme we have ever seen in Europe.
Unfortunately, we live in an increasingly throw-away society where we produce more and more waste.
All this leads me to think that we need a bit more time.
After tomorrow's vote we should all pause for some thought about how we can make this directive fully environmentally friendly, cost-effective and attractive to the public.
One kilo per person per year is collected in the district.
Mr President, I welcome this directive and thank the rapporteur for his hard work.
Consumers need to be involved in this process in order for the directive to be a success.
Here I welcome the amendment on orphan waste products.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion the directive on electronic waste should first and foremost serve the environment.
We support all amendments that reinforce the environmental objective.
Under his direction Parliament has been able to have a central role in bringing together the views of consumer associations, environmental organisations and producers also.
The amendment I tabled with this in mind was adopted by Parliament at first reading and the Council adopted it in its common position in a formulation that was further improved.
The European Union is now making legislation that will clearly show to the rest of the world that the conflict between consideration for the environment and the economy is not unavoidable but one that can be settled through carefully considered legislation.
That is why it seems foolish that the Council wanted to allow collective financing - in practice a waste tax - not just with regard to historical but also future waste.
It is the fastest-growing part of the waste stream, indeed it is growing three times faster than the average.
Once adopted and implemented the directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment will allow us to divert this type of waste from landfills and incinerators to environmentally sound re-use and recycling.
The directive on restricting hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment will prevent the presence of unnecessary hazardous substances, posing risks for human health and the environment in various stages of the life-cycle of such equipment, including its waste management.
The work undertaken by the European Parliament substantially reinforces the original proposal, and I welcome the majority of the amendments tabled.
In particular I support the strengthening of individual financing, as proposed by the Committee on the Environment, and limiting collective systems to those cases where these are necessary for practical reasons.
This can help to internalise waste management costs into the product price and give incentives for a better design for re-use and recycling.
It is a first step towards fuller integration of environmental considerations into product design and consumption patterns.
We also need to find appropriate solutions for the financing of historical waste put on the market before the entry into force of this directive.
This should, however, be done in line with Articles 88 and 89 of the Treaty.
I also support the proposal to advance the phase-out date for the substance bans in the RoHS directive to 2006, though this should be done in accordance with the principles set out in Article 95 of the Treaty.
Let me also answer some of the points raised during the debate.
I can assure you that we have carefully evaluated all aspects of this proposal, including its costs.
These figures have been confirmed by practical experience, for example in the Netherlands.
If Parliament wants to increase the collection target, this is obviously a political decision, and we agree with that.
This is why we reject both Amendments Nos 69 and 83.
We can accept this point as we think that practice has shown that there are no excessive costs for these companies and that such an exemption is not needed, and it might even lead to market distortions.
Mr Blokland, I hope that any day now we will be able to present the batteries proposal and I am working hard on that.
Finally, a total of 82 amendments have been tabled on the WEEE directive and 18 on the RoHS directive.
On the waste electrical and electronic equipment proposal, the Commission can accept 32 amendments in full, two in part and 20 in principle.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 9, 11-19, 24, 27-37, 39, 40, 43, 44, 45, 50, 57, 65, 76 and 77.
In Amendment No 23, the Commission supports a new paragraph 1 and paragraph 1(b), last subparagraph in full and paragraph 1(b), third and fourth subparagraphs as well as paragraph 2 in principle.
In Amendment No 73, the Commission can accept the first part.
In Amendments Nos 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 10, the first, third and fourth sentences can be accepted in full.
In Amendments Nos 20, 21 and 41, the first sentence can be accepted in full.
Amendments Nos 42, 48, 49, 51-55, 66, 78 and 92 can be accepted in principle.
On the RoHS proposal, the Commission can accept four amendments in full, one in part and seven in principle.
The amendments acceptable in full are Nos 3, 4, 10 and 17.
Amendment No 5 can be accepted in part - first paragraph - and in Amendments Nos 2, 6, 7, 8 and 9, the first paragraph can be accepted in full and Amendments Nos 13 and 15 in principle.
I thank all Members for this important debate.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 27 October 2000, the Council of Ministers adopted its common position on this draft directive on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances, specifically pentabromodiphenyl ether, a flame retardant used - I would reiterate - almost exclusively in the manufacture of flexible polyurethane foam.
I therefore welcome the fact that the common position - as, in fact, was suggested by Parliament at the vote at first reading - is placing a ban on pentaBDE in all its forms, including when it is the residue from the manufacture of a related chemical product, namely octabromodiphenyl ether.
This ban is due to come into force in July 2003.
The Council, which is supporting the opinion of the Commission on this issue, has rejected Parliament's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to cover all the polybromodiphenyl ethers on the market, namely octaBDE and decaBDE.
In other words, by calling for a deferred ban on this substance to come into force no later than 1 January 2006, depending on the final results of the risk assessment, Parliament is taking into account the latest available scientific information forwarded by the United Kingdom, which is the Member State acting as rapporteur on the environmental aspects of the risk assessment.
The British experts concluded with a proposal to the authorities responsible to consider the need to apply the precautionary principle to both octaBDE and to decaBDE.
I am, however, in favour of Amendment No 7, tabled by these Members, which is much clearer in its wording in that it explicitly refers to decaBDE in the recitals.
As regards octaBDE and its imminent ban, which I believe is justified, there is no further information to reassure us on this substance and Parliament is therefore unable to change its position adopted on 6 September 2001.
There is a further reason for our request to limit the marketing of this flame retardant which justifies the reintroduction of Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3, and that is that octaBDE is used in a fairly small number of products and can be replaced in many cases by decabromodyphenl ether, and this is why my fellow Members and myself call for the precautionary principle to prevail over all other considerations.
The Commission is developing programmes, greatly increasing the number of initiatives in order to ensure even greater levels of protection for human health and the environment.
The new strategy on chemical products launched by your services is the best example of this.
I have, of course, noted the progress that the Commission has made in this area with its declaration attached to the minutes of the common position, where it undertakes to consider as a matter of urgency the need for a new proposal to restrict the marketing and use of octaBDE and decaBDE, but the conditions applied - namely, that it is still necessary to wait for the results of the risk assessments - mean, in this case, that the timetable for introducing urgent measures is at risk of being further overloaded.
Mr President, this is the second reading on restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances.
The Council common position is generally in line with the Commission's amended proposal, and I am delighted that the Council welcomes the amendment removing the derogation for octaBDE with a pentaBDE content of less than 5%.
During the second reading in committee, my group fully supported all four amendments tabled by the rapporteur, as we also did at first reading, the aim of these being to achieve a ban on octaBDE.
These substances are dangerous, they are toxic.
But they also have an extremely useful and important role in that they save lives in their role as fire-retardants.
We want to know exactly what to do with these substances.
I hope that we use our intelligence in this question and realise the importance of these substances in protecting human life as flame-retardants.
This directive and the report on brominated flame retardants are good examples of this responsibility's being exercised.
After the first reading in September 2001, there was a reappraisal of the EU's risk assessments in relation to oktaBDE and dekaBDE.
In the European Parliament, we must also accept our responsibility as co-legislators.
In 80 per cent of cases, the use of brominated flame retardants involves the use of dekaBDE.
We therefore hope that the political groups will vote in favour of the amendments and that Commissioner Wallström too will confirm that the precautionary principle is to be applied.
There are also alternatives to these brominated flame retardants, which are otherwise in danger of becoming a major health problem in the future.
The Commission should have a proper think and try, for all that, to make a serious effort also to ban oktaBDE and dekaBDE.
The substance accumulates in nature and, as has already been pointed out, it has been found in mother's milk.
The directive is based on the precautionary principle.
On the basis of the results of this work, the Commission will table a new proposal at the beginning of next year, that is to say at the beginning of 2003.
Nor is the Commission able to approve the amendment according to which there would be a total ban on dekaBDE as from 1 January 2006 if the risk assessment were to show that there are risks associated with the substance.
Let me emphasise that the Commission will ensure that the proposal we shall table early next year concerning oktaBDE and dekaBDE will be compatible with our proposal to restrict hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment.
I should like to thank MEPs for this debate.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Wallström.
The debate is closed.
