Those guidelines, as you well know, ladies and gentlemen, have since 1998 set out the main aspects of the EU approach to that question, thus crystallising our well-known opposition to the death penalty.
I am, of course, referring to the Council's decision of 18 June this year in which the European Union committed itself to introducing a resolution against the death penalty at the 62nd UN General Assembly as part of a cross-regional alliance.
Parliament called for the European Union to take such an initiative in two resolutions adopted this year in February and in April.
For example, between 1 July 2006 and 30 June 2007, the European Union made general demarches on the death penalty in 28 countries, from Bahrain to Zambia; we also made demarches on individual cases in various countries from Yemen to Iran; furthermore, there are frequent EU declarations on this subject.
Every year from 1997 to 2005, the European Union submitted a resolution on the death penalty to the UN Commission on Human Rights and, re-launching our action in December 2006, the EU submitted a statement on the death penalty at the United Nations General Assembly initially bearing 85 signatures and later signed by 10 more countries.
More than half the countries in the world have already abolished capital punishment either by law or in practice: 133 countries, according to Amnesty International.
We must not forget that this is our third attempt, I repeat, our third attempt to obtain a resolution on the death penalty at the United Nations General Assembly following our two failures in 1994 and 1999.
The Council decision of 18 June to introduce a resolution at the 62nd session of the United Nations General Assembly marked the beginning of a new phase in the multilateral sphere.
We can only regret that in the case of each of these resolutions the European Parliament addressed the Council, encouraging it to submit the resolution to the General Assembly of the United Nations, but the Council has not yet done so.
Capital punishment is a cruel and inhuman kind of punishment infringing one of the inherent human rights - the right to life - and we really cannot tolerate a situation where thousands of people face capital punishment every year in Iran and China and other countries.
Therefore, the implementation of a global moratorium on capital punishment seeking to fully abolish it remains one of our most important political aims and we therefore require not only the consensus of our parliamentary groups on this issue, but also the consensus of all EU Member States.
I am sure that in adopting this resolution the European Parliament could show extraordinary solidarity and consensus, despite a difference of opinion, for example regarding the declaration of 10 February as the European Day against the Death Penalty.
I truly encourage my fellow members in all groups to support this important resolution. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Madam President, State Secretary Lobo Antunes has convincingly demonstrated the Council's efforts here.
I'll gladly tell you.
We need an answer to this, too. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the statements that the Presidency has been making to this Parliament for a year would seem - if we were a parliament such as the British parliament or the United States parliament, for instance - like an offence not only against the truth but also against Parliament.
We lost by 8 votes, because 20 European countries which are now members of the European Union collaborated with each other and abstained.
The universal moratorium could have been proclaimed throughout the world, had it not been for that disgrace, which we should not dismiss: 20 European abstentions, in 1994, with a Council that was fully and hypocritically complicit.
You also told another small or serious untruth: it is true that 95 countries have signed a declaration, and that on 28 December we, as the Italian Government, already had 85 signatories and what you have achieved we actually achieved together, namely only 11 more.
We did this in the face of our own public opinion.
It may be that in fact our part of the world can permit itself alternatives to capital punishment.
If we are to conduct a dialogue in Europe on contemporary challenges to humanitarianism, we cannot restrict ourselves to the death penalty, on which we do, after all, have a common opinion.
If you can quote me a rule where this is stipulated, I would be grateful - although since we are talking about political cooperation, I am fully convinced that if you had wanted to, you would have been able to force a vote and obtain an overwhelming majority, minus one.
This is even more worrying because it is precisely because of this false dichotomy that we have lost so far.
His name was Haider Abdel Shafi and I would like to pay tribute to him here, because there are so many death penalties in the world against which we must fight.
The session has opened and I hope that on 28 September, when the Portuguese Presidency and the Italian Government meet everyone, they will really decide to table the resolution in favour of a universal moratorium on the death penalty.
It is true that over the last 14 years the resolution has been compromised by mistakes and delays, if not outright obstructionism.
We are in favour of abolition of the death penalty, but today it is the moratorium that can unite us and achieve a victory.
We know that it is difficult, we know that we cannot take it for granted and we can see this with the internal positions, not only that of Poland, but among citizens worldwide, and political leaders in Europe who call for the death penalty.
Last year, these two probes left the solar system, or the 'heliosphere', as it is called, to travel 42 000 light years to the nearest star; in other words, 200 000 kilometres multiplied by 3 600, multiplied by 24, multiplied by 365, multiplied by 42 000.
Protocol No 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which unconditionally prohibits the death penalty in peacetime, has been ratified by all 27 Member States.
Protocol No 13, however, which prohibits the death penalty in all circumstances, has been signed by all 27 Member States but still not ratified by five, namely France, Italy, Poland, Spain and Latvia.
Its irreversible nature means that miscarriages of justice, which are unavoidable in any legal system, cannot be rectified. (PT) I would remind you of what Victor Hugo said about blood being washed away with tears, not with blood.
Europe must remind Poland that the fight against the death penalty is laid down in the a priori principles of justice which are the sine qua non of being European.
We ask it to do so in close collaboration with Italy, the country which initiated the campaign, and to associate with it not only the countries of the European Union but also all those that have shown willingness to be co-sponsors and co-authors.
Finally, I join with my fellow Members in disbelief that a European country as significant as Poland should have dissociated itself from declaring 10 October European Day against the death penalty and that as a result of this the Day has been put on hold.
The World Day against the Death Penalty is on 10 October.
The death penalty is a cruel and inhuman punishment.
The EU must continue to urge all states that still maintain the death penalty to introduce a moratorium.
However, we should take care that the situation does not develop in the same way as in 1999, when Finland, my home country, tried to get the UN General Assembly to adopt the death penalty resolution.
When I was listening, a moment ago, to the speech delivered in this Parliament by Konrad Szymański, representing the Polish right wing, I was reminded of a scene from yesterday's speech by President Ahmadinejad at New York's Columbia University.
Polish public opinion is outraged that the government in Warsaw has succeeded in blocking the European Union's Day against the Death Penalty.
I believe that the forthcoming elections in Poland will reveal a Polish society which is determined that the European Union will be able to act together on this issue in the forum of the United Nations with an initiative against the death penalty. (PT) My country, Portugal, was a forerunner in the abolition of the death penalty in 1867 and I therefore take the greatest pride in this initiative by the Portuguese Presidency to institute a European Day against the Death Penalty in line with all Portugal's actions at international level, within the framework of Europe and the United Nations, for the abolition of the death penalty and in protest against the governments who are the main perpetrators of that inhuman practice, in particular China, the United States and Iran.
Easy because the Council and the European Parliament are agreed on what is fundamental and that is obtaining, at the next session of the UN General Assembly, a resolution on a moratorium and the abolition of the death penalty; I am of course pleased to see that we are united on the central objective of the debate we have had and that we shall be working together to make it possible.
As was mentioned by a Portuguese MEP, I too am very proud, to be taking part in this debate as a representative of Portugal, because we were the first country in Europe to abolish the death penalty.
What we are seeking and specifically requesting - and we are sure that the European Parliament will grant us this since it understands that this is a politically complex and at times even difficult issue - is naturally the European Parliament's confidence in the Presidency and the Presidency's efforts, so that we can finally bring this objective to a successful conclusion.
I should also like to say, finally, that the European Union already has co-authors who are going to sign this draft resolution with us; I must also tell you here that I am very proud that those co-authors include Portuguese-speaking countries representing Africa, representing Asia and representing Latin America too - countries which like us, like the Portuguese, are also underwriting respect for the total value of life.
We are confident, I repeat, that with your support and your confidence, the Portuguese Presidency will bring to fruition this objective we have set ourselves at the 62nd session of the UN General Assembly and that we shall in fact have a resolution approved in the terms in which the European Parliament and the Council wish to see it approved. (DE) Madam President, I would like to make a personal comment on the basis of Article 145.
The Polish Member, who has spoken as a representative of the UEN Group, has completely misquoted me in a comment on my speech and I would like to put it straight.
My question to the Council was therefore: how long will the Council continue to put up with this?
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 27 September 2007.
