As you know, China’s entry into the WTO in 2001, which Parliament supported, was the result of a laborious negotiation in which the European Union played a very important role.
This has been expressed repeatedly by Chinese leaders, particularly since the policy implemented by Deng Xiaoping.
And the case of textiles, which other Members have mentioned, is an example of this, since it is affecting many countries and not just the European Union.
I am not advocating that we call into question the decision taken on 1 January on total liberalisation, but rather that we examine, for example, the possible significance of a policy of dumping in terms of invading markets, how energy can be subsidised, how funding policy is being applied and whether there is privileged funding, etc.
Furthermore, it is almost impossible to receive royalties, because structures do not even exist.
China still has ten years to complete its transition to a market economy.
Furthermore, China plays an important role in the Club of Twenty, which brings together some of the great tenors of the new world stage, and because of its history, because of its weight and also because the European Union has advocated that China should be incorporated into world trade, I believe that it makes sense at this point to ask these questions, taking the view that we are all in the same situation regardless of our specific characteristics, but that we must respect each other in order to survive together. &#160;&#160; .
I agree that we have a great challenge on our hands to bring about the progressive integration of China to the global economy and to the international trading system.
My broad view is that China’s renaissance in recent years brings with it many implications for the European Union and it is essential that we equip ourselves properly to deal with these challenges.
I believe that China’s astonishing economic growth will be good, not only for China but also for Europe and for the rest of the world.
That makes it all the more important that we build the sort of dynamic relationship with China that is based on partnership, cooperation and respect, not just for each other, but for a rules-based multilateral economic system.
It is against that backcloth that I want to address two sets of issues this morning: first of all, the appropriate response we need to make to textiles imports from China and, secondly, what we need to do to continue to push China on its WTO implementation record and in particular its record of enforcement of intellectual property rights.
The level of textiles imports and the dramatic increase that we have seen since the beginning of this year, when textile quotas were finally removed, has become a very sensitive topic in many of our Member States.
I am confident that our response is both appropriate and proportionate, but also legally defensible.
We need to act with a degree of caution, but also determination.
The Commission guidelines on the use of a safeguard mechanism were intended to equip us to respond effectively to any unreasonable surge in imports from China.
As I am sure you know, the Commission has now launched investigations into nine categories of Chinese textile exports to the EU based on import statistics for the first quarter of this year.
In all these categories, import volumes for Chinese textiles have now risen above the ‘alert levels’ defined by the Commission.
My message to Minister Bo was that to avoid the EU having to take action, China needs to give a stronger response to curb its export growth in the short term.
I believe that my message was received loud and clear.
I have noted the statements made by the Chinese Prime Minister Wen Jiabao yesterday in Beijing and I would like to welcome the fact that China now understands the acute concerns of certain Member States, as Wen Jiabao acknowledged yesterday in Beijing, and that China prefers, as he said, a solution based on dialogue and cooperation.
I noted with particular interest the statement by Wen Jiabao that, in addition to the measures already taken to curb textiles export growth, China will take even stronger measures in the near future.
It is imperative that China explain in detail, and quickly, the type of additional measures it intends to adopt and what consequences these will have on future trade flows.
Failing to receive such concrete information quickly would narrow the options available to the EU to resolve this issue and could leave me with no alternative other than to act under the WTO.
Let me turn now to other matters concerning WTO implementation.
This is important because the WTO agreement is the lynchpin for the development of our trade relations with China.
I am addressing these in both a bilateral and multilateral context.
However, concerns still remain in the automobile sector, in services sectors such as banking, and in telecommunications.
I am addressing this issue on two fronts, using a combination of political pressure and cooperation, both bilaterally and on a multilateral level.
The intention here is to address problems in a systemic way and on a sectoral basis.
Within the WTO, the EU, as well as the US and Japan, used the 2004 Transitional Review Mechanism to challenge China on its implementation record of its obligations in respect of the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, otherwise known as TRIPs.
The answers given by China demonstrate its commitment to the fight against counterfeiting and piracy, but further efforts are obviously needed and I am committed to helping China make those further efforts.
These are just two instances of the sort of cooperation that will help China build a sound and coherent enforcement system.
Finally, I would encourage European industry to make use of all available tools in the EU and in China to protect its own rights and put the system to the test.
In conclusion, the level of cooperation and partnership that China and the EU are demonstrating in these areas are the building blocks for a dynamic and more effective relationship between us.
If we can work together to ensure that a rules-based economic system is respected and strengthened in the DDA, then the rapid economic growth in China will benefit the EU and the rest of the world.
I very much welcome the safeguards that have been put in place, and I hope that you can obtain reliable data, including reliable data from the individual Member States.
You also mentioned intellectual property rights, but there is a good deal more to it than that.
There is a particular case that you have been considering for a very long time.
In countries such as China, unfair trade practices, including export subsidies, dumping prices, direct and indirect government support, free capital and illegal imitations and piracy, are endemic.
And yet, Commissioner, this sector is still an extremely important industrial sector, with a total turnover of EUR 200 billion spread across 177&#160;000 businesses that, post-enlargement, employ 2.7 million textile workers, equivalent to 7% of the total industrial workforce.
I hope that the measures now announced by the Commission will not prove to be too late in the day, and, above all, that they are merely a first step towards protecting our industry, in a manner acceptable to the WTO against unfair competition, from wherever that may come. &#160;&#160; Mr President, clearly there are very real concerns about the impact of China on other players in the international trading system.
We have already heard about the impact of the surge in textile imports on the EU and the devastation some EU producers face as a result.
China’s deflationary pressure is already driving down wages right across the developing world and pushing global suppliers to reduce their workers’ rights and conditions in a bid to remain competitive at all costs.
It is most important for this debate not just to focus on this or that sector, textiles today or footwear or machine components tomorrow.
It is a challenge posed by a country that has entered the international trading system not just with a comparative advantage but with potentially an almost absolute advantage in just about everything.
Very soon we may need to face the possibility that there could be very little that Europe could produce that China cannot produce more efficiently.
The old assumption that while the EU and the industrialised countries keep the leading edge in knowledge-intensive industries while developing nations focus on lower-skill sectors, is now open to huge debate.
I would also like to hear what the Commissioner plans to do about these longer-term systemic issues.
Their discourse seeks to disguise the fact that it is the large economic groups who stand to gain the most from the current liberalisation of world trade.
The textiles and clothing sector is an example of this alarming situation.
China was not to blame for the way in which the WTO talks on the textiles and clothing sector were conducted; the Commission and the Council were.
It is the Council and the Commission, not China, that have thus far failed to activate the safeguard clause, in spite of the appalling situation that the EU’s textiles and clothing sector is currently enduring, particularly in countries such as Portugal.
What we must do is suspend and reverse the current policies on trade liberalisation.
Although I understand that Commissioner Mandelson has to steer a middle course between those in favour and against measures against China, I think it is far too late to launch an investigation now.
The Commission should have utilised the past few years to develop a position on an unencumbered global textiles market and a policy towards that end.
I think that discussion on the temporary introduction of protective measures should focus on the period after 2008 if this House is not to end up having exactly the same debate in three years’ time.
The period until 2008 should be used to start a dialogue with the Chinese authorities –a dialogue with the dual purpose of underlining both the importance of a stable global textiles market and China’s WTO obligations.
After all, the WTO grants China rights, but also requires that it tackle, for example, restricted market access in the services sectors in banking and telecommunications.
In international trade, two contradictory elements need to be reconciled: firstly, and obviously, the need to trade and therefore to remove barriers; and, secondly, the need to ensure that jobs and social benefits are secure.
I must strictly enforce the speaking time. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the liberalisation of Chinese exports on 1 January 2005 was welcomed by many as a major victory of free trade.
A few months later, we are returning to over-protectionism, both on the part of the European Union and on the part of the United States of America.
In truth, if you think about it properly, this is a war, not a war of impressions, but a war of substance at all levels, which is aggravating Europe's and the United States' relations with Beijing.
We need to comment on one fact here: in the first quarter of 2005, China's economy grew at a rate of 9.5%, due to the explosion in exports, which rose by 35%, increasing China's foreign currency reserves to just over 650 million dollars.
The attention of the European Union and its vigilance in passing resolutions on relations with China are welcome here because: - firstly, 9 categories of Chinese products are currently the subject of investigation; - secondly, China is becoming stronger and stronger on the world political scene; - thirdly, the European Union is China's most important trading partner and China is the European Union's second most important trading partner.
Consequently, we have strong ties with this country; - fourthly, China can prove its commitment to WTO rules by improving its legislation on intellectual property and thus controlling imitations and - fifthly, with this approach and current rates, the WTO estimates that China will have 3/5 of exports in 2015, a position which it held for a thousand years, from 500 to 1500 A.D.
The serious damage caused to the textile industry is obvious, and is one of the conditions cited by the WTO Treaties for implementing the safeguard mechanism.
Europe’s response will be crucial and will act as a benchmark for future crises in other sectors. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the logic of global free trade has now hit us too.
I find it odd that we have to concentrate on protecting large companies’ intellectual rights in China when it is mainly human rights that need protection in China and when that is of course where we should be investing our energies.
The UN’s environmental protection organisation, UNEPO and the UN’s development programme, UNDP should call the shots where the World Trade Organisation is concerned, and not the other way around. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the interest which you are showing in the workers and in whether or not China is honouring its important obligations towards the WTO is both hypocritical and belated.
The textile industry and cotton cultivation started to shrink in the Member States of the European Union many years before 1 January 2005, when imports of Chinese textile products were allowed, with painful consequences for the workers.
The belated interest in workers in the textile industry and other sectors is being expressed at a time when the workers' wrath at and fight against the anti-grass roots policy of the European Union in the Member States is growing.
The danger emanates not from China, but from international competition on the part of the imperialists.
Firstly: a strong commitment to the fight against the counterfeiting of European goods and trademarks, together with a more incisive and effective strategy on intellectual property is vital.
The sixth and final point: calling on China to comply with international rules protecting workers and human rights. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, when China joined the WTO in 2001, this was in theory a way of bringing trade relations between China and the European Union into balance.
In order to guarantee the future of our textiles industry, it is now up to the European Union to ensure that the agreements protecting textile patterns and designs are respected.
Faced, finally, with what is recognised as market disruption – I am referring here, of course, to what you yourself have confirmed is the spectacular development of Chinese textile products – we need to apply the legal instruments available to us within the framework of the WTO.
The first is that the openness of the markets and progress of exchanges should be of reasonable dimensions and that the textile sector should be assisted in its process of restructuring.
The second is that we all have to play according to the same rules and that conditions must be reciprocal.
I believe that the Commission must respond to the request of five countries of the Union to establish clearly all the products seriously affected by the Chinese influx and that an investigation and consultation procedure must be initiated immediately with China.
So far, of course, China’s accession to the WTO has been a triumph not only for China itself, but also – and particularly – for us Europeans.
Dumping prices will mean that one million European textile manufacturers, including tens of thousands of&#160;women in the Czech Republic, will lose their jobs in areas where textiles are a traditional industry.
The Commission, the Council and also this House should view this as a duty, rather than a challenge.
I very much hope that we can succeed in this task. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the tone with which you have dealt with this important dossier on trade relations with China – in defence of Europe’s interests, but without that leading to a lurch backwards to the time of impossible and dangerous trade protectionism.
I believe that this Parliament, together with you, will equally be ready to play its part in this possible breakthrough. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the accession of China to the WTO and its integration into the global economy are a very positive development.
The result of all this is reduced access for European companies and the blocking of European exports to the Chinese market whereas, on the other hand, the European market remains open.
In order not to upset trade relations between the European Union and China and to ensure that the voice of neo-protectionism does not prevail, the Commission is being called on to take other initiatives, so that there is a balanced result in bilateral trade, on the one hand, and any unfair practices are lifted, on the other.
The first and best solution is to open further the Chinese market to European exports of industrial and agricultural products and services and, at the same time, to mitigate aggressive Chinese exports of certain products, such as textiles today, tomorrow cars or other products.
The application of the safeguard clauses for which provision is made in China's accession agreement is a reasonable last resort, a reasonable . &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Commissioner, as I see it there are three issues that require an appropriate and rapid response from the Commission.
The first issue that needs to be addressed is the length of time it takes the Commission to act, as well as the fact that the misguided decisions it takes are not only damaging, but unfortunately sometimes also irreversible.
The European – and Belgian – textile and clothing businesses have, nevertheless, largely adapted to the new competition.
Unfortunately, Commissioner, it is extremely difficult to arm yourself against an opponent who resorts to unfair dumping practices, as has been mentioned several times this morning, and illegal counterfeit practices in particular.
The question is how quickly you want to act because figures over the past few months show that the situation is critical.
This is an appeal to make it clear to our Chinese friends that dumping and counterfeiting have no place in Europe and are far from being fair trade practices.
Mr Mandelson, the employers and workers in Europe’s textile and clothing businesses are relying on you.
Please do not let them down any longer. &#160;&#160; –Mr President, Commissioner, Europe still has cause to worry about its textile industry.
The degree to which the Member States are prepared to meet the new situation does indeed vary widely.
That there is ever-increasing interpenetration of goods in the global economy is self-evident, and it is of course the case in China too.
The question is, then, whether the majority of the EU of 25 will, for reasons of solidarity, throw their weight behind protection clauses and whether, now that the textile industry has cried out for help, it might also be possible to get the process speeded up.
It is in those terms that we appeal to you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, we need to define measures to protect the textile industry, measures so that the market and trade can operate, and measures to protect consumers.
We need to safeguard these measures by complying with international law and the rules of international trade and, more specifically, through China's protocol of accession to the WTO.
However, in complying with it, not only we can, but also we must activate the textile safeguard clauses.
As far as competitiveness and quality are concerned, I propose that research be reinforced and focus on: a) high-quality innovative products, b) creating research and development centres, c) research into the effect of products on the environment and consumer health.
Finally, as regards the Commission communication on textiles, which stipulates as a strategic objective that the production chain must be maintained in countries in the Euro-Mediterranean zone, so that resources do not ultimately disappear via these countries, I have the following comments to make: - firstly, we need to help small and medium-sized enterprises established there to become more flexible and to respond better to consumer demands and - secondly, the Commission needs to expressly undertake to facilitate trade within the Euro-Mediterranean zone by applying customs duties as quickly as possible and refusing to confine itself to the current bilateral transnational agreements. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Mandelson for the information he has given us and for the particular sensitivity which he has demonstrated over the last period on the major and serious problem of textiles.
The situation is critical in the Member States, and in Greece in particular, as Mr Mandelson can see from the statistics submitted by the Greek authorities on closures of textile companies and job losses.
I believe that the communication on the part of the European Commission on the guidelines is the right move.
These periods, these terms must be reduced.
As regards subsidies, taxation and dumping, we should give some thought to how we can join with China in finding solutions together, and we should in particular make a start on trade facilitation in order to bring about more transparency in this area in future, making it possible for the customs authorities to work together and for a mutual relationship to be established, such as is customary for equal trading partners.
Each side should see what the other’s problems are and try to negotiate compromises.
Let me say that, of all the contributions made since the opening remarks, if I had to identify one contribution with which I was most in sympathy and which most corresponded to my own views and approach, it would be that of Mr Calabuig Rull, because stressing that we need to see China as an opportunity as well as a potential threat and that the containers that are heading towards Europe with all these textiles and other goods and produce need then to be sent back to China filled with goods and produce hits exactly the right note.
I agree that we need to help the textiles industry in Europe to restructure and adapt, and we are giving that assistance.
I agree that, if China is to have its own growth accepted by the international economic community, then it needs to reciprocate by opening its own markets to others’ produce and to comply with international agreements.
In other cases, Chinese imports and their growth are displacing the imports from third countries.
In terms of the impact of these trade flows on European production and employment, it is true that, in some cases, the impact appears to be dramatic, based on the facts that I was reviewing with my services only yesterday, facts, for example, from Greece, Portugal and Italy.
In the case of some of our other Member States, I have yet to receive the relevant data and the relevant information.
Mr Caspary, Mrs Mann and Mr Martinez raised interesting questions and ideas, and I will write to them in response in due course.
Finally, the statement made yesterday by the Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao, in which he seems to have decided to give instructions to relevant government departments in China to prepare effective action to curb Chinese export growth, is welcome to me.
When, moreover, the Uruguay Round agreements establishing the timetable and the method for dismantling the quantitative restrictions were signed in 1994, China was not a member of the new WTO, which it only joined in 2002.
Europe must specialise, must concentrate on the production of high-quality products, and must focus on deploying high-quality labour.
We must ensure that awareness of Europe, of what it means to be European, reaches everybody, and that sooner or later, everybody feels the need to ask what the European Union can do for each of them.
We basically agree that we can do little from here without the cooperation of the Member States and the national parliaments.
This final point, that of cooperation amongst the different European institutions, has so far led to a very fluid dialogue during the production of this report, an unusually fluid dialogue, I would say, with the European Commission, and we all want this to continue.
I welcome the rapporteur’s suggestion that this plenary should have a debate on communication at least once a year.
The support of Europeans for the European project hinges on our communication efforts.
We have all known for years – and the ongoing public debates on the ratification of our Constitution show this clearly enough – that despite our common efforts to communicate, Europe’s citizens still say that do not know enough about, or are not interested in, the European Union, and do not understand its role and its benefits for them.
Apathy and ignorance are enemies of our democratic foundations.
As our latest Eurobarometer reveals, there is a clear correlation between the level of information and the support for the Constitutional Treaty; 75% of those who know the Constitution well declared they were in favour, while the support of those who have never heard about the Constitution is only 22%.
Communicating Europe is a highly complex task because European construction is in itself complex; because the European project is an evolving project and because perceptions of the European project vary and are defined, to a large extent, by national history and circumstances.
More than ever before, the European Union needs to explain its aims and policies clearly and comprehensively.
That is why the Barroso Commission has made communication one of its strategic priorities.
The Commission will better integrate communication into our working culture and into policy formulation.
The second involves professionalising our communications.
That involves adapting messages and matching national and local concerns – instead of taking a ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach – and conveying them as close to the citizen as possible.
As proposed by Mr Herrero-Tejedor, that means using contemporary tools, giving priority to those which are more likely to reach the greatest number of citizens, such as television, radio and the internet; using a language that people understand and a more decentralised implementation; using our representations in the Member States as well as our relays and networks in close cooperation with Parliament and the Member States.
However, we cannot forget other key actors, such as national and regional governments and parliaments, civil society and the media, focusing particularly on the regional and local media in the Member States.
Secondly, I demand that the Commission should submit to the Council a communication and information plan as part of the package when it is required to decide on any and every European project.
There was in the Convention a three-year debate on the drafting of the new Constitution, and the Council and the Member States slept through it.
It is intolerable that – as happened in Austria – an information document should be issued on the Constitution without any reference whatever, whether in word or image, to either the Members of the European Parliament or the Members of the Convention.
The debates going on in the various countries with regard to the approval of the Constitutional Treaty demonstrate that there is a serious lack of knowledge of the functioning, the policies and the work of the Union.
The result of this strategy should demonstrate to the citizens that belonging to the European Union brings them benefits in terms of their everyday lives.
The European citizens have the right to full and impartial information on Community affairs, in their own languages, on the basis of respect for and protection of cultural diversity and as a guarantee of their understanding and involvement in the project of European integration.
What we need, then, above all, is to get information to people where they are, using different kinds of information stands, with which we have to make both Parliament and the Commission present to the nations.
There is one problematic aspect that I would like to mention.
Where our opinions strongly diverge, Mrs Wallström, is that when we say it takes two to communicate, we do not mean that one side provides the information and the other takes it in.
I should like to make three comments about the report, which makes great efforts to reach points of consensus or convergence.
We therefore disagree that the EU and the institutions can finance fictional works, films and artworks in order to disseminate and promote European ideas.
Commissioned works damage culture, damage creativity and, in so doing, damage Europe.
It is one thing for us in this House to seek to involve the institutions in referendum campaigns, but the truth of the matter is that we are talking here about communication, of which the primary objective is to guarantee the adversarial principle, the right of reply, yet this is not mentioned in the proposal before us.
I call on the Commissioner and the citizens of Europe who are following this debate to ponder certain terms included in this report, such as ‘persuasion’, ‘promotion’, and ‘insist’.
If it is the case that in Italy, where they did not want a referendum, citizens are not familiar with the European Constitution, or in Spain, where they actually approved it by a large majority, 80% of Spanish citizens were not acquainted with the European Constitution, I believe that any construction project that starts from the top and not the bottom is inevitably doomed to fail.
Billions of euros can be invested, but if there is no genuine democratic process then no one will take pride in being European on the basis of a Parliamentary report. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
The information provided must also be reliable, and our citizens must be treated as equals and individuals.
A further problem to be overcome is that information is not always available in all the official languages.
The Constitutional Treaty is an extremely detailed document, and the result of numerous compromises.
Our citizens should therefore be provided with information they can trust, and the starting point should be good translations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this report claims that the Commission has a political responsibility to support ratification of the Constitution.
However, it also calls for Jesuitical schools propaganda and using British taxpayers’ money to support the ratification process.
In the European Union, the State now seeks to exist in its own right and have the people answer to it.
The majority of speakers emphasised in different ways that Europe’s greatest achievements since the war have been preserving peace, reconciliation among nations, cooperation and acceptance of our diversity.
I welcome the appeal to European Union institutions for an improvement in the conditions for accredited journalists and the working relations with them, since the high costs mean that particularly newspaper and television houses in smaller countries cannot afford direct coverage and reporting from the sessions of its institutions or training for their journalists so they might have a greater familiarity with the working of the European Union.
I therefore welcome the proposal that Member States include in their education programmes a familiarisation with European institutions, since no information can be effective if we do not have appropriate prior knowledge of a given topic.
There also needs to be a reworking of the ‘Europa’ website, so that all the official languages will indeed become equal. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, as we have already heard from many speakers, confidence in the European Union and in its institutions is certainly not as high as it might be.
There is a need not only for better cooperation between the institutions but also for structured partnership with the Member States.
We were told yesterday – in speeches that were very different but all good – about how successful we have been in recent years in making European policy and moving the peace project onwards, but we can cope with whatever the future brings only if we involve the public, keeping them informed and expecting them to accept their share of responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the fact is that it is not only ordinary people, but also politicians in the Member States, opinion formers and Members of Parliament who know very little about what the European Union is, what it does, what it is for and what decisions are taken here.
Concealing the measures of help to people that have been adopted in the European Union, they in some cases, either through ignorance or bad faith, deliver a single message that consists of explaining that a proportion of the problems they are unable to resolve are due to the EU.
I therefore believe that a communication strategy, as well as many other things mentioned in this report, should in the first place be aimed not only at ordinary people but also at opinion formers and politicians in the Member States, beginning with members of the national parliaments.
The Commission was reasonably successful in maintaining the balance between information and propaganda but, unfortunately, the report is along the lines of more propaganda.
Naturally, there is always a desire to appear in a positive light, but EU institutions need to be classed in the same category as authorities that are obliged factually and correctly to describe rules, laws and the work they do.
In one breath it is declared that the Union’s institutions have a duty to inform citizens clearly and objectively about the proposed Constitution, yet in the same paragraph it is decreed that these same institutions have a political responsibility to support ratification.
I have said before, if the EU is the answer it must have been a silly question: that much you can communicate! &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a real gem of official propaganda in which the Commission and the governments surpass themselves in building their new world.
We think all this is extremely worrying for the future. &#160;&#160; – MrPresident, Commissioner Wallström, only a matter of metres from here stands the Arte Studio, one of the most modern studios in Europe.
That should continue to be the case in future.
For this reason, I am fully in agreement with rapporteur Herrero-Tejedor that the provision of information about the European Union should be increased.
Since the end of last year, Parliament has lacked a public relations officer who is fluent in Estonian.
I am convinced that Parliament needs to provide a good example by respecting agreements on cultural diversity and language policy.
The observation of these principles also presupposes continuous Estonian-language media work; in other words, that a sufficient number of public servants and translators and interpreters should be hired from new Member States as soon as possible, in order to ensure a smooth bilateral exchange of information.
Our votes are held quite separately from our debates.
Allow me first of all to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done on a subject as fundamental as the implementation of the European Union’s information and communication strategy.
I should like firstly to emphasise the context in which we are led to express an opinion on the EU’s information and communication policy.
I therefore wish to support this report and emphasise three crucial points in it.
The recent televised debate between President Chirac and young French people again emphasised the degree to which political leaders were struggling to highlight the positive impact of the European Union on our fellow citizens’ daily concerns.
It is obvious, moreover, that only a system of decentralisation can facilitate access to information for a greater number of Europeans.
That is my second point and I mentioned it in my introduction.
I underline what has been said by Mr Karas and others.
Thank you for the debate. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at noon. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have a brief point to make arising from Rule 126 and those following it in our Rules of Procedure.
I, for my part, think that it was noted in the agenda, but I shall contact the competent authorities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to raise a point of order under Rule 130, 152 or 166 with regard to the delay which is being caused today by the debate.
I ask that the Bureau of this Parliament consider bringing the votes forward on a Thursday so that we may vote in time to catch aeroplanes. &#160;&#160; I shall make that request known to the Bureau. &#160;&#160; We shall now proceed to the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, further to Rule 73 of our Rules of Procedure, I would again like to say that lawyers take the view – as indeed do I – that this report’s adoption by the committee was not lawful, and that we ought not to be permitted to vote on it now.
These countries therefore have a special responsibility to create the mechanisms needed to implement it.
Those provisions and directives will act as an instrument, by means of which the parties can improve public participation, at regional and global level, in other conventions and treaties dealing with issues relating to the environment. &#160;&#160; We believe that the national parliaments should decide of their own accord upon their respective positions during the conference in Almaty on the Århus Convention.
The Member States need independently to determine their attitudes to participating in the decision-making process concerning GMOs and to establishing a funding system designed to guarantee funding on a predictable basis (paragraph 4).
We question, however, why the European Parliament needs to call upon the Member States and the future Presidencies to act in a certain way on climate issues.
The resolution contains political views concerning energy issues and the Kyoto Protocol, as well as instructions as to the way in which third countries such as China, India and the United States should act.
Our reason for adopting this position is that we believe that the national parliaments should decide of their own accord upon their respective commitments and positions concerning political issues and do so within international organisations.
The report contains exhortations from the European Parliament to the Member States and third countries as to how they should act on the very important climate issue.
Speaking about them is not in any way the same as following them up.
We do not believe that the EU should adopt positions on international issues on behalf of Member States and are of the view that the national parliaments should formulate their own attitudes to international issues.
We support the Swedish Government’s position on the Sudan issue. &#160;&#160; Important though it is to improve the conditions in relation to democracy and human rights in Central Asia, we believe that this is not a task for the EU because this region is not in the EU’s immediate vicinity.
These tasks are better carried out by a pan-European security organisation such as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).
The EU’s experience, both with countries that have joined the EU and with neighbouring countries, has shown that, on this issue, and in this geographical area, the EU has the potential to exert a positive influence, which it must do with courage and determination. &#160;&#160; First of all, I would like to thank Mr Elmar Brok, who prepared the draft resolution on this important issue.
The expanded European Union unifies Member States having different histories and past experiences, and they possess different approaches towards relations with Russia.
In this Parliament there are also members with different opinions on this matter, and therefore I would like to express my pleasure that we have succeeded in adopting the resolution on the 60th anniversary of the end of the Second World War by such an overwhelming majority of the votes.
The second occupation.
In this resolution the European Parliament has honoured the soldiers who died on all fronts during the Second World War.
We should note in particular that this resolution consolidates, in written fashion, an understanding of the Soviet occupation of the Baltic states and the Stalinist Soviet Union’s dictatorship in eastern and central Europe.
Historical truth also demands international condemnation of Soviet totalitarian Communism.
Therefore, in full awareness of my responsibility towards voters from my party, the New Era Party, I voted for this resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, with regard to the motion on the end of the Second World War, the Italian delegation has voted in favour of the resolution, despite having many doubts about its content.
For this reason, we regret the inexplicable absence in the text of any reference whatsoever to the European Resistance, which played a significant part in the defeat of Nazi-Fascism and in establishing freedom in this continent. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I voted for Mr Brok’s resolution.
In 1988 and 1991, the Russian people were considered, and often acted, as one of those captive nations, striving for democracy on the same side of the barricades with us, the Baltic nations, against Soviet totalitarianism.
Mr Putin does not remember that because, at the time, he was still acting against Germany.
Mr President, you have a difficult task in this undertaking to urge the current Russian leadership to abandon their legacy of Soviet mindset and stop deploring everyday Russia’s captivating past.
Our resolution opens the way for that. &#160;&#160; Distinguished Mr President, I voted for the resolution ‘Future of Europe Sixty Years after the Second World War’ and I want to thank all of my colleagues who supported it.
This resolution is a huge moral satisfaction for all who experienced the sufferings of World War II and any violence after it.
I thank on behalf of my father, Štefan Kányai, who experienced almost nine years of hell in a Russian gulag.
There are also many other things to add to a resolution dealing with the end of the Second World War.
Canada’s important role in the final victory must not be forgotten.
We particularly object to the wordings in paragraphs 1, 7 and 8 of the draft resolution.
This Parliament resolution is an appalling and shameful exercise in revisionism.
In particular, we give thanks for the bravery and sacrifice of the millions of British men and women who, under the leadership of Winston Churchill, played such a&#160;crucial part in liberating so many people.
The enlargement of the European Union to include the former Communist states is something British Conservatives have long sought.
Their role in our future is of vital importance.
British Conservatives acknowledge that the EU has made a significant contribution to peace among the nations of our Continent.
For the above reasons, I voted against this resolution. &#160;&#160; .– We voted against the disgraceful resolution which uses Goebbels' methods to pervert and distort history.
Today, in calling the liberation of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe by the Red Army a new occupation, they are giving political support to the restoration of Nazi symbols; they are giving a political alibi to the SS collaborators and fascism in those countries.
The message of the victory over fascism is alive and topical.
It is directly linked to the united fight of the peoples against imperialist barbarism.
The same fate is in store for the unfair, exploitative capitalist system. &#160;&#160; Distinguished Mr President, I voted for the resolution ‘Future of Europe Sixty Years after the Second World War’ and I want to thank all of my colleagues who supported it.
This resolution is a huge moral satisfaction for all who experienced the sufferings of World War II and any violence after it.
I thank on behalf of my father, Štefan Kányai, who experienced almost nine years of hell in a Russian gulag.
The debate was valuable and enlightening and no doubt one of the most important we have held within this new Parliament, which constitutes an enlarged Assembly following the reunification of Europe.
All those in this House who have already negotiated resolutions of this type know that they are only a patchwork made up of each negotiator’s contributions.
The victory of 1945 would not have happened but for the steadfastness and courage of the United Kingdom and the British Empire fighting on alone and holding the German forces at bay for over a year after the fall of France.
After the War, the freedom of the West was guaranteed by the continuing engagement of US forces, through NATO, in the security of Europe.
The anniversary of the end of the War should not be used as another opportunity to eulogise the role of the EU, a Project with some profoundly undemocratic aspects and which is heading in the wrong direction.
To take, today, the commemoration of the end of Nazi rule as an opportunity for depicting 1989 as the actual day of liberation, is to trivialise the Nazis’ regime of terror, to slander the Soviet Union and the immense sacrifices made by its people and the Red Army, and to encourage the resurgence of nationalism, right-wing extremism and the growing tendency to relativise the Nazis’ crimes in Europe.
It is quite another signal that is needed, in the shape of an unequivocal and explicit commitment never to allow fascism another chance in Europe. &#160;&#160; The rapporteur talks in vague terms about upgrading existing services, creating new services, making technical adjustments and expecting ‘fine-tuning’ and extra resources for information offices, mainly in Romania and Bulgaria.
The text selected for voting on is unclear but can only be interpreted as a request for additional appropriations.
We are opposed to increased expenditure, particularly when it is a question of proposals entailing increased administrative costs and further money for a budget heading that is often used for pure propaganda.
In terms of European budgetary expenditure from 2007 to 2013, our committee entered into a simple accounting debate about whether, over seven years, EUR&#160;1&#160;022 billion was to be expended, as desired by the European Commission, EUR&#160;987 billion, as proposed by our rapporteur or EUR&#160;977 billion, as desired by those countries that are the biggest contributors.
At USD&#160;2&#160;500&#160;billion per year, the United States’s annual budget is 20 times greater than Europe’s.
Given that it proposes to make more efficient and streamlined use of budgetary appropriations, to make the next budget more comprehensive and better explained with a view to bringing Parliament closer to the citizens, and to enhance the quality and efficiency of its work, I have decided to vote in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; We are in a new cycle of international trade negotiations.
It is staggering that we were continuing to negotiate for ever more liberalisation of world trade without ever properly taking stock of this liberalisation in economic and social terms.
It too often refuses to take the required retaliatory or safeguard measures, as in the case of Chinese textiles.
The ECB does nothing for the rate of the euro, which is notoriously overvalued, is a drain on our exports and still facilitates low-price imports.
The rapporteur is right.
This is something that must not, however, jeopardise basic social and environmental requirements.
These calls are incompatible with the wording in the report to the effect that ‘the European agricultural model’ must not be questioned (paragraph 16).
The liberalisation of trade policy must go hand in hand with fundamental reform of the CAP. &#160;&#160; We Swedish Social Democrats have chosen to vote in favour of the report on the assessment of the Doha Round following the WTO agreement.
The general tenor of this report is constructive, because Parliament is giving its support to free and fair multilateral trading systems within the framework of sustainable development.
We cannot, however, support paragraphs 16 and 17.
The agreement reached in Geneva, July 2004 was vital for keeping the Doha Development Round on track.
Third countries must make concessions on market access for non-agricultural products.
This will be complemented by an interinstitutional strategy aimed at strengthening the EU’s image and at stepping up cooperation between the Commission and Parliament, in order to make the best possible use of human and material resources.
What we have seen is a major propaganda campaign that does not respect pluralism and the different opinions held by the Members of this House, nor does it take into account the spectrum of opinions held by the public.
This report is a clear example of manipulation dressed up as the EU’s information and communication strategy.
Facts can be distorted, and a mere selection of facts can be presented in order to influence people.
An institution like the Commission must not argue in favour of the draft Constitutional treaty or of the development of increased supranationalism in the EU.
In a democracy, a variety of players should engage in free and open debate.
There should be no player promoting a political line ‘from above’ with the help of taxpayers’ money. &#160;&#160; The Moderate delegation has today voted against the report on the European Union’s information and communication strategy.
We are of the view that a political institution such as the European Parliament should not be used for opinion forming geared to certain ideas or for influencing the media to act in a particular way in relation to the political debate being conducted in the Member States. &#160;&#160; This report is a real gem of official propaganda in which the Commission and the governments surpass themselves in building their new world.
The Commission has already issued, on 10 May, a decision allowing areas in set aside to be used for grazing animals in nine independent communities in Spain.
However, the Commission has received no other specific request on the part of the Spanish authorities in connection with the application of direct aid schemes within the framework of the situation created by the cold weather and the drought.
Nonetheless, I can say that the Commission, in response to a request from the European Parliament, will shortly set a pilot study in motion on the subject of farm insurance schemes.
Within this framework, I should also like to refer to the question of transferring intervention reserves raised in the resolution.
The Commission is firmly against this sort of transfer, in order to avoid distortions of the market which put local and regional producers and wholesalers at a disadvantage.
As regards the call for flexibility in the common market organisation in fruit and vegetables in the resolution, the Spanish authorities are responsible for this matter, subject to certain criteria.
Although there are possibilities for using rural development resources to relieve producers hit by the drought or cold weather, the Commission has not as yet received any such request from the Spanish authorities.
Within this framework, it could examine the possibility of redistributing amounts already budgeted on the basis of rural development, by channelling them to actions to reinforce measures such as 'replacing farmers' for which provision is made on the basis of Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999.
Similarly, the Spanish authorities, as happened in the case of Portugal, could examine the possibility of derogations from the application of certain measures, such as agricultural environmental measures, by notifying the Commission of cases recognised as cases of '' on the basis of Commission Regulation (EC) No 817/2004.
As regards the risk of forest fires, certain preventive actions can be included under rural development measures financed by the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund on the basis of Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/1999.
The Spanish authorities could also ask for the regional programmes to be amended, in order to reinforce, within the framework of these programmes, measures to prevent forest fires.
In order to qualify for aid, the calculated cost of the overall direct damage must exceed EUR 3 billion at 2002 prices or 0.6% of the gross national product of the country in question, whichever is the lower.
This means that the damage threshold for 2005 applicable in Spain's case is just over EUR 3.1 billion at today's prices.
The Solidarity Fund can only cover specific emergency aid measures taken by the public authorities, such as, for example, temporary replacement of infrastructures of vital importance, which will allow normal daily activity to resume.
It is important to emphasise that the Solidarity Fund of the European Union was not set up in order to cover all the costs connected with natural disasters.
The Commission has repeatedly proven that it uses all the possibilities offered by the Solidarity Fund for the benefit of states hit by disasters, including mobilising the Solidarity Fund for the shipwreck of the .
The Spanish authorities must notify the plan to the Commission.
The Spanish authorities can also use the new 'de minimis' rule for state aid.
Unfortunately, you have confirmed some of my suspicions about the Spanish Government’s inertia in this connection.
I hope that this resolution and other measures that we are adopting as a matter of urgency in this Parliament will also be a wake-up call to our government.
Commissioner, the damage caused in Spain by the frost and drought is already in excess of EUR&#160;2&#160;000 million, representing a third of the aid received by our country under the common agricultural policy.
This is a pressing matter in my own region – that of the Balearic Islands – where, in Menorca, there is currently a shortage of more than 1&#160;500 tonnes of food for the animals – a very serious situation for them.
The Spanish regions most affected by this frost and drought are as follows: Valencia, Murcia and Andalusia, where 50&#160;000 hectares of olives may disappear, with a major environmental disaster somewhere along the line and, shortly afterwards, a possible process of desertification; Aragon, Castille-La Mancha, Catalonia, Estremadura and, as I said, the Balearics; and La Rioja, with its vineyards, and Galicia.
As your draft resolution points out, the frost and drought are causing damage to the economies and living conditions of many areas this year.
As I said, our government has already been in contact with your services, and the interventions both of our government and of Commissioner Fischer Boel in recent days are a specific incentive to conclude this assessment, which was obviously going to require more time than had been expected because of the problems I mentioned, relating to the frost.
The fact is that nine of the ten hottest years during the last 500 years have now occurred during the last ten years.
We must have plans for dealing with disasters, but the big plan expected of us in this House today by future generations is one designed to combat climate change.
Otherwise, what has happened in Spain will just be the first in a long list of disasters in which people, animals and natural features suffer as a result of climate change.
On the contrary, a much more vigorous policy is required.
I therefore hope that, on behalf both of future generations of Spaniards and of people in the rest of the world, the Spanish Government will now place itself in the forefront of combating climate change on our earth. &#160;&#160; – I should first like to apologise on behalf of Mr Meyer, a Spanish Member of my group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left – Nordic Green Left, who is not able to take part in this debate, due to the air transport problems that you mentioned, Mr President.
In any event, the problem of the drought in Spain is also a problem in Portugal.
I should therefore like to stress at this point that water is an irreplaceable public asset and a universal human right, which must be protected and which must not, under any circumstances, be treated as merchandise.
What is needed is an effective, Community-wide system to protect European farmers from the risks and crises of the situation in Portugal and Spain.
It is therefore not enough to say that a study is due to be carried out into the pilot project study agreed in the 2005 budgetary process to set up a Community insurance scheme.
We also urge greater openness and flexibility so that resources from the solidarity fund can be used to minimise the damage to production capacity in a large number of regions and to remedy the most serious cases in Portugal and Spain.
Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, on 14&#160;April, in this House of European Democracy, Mr Casaca expressed his solidarity with the people worst affected by the drought, especially the farmers of the South of Portugal and the region, as well as the farmers of regions such as Seville, Huelva, Badajoz and Cáceres.
In Portugal and in Spain, it is the oak groves that are under the greatest threat.
The European institutions have not ignored this disaster.
I think it is very important to bear in mind that drought is a disaster which, moreover, also afflicts areas least able to be defended against water shortages or bouts of frost.
That much is obvious, and Europe will need to include the fact among the variables it will have to study.
I should like to say to Mr López, as regards the question of insurance, which is extremely important that, as I mentioned in my initial statement, we have set in motion and have in fact already started this study.
We do not yet have any results but, in all events, they will form part of the more general debate on combating and managing the dangers and crises in farming.
In reply to Mrs Figueiredo, I should like to say that, as far as insuring farmers' income is concerned, this runs counter to the principle behind the revised Community agricultural policy and most of the issues she referred to come within the jurisdiction of the Member States.
In all events, as I said in my initial statement, the national government has the facility, without any other procedure, to pay EUR 3&#160;000 to farmers who have sustained losses.
That is why Mrs Ayala's proposal on a drought and forest fire observatory is very interesting.
The Commission is examining this proposal and evaluating the possibility of creating such an observatory, but has not taken a decision in this respect.
Finally, I should like to mention that the Commission is particularly concerned about the situation prevailing in Spain.
We have already taken a number of actions to help farmers and their families, which will, in turn, help the agricultural economies which have been hit.
For the time being, preliminary preparations are being made for a number of additional actions and, at the same time, my colleague and Commissioner with jurisdiction, Mrs Fischer Boel, is in close contact with the Spanish Minister of Agriculture.
I have taken note of the various important comments made and, of course, I shall pass them on to my colleague who, I am sure, will take them into serious account. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I want to say to the Commissioner that, previously, when he remarked that they had not received the letter from the Spanish authorities, I was rather confused because I had been told that it had in fact been sent.
Since 1999, other countries across Europe have rediscovered democracy.
Ukraine, Georgia and others have looked to the EU for inspiration, guidance and support, as they have stepped towards democracy.
My group and I fear that in the case of Togo the EU could be on the verge of doing precisely that.
The response of the EU to this, and to the resulting deterioration within Togo itself, is in marked contrast to the inspirational response of this House and our European Union to the situation in Ukraine.
In a statement last Friday, our European Commissioner, Mr Michel, said that the EU would be watching to see whether Togo complied with pledges it made last year to respect human rights and public liberties.
My group says that we need to do more than watch.
Our resolution sets out rational, reasonable, sensible and constructive measures, which we in the EU could take to support Togo.
Three days before Togo went to the polls, we had vigorous debates on the situation there.
The situation was, unfortunately, that, of the two sides in the debate, the Europeans took the view that something was amiss in Togo, while most of the African delegates, in particular, protested when we tried to declare in advance of the election that it was neither free nor fair.
We therefore call on the Commission to make it quite plain to Togo how that country is to conduct itself in the coming months, so that the people there may be in no doubt about what line we take. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the narrow strip of land on the west coast of Africa has been on the receiving end of criticism for many years now from the international community for systematically violating human rights and for irregularities in political governance.
Although the political parties were formally legalised in 1991 and there has been a constitution since 1992, large international organisations, such as the United Nations, the Economic Community of West African States and the African Union, complain that there is systematic violation of human rights.
The European Union is rightly calling on all the political powers and institutions to demonstrate a sense of responsibility by showing full respect for human rights.
Without fail, the twenty-two commitments which the Togo Government made and signed during consultations under Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement on the question of respect for human rights must be honoured in every possible way.
According to Amnesty International, several hundred opposition supporters were massacred by state security forces during the 1998 election.
These commitments include respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms, namely press and media freedom, as well as a true political dialogue with all political protagonists in Togo, with a view to preparing the next legislative elections.
The Commission is ready to give its support to the holding of such elections, including the sending of a European Union electoral observation mission. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The situation of the Russian minority in some European countries is also worrying - perhaps, sometime, we can discuss that as well.
In a country with fair minority rights it is not a problem, but that is not the case in the small Republic of Mari El.
The Russian-speaking majority elected a Russian president against a Mari candidate, which can be understood.
However, the re-elected president seems to lead an undemocratic and brutal fight against his opposition and, through them, the whole Mari community.
Opposition journalists and intellectuals have been attacked frequently; some of them have been killed.
We have to condemn those kinds of anti-democratic atrocities always, but in the case of a small nation, the attacks against the basic national institutions, such as schools and media, threaten the very existence of the nation.
I believe this is the first time that the name of the Mari people has been mentioned in the European Parliament.
Certain events in the region of Mari El, in Russia, have caused us, as Finno-Ugric linguistic relatives of the Mari people, to focus our attention on the status of minorities and minority languages in Russia.
This is also a matter of democracy.
There are three Finno-Ugric nation states in the European Union, and in addition there are three million people representing the Finno-Ugric nations in Russia.
State power uses always the same means of oppression against minorities, for whom solidarity from outside is very important, and so I very much welcome this House’s outcry today against the Russification of the Republic of Mari El.
His statement is of no surprise, since the current president of the Republic of Mari is a Russian citizen, the Moscow-born Mr&#160;Leonid Markelov, who does not even speak the local language.
During his presidency, attacks against free press have become regular, opposition leaders and journalists have been assaulted, including the opposition candidate, Mihail Dolgov, a Mari national, who was brutally assaulted.
Mari language schools are being closed down, and education in the Mari language is only allowed in the primary levels of elementary education.
This action plan also promotes strengthening an independent and unbiased judicial system.
We must, therefore, help Russia in order for the offenders to be brought to justice, so that order and safety may finally prevail in the Republic of Mari as well.
For this reason, I would like to ask the Commission and the Council to act firmly and provide specific programmes to protect the maltreated Mari minority based on the new agreement. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating yet another issue that one might well call sensitive.
As a rule, Russia’s attempts to Russify the country were extremely cruel, as they consisted in exiling tens and hundreds of thousands of people.
There was a sharp rise in such practices when the Communists came to power following the October Revolution, as it was then that Russia decided to intensify efforts to Russify all of the countries under its rule.
This small republic is now entirely under the control of the Russians who went to live there, and its original inhabitants, the Finno-Ugric people, are now nothing more than a persecuted minority.
The majority of the people in these countries still belong to the original population, rather than being Russian, but there is a powerful Russian minority that does not view itself as being in any way integrated.
This kind of situation can be seen in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, where the Russian minorities are determined to make their presence felt, regardless of the interests of the countries in which they live.
One need only pick up a newspaper in any of these countries to see that the Russian populations are antagonistic or downright hostile to their countries of residence.
I am also concerned about political developments in Mari El Republic.
Alarmingly, independent journalists have been harassed for a considerable period of time; three of them were murdered in 2001, many others have been intimidated and their papers forced to close down.
Also, as a result of the recent elections, several Mari school directors and civil servants of Mari background have lost their jobs.
A considerable number of MEPs have signed an appeal in support of the cultural rights of Mari people.
The point of our resolution is to call on the Russian authorities to respect their obligations under international law and 'to provide quality education in one's native language on all levels, thus securing that the Mari language and Russian are placed on the same footing throughout the Republic.' &#160;&#160; Mr President, both Russia and its predecessor, the Soviet Union, have always practised a homogenising policy: the notion of Russian authority dislikes diversity.
The Mari language is excluded from the public sphere, education and the media and Mari activists are harassed, assaulted and forced to leave Mari El.
This proposal’s goal is to send a multi-dimensional signal towards, firstly, Moscow as a reminder of its commitment to preserve the cultural diversity of its minorities instead of eliminating them.
Lenin referred to Tsarist Russia as a prison of nations, though the Soviet Union was no different from Tsarist Russia in that respect.
In his speeches, the Russian President Vladimir Putin often speaks of his commitment to European politics.
Since the Second World War, ethnic strife has decreased in Europe.
A total of 28 million members of ethnic minorities live in Russia.
The situation of the Maris is somewhat better, but the number of publications is decreasing rapidly, and the absence of secondary and higher education in the Mari language also has an effect.
Thank you very much! &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;The violations of human rights and democracy we are debating today are taking place in the small Republic of Mari El, which is part of the Russian Federation.
President&#160;Markelov, who rules over the Republic of Mari El, came to power following a controversial election.
He was born in Moscow and does not identify himself in any way with the nation, and in fact cannot even speak Mari.
The Mari people have a right to sovereignty, independence and their own identity, as do all those fighting for the independence of countries and nations in the former USSR and elsewhere in the world.
Although history provides us with many examples of the spirit and staying power of occupied nations, and even though their efforts have often been crowned with success, the price of such success is frequently the suffering and death of a large number of people.
If different countries and nations are forced to live together under one government, sooner or later this will always result in a threat to peace and a struggle for independence and sovereignty.
The right of all peoples to use their own language, to preserve their cultural identity and to promote their own culture, even if the language and culture involved are those of a very small nation, is one of these standards.
It is therefore by no means unreasonable to call on Russia to respect the Mari language, which has been officially recognised as the language of the Republic of Mari El.
This is especially important with regard to secondary schools and universities, where respect for the Mari language is currently lacking.
We also know about the problems raised by certain Members of the European Parliament in connection with the treatment of Maris – the problems aired again here today – and, specifically, as regards the Mari language in schools, the obstruction of the media and the recent presidential elections in December 2004.
The Commission considers that common values, including respect for human rights, are the cornerstone of its relations with Russia.
During the EU/Russia summit in The Hague in November 2004, Presidents Putin and Barroso agreed to hold regular consultations between the European Union and Russia on human and minority rights and fundamental freedoms.
The Commission's objective is to use these consultations to strengthen the open and constructive dialogue with Russia on all related matters.
We are also engaging in a constructive exchange of information about matters relating to cooperation on human rights in international fora, especially in the UN Commission on Human Rights, the Council of Europe and the OSCE.
Finally, I should like to inform you that the next round of consultations with Russia on human rights, the rights of people who belong to minorities and fundamental freedoms will probably be held in the second half of 2005 under the United Kingdom Presidency. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place immediately after the ongoing debates. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Burma/Myanmar.(1) &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;The international community should not tolerate the violations of human rights that are taking place in Burma.
During the 40 years in which Burma has been under military rule and forced to follow the ‘Burmese way to socialism’, the country has gone from being one of the richest and best-educated in South-East Asia to one of the poorest.
Aspects of the Burmese regime that should be particularly condemned include the Burmese generals’ fight against the opposition, the use of chemical weapons by the Burmese army, the failure of the country to cooperate in any way with international organisations, the persecution of ethnic minorities and the political arrests.
It is well known that political prisoners, who number around 1&#160;300, are tortured during interrogations, and international standards of justice are not observed in political life.
The number of children forced to serve in the army stands at 77&#160;000, and many of them join when they are only 11.
It also holds the shameful record of having the world's only imprisoned 60-year-old Nobel Peace Prize recipient, Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi.
An estimated one million people have been internally displaced and several hundreds of thousands have fled to neighbouring countries.
The ALDE Group has long supported Mrs Suu Kyi's efforts to bring democracy to her country, and we call for her immediate release from detention.
Furthermore, the ALDE Group will continue to urge the European Union to take every opportunity to put pressure on the Burmese junta to restore democracy in the country.
These anniversaries shed a very unflattering light on those who, in former times, kept quiet about oppression or did business with those who inflicted it.
These attacks show that, since our debate in September 2004, the situation, far from improving, has, tragically, become more acute – something highlighted by Mr Posselt and by other previous speakers.
In February 2005, the leaders of numerous opposition parties and ethnic groups were arrested.
Despite massive international protest, including – on many occasions – from this House, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi is still under house arrest.
I have to say, Commissioner Dimas, that, with these things going on, I do not understand what the Commission is doing.
At long last, there must be dialogue between the military junta and the democracy movement.
The Commission continues to call for the unconditional release of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and other political prisoners.
It also continues to call on the Burmese regime to participate in a substantive dialogue with all the political parties, including the National League for Democracy and all the ethnic groups.
It is clear that national reconciliation and the restoration of democracy can only be achieved through a transparent and constructive dialogue between all the legitimate interested parties.
The serious sanctions against the military regime have been maintained and I can assure the honourable Members of Parliament that all the representatives of the European Union will continue to take every opportunity to raise specific issues, such as human rights, forced labour, the lack of democratic development and the continuing detention of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and other politicians.
The European Union is ready for direct, substantive and open talks with the regime during high-level Asia/Europe conferences or bilaterally on the fringes of such conferences.
The recent conference of foreign ministers of ASEAN, the Association of South-East Asian Nations, in Kyoto on 6 and 7 May was an opportunity of the first order to discuss all the European Union's concerns openly and directly with the Burmese leadership.
During the meeting between the troika and Foreign Minister Win, he was also given a list of the names of political prisoners about whom the European Union has expressed its concern.
Consequently, the efforts being made by numerous parliamentarians in ASEAN in order to pressure Burma/Myanmar into making political changes before it takes over the chairmanship are particularly encouraging.
Finally, I should like to say a few words about Burma Day, which the Commission organised on 5 April and during which a debate was held on the basis of the independent experts' report prepared by two excellently trained consultants.
All the speakers were selected on the basis of their ability to contribute to the overall debate on aid and their experience from working inside Burma/Myanmar, not their views on the sanctions. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
In the introduction, it is mentioned that presidential elections took place in the Republic of Mari El on 19 December 2004.
However, in Article 3 of the resolution, where the same presidential elections are mentioned, the date given is 4 February 2005.
