Creation of a Roma fingerprints database in Italy (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Commission by Monica Frassoni, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the creation of a Roma fingerprints database in Italy - B6-0170/2008); the oral question to the Commission by Giusto Catania, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the creation of a Roma fingerprints database in Italy - B6-0451/2008); the oral question to the Commission by Jan Marinus Wiersma, Claudio Fava, Kristian Vigenin, Gianni Pittella, Adrian Severin and Katalin Lévai, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the creation of a Roma fingerprints database in Italy - B6-0452/2008); the oral question to the Commission by Viktória Mohácsi, Marco Cappato, Alexander Alvaro, Sophia in 't Veld, Sarah Ludford, Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, Ignasi Guardans Cambó, Adina-Ioana Vălean, Renate Weber and Gérard Deprez, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on the creation of a Roma fingerprints database in Italy - B6-0453/2008).
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Maroni has described this debate as grotesque but the reality is that today he has stopped swaggering like a cowboy and is trying to convince his European colleagues that it is all the fault of the press and the left, and that his sole aim is to do the right thing for the poor gypsies, shut in terrible camps and that with ethnic profiling it will be possible to make all Roma children go to school and that it is not necessary - nor does he wish - to criminalise all travellers.
I believe that this debate, and the attention that we have managed to attract, along with so many NGOs, and so many fellow Members of different nationalities - because this is not just an Italian issue - and so many people who are simply concerned about the situation of rights, is important, and is important precisely because we are holding it here, in Europe, and because we are talking about an issue of rights and of citizens and hence today this is also meant to be a small contribution to what is seen today as a crisis of meaning in Europe.
I hope that positive, amicable and constructive pressure, also represented in this debate, will convince those of my compatriots, and other European citizens, that trying to throw everybody out and using a violent, simplistic and racist approach to solve what is really a problem of exclusion, as well as an economic problem and also a problem with the culture of our country and our continent, that they will be convinced that that is not the right path.
I therefore invite you, Commissioner, to give a high profile to the Commission's work, the work we are doing in Parliament, and also to the money that is being given for positive policies of this type, which today are little known, as they are hidden and swept aside by prejudice that is ingrained not only in Italy but also in Europe.
The most recent package issued by Italian Minister of the Interior Roberto Maroni to tackle the 'Roma emergency', as the government is now calling it, leaves a bad taste in the mouth.
The issue is one that concerns the whole of Europe, particularly since the most recent enlargement rounds, as a result of which a great many Roma became EU citizens.
author. - (HU) Mr President, Commissioner Špidla, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of June our Chairman, Graham Watson, and I sent a joint letter to the Commission, asking them to investigate the grave situation in Italy, and to take appropriate measures to condemn it if it infringes the principles or pledges of the European Union.
I am very pleased with the communication that the Commission issued recently, and I am even more pleased that it deems the Roma problem and European integration of the Roma as a minority to be serious, and even more so that it deems it to be urgent.
For the fourth time in this House, we have the opportunity to talk about the situation of the Roma in Italy.
It seems that, under the terms of the state of emergency declared on 23 May, an Order dated 30 May authorised the Mayors of Rome, Naples and Milan to implement certain measures.
The Italian authorities state that these measures have been adopted in the interests of the people living in these camps, in particular so that they can live in dignified conditions.
In May, we discussed the situation of the Roma in Italy and other countries in this House.
To conclude, the Commission, in particular Vice-President Jacques Barrot, continues to be in regular contact with the Italian authorities who have undertaken to provide a full report on this subject by the end of July.
The Commission will also continue to assess how Member States have transposed Directive 2004/38/EC of 29 April 2004 into their national law and how they are applying it in practice.
When the Interior Minister of the Prodi government, Giuliano Amato, expressly spoke about the Roma emergency, my esteemed Socialist and Liberal colleagues unfortunately did not protest.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a Minister of the Interior of a European country may not describe a debate in the European Parliament as grotesque.
The Italian Government and the Interior Minister should, however, have looked for other means, fully in line with European standards, and informed the European Commission beforehand rather than late in the day.
We are grateful to Commissioner Špidla for his commitment to give a European response to a major European issue and we ask him to speak clearly about the measures adopted by the Italian Government and to report to the European Parliament.
A state of emergency is justified by natural disasters or catastrophes or events of that kind.
Pushed by the Council of Ministers to examine policies to improve Roma inclusion, the Commission admits the urgency of this in a document of 2 July.
Perhaps you are not even interested to know that in Rome, where nearly 7 000 minors live, millions of euros have been earmarked for schooling: wasted schooling, since last year only 25% of these children regularly attended school.
I uphold the right of the Roma people to have a census, as happens regularly for all Italian citizens, because the census guarantees the right to health, social inclusion and integration into the school system.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was exactly seventy years ago, on 14 July 1938, that the fascist regime in Italy enacted the Decree on race, falling into line with the German race laws.
In Italy we are witnessing a full-blown profiling of all Roma, including children, who are being fingerprinted, and including Community citizens and even Italian citizens, despite the fact that their details are already registered.
Now in the Italian Parliament, chairing the Committee for Children - in total indifference and silence - is Alessandra Mussolini, the Duce's granddaughter, a coincidence that reinforces the symbolic link between the present and a past that we thought was definitively dead and buried in Italy and in Europe, yet is rearing its ugly head again today.
I call on Parliament to approve this resolution, condemning the Italian Government, and on the Commission to initiate infringement proceedings against Italy as a matter of urgency. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt: it is clear that the Italian far left now runs this Parliament in practice.
Perhaps they are in absolute terms the truest European citizens because they are only Europeans.
It is the national populist expression of this phenomenon.
It seems to me in fact that the Prodi Government, by means of measures prepared by Minister Amato, had declared an emergency and the need to take measures relating to the Roma.
The Interior Minister demonstrates that he does not even know the European directives when he claims that the act is in line with Regulation (EC) No 380/2008 in requiring all non-EU citizens to be fingerprinted.
But the Roma who live in Italy, especially the minors, are almost all Italian or at least EU citizens.
I finish by quoting Famiglia Cristiana: 'Today with digital fingerprints, the police state shows its harshest face to Roma children, who are Italian citizens after all.
These programmes should completely avoid discriminatory actions, such as the recent fingerprinting decision adopted by the Italian Government or force actions that could affect honest citizens.
This plan destroys fundamental principles of the European Union and stands in contradiction of Article 12 and Article 13 of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
As a guardian of the Treaty, the European Commission should act uncompromisingly in the case of their violation by any member-state.
In Italy, the Roma emergency is mainly against the Roma, Mrs Angelilli, in Rome, Naples and also Milan.
We cannot tolerate that the post-electoral need to reassure the discontented fringes of the majority should compromise 60 years of constitutional freedom.
Please leave the Chamber. (IT) Europe cannot and must not tolerate discrimination against people on account of their ethnicity.
That is why we in Europe, we in this Parliament that has been termed grotesque, must be vigilant to ensure that equality between citizens is guaranteed, perhaps even using the same means for everyone in the census already planned for next year, and guaranteeing especially for minors and the poor, regardless of their ethnicity, the right to education, health, dignity, that they are entitled to as human beings, never mind citizens. (DE) Mr President, human rights are indivisible.
In my home city, Graz, vigorous discussion about Roma begging, and a discussion with the Roma about how people can escape from this difficult situation or at least make the best of it, have been ongoing for years.
The Commission needs to be proactive in terms of the social integration of the Roma people, of the gypsies.
Meanwhile, the Italian Government has not infringed anyone's rights, especially not those of minorities or children, and Minister Maroni has already stated and guaranteed several times that no database is being set up but rather that all the data will be processed in full compliance with personal data protection rules.
The emergency is real and has been acknowledged by many Members who have spoken, but it was not acknowledged by the governments that preceded the Berlusconi administration, or by many large municipalities.
Of course, the matter of fingerprinting is something which, I believe, goes beyond the pale. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, much of what has been said is true, but much is also false.
Secondly, this means that protective measures taken for children, such as Roma children, must be taken within the framework of the legislation in force in the European Union and in Italy.
Thirdly, Italy's Minister for Foreign Affairs Franco Frattini phoned me an hour ago to tell me that he wants to indicate - at least to my group - that Minister for the Interior Roberto Maroni has met Commissioner Barrot in Cannes.
The Roma camps and the Roma communities are illegal and immoral.
Ladies and gentlemen, as regards fingerprinting, concentrating on a single ethnic group, whether directly or indirectly, is quite clearly unacceptable in the eyes of European law.
The vote will take place on Thursday 10 July 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) When discussing about the control over an ethnic minority group belonging to the EU area, we undertake a great but necessary responsibility at the EU level.
This issue of fingerprinting an ethnic group falls under the competence of the European Parliament and we should firmly decide that the EU countries be subordinated to the European legislation in this field.
Why should the fingerprinting of the Roma ethnic group not lead to a decision regarding the fingerprinting of all the European citizens as well?
in writing. - (RO) The measure of fingerprinting the citizens of Roma origin does not comply either with the European legislation or with any other act guaranteeing human rights in Europe.
Fundamentally, Directive 2004/38 guarantees the free movement of all EU Member States citizens, no matter their ethnic origin.
in writing. - (RO) In the context of another debate in the European Parliament plenary on the situation of Roma in Italy, I would like to call attention to an aspect that I consider essential for the action of integrating the Roma communities.
in writing. - (RO) The population of Roma origin, wherever they are in the EU Member States, must be treated with the respect that all the European citizens deserve.
The cost of the absence of action at European and national level as regards the economic, social and cultural integration of the Roma population has become ever more obvious.
It is time that the member States, the European Commission and Council adopt and implement concrete programmes for their insertion.
I request the European Parliament, Council and the European Commission to adopt a clear action to reject this measure of a racial nature and request its annulment by the Italian Government.
