If the European Union wants to achieve this goal, then more investment in research, technological development, innovation and education is essential, both in the Member States as well as at European level.
European research has proved a success: and the innovative efforts of Europe's businesses are also impressive, accounting in the first half of the 1990s for 33% of turnover.
In addition, we invest significantly less in research than the United States and Japan.
These two factors mean that the ground lost to the United States has simply increased in the last few years.
Greater cooperation is needed between the Member States, researchers and research groups, but also between companies, universities and public research institutes.
There is a need for new forms of European cooperation, namely intermediary cooperation, or in other words between national research institutes as well as between the establishments which subsidise research in the Member States.
It is vital to extend a high-speed trans-European research network with a capacity of ten gigabits to a hundred gigabits in the future, in order to achieve a European Research Area and enable it to perform optimally.
This goal will never be reached with the SEAN project, which is based on an increase of two gigabits per second per year.
I therefore call upon Commissioners Liikanen and Busquin to show much more ambition in this matter.
The agreements reached in Nice concerning flexibility, variable geometry, or cooperation between a limited number of Member States in the field of research, create an obstacle for the Industry Committee.
This forms a central part of Commissioner Busquin's plans.
The Industry Committee expresses the strongest possible reservations concerning this cooperation between Member States, particularly if it involves spending European research funds.
Another point is the role of small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of research.
Mr President, as Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel has said, research has consistently been identified as the key to improving economic growth, creating new jobs, a cleaner environment and better health.
The issue of women is part of the question, but, of course, today we are discussing something much wider.
It could be a great help to Europe in safeguarding its cultural identity and democracy if research were carried out on the technical aspects of intellectual property rights.
Today, after the first communication and, in particular, after this one, which defines the instruments more clearly, we know that we are definitely on the eve of a major change of course in research - although I would not go quite so far as to describe it as a Copernican revolution.
Until now, the purpose of research and of its main instrument, the Framework Programme, has been to keep European industry competitive.
So we must embark resolutely on this cooperation, but without forgetting that, in itself, that will not be enough to create a European Research Area.
We must also, of course, invigorate it by setting up networks of research centres, whether or not they are networks of excellence, but it is true that we have centres of excellence and they will have to get used to working together.
First, we must move towards closer European integration in research.
Point two, this European Research Area must focus on sound basic research carried out by public establishments and it must be accompanied by a European innovation area that is geared to enterprises, be they large, small or medium-sized.
Six, the European Research Area must place more emphasis on sustainable development, by drawing up very concrete research projects, such as projects relating to the environment or to renewable energies.
Finally, my seventh point, we are paying close attention to the international aspect, which is not just a question of competition with the United States or Japan and which must take account of the candidate countries and the cooperation programmes with the developing countries and the Euro-Mediterranean countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, the EU is to have a single currency and will therefore have a common currency zone.
The European Research Area must not become an area of meaningless research and EU money must not be spent on financing meaningless research.
I would like to thank Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel for her thorough work in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the coordination and pooling of European research efforts must not lead to the demise of competition between research establishments.
I hope that the rapporteur - who has done an excellent job, although the time frames and the deadline for tabling amendments were a question of "blink and you've missed it" - will, together with Commissioner Busquin, accept one of my requests, which is aimed specifically at avoiding the brain drain from Europe to the United States of America and other competitive countries.
I am convinced that it is only by means of economic and social incentives, making the research profession more competitive with that of the United States and combining it, as is the case in Italy, with senior management posts, as we do for judges, that we will, at last, be able to attract young people and to offer them a position with a future and profound respect for their dignity and the role of research scientists in Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that I very much endorse the Commission's communication and Commissioner Busquin's statements about the European Research Area.
With this document, the European Commission is, in effect, proposing guidelines for future measures to support research prior to the discussion on the Framework Programme for 2002­2006.
The key concept here is that of European added value.
It is vital to hold a debate on science and society now that we are at the beginning of the third millennium.
Europe would have much to do in such a project.
Mr President, I wish to thank the rapporteur for an excellent report that provides a framework for the framework.
The oft-recited Lisbon Summit sets the overall objective of "making the European Union the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy in the world".
Only within such a positive environment will it be possible to realise this potential and be competitive in the industries of the future, in the agriculture of the future, in the highest standards of healthcare, in our contribution to third world development and the elimination of starvation and disease.
Clearly, Parliament's support for this European Research Area is essential if we are to make headway with this process.
It is quite clear that the European Research Area will be created thanks, on the one hand, to the Framework Programme, which is designed to facilitate it, but thanks mainly to open coordination between the Member States and those involved in research.
That is what you will find in the new Framework Programme: elements contributing greatly to structuring a European Research Area.
Indeed, the five-year evaluation report highlighted the need for this measure and made it very clear that the Framework Programme needed to be modified.
Clearly, therefore, this will be a long-term job, a job that will require partnership between the Commission and the Member States, with support from the European Parliament and support, Mr Alyssandrakis, from the entire scientific community.
There are, of course, elements of subsidiarity; there is research that is carried out in the Member States and there is added value research.
This science-education link is very relevant and it will, in fact, be on the agenda of the meeting of Ministers for Education and Science in Upsala.
We will be holding a joint meeting between Ministers for Education and Science, an informal Council, in Sweden on 2 and 3 March, on the subject of science, society and education in the sciences; we will also be holding an initial discussion between Ministers for Research on the future Framework Programme.
They are networks with a capacity for excellence, depending on the subject and field of research.
It follows that this is certainly not intended to be a tool, amongst other things, for the small and medium-sized enterprises and the countries that are least developed in terms of research.
As you know, we have already tried to establish an infrastructure with the GEANT programme and to reconcile the infrastructures of all the European countries, with the aim of attaining a capacity of 10 gigabits.
Variable geometry, or what has been called improved cooperation, is evidently one of the issues that raises questions, since Article 169 of the Treaty provides for it but it has never been implemented until now.
We can only make proposals on the participation of the Union if we have real participation by the Member States.
We will have an opportunity to discuss this in greater detail when we come to consider the proposal for the Framework Programme.
These criteria draw on the replies we received in a wide-ranging opinion poll of all those involved in research, which we ran on the Internet throughout the year 2000.
This showed that there are clearly three major subjects that are guaranteed to produce added value.
These will indeed be discussed in the communication the Commission intends to draft in preparation for the Gothenburg Summit.
Indeed, it has already been discussed in earlier debates on the previous Framework Programmes.
Women and society, young people and society: that is clearly the subject of the follow-up activities of the Helsinki Group we set up to look at the position of women in the sciences, both in the public and private sectors.
There is that international dimension: the role that Europe plays in the world in relation to research and to serious diseases such as AIDS, tuberculosis and so forth.
The international dimension must always form part of the debate.
We shall, of course, have scope to discuss this when we come to prepare the new programme.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
the proposal for a Council Regulation adjusting for the sixth time, the system of aid for cotton introduced by Protocol 4 annexed to the Act of Accession of Greece [COM(1999) 492 - C5-0049/2000 - 1999/0202(CNS)]; II.
the proposal for a Council Regulation on production aid for cotton [COM(1999) 492 - C5-0049/2000 - 1999/0202(CNS)].
In Greece, cotton is becoming a national product, employing over 300 000 families and producing about 1 350 000 tonnes of cotton in Objective 1 areas, which have a far higher unemployment rate than the Community average and where the average size of holdings is much smaller than the Community average.
In other words, this product is in particularly short supply in the European Union, with Community production covering a mere 35% of demand.
It is wrong because it penalises cotton producers for the fall in international cotton prices over the last three years - despite the fact that they are not to blame and the Commission did nothing to rectify the situation.
I should point out here that the European Commission tried to back up its unacceptable proposal by presenting it when international prices were at their lowest for a decade, in December 1999.
Similarly, the European Union is proposing to limit aid for cotton production when it is most needed, with the United States of America channelling more and more money to its cotton producers, enabling them to increase their output and depressing international prices.
In short, Mr President, this is all about social and economic sensitivity.
I hope that the Commission does not attempt to maintain a proposal on the cotton system exploiting a decision by the Chinese Government, a decision which had no lasting effects.
If the Commission simply wishes to cut production aid crucial for the most disadvantaged regions of the European Union, it would be better if it said so clearly.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cotton, which is the subject of today's debate, is basically grown in two Member States of the European Union, Greece and Spain, but it concerns the whole Union because there may be cotton processing and cotton fibre and textile producing factories in any Member State of the Union.
I think that this responsible and realistic approach in the report should be accepted by the Commission as it stands and strengthened in the forthcoming negotiations in the World Trade Organisation.
In the view of the Commission, this special effort by the Community, in particular the extra financial input, is only warranted by the economic and, more importantly, the social significance attached to cotton in some regions of the Community.
Adoption of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, however, would lead to a substantial increase in the size of the budget for cotton production.
As for the individual amendments, Nos 1, 3, 4 and 9 to 13 seek to increase prices by 10% and the national guaranteed quantities by 50%.
Amendments Nos 5 and 14 propose that the minimum price be indexed on the basis of the quality of unginned cotton; the price scale would be adopted by the Member States if the relevant professional organisations could not reach agreement on a price scale.
Amendments Nos 7, 8 and 16 to 19 relate to rules governing the formulation of official statutes by cotton producers' organisations and specifying the activities of such organisations for which Community aid is payable.
I must draw your attention to the fact that such a regime already exists and is set forth in Regulation (EEC) No 389/1982.
We cannot accept these amendments, because they would mean the existence of two different sets of rules for producers' organisations as well as two different funding systems.
If we also take account of the increased production that would result from the requested rise in the national guaranteed quantities, this alone could entail annual costs in the region of EUR 80 million.
As far as the environment is concerned, Amendments Nos 6, 15 and 20 seek wide scope for the Member States to amend the common organisation of the market, not only on the basis of environmental considerations but also, and above all, for economic and social reasons.
Thank you, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Mr President, this proposal concerns fruits in shells or pods: that is, nuts and locust beans.
Furthermore, in my view, Mr President, this aid is justified because it benefits the agricultural workers who need it as it helps to compensate for a reduction in their income.
Mr President, Commissioner, I shall try to compensate for the fact that the previous speaker overran her time by not using all the time allocated to me.
For example, the resolutions dated 16 June and 26 October are in that spirit.
The European Parliament' s resolution of 16 June contains an ongoing appeal for the search for a solution which will provide for direct support for farmers' income to be awarded, enabling production to continue and preventing the depopulation of very underprivileged areas.
The only specific aid from which they have benefited in the past and from which they benefit today is limited to cofinancing under plans to improve quality and marketing which expired at the end of last year and which the Commission is now proposing to extend by another year.
This was why, as a matter of fact, at the time of the proposal on the new COM in fruits and vegetables, the European Parliament adopted an amendment requesting the Commission to present proposals that would provide the nut sector with permanent measures and aid of the kind that exist for other agricultural sectors.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank you, Mrs Izquierdo Rojo, for your report and to express my thanks to everyone else for the time and effort they have put into the 22 amendments.
The Council, however, asked the Commission to propose the continuation of the payments to nut and locust bean producers in the 2001 financial year.
One group of amendments, comprising Nos 14, 15, 17 and 20, seeks to maintain the aid for quality and marketing-improvement plans beyond the year 2001 and to treat as eligible expenditure all money spent on work that is carried out by the end of 2002.
The purpose of the second group of amendments, comprising Nos 8 and 18, is to maintain the special aid for hazelnuts through to the end of 2002.
On the other hand, unfortunately, there are also producers and producer organisations that have to operate in extremely difficult conditions - in disadvantaged areas, for instance, many of which are in remote mountainous regions - with no irrigation facilities.
For this reason, we believe it makes far more sense - and this, indeed, is one of the aims we set ourselves in 1999 - to support this latter group of producers, whose problems are primarily of a social nature, in the framework of rural development.
Thank you, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, we have a situation here where under Rule 67 and Rule 68 we can choose what to do now with this initiative.
Under Rule 68, we would normally ask the Council to withdraw the proposal.
I am asking Parliament to do as we did before - to vote in favour of this in order to reject the Council's proposal.
Mr President, I believe it is important that the rapporteur says a brief word on this.
However, one of our key points in Article 4 has been rejected, and so I must recommend that my group vote against this report, contrary to our previous agreement.
Mr President, it is certainly true that the House agreed very amicably on a common starting point and a common line in the debate on the preparation for Stockholm.
With regard to this document, drawn up by Mrs Peijs, which concerns a directive on the reorganisation and winding-up of insurance undertakings, I have to say that Mrs Peijs is certainly - as always - attentive to financial issues.
Lambert Report (A5-0026/2001) Mr President, I voted against the Lambert report because the Council of the European Union does not actually intend to regulate the important matter of the movement of workers who need to make sure that they do not lose any of their pensions.
Free movement of persons We have voted in favour of the motion for resolution because we think that the Council needs to push ahead with the work on simplifying Regulation 1408/71 and extending it so that citizens of third countries who are engaged in active employment and have legal residence may also be covered.
We have voted against paragraph 1 of the motion for resolution which states that Article 42 of the Treaty of Amsterdam is to be the legal basis for securing social security rights for third-country citizens.
The Council must find another legal basis, for example Article 63 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, so that the objective may be achieved.
The new regulations when they finally emerge must, however, be in line with the regulations in those countries where the terms are the most advantageous to the workers in all areas.
The Danish Social Democrats have today abstained from voting in the final vote on this motion for resolution, tabled against the background of an oral question concerning the free movement of persons in connection with Regulation 1408.
We do not agree that Articles 42 and 308 constitute the legal basis for allowing third-country citizens to be covered under Regulation 1408, but think that Article 63, subsection 4 should do so.
If another legal basis is required, the Treaty must, in our view, be altered.
Lucas Report (A5-0036/2001) Mr President, the Pensioners' Party, which I am pleased to represent in this House, supports all documents, all initiatives and all actions by means of which the European Union acts to help states all over the world which need to increase cooperation with the States of the European Union.
Past experience shows that this type of partnership is very profitable to the industrial groups but does nothing more than drive the people of the country concerned into even greater poverty.
Over half of the 95 million inhabitants of Mexico already live in poverty, without counting those that are driven to emigrate precisely because of this type of partnership which is based on exploitation.
We therefore voted against this report.
The European Union and individual countries must do more to address the problems and circumstances in the countries of origin that cause people to seek refuge in the European Union.
The two French initiatives intended to better combat illegal immigration have, in the first instance, been changed beyond all recognition by the European Parliament amendments designed to limit their scope.
A good number of them, as I explained in the course of last night' s debate, would have the effect of putting the definition of measures against illegal immigration off until the Greek Calends on the grounds that a whole host of other policies in all sorts of areas would have to be implemented first.
Secondly, because even the illegal immigrants that have been assisted by charitably minded people almost inevitably wind up in exploitative situations, as often as not, purely by dint of their illegal status.
For the perpetrators of this infamy, it is not just a matter of terminology, as the police force of the Socialist Prime Minister, Mr Jospin, has just forcibly expelled illegal immigrants that had take refuge in the Parisian church of Saint Bernard in precisely the same way that his right-wing predecessor, Juppé, had people deported from the same place four years previously.
We have voted against the report as a whole, while voting in favour of the amendments which might temper or eliminate the despicably repressive nature of the French proposals. . (NL) I should like to take this opportunity to explain in more detail, also on behalf of my colleagues, Mr Belder and Mr van Dam, my voting behaviour in respect of the Ceyhun report.
I have voted against the report and against many of the amendments submitted by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms, Justice and Home Affairs.
The latter should be received in all Member States and granted asylum.
Humanitarian aid from churches and organisations jumps into the breach created by the inability of Member States and the international community to find a satisfactory solution.
A policy of cancelling debt and of ensuring equitable development aid would be a first essential step towards a different kind of European policy on immigration.
Are we to think that illegal immigrants should be seen as the victims of a system in which they are actually the players?
A large number of Europeans choose to hide often unknown people who have been smuggled in or have managed by their own efforts to get themselves over the border and into the EU countries.
Europe needs a common immigration and asylum policy characterised by humanitarianism.
Europe must also change its attitude to legal immigration and open its borders to citizens of third countries who wish to look for work in the European Union.
The basis must be that people should be allowed to travel freely into the European Union and not be prevented from doing so by a restrictive policy on visas and work permits.
We also oppose the demand to establish new Community financial aid to producers' organisations, as tabled in Amendments 18 and 19.
The report calls for an increase in quotas and fixed prices on cotton and also seeks to regulate the role of cotton producers' associations.
It is not reasonable that half of the Union's budget is devoted to subsidising production and exports of agricultural products.
The common agricultural policy is not only very costly for the European citizens, but also contributes to higher consumer prices and lower quality.
And all this benefits the United States and Australia.
Europe is blocking production and the only beneficiaries are the United States and Australia.
British Conservative Members of the PPE-DE Group voted against this report because we feel that it moves too far away from the Commission's original intention of tightening up budgetary control mechanisms.
Izquierdo Rojo Report (A5-0035/2001) Mr President, I did not dream about the Izquierdo Rojo document, which provides for aid to the producers of certain agricultural products, including hazelnuts.
I have to tell you, Mr President, that my daughter Elisabetta has a tiny pet, a guinea pig, therefore a rodent, called Schumi.
The Commission has a serious responsibility here, because the 1989 restrictive support measures started in essence in 1996, with certain exceptions for programmes which had already begun.
The Commission's new proposal extends the programmes which were maintained for a further year.
I agree with the rapporteur that these programmes should be maintained for at least two years and, more importantly, that the Commission should present an overall proposal for liberalising and broadening the support mechanisms for the production of nuts and locust beans.
In any event, this extension must be maintained until the new system comes into force, and this should be included in the COM in fruits and vegetables.
It is crucial that in this new system the Commission takes account of the enormous socio-economic importance of these nuts for the countries of southern Europe as well as their environmental role in combating desertification.
Because of our desire to see more jobs not less, UK Conservatives have voted against this resolution.
In Portugal, as in a number of countries in the European Union, industrial restructuring has often brought large-scale redundancies, greater job instability and huge economic and social costs, particularly for the countries and regions that are directly involved, thereby endangering their economic and social cohesion.
This extremely serious situation requires particular attention both on the part of Member State governments and of Community bodies, in order to amend their policies so that they give priority to, in particular, respect for workers' rights, to high-quality employment and to the economic and social cohesion of the areas in which the companies wishing to close and/or relocate their production plants are based.
There is no justification for still making employees work 35, 40, 45 hours a week at oppressive rates while their fellow workers are shown the door even though profit margins are increasing.
Founded in 1958 under the Treaty of Rome, the European Investment Bank (EIB) is the official financing institution of the European Union.
However, there seems to be little public knowledge of the Bank's existence and operations, although it is a public institution that lends more money every year than, for example, the better-known World Bank.
According to the new Article 6 in the EC Treaty, environmental protection requirements must be integrated into other EU policies.
Bullmann Report (A5-0034/2001) Mr President, I voted against the Bullmann report because I do not feel that the initiatives laid down therein will succeed in performing that function that we of the Pensioners' Party and I, in particular, would like Europe to perform.
Mr President, on behalf of the ELDR Group, I wish to give an explanation of vote in view of the fact that, in the final vote, we voted against the Bullmann report.
The ELDR Group therefore chose to vote against the proposal as a whole.
Yet the proposals of the Bullmann report could well have vastly accentuated this sideways shift.
After the launch of the single market in 1985, and of the euro in 1997, this is just one more step in building a Europe which responds only to the interests of capital.
Support for the public sector, stable, permanent and full employment and a better and protected social security system and social protection system in general should form the backbone of economic policy.
We want to achieve stable economic development based on healthy internal demand by improving the workers' purchasing power, concentrating on crucial sectors such as creating and maintaining infrastructures, education, health, research and applying economic development policies which help to increase employment by creating permanent jobs.
The critical issue is to frame new procedures that are based on both private management and public-minded regulations, which will make it possible to offer the same services at a reduced cost, and even better service, for users are more likely to be satisfied if the service on offer is more adaptable.
In actual fact, the hardline neoliberal programme is being affirmed once again in two major areas.
The second is the continued reform of the labour market, and there are even plans to extend this further.
Reform of the labour market tends to always go the same way, elevating flexibility and social insecurity to consider them the economic ideal.
All the conditions are now in place for closer economic and cultural relations, on the basis of cooperation and mutual benefit between the People' s Republic of China, specifically through the Special Administrative Region of Macao and the European Union and its Member States.
I voted in favour of the report by Mr Soares on the Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament 'The European Union and Macau after 2000' because it fully addresses the issue of what the European Union' s concerns and initiatives for Macau should be.
Portugal governed Macau for four hundred years.
For that is the main if not the only motivation of the European Commission, the Council and the author of this report.
All major corporations have small and medium-sized enterprises as subsidiaries, particularly in the field of research.
I cannot accept a situation whereby research is used as a tool in the "economic warfare" conducted by firms for the control of pharmaceutical or agro-industrial markets, or must take account of developments in security and defence policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us note the absence of the Commission and of the Council.
We are acting as if everything that has taken place in Yugoslavia over the last ten to twelve years did not take place.
I understand, Mr President, Mrs Pack, the need to assist the new Serbian authorities in tackling the problems which exist, but this cannot be done at the expense of justice - or a modicum of justice - i.e.
The 700 Kosovars still detained in Serbia were sentenced in absolute contravention of the laws of the international community.
The people in the area must understand, as must we, that occupied protectorates in any shape or form never allow economic development, they never allow peace and they never allow countries or people in the area to be strengthened.
Mr President, the international community, and certainly the European Union, is involved in a complicated balancing act.
We are speaking today about southern Serbia and Kosovo.
I also believe, of course, in the truth of what the Mayor of Presevo said in Belgrade, namely that the population of Kosovo would like to remain in Serbia if only the Albanians in the region could be treated at long last on a par with the Serbs.
I should like to assure Mr Dupuis that there were six of us from Parliament who spent the weekend visiting the new leaders in Belgrade.
I want, finally, to say something which is almost a remark on the rules of procedure.
As you are aware, Mr Haarder, it is not the Bureau but the Conference of Presidents which sets our agenda.
Public opinion in our own countries demanded determined action such as was eventually taken.
However, our consistency is now being put to the test.
The stability of Yugoslavia, Albania, Macedonia and the rest of the region may depend on our consistency and firmness.
Of course I was in favour of that, but we are now at a turning point.
Every act of violence, whether in southern Serbia or in Mitrovica, disrupts the painstaking peace process that is currently taking place in the Balkans.
That is what we in Parliament have always advocated and will continue to advocate, and there is no room for compromise there.
The present problems cannot be solved overnight.
Mr President, the Commission shares most of the concerns referred to in the resolutions.
A number of speakers have raised a crucial issue, namely basic respect for democratic principles and the rights of minorities.
We shall have this and other matters very much in mind in the coming months as we negotiate this year' s programme of aid to Serbia with both the Serb and the Yugoslav authorities.
It is very important for all concerned that the new democratic authorities maintain their commitment to continue with the reforms outlined.
The principle of negotiation and dialogue warrants our support and will receive it.
The European Union is increasing the number of monitoring missions in the Presevo valley and the Commission is considering ways of increasing the already substantial aid devoted to the area.
Mr President, given that the Commissioner was not present when I spoke, might I point out that this is not a law on amnesty.
There is no amnesty law being applied, it is a simple matter of transferring these 700 people from Belgrade to Pristina in Kosovo.
Situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B5-0105/01 by Mrs Sauquillo Pérez del Arco, Mr Van den Berg and Mrs Kinnock, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo; B5-0115/01 by Mrs Isler Béguin, Mrs Lucas and Mr Lannoye, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo; B5-0123/01 by Mr Van Hecke and Mr Fernández Martín, on behalf of the PPE­DE Group, on the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC); B5-0133/01 by Mrs Muscardini, on behalf of the UEN Group, on the situation in the Congo; B5-0135/01 by Mr Vinci, Mr Sylla and Mr Alavanos, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo; B5-0144/01 by Mr Van den Bos and Mrs Dybkjær, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the Congo.
The Democratic Republic of the Congo is no exception to this rule.
The European Parliament must condemn in the strongest terms all these acts of violence perpetrated against the civilian population and must also condemn the military intervention by neighbouring countries and demand the withdrawal of all foreign troops.
Following the assassination of President Laurent Kabila, the international community and the European Parliament must intervene in this political transition.
The civilian population, whose economy and welfare has already been hit hard - particularly in the suburbs of Kinshasa, must not once again fall victim to the lack of political interest on the part of our continent, nor of the perfectly casual attitude of investors and firms operating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, more especially in terms of human rights, the environment and the rule of law.
Mr President, the death of Laurent-Désiré Kabila has opened new perspectives for peace.
The international community must quickly decide on its attitude and particularly push for the deployment of MONUC of the UN peacekeeping forces.
Certain Member States continue to approach the conflict in the Great Lakes region on the basis of an imagined, artificial conflict between English-speakers and French-speakers.
While expressing our solidarity with the people of the Congo, we refuse to be associated in any way whatsoever with the representatives of the political powers which bear some of the responsibility for the past and present oppression of this country, some of whom still belong to political or business networks whose goal is to make profits on the back of Africa.
Mr President, under Kabila Sr., the peace process had ground to a halt.
That is why Europe and America particularly must exert joint pressure on Rwanda and Burundi to end their adventure.
Without the democratisation of political life no lasting stability is possible in Congo.
The poor Congo could be rich.
A country that is, moreover, wedged between Rwanda and Uganda.
For example, without taking sides, Europe could support Belgian efforts to bring some stability to a population of over 55 million men and women in a land area larger than that of the enlarged Europe.
In this way Europe would prove that it wants to respond to the priorities that the new President set out in his inaugural address.
Europe must not remain passive in the face of developments in Central Africa.
The purpose of my speech is, in particular, to draw attention to the particular responsibilities of Angola, a country governed by a totally corrupt military power that has taken advantage of the weaknesses of western capitalism to oppress its people and to threaten the peace, stability and security of the entire region.
I urge the Commission to be particularly firm in its assessment of the situation in that part of the world, and I also call upon the Commission and the Swedish Presidency to help us to obtain the release of the Portuguese citizens who have been held hostage as quickly as possible.
Mr President, the European Union obviously condemns political violence in all its forms.
In any event, we feel that this is an opportunity we should not hesitate to grasp in an effort to reach a negotiated solution to the conflict, particularly now that it seems a significant cease-fire is being observed.
However, we are endeavouring to do even more in terms of financial assistance and humanitarian aid.
ECHO allocated EUR 20 million last year and an allocation of EUR 35 million is planned for this year.
The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
Already 500 000 people have been arrested, more than 150 people have died in prison, usually after having been torture.
Parliament has a duty to take an extremely firm stance.
I therefore appeal on behalf of my Group to the People' s Republic of China to respect people' s civil liberties just as we endeavour to do in our democracies.
Mr President, first of all the title of the resolution should be "Freedom of Expression" rather than "Freedom of Religion" because, as was mentioned earlier, Falun Gong is not a religion but rather a practice comparable to yoga in the West.
Its only concrete outcome so far has been to prevent a resolution condemning China in Geneva.
I recall the initiative of the Tibet intergroup of the European Parliament to propose the nun Ngawang Sangdrol, who has spent the last nine years in prison, for this year' s Sakharov Prize.
The eleven-year-old Panchen Lama, the second-highest authority in Tibetan Buddhism, has been abducted and has since been cut off from the outside world.
Mr President, there was a time when the People' s Republic of China was systematically excluded from international negotiations and world trade by Europe and America.
The world cannot look silently on as the world' s most populous country systematically engages in violations against its citizens on a daily basis.
Over the last year, we have been able to see, on TV screens throughout the world, the harsh offensive launched by the Chinese régime against the meditation movement Falun Gong since the latter was banned in July 1999.
Ever since the ban, tens of thousands of Falun Gong practitioners have been arrested.
At least 137 people have died in prison.
Falun Gong has been branded an evil sect, but one might well wonder if the reason for the hatred felt towards this peaceful movement does not lie, rather, in the threat it constitutes to the Communist system, because it unites so many people.
However, Falun Gong practitioners are entirely peaceful and have no political ambitions other than to be allowed to exercise their basic rights - rights which are laid down in the Chinese constitution and in international agreements signed by China.
We have not discussed the situation in Laos in great depth; however, Laos is a country still governed by a dictatorship, has a one-party system and is one of the poorest countries in the world.
I believe that this resolution is important because, for the first time, it requires Parliament to state that a process of national reconciliation is needed in Laos, that we need all political forces, both internal, which even today are suppressed, and external, to be able to work towards bringing about change in this splendid country.
I would like to thank all the Members who contributed to this work.
Parliament' s report states that the protocol can be seen as part of a broader process in which the Union aims to encourage political, economic and social growth as well as stability in the country.
In October 1999, a demonstration was organised in front of the presidential palace against the ruling powers.
Meanwhile, Mr Thongsouk Saysangkhi, who died in prison in 1998, belonged to a group of three ministers and a high official who had been attempting to change the administrative machine from within.
The EU has given EUR 120 million in aid to the country; the United States has given 23 million, and Japan 132 million dollars.
On behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance who are in Parliament - and, I am sure, in a spirit in which the whole Parliament joins - we very much wish to express our support for the liberation of Laos.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has already, on several previous occasions, adopted positions on the human rights situation in the Lao People' s Democratic Republic, in 1991 and 1997 in particular.
After 25 years of Communist rule, the people of Laos are today hoping that their country will follow the path of transition to democracy and are calling for free elections.
The Laotian Government, however, continues to stamp out any peaceful demonstrations, such as the one held on 26 October 1999 and, more recently, on 17 November 2000.
The resolution before the House denounces these human rights violations and reminds the Lao People' s Democratic Republic that, as a partner of the European Union through a Cooperation Agreement signed in April 1997, it undertook to promote and protect all human rights.
On behalf of my group, I would urge you to support it so that the European Parliament can make its voice heard in this troubled area of the world.
Guinea-Conakry Mr President, one of the greatest humanitarian dramas at present being played out on the world stage is the refugee problem in Guinea.
For more than five months hundreds of thousands of refugees from Liberia, Sierra Leone and Guinea have been hemmed in between the warring sides.
His proposal for the establishment of a safety corridor, which will enable refugees to return to their home countries quickly, deserves international support.
Our resolution says that we must urge all the countries in the region to refrain from activities directed against a neighbouring country, and so we must.
We in the European Union must put our voice, and whatever weight we have, behind them to help them.
Guinea is in a certain sense the victim of the fact that it admitted hundreds of thousands of refugees from Liberia into its territory, including members of the rebel group opposed to Charles Taylor.
Liberia is the destabilising factor in the region.
The international organisation for migration has in fact already begun moving a first group of 35 000 refugees.
Apart from that, Mr President, I feel that the Council should also investigate reports of possible support from France for the regime in Liberia.
The situation is critical.
The Guinean Government must allow the victims to settle in areas that are further from the fighting and the borders.
I am even of the opinion that the territorial integrity of a state like Guinea must be protected.
I believe that it is important to reiterate that, in a country that has no respect for the most basic democratic principles and where the slightest opposition is quashed, it is not surprising, although it is extremely regrettable, that one of the regime' s opposition parties has joined the rebellion and allied itself with the URF.
Despite the poverty, it offered a safe refuge for refugees from Sierra Leone and Liberia.
Thousands are hiding in the jungle or are wandering fearfully in the heat without food, water or hope.
Above all, Charles Taylor must take Liberia in hand.
Mr President, any normal human being would be moved by the sight of refugees from Sierra Leone wandering the streets of Guinea, bullied, beaten and humiliated by soldiers in the Guinean Army or some armed gang or other.
However, once again, outrage is not enough to conceal British imperialist involvement in the civil wars in Sierra Leone, France' s involvement in Guinea' s dictatorship or even the involvement of large diamond traders, led by de Beers, in funding, the armed gangs directly or indirectly.
Nigeria Mr President, since 1998 eight states in Nigeria have enforced a form of Islamic law which allows corporal punishment, despite the fact that it contravenes both the Nigerian Constitution and international covenants on human rights to which Nigeria has signed up.
Despite having lodged an appeal against her sentence of 100 lashes, the sentence was carried out in January without even her lawyers being informed.
The resolution we have before us sends out two clear messages.
The first is that we in the European Parliament are not prepared to ignore human rights abuses anywhere and so we condemn without reservation the treatment of Bariya Ibrahim Magazu and call upon the Nigerian Government to prevent any repeat of such abuse in future.
But the second is that we are also making a commitment, as a parliament, to support the creation of a democratic and just society in Nigeria by strengthening the dialogue between ourselves and that country.
My good friend Thomas Mann spoke about the denial of the right to practise religion in one part of the world.
It is quite hard to be moderate in the language we use to condemn this barbarous and cruel act which took place against a 17-year-old girl in Nigeria.
The cruelty of the sentence, and the fact that she had given birth one month before, makes it very difficult for us to accept any assurances from the government of Nigeria that they are protecting the civil rights of their people and their own population.
I would ask the European Commission to take into consideration standards of human rights in all the aid schemes and cooperation schemes that the European Union puts into effect.
The state of affairs there appals many Pakistanis, both within the country and throughout the world, people who are proud of their religious faith and who are also committed to fundamental human rights.
Since 1991, Islamic Sharia law has applied in Pakistan.
The PPE-DE Group calls on the European Commission to review all its agreements with Pakistan as a matter of urgency and to revise them as necessary.
Mr President, with regard to China, I would point out that the European Union is steadfastly determined to promote respect for human rights in this area, as in other parts of the world, and that we share Parliament' s concern about religious freedom in that country.
In 1996, a human rights dialogue between the European Union and China was established and, within this framework, we are maintaining a frank debate on these matters.
We are talking not only about the Catholic and Protestant Churches, but also about any other type of faith.
Other topics raised with China are the repression of political dissent, the arbitrary conditions of detention, the frequent recourse to the death penalty and the repression of ethnic minorities.
The European Union' s General Affairs Council openly expressed this point of view in its conclusions concerning the human rights dialogue between China and the European Union, published on 22 January.
We think that all the safeguards need to be fully respected in fair trials in which adequate defences are mounted.
I should also like to point out, regarding this matter, that China has been urged to make further progress towards fully respecting the cultural, linguistic and religious identity of the Tibetan people and to enter into an open dialogue with the Dalai Lama.
A cause of special concern for everyone is the intolerance of, for example, political opposition, as demonstrated by the detention of a number of people in October and November 1999 for demonstrating against the government.
I can certainly assure you that the Commission will specifically use the EU-ASEAN meetings as a bilateral context in which to raise all these problems.
The Commission is pursuing a two-pronged strategy through ECHO, on the one hand in the framework of the year 2000 intervention plan for Sierra Leone' s refugees through which an amount of more than EUR 2.5 million has already been allocated to the operations in Guinea and, on the other hand, in the framework of the contracts which have been entered into with the associated NGOs and which are being modified to take account of recent events.
ECHO is also preparing two funding decisions for 2001: one in favour of Sierra Leone, for EUR 11 million; and the other in favour of Guinea, for between EUR 3 and 6 million.
Two additional topics commented on during the debate were the responsibilities of Liberia - what can be done? - and the problems in Guinea.
With regard to Liberia, I should like to point out that, as you have indicated, the experts' report from the United Nations on arms and diamonds in Sierra Leone makes it crystal clear what Liberia' s responsibilities are in the conflict.
With regard to Nigeria, I should like to point out that the Commission condemns the flagellation of an adolescent in accordance with Islamic law and is concerned specifically about the application of the Sharia in some areas of Nigeria.
The Commission is aware - as I believe you too are - of the fact that the situation in Nigeria is politically very sensitive and that the new, democratically elected government is endeavouring to improve respect for human rights in Nigeria.
The Commission and the Member States will be meeting in March to try to reach some common position on Nigeria.
The meeting will consider what is the best way to deal with these various topics.
A mission from Brussels is discussing, in Nigeria, how the future programme for that country is to be implemented.
The final subject you raised with me was the subject of Pakistan.
It is true that, compared with other countries in southern Asia, its attitude is, or has been, relatively commendable.
However, the incident makes it clear that the European Union should remain alert to the issue of freedom of expression in general and freedom of the press in particular.
In spite of the public apologies offered by the editors of the newspaper, Frontier Post, there is indeed no guarantee that no action will be taken against them.
If action is, in fact, taken against them, it will undoubtedly help create an atmosphere hostile to the press in general.
The Commission believes that the military government should make a major effort to control religious intolerance in Pakistan and regrets that earlier initiatives to change the blasphemy law were blocked.
In the specific political discussions with the Pakistani Government in November 2000, the troika, while congratulating the government on its commitment to respecting human rights and media freedom, indicated that there were still problems in a number of areas, particularly when it came to judicial practices and the restrictions upon the activities of political parties.
In an interview the Russian parliamentarian Boris Nemtsov describes a meeting with a young Chechen woman in a refugee camp in the neighbouring republic of Ingushetia.
I therefore respectfully request the Council and the Commission in the forthcoming meetings with President Putin and his government to adopt this peaceful Russian solution to the Russo-Chechen tragedy.
I would also like to thank my friend, Mr Bernd Posselt, in particular, for his efforts to ensure that Parliament is at long last adopting a resolution on Chechnya.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament is about to adopt its 13th resolution since the outbreak of the first war in Chechnya in 1994.
As you know, our counterparts in the Council of Europe have recognised the efforts of the Russian representatives - and there certainly have been such efforts - to improve the human rights situation in Chechnya by restoring their voting rights in the Strasbourg assembly.
The analysis delivered by the Human Rights Watch on the situation in Chechnya is very alarming.
Mr President, last December the European Parliament adopted a highly critical resolution and declared that it would not remain silent in the face of continued abuses of human rights, particularly the sort of abuses that have been taking place in the last two years of the war in Chechnya.
Mr President, I cannot speak about Chechnya here without thinking back more than ten years when the Baltic States were struggling for their freedom.
As this example - along with the fact that Chechnya lies within the ambit of the Council of Europe and its Human Rights Convention - shows us quite clearly, Chechnya is not one of those problems on the opposite side of the globe but an essentially European problem.
We must tell our Russian partners quite clearly that this is a sine qua non in our eyes and that it is high time they started negotiating with the elected representatives of the Chechen people.
We shall only be able to make progress in negotiations with the Russians if we take their concerns seriously too.
The human rights violations in Chechnya must be condemned, but at the same time we must continue to develop cooperation and dialogue.
It seems to me that the criticism of conditions in the refugee and prison camps which is voiced by the Council and the Commission, as well as by the governments of the Member States, whenever they meet with the Russians, has become something of a mechanical routine which has absolutely no effect.
For that reason I should like to ask the Commission to specify the measures it proposes to take in the immediate future in order to make progress towards a political solution to the conflict in Chechnya.
Mr President, we in the ELDR Group are in despair and filled with impotent rage concerning what is happening in Chechnya.
The medieval warfare against civilians violates everything in which we believe in the European Union and cannot be justified in terms of the terrorist actions perpetrated by certain groups of Chechens.
The decisions taken recently by President Putin and the Russian Government with a view to normalising the situation in that republic in the Northern Caucasus are certainly worth mentioning.
Control of the security forces is now in civilian hands.
Some essential steps have been taken in the judicial area.
The Commission has made repeated representations to this effect to the Russian authorities and my colleague Commissioner Patten is raising the matter again in Moscow today.
The Russian Government recognised the need for a political solution in the joint declaration made after the last summit with the European Union held in Paris last October.
The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
Earthquake in India Mr President, I think that the tragedy unfolding in India demanded some response from the European Parliament.
I believe that this is also an important issue since the European Union must strengthen its cooperation and work towards a strategic partnership with India.
I hope that Commissioner Patten, in particular, will ensure that everything is done to deal with this tragedy as best we can.
In paragraph 4 of our resolution, we point out that some buildings in this region were weakened by structural faults.
The authorities have acted quickly despite a series of aftershocks.
Floods in Portugal Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, as has already been stated in this House, the harsh winter in Portugal this year has been characterised by terrible floods which have caused loss of human life and enormous suffering, high levels of material damage costing billions of escudos, the destruction or damage of homes, transport infrastructure, telecommunications networks and energy grids and considerable damage to economic sectors, particularly agriculture and trade.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, hardly a single winter that I have lived through has stuck in my memory, but this year, winter made itself memorable in a particularly harsh way in Portugal, as Mrs Figueiredo has just described.
Almost every single river in Portugal burst its banks and there are towns in my country which have suffered four consecutive floods in the course of this winter with the rains that have fallen since November.
The crisis was felt particularly acutely in the centre of the country, affecting the Mondego basin most tragically, but it affected communities to some extent throughout the country.
Now, questions about reconstruction are being asked and I would add my voice to those of my fellow Portuguese Members in asking the Commission to work together with the Portuguese authorities at national and local level to aid reconstruction, to list the damage done and to support the reconstruction of the areas that have been affected with both financial and technical resources.
The second issue concerns my country, Portugal.
We must all work together, not only in order to help the people who need urgent assistance, but also in taking precautions with the measures and actions that predict and reduce the probability of similar disasters in the future.
In fact, even more important than the material size of such a contribution is its symbolic, moral and emotional effect.
Mr President, regarding, first of all, the European Parliament' s resolution on the earthquake in India, I want to point out - and a number of you have already made this point - that the Commission approved its emergency first aid to the value of EUR 3 million on 30 January, just four days after the events.
It is therefore vital to deal with all aid opportunities together and, in order to fill the gap between emergency and long-term aid, the Commission will lose no time at all in sending a study mission to assess reconstruction and renovation needs in situ.
There have undoubtedly been problems in many regions of Europe, involving heavy rain and storms, together with floods which have caused considerable material damage and, in certain cases, the loss of human life as well.
As early as 31 January, my colleague Michel Barnier used the occasion of the part-session in Brussels to express his openness towards any request from the Portuguese authorities to re-adjust the programming of the Structural Funds.
Finally, I should like once again to remind you of the Commission' s concern and of its willingness, within the framework of what is at present possible, to respond promptly and positively to the requests which Portugal might, under this general heading, submit as a consequence of these events.
The debate on items on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to deal with why we have tabled this issue regarding decisions in Ireland.
It is imperative that economic policy in this European domestic market is drawn up in accordance with common guidelines.
Let there be no doubt that this shall remain a priority for us in the future.
This then raises the question: who should be responsible for European economic policy in the future?
We must be clear on who is responsible for what, so that where there is success praise may be given and where there is failure, which may also occur, we are able to say that a particular country or a particular institution is at fault.
As Commissioner Mario Monti has demonstrated time and time again, the European Commission takes this task very seriously indeed.
The European Commission is also responsible for currency stability, on the one hand through the strong European Central Bank and on the other hand through finance ministers, charged with monitoring the stability and growth pact.
In order to maintain a proper balance between fiscal and monetary policies, the Stability Pact is, of course, implemented alongside the broad economic guidelines.
It dates back to 1998 and had already been revealed in the broad economic guidelines.
It was also revealed in 1999 and again in 2000.
I believe that knowing this may help us to clarify two issues: what is the reason for the concern of the Commission, firstly, and of the Member States, secondly.
I shall quote two facts from the 2001 budget: the fact that the current expenditure approved in the budget assumes a 1.06% increase in Irish Gross Domestic Product, and the fact that tax is to be reduced by 0.57%.
In 2001, that figure has risen to 5.4%.
We are therefore talking about a very expansionist budgetary policy, at a time when the Irish Government has committed itself, in terms of the broad economic guidelines, to a budgetary policy which, in principle, ought to be more restrictive with a view to offsetting the other problems.
I appreciate that, from the media' s point of view, it is much more appealing to talk in terms of sanctions.
When we speak about recommendations, we are indicating to the Irish Government that the budgetary policy it has defined is inconsistent with what they agreed and will lead to additional problems concerned with the overheating of its economy.
Madam President, Commissioner, when we in Ireland signed up for economic and monetary union, we accepted the central tenet of economic and monetary union, namely closer coordination of economic and budgetary policies of Member States.
Commissioner, I was listening carefully to see if I could extract from what you said precisely what breaches of the country-specific guidelines Ireland is guilty of to warrant the recommendations of the Ecofin Council under Article 99 of the Treaty, last Monday, at your behest.
Our finance minister, Charlie McCreevy, told the Irish Parliament this week that he had no problem with advice to Ireland setting out the Council's view of the appropriate policy mix to achieve economic stability.
And the same applies elsewhere, particularly in the United Kingdom.
I fail to see why Ireland's transgressions could not have been handled more tactfully, more diplomatically, with more understanding - both by you, Commissioner, and indeed by our somewhat maverick, though genial, finance minister.
To many observers it appears to have been in the end about egos and macho behaviour all round - all in the context of an economic turnaround in Ireland in the last six to seven years that is the envy of many.
There are occasions when "a one size fits all" economic model does not fit.
Securing the continuation of social partnership with our unions, employers, farmers and government and, through it, wage moderation has to be a priority for our government given its huge contribution to our economic success over many years.
If I had to point to one single factor that has contributed more than any other to the turnaround in the Irish economy, I would have to cite the Social Partners' Agreement which allowed us to trade competitively in the single market and to attract inward investment because of the stability it brought to wage negotiations.
Reckless, because it has needlessly damaged the standing of Ireland in the Union and because it feeds xenophobia in Ireland by putting in doubt the possibility of the Nice Treaty being ratified.
Reckless, because it feeds Eurosceptism in the UK and Denmark and it cannot be in the long-term interests of either Europe or Ireland for either Denmark, the UK or indeed Sweden to remain outside the eurozone.
I would call again on the Irish Government to accept the Ecofin decision and to sit down with the Commission to discuss how it can best be implemented.
In the Irish Parliament this week, the Minister for Finance outlined five main points on which he claimed he was at odds with the Commission and Ecofin.
He claimed that the Commission recommendation and the Ecofin decision are unreasonable, unwarranted and a misreading of the Irish economy.
I would like to hear Commissioner Solbes address this House today in detail on those points so that we can have some clarity as to the issues that are actually in dispute between the Irish Government and the European Union.
Ireland is a small country dependent upon foreign trade and with an economy closely linked to the British and American economies.
The falling rate of the euro has therefore had more of an impact upon Irish inflation than upon that of other EU countries.
Madam President, Commissioner, as a pro-federalist party, the Group of the Verts/ALE has no objection in principle to the European Union holding an opinion on the national policies of the various Member States.
We believe that it is totally unjustified, first of all, because the admittedly high level of inflation in Ireland may also be related to the specific nature of the Irish economy, which imports not just its oil but also most of its spare parts from two countries, namely the United States and the United Kingdom, who, over the last few years, have significantly revalued their currencies in relation to the euro.
The second reason is that there is no evidence at all that the 2001 budget is "pro-cyclical" ; quite the opposite, the American air pocket and American slump risk making it an extremely counter-cyclical budget.
I shall now turn to the topic of our debate and say that I welcome the opportunity that we have to give our views on the significance and impact of the decision that the Commission, then the Council, have taken to use for the first time the Treaty of Amsterdam provision in order to address not a sanction, Commissioner, but a public reprimand to a Member State, in this instance, Ireland, as well as to severely rebuke several other countries for not complying with all the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact.
I believe that this will provide many people with food for thought regarding the liberal logic of the current economic and monetary union, just months before the euro intrudes into the everyday lives of 300 million European citizens.
When the President of the Commission said that sometimes, the schoolmaster must punish even the best pupil, he revealed a stunningly original perception of the new European method of governing.
I am counting on the great debate on the future of Europe, which has everyone talking, not to focus on abstract institutional reforms alone but to be based on actual experiences such as those of citizens in the countries which have been targeted by the harsh criticism of the Commission and the Council.
Madam President, first of all I want to thank you for chairing this session and also to thank the Commissioner for coming along.
In Ireland we have a commonly used phrase - "if it is not broken, why fix it".
Our present growth rate at 11% is over three times the average of other Member States.
Ireland will shortly become a net contributor to the European Union budget where previously it was a net beneficiary.
However, on this occasion, I believe that the European Commission has misjudged the special nature of how the Irish economy operates.
In 1991, 1.15 million people were in our workforce.
Coercion and coordination are two diametrically opposed political and human theories.
I am elected to represent the people of Ireland, and I and my colleagues in this Parliament will continue to represent what is in the best interests of the people of Ireland.
In conclusion, the holding of this debate on this occasion is very welcome.
Madam President, Mr Solbes Mira, the economic achievements of Ireland in the past decade provoke great admiration.
The criticism by the European Commission of the policy of the Irish Government therefore seems very strange.
The only guarantee is that an economic policy that does not suit all countries will be forced onto the various Member States.
However, the question is more complex because, behind the condemnation of Ireland, there are larger targets in the firing line and France is, perhaps, the prime target.
France had undertaken to reduce its public spending and to make tax cuts.
We can see that France has the highest level of public spending of all the countries in the eurozone.
None of this is satisfactory but you do not say anything, because France, like Germany and Italy and other countries, is too big for you to handle.
In fact, in this matter, we are suffering from a lack of Europe rather than an excess of Europe, and it is the smaller countries that are taking the rap for this deficiency!
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the Commission and the Council because we have one year before the euro is introduced for real and this economic policy coordination, which we have been hoping and praying for since we changed over to the euro, really needs to take shape.
I do not know when or how the Commission and the Council would be able to use this procedure in Article 99, and paragraph 4 in particular, if not on this occasion.
We would like to thank him in advance and we hope that we will be able to improve the system on this basis.
Perhaps what we should be criticising is the gap between BEPGs in the budget, rather than the recommendation that the Commission has just drawn up.
The problem today is that the Commission is dismissing a budget that the Irish Parliament has already adopted and it is assessing the outcome of internal debates held in Ireland, France, Germany and Italy after the fact.
Let us move on to the question or whether a large or a small country should have been reprimanded.
Do you think that one day the Commission could have criticised a larger country which was sending out negative messages that might weaken economic and monetary union if it had not previously responded in this way to a smaller country? - I still do not know the difference between a larger and a smaller country, but never mind.
Madam President, the economic unification of Europe is a great adventure, but fortunately we have fifteen Ministers of Finance who keep a close watch on each other in Ecofin.
Madam President, I believe that the Commission's censure of Ireland is a serious breach of Ireland's democratic freedom.
This is an aspect of Irish inflation which has been completely ignored by the European Commission.
In fact, if the European Commission had deliberately decided on a course which would alienate the UK from joining the euro, by revealing itself to be an out-of-date bureaucracy which tries to bully elected governments in ways that are completely outside its brief, it could not have done better.
Furthermore, I recognise that everything discussed in the Commission was in secret and everything discussed in the Council was in secret.
And we had to accept the press releases from the propagandists when it was all over.
A Commission study, when Ireland had an economic growth rate of 10%, showed that the transfer of structural funds to Ireland only contributed 1.5%, if that.
Commissioner, I wish to begin by reiterating your words at the very beginning of your speech, to the effect that in this matter, the role of the Commission is to coordinate the economic policies of the countries of the European Union and this function has nothing to do with the normal transfer of Community funds.
Commissioner, I would like you to answer the following questions: how do you think the Irish economy can be cooled down when the rate of inflation in Ireland is higher than the interest rate set by the European Central Bank and, therefore, money in Ireland is very cheap?
However, that is why we must not forget our experiences of the crisis during the Nineties.
We are judging Ireland against its own commitments, accepted in accordance with the broad economic guidelines.
However, it is not only my concern but also that of Ireland' s Central Bank, which I assume is familiar enough with the situation of the Irish economy and clearly understands that the current budget gives a substantial procyclical boost to the economy.
My duty as Commissioner responsible for these matters is to apply the broad economic guidelines, which are compulsory in a way that the Stability Pact is not.
The broad economic guidelines are the model we duly agreed for inclusion in the Treaty of Maastricht.
No one should therefore imagine that there are motives or problems of any other kind, large or small.
Reference was made to the lack of diplomacy on the part of the Commission.
I can assure you that none of the leaks that have appeared in the press come from my department in the Commission.
We are using a recommendation to highlight an example of incorrect behaviour in the light of the economic policy guidelines.
And this is not inconsistent with good behaviour in terms of growth and inflation.
I think that all these technical subjects can be discussed.
It is true that nominal inflation has gone down in the last two months in Ireland.
Here, we are embarking upon a subject that is difficult to assess because it is necessary to ratify the Treaty of Nice and because it is a factor that will impact upon other models.
And, in spite of all that, the decision was taken, as I have just said, on the proposal of the Commission and, so to speak, with the assent of the Council of Ministers.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, as you will see there are very few people here.
The situation was the same last month.
Before the vote on the resolution on religious freedom in China Mr President, regarding the following resolution, my group felt bound to sign the joint resolution on religious freedoms in China in order to demonstrate that, in our view, there are no borders when it comes to defending freedom of conscience and freedom of expression.
On the other hand, most of the Members of my group are totally opposed to any reference to the Falun Gong movement in this resolution.
