Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 21 January 2000.
Madam President, allow me to remind you that tomorrow will be the second anniversary of the Cermis tragedy.
Two years ago, in Cavalese in Italy, an American aeroplane from the Aviano NATO base cut through the cables of a cable car during a low-flying exercise which exceeded safe limits, causing the deaths of more than 20 Europeans.
Madam President, it would really be very difficult to imagine a debate which is more in accordance with Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure.
Madam President, I shall speak against this proposal on the grounds of a principle which I consider absolutely vital with regard to observance of the Treaties, and with particular regard to Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Well, patently, if we do open this debate today, Madam President, as you are requesting and as the Conference of Presidents is requesting, on the basis of Rule 50, we shall then be opening up a fearsome breach in the principle of the freedom and sovereignty of the national states and the free constitution of democratically elected governments, enabling some other majority in this Parliament, at some future time, to claim the right to interfere in the formation of a government even though it has assumed power on the basis of free, regular, peaceful and democratic elections within a Member State.
Mr Gollnisch, excuse me, you have one minute.
Madam President, I thought I had three minutes.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been requested, on behalf of the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union, to state our position to this Parliament on the current political situation in Austria and its consequences for relations between that country and the Union' s other Member States.
The text of this joint statement has a clearly defined scope and purpose: the bilateral relationship between each of these fourteen countries and an Austrian Government which now comprises members of that country' s Freedom Party.
Let me remind you of what this statement said. 1 - The governments of the fourteen Member States shall not initiate or accept any official bilateral contacts at political level with an Austrian Government which includes the Freedom Party. 2 - Austrian candidates for posts in international organisations will not have the support of these fourteen countries. 3 - Austrian ambassadors in the Union' s capitals will only be received in the technical sense.
Basically, the view these states share of the political situation in Austria led them to conclude that the possible inclusion in the Austrian Government of a party such as the Freedom Party could bring about a change in respect for the common values which the Member States of the European Union are committed to safeguarding.
Those elections showed - and this also needs to be emphasised - that the great majority of Austrians are still not in favour of Mr Haider' s party.
Austria has every right to choose the government it wishes, but we also have a right and duty to state our opinion on any political choices which we feel infringe Austria' s international commitments.
Today this applies to Austria, but tomorrow it could apply to any other country in the European Union. (Applause) Let me repeat that point: this applies to Austria today and it would apply tomorrow to any Member State of the European Union.
It already stated yesterday that it shared the concerns expressed by 14 Member States of the Union, concerns that have been reiterated here by the representative of the Presidency.
The duty of a strong supranational institution is not to isolate one of its members, but instead to permanently bind it to its deep-seated values.
Indeed, the European Union would not survive without the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights.
These principles form an integral part of the rule of law, and the Commission, which is the guarantor of that rule of law, will be relentless in upholding them.
Founded over 900 years ago, Bologna University, my alma mater, is the oldest university in the world.
In recognition of this, as the first act of my presidency, I chose to visit Auschwitz, in order to say loud and clear, in the silence that is proper and fitting for such a place of memory, that Europe has not forgotten, and to repeat that the Europe of today and tomorrow is, can only be and will always be a union of freedom, law, security and peace.
We condemn the faux pas he has made in the last few days, especially those against the French President, Jacques Chirac, and the Belgian Government.
We, the PPE-DE Group, champion human dignity, the state under the rule of law, democracy and freedom, and we defend these principles and values across the political spectrum. (Applause) The Christian Democrats, who form a key element of our group - and a great many people are probably unaware of this - evolved from the opposition to the totalitarianism of National Socialism, which was every bit as inhuman, but also to the totalitarianism of those despisers of mankind, the Communists. (Applause) As the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and of the European Democrats, we also represent today the values of the founding fathers of European unification - Robert Schuman, Alcide de Gasperi, Konrad Adenauer and Winston Churchill, and there were many others - and the values of the founders of Europe are our values, even today in the year 2000.
At this point I would say: we have faith in our Austrian friends in the Austrian European People' s Party. (Applause) We must not forget that the European People' s Party, together with Alois Mock and Wolfgang Schüssel - one was the Minister for Trade and Commerce and the other was the Foreign Minister - was the party that did the most to pave the way for Austria' s entry into the European Union.
We anticipate that a government under the leadership of the ÖVP, if it comes to that, will represent and uphold the values and principles of our European People' s Party, and these principles constitute an unequivocal declared belief in the dignity of all human beings and in tolerance towards all human beings.
We do not want there to be isolation within Europe, rather we want to bring the peoples of Europe together, so as to enable the future of our continent in the twenty-first century to be one of freedom, democracy and peace. (Loud applause from the PPE-DE Group) Madam President, President of the Commission, President-in-Office of the Council, the Group of the Party of European Socialists hopes that this debate will send three messages to the European public.
Firstly, we wish to express our total support for, and our solidarity with, the statement of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council and the 14 Member States, because we believe that this statement is in accordance with the common values, and not just the political force, which we have all built together.
I also believe that the Commission, or President Prodi, has acted as a guardian of the Treaties.
Secondly, Madam President, we wish to send a very clear message to the Austrian people.
Therefore, Madam President, I believe that it is our right and our obligation to ask the Austrians to reconsider and reflect, because this type of menace, which we have suffered before in Europe, may not only harm Austria, but it may also spread, and I say this bearing history in mind.
We support the Council and we believe that it is our right and our obligation to appeal to the Austrian people to seriously reconsider this completely crazy option. (Applause from the PSE Group) Madam President, my group welcomes this debate because it is a defining moment.
That may be, but let me place on the record today a long and difficult experience which we Liberal Democrats had with the Austrian FPÖ in our Liberal International family.
Words in politics can be incendiary, can be inflammatory, or can be conciliatory.
We respect the rights of the Austrian people to their own democratic process.
We defend the rights and constitutional prerogatives of the Austrian people, but we here in the European Parliament have the duty to recall our fundamental values as set out in Article 6 of the Treaty - the values of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights.
Every right-thinking person in this House believes that these are universal and indivisible without regard to colour, class or creed.
I share with President Prodi a preference for the Community method and we must look at Article 6 and Article 7 of the Treaty.
Article 7 talks about the possibility of suspension in the event of serious or persistent breaches of our fundamental values.
Then we can work together by the Community method to root out this cancer within our midst.
Mr Schüssel - you are assuming a very serious, personal, national and European responsibility.
Finally, Madame President, this is a debate which touches on the heart of our democratic values and institutions and calls to mind that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance.
For the first time, the European Union is facing the possibility of having representatives in the Council of Ministers and here among us of a party which obviously holds views and puts forward legislation contrary to the values of the European Union.
I feel, finally, that this is a case of political decline of the European Union as such and it therefore also sends a negative message outside the Union, when we are speaking in the name of democracy and human rights.
I have heard, Mr Poettering, that you have been following events in Austria.
The European Union has certainly previously known situations where there were people in a Member State government whose ideas and actions were in contradiction to the guiding values of the Union.
The great joining of forces in protest in Vienna on 12 November last year must now undergo developments suited to the new situation.
This debate is now before us, but each and every one of us, male and female, is going to assume their responsibilities without delay. (Applause) Madam President, we could have been debating the need to reinforce the founding principles of the Union, so that we can uphold them together.
We believe in Europe, while it seems that others have started the process of breaking up the Union.
If we were to apply the criteria of Articles 6 and 7 or the Copenhagen criteria to the European Union, then, most certainly, this European Union could not become a member, although the countries of Eastern Europe are required to meet them.
We might well wonder why 76% of Belgian citizens have no faith in the justice system in their country or why 56% of French citizens have no confidence in their country' s system of justice, and 53% of Italian citizens have absolutely no confidence in Italian justice... (The President cut the speaker off) Madame President, my group, the EDD, and especially my party, are very concerned by this debate.
We also, however, deplore the fact that your Parliament should consider interfering in the policies of an elected government of any country, especially one which is part of the European Union.
Then, and only then, might you consider if human rights are affected.
Your Parliament may consider measures appropriate to counter that situation and then, Madame President and only then, may your Parliament consider interfering in the constitutional affairs of a country of the European Union.
Madam President, as a representative of the Freedom Party, I respect the concerns some of my fellow MEPs have with regard to the democratic developments in Austria.
The FPÖ party is established in Austria' s political landscape.
What many Austrians are wondering today is why their democratic decision has suddenly been interpreted as an expression of a fascistic cast of mind, and why the campaign did not begin until the Freedom Party rejected the support of a minority government comprising the SPÖ?
I am filled with disgust when certain of our opponents get mileage out of the millions of deaths that took place in the gas chambers of the concentration camps as cheap propaganda, as, for example, the Italian MEP Bertinotti did yesterday on Italian TV when he accused Mr Haider of denying the holocaust.
The attacks against Austria' s new government and the attempts to exert political influence in a Member State are an insult to the Austrian people.
The Austrian People' s Party, which I represent here in this Parliament, used to be and still is a party that has consistently spoken up for the integration of my country into the EU and feels deeply attached to the community of values that is the European Union, and likewise its basic political principles of deepening and enlargement.
A declared belief in human rights, democracy and the rule of law, in an honest reappraisal of Austria' s role in the past, in passing on information on the gravest crime against humanity in the 20th century, the holocaust, will also be reflected in the fundamental accord underlying a future coalition government between the ÖVP and FPÖ.
I believe - as do many who for years have campaigned against Haider and his brand of politics, and especially my colleagues in the Social Democratic delegation in this Chamber - that the various measures announced by the international community, insofar as they do not have any bearing on the government and its representatives, are grave and also inappropriate.
and that includes their representatives in this Parliament.
However, in my view, he will be no more able or willing to be integrated into this, into our political system, and into the Europe of today, than any other extreme right-wing movement.
We know that most Austrians respect these values.
The fact that we are stressing this is all the more important because, as you know, we essentially disagree with the policies made by Europe, with its economic and social policies, its democratic deficit and the Member States' involvement in the terrible war in the Balkans.
The position taken by the presidency has shown that it is aware of this tragedy for civilisation.
Madam President, despite the fundamental democratic principle of the respect for human rights and the freedom and sovereignty of peoples, which opposes fascism, nazism or communism, both new and old, and despite all the previous speakers talking about the sovereignty of the Austrian people, we are today witnessing this sovereignty being denied by Parliament.
In the manifesto of the Austrian Democratic Freedom Party, there is nothing to justify the accusations that it is attacking the principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms or the rule of law, enshrined in Article 6 of the Treaties.
We are debating nothing less than the presence in a Member State' s government of a political force whose doctrine and principles are incompatible with the conceptual and moral bases of the Union enshrined in its founding Treaties.
A simple reading of chapter 4, article 1 of the Austrian Freedom Party' s manifesto is enough to make any democratic conscience shudder.
The question is whether the Union can remain indifferent to the formation of a government in a Member State which includes such a party.
Our answer to this crucial question is no.
The one and only significance of the European Union is the will to transcend the atrocious history of the twentieth century which gave the coup de grâce to any ideal of humanism within the heart of Europe, and which is still highly topical today.
Of course, the Treaty provides us with a barrier when things become intolerable; I was almost going to say 'irreparable' .
Madam President, I am pleased about the fact that, in Austria, the will of the large majority of the people is being respected and that this formation of government constitutes, in my eyes, a huge victory for democracy.
Let there be no doubt about it: we decline with thanks a Europe which develops into a kind of "big brother" and which keeps watch over left-wing political correctness in one Member State or another in a Stalinist way and using Stalinist methods.
Today, we thank the Austrian people for this democratic triumph which is important to all nations within Europe and to anyone who feels particularly strongly about freedom and freedom of speech.
My delegation of 37 Conservative and Unionist Members from the United Kingdom reject absolutely the underlying philosophy, programme and tone of Austria' s Freedom Party.
Madam President, Representative of the Council, Commissioner, a week ago, the big international Holocaust Conference ended in Stockholm.
Secondly, I want to say that we must be consistent in our own behaviour and in our evaluations.
It is not acceptable to continue as if nothing had happened.
The Austrian Freedom Party leader, Mr Haider, has repeatedly repudiated these values.
We keep reminding them about Article 6 of the Treaty.
First of all, could I express my thanks on behalf of President Prodi and my colleagues in the Commission for the support and understanding offered by several Members of the House to the position taken by the Commission in the statement that we made yesterday.
We made explicit reference yesterday morning in our statement, as did the President this afternoon, to the fact that we share the concern demonstrated by fourteen Member States in their statement on Monday.
Secondly, we said, in very specific terms, that we will work closely with all Member States in examining the situation as it develops in Austria.
And, when I say that the Commission took that view, I include my dear colleague Franz Fischler, who is from Austria; and who, once again, demonstrated his integrity and his independence as a Member of the European Commission, under oath, in being part of that statement that we made yesterday morning.
I say that in friendship and honour to my friend and colleague, Franz Fischler.
In order to ensure that the Treaty is upheld and that we sustain what was described as the Community machine, we are following the course of action which was set down in our statement yesterday.
That is our duty.
And, when we recall that, like many others on all sides of this House, my and my colleagues' instincts are naturally aroused.
However, the Commission has to act on the basis of values and law and not only on the basis of instinct.
Thank you, Commissioner Kinnock.
The debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed.
The precautionary principle is not a new concept.
It involves taking action in a given policy area when the science is not clear, but where there are reasonable grounds for concern that the potential risks are big enough to require action.
We also hope that the communication will help to build a better common understanding of how to manage risks and to dispel fears that the precautionary principle might be used in an arbitrary way or as a disguised form of trade protectionism.
The Commission' s starting point in applying the precautionary principle is the need to ensure a high level of protection in the fields of environmental, human, animal and plant health.
As such, while the precautionary principle does not involve the politicisation of science, as some have alleged, it does take us to the crossroads between science and politics.
The initial decision to apply the precautionary principle depends largely on the level of protection sought and the level of risk that decision-makers are prepared to accept for society.
This communication does not pretend to be the final word on this issue; however, it is the first time that the Commission has presented a structured presentation of the principle and its operational use.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you very much for your statement.
Yes, I would say we already use this way of working with different, difficult issues like a new chemical strategy for example.
Mr President, Commissioner, regarding the relationship between science, on the one hand, and applying the precautionary principle on the other, the communication states that invoking that precautionary principle always requires a political decision if there is a lack of scientific evidence.
They have to look at, for example, the concerns of people in relation to a special issue, and they have to judge from what is known about the scientific evidence in a certain case.
However, it is true that it does not need a big majority of the scientific community to be able to use the precautionary principle.
It can be used on evidence from a minority or where science is incomplete.
You have to decide whether you want to put people in danger, for example, or if you want to protect the environment; and you have to look at the science that is available.
Mr President, I have a question concerning an actual, concrete case in which it should be possible to apply the precautionary principle.
The first question concerns the implementation of the precautionary principle.
My second question concerns the burden of proof.
The second question concerns the reversed burden of proof.
Consideration should be given to what science is offering in the way of knowledge, and this should be used as an important political tool for protecting the environment and people' s health.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
Intergovernmental Conference The next item is the report (A5-0018/2000) by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference [14094/1999 - C5-0341/1999 - 1999/0825(CNS)].
The Intergovernmental Conference that is about to begin is important, both in a general sense and more particularly in view of the imminent enlargement.
This is because the Helsinki agenda is limited to consideration only of the three issues that relate in a fragmentary way to the structure and operation of just two of the European Union' s institutional bodies.
Granted this, the new Intergovernmental Conference must not fail to include in its agenda issues which, properly addressed, would ensure the correct operation of all and not just some of the European Union' s institutions.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, in common with my co-rapporteur, Mr Dimitrakopoulos, I take the view that the agenda agreed on in Helsinki is not up to meeting the challenges that enlargement of the EU by 13 new states will bring.
On 18 November 1999, we named the key points on our agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference 2000.
I would just like to reiterate a few points: provisions for reinforced cooperation with these 20 and 25 Member States, integrating security and defence policy into the Community framework, incorporating the Charter of Citizens' rights into the new Treaty, constitutionalising the Union by dividing it into a main part and a subsidiary part, reforming Article 48 so that when it comes to future treaty amendments, Parliament will play a real part in the negotiations on an equal footing, and - another thing worthy of mention - a statute for European parties so that the next European elections are actually fought on the basis of European issues rather than taking the form of national debates on domestic policy.
In addition to a wider agenda we also want an improved method for the elaboration of this new European treaty.
In the interests of the citizens, we must provide for greater transparency in the political process during the Intergovernmental Conference.
All the more reason for the representatives of the European Parliament to participate fully in the preparation group, at ministerial level as well as at the meetings of the European Council, insofar as this Council concerns itself with matters pertaining to the Intergovernmental Conference.
The national governments decided to open this Intergovernmental Conference on 14 February.
The opinion we are placing before you is a clear signal to the governments not to miss the last opportunity we will have before enlargement to implement ambitious reforms within the EU and to raise the level of acceptance of this next European treaty, which is more transparent and provides for the full participation of Parliament.
I too would like to thank the Portuguese Presidency and Commissioner Barnier for their cooperation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my gratitude for the confidence the previous two speakers have expressed in the work the Portuguese Presidency has done on this subject.
I believe that the mechanism we have proposed for this conference has been very well received by the various governments.
I would like to add that our understanding is that they will be able to participate fully, just like any other group member appointed by a Member State or representing the Commission.
I also consider that in choosing its Foreign Minister to chair the ministerial group, the Portuguese Presidency is also trying to give a signal that it wishes to ensure that the President of the European Parliament has a sufficiently high-level representative and not one at a level which could conceivably be interpreted as being less worthy of the role of the president of an institution such as this Parliament.
We have taken note of the proposals put forward by the Commission.
We also hope to be able to hand over to the French Presidency something tangible and as representative as possible of the links that may be established between the Member States in the course of our work.
Mr President, the Group of the European People' s Party was not satisfied with the conclusions of the European Council in Helsinki.
The European Council in Helsinki itself approved enlargement involving 13 new Member States.
We are therefore thinking in terms of the Treaty and we want the agenda of the next Intergovernmental Conference to allow for a deeper reform of the Union.
Having said this, Mr President, this Parliament is holding this debate today because we did not want to delay the start of the Conference.
However, we did not want to do this because we wish to send a clear political signal to the governments and the candidate countries that we want this reform to take place, precisely in order to facilitate enlargement.
The Portuguese Presidency shares many of this Parliament' s aspirations and has committed itself to doing everything it can to ensure that the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference is widened to include other essential issues.
Therefore, the number of issues decided by a qualified majority will increase.
It is already established within the Community acquis that those legislative issues which are decided by a qualified majority are also subject to codecision with Parliament.
However, this Parliament would not be fulfilling its role as a supranational European institution if it did not consider the political design of the Union.
Mr President, for the Socialist Group I can say we will be supporting the draft opinion put forward by the rapporteurs on behalf of the Constitutional Affairs Committee.
The Amsterdam leftovers is not a very good term, because they are very important subjects in themselves.
These first three subjects are very important but they are subjects which were explored in detail by our Member States during the last IGC.
There are other issues that should fruitfully be looked at, especially before such a large widening of the Union to so many new countries.
They have laid out for the public to see some of the crucial issues that we are going to have to address in this IGC.
That is one of the political conclusions that we must draw from the grave decision of 14 Member States yesterday virtually to freeze relations with a partner.
Another is clearly for national parliaments and national political parties to find a reinforced role that they can play inside European Union affairs and to share the shouldering of responsibility to build European parliamentary democracy.
Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that the European Parliament' s decision to rush headlong into giving its opinion on the Intergovernmental Conference undermines the political significance of the request for talks with the Council, and in the end, makes it rather irrelevant.
We would have preferred to have had greater clarification of the agenda and more guarantees on the method before giving our opinion, and frankly, we did not appreciate the discourtesy the Portuguese Presidency showed towards the European Parliament by scheduling the start of the Intergovernmental Conference for Saint Valentine' s day, the first day of the Strasbourg part-session.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, to my mind, it cannot be said often or loud enough that what the Council has adopted in the way of an agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference is completely unacceptable politically and I would add that I consider it to be nothing short of disgraceful.
That is why we as a group are in favour of the Intergovernmental Conference.
What we are talking about is nothing more and nothing less than the future of Europe, and, in particular, a Europe that the citizens truly regard as being theirs, because they are instrumental in shaping it and because the cares and concerns, the problems and issues they face on a daily basis are also taken seriously by politicians.
We also take the view that the political decision-makers must at long last change the habit of a life-time and ask the citizens in referenda, once the Intergovernmental Conference is over, whether or not they go along with the way in which Europe is to continue to develop in the future.
Of course, we are also talking about effectiveness of decisions and functioning institutions in a Union of 27 plus Member States.
I would like to thank the Commission for the proposals they have put forward and I am certain that comprehensive discussions with the citizens will ensue here in the European Parliament, on all the issues you have raised.
It must be adhered to in the interests of the fast, effective work of the conference, prior to enlargement.
We deplore the fact that the Commission, in its opinion of 26 January, limits itself to following the routine path of a standardised Europe enlarging towards the East, a centralised superstate operating on the basis of majority decisions.
Furthermore, the centralised European system, as we can see it developing today and as we can foresee it by extrapolation, erodes nations and, in eroding nations, erodes the national patriotism which forms the basis of our will to defend ourselves.
The Europe which results from this is not stronger but weaker, as it no longer knows what it is or what it is defending.
A flexible Europe, is a Europe which respects its national democracies, which relies on the support of its nations, its national patriotisms, instead of continually persecuting them.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Italian Radicals and I would like to say to the President of the Council that he has seen what Parliament' s opinion is.
We shall give an opinion - which is technically and legally necessary - on convening the IGC on 14 February, but we shall give an unfavourable opinion of its content.
We Radicals have tabled amendments which we are submitting to the House in order to consolidate this text, and for example, to request - just for the sake of mentioning Articles 6 and 7 - that the very minimum be done, i.e., that the European Parliament should also be involved in drawing up the European Constitution and that a proposal be made for the European Parliament to adopt the amendments to the Treaty.
The Finance Ministers behave as if they were in an intergovernmental meeting, when in the Ecofin Council and in the Euro 11 Council, which is an unacceptable way to go on.
The debates we are having these days, on a certain European country' s government, for example, show, do they not, that we must place the spiritual, moral, constitutional, community and common welfare-orientated leanings of the European Union on a firm footing, and that legally binding fundamental rights must also be incorporated into the Treaty for the same reason, as this will be a crucial stabilising factor.
If we succeed in making progress here, then we will also be ready for the historic task of enlarging the European Union.
You spoke to us about the start of your tour around the various capital cities and told us about the difficulties that some governments have in reaching a consensus in their own countries, and therefore in their parliaments.
I would like you to bear in mind that yesterday we had a very worthwhile day of discussions and dialogue with the representatives of the 15 national parliaments, which were represented by competent and exacting delegations.
However, we shall intensify our collaboration and our dialogue with the national parliaments for the entire duration of the Intergovernmental Conference.
The Finnish Presidency only listened to minimalist governments and, unfortunately, turned a deaf ear to this Parliament.
It is of the utmost importance that the European Parliament and the Commission join forces for this IGC.
It also means that our Parliament President and the two representatives should be able to take part on an equal political footing and, therefore, not only within the working party, but also at the same political level as the Commission.
If we allow Europe to be watered down as a result of enlargement, we will drown in our own political quagmire.
After having restricted, on its own initiative, its participation in the IGC to two minor seats, Parliament is now giving up the right to add to the agenda for this IGC.
Hypocrisy to be regretted bitterly, in our resolution, that the agenda for the IGC is not equal to the issues, since in our haste, with blameworthy naivety, we are stopping ourselves forcing through this more ambitious agenda.
Whether we want it or not, since Parliament itself is going to extinguish the only spotlight capable of shedding a little light on the debates, the venue for decisions is now going to move to the 15 Member States of the Union.
In order to assert our fundamental values, they need to be laid down in writing, as a matter of urgency, and, beyond this IGC, I believe we owe Europe a constitution.
The forthcoming enlargement of the Union is used as an argument for this.
Article 56 of the Treaty, prohibiting currency speculation or any interference in the free movement of capital, must be removed so that damaging currency speculation may be checked by means of political control.
It is, however, important to emphasise that the Intergovernmental Conference is and will remain a conference of the Member States.
The Union cannot be enlarged to 28 without addressing the matter of whether Europe has certain joint principles and values, whether it comes down to an economic free trade area, or whether, on the other hand, it has a greater ambition: the desire to be a supranational union, in ways that have yet to be defined, that wants to blaze a trail for civilisation and democracy in the world.
The amendment of the Treaties was, however, limited to a review of some internal rules, which was necessary and important, but did not answer the fundamental question: what is Europe, what are its common principles and therefore, its objectives and limitations?
The Council has done well to lay open this subject to Europe and to the world and if we do not set down these values in a Charter of Fundamental Rights, in a European Constitution, then we shall construct a Europe without a solid, lasting base.
Commissioner Barnier, I know - at least I think I know - that you and the representatives of the Portuguese Presidency share these values: make the most of the chances you were given by the December Conference to include these subjects and principles, because this is the only way we will build a lasting Europe.
Mr President, I am in the happy position of being able to refer to a couple of striking contributions from a small group of Nordic sceptics and opponents of the drastic and growing integration process which, looked long and hard at, threatens the whole of democratic Europe.
You can think what you like about Mr Haider, and I personally consider him to be a very dangerous politician, but you cannot just intervene in an independent and friendly country' s democratic process.
On 14 February, we will see the launch of the IGC which is to be completed by the end of 2000.
I think it is generally agreed here this afternoon across all groups that the Helsinki agenda will not be sufficient to cover the necessary reform to prepare Europe for enlargement.
These include the extension of qualified voting - in my country we accept that but not to areas of taxation - the re-weighting of voting in Council to favour larger states and the number of Commissioners in an enlarged Europe.
We are prepared to consider re-weighting the votes in the Council of Ministers, provided that the larger Member States are willing to agree to every Member State having a full and equal Member of the Commission.
At the IGC, we would also need a debate on the possible divisions of the Treaties into two - into a policy area and an area on the Constitution.
The Treaty of Amsterdam, Mr President, has set the number of European Parliament Members at 700 and a debate is needed in this Parliament on how that number will be distributed among the enlarged Europe.
The issues to be dealt with at this Intergovernmental Conference are exceptionally sensitive.
The most important issue with regard to this is internal differentiation within the Union.
May I particularly draw attention to one of the implications of enlargement in respect of this Parliament.
A ceiling of 700 has been prescribed as the maximum that Parliament can safely become and remain a deliberative assembly.
There is nothing new here, apart from one aspect: the fact that with this opinion - assuming it is approved tomorrow - the European Parliament is adopting a positive strategy to assist in widening the IGC agenda.
This also demonstrates its willingness to contribute, by means of its two representatives and its President, to reaching a more satisfactory final solution to this revision of the Treaty.
I also feel, however, that the Commission did an excellent job, whether or not you agree with the solutions put forward in the document adopted on 26 January.
That is the debate, and this question must be addressed in any discussion of the Intergovernmental Conference, its agenda or its method.
The Council must realise that, if we want the future of the European Union to involve a form of enlargement built on firm foundations, the next Intergovernmental Conference must go much further.
The Council is consulting us and Parliament is giving its opinion.
We want an Intergovernmental Conference, but not this one.
Being much more democratic means greater participation by the European Parliament and allowing the Commission to exercise even more - yes, more - its ability to take the initiative.
I would just like to make a few comments, after reading the draft opinion and after listening to the speakers on behalf of the various groups.
Indeed, it is in this spirit and in the framework of this mandate, which the Commission framed for its own opinion, but using all the terms thereof, plus everything between the lines.
I think that all of us, the personal representatives of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, your two representatives, and myself, as a representative of the Commission, will be going into matters in detail, but it will be afterwards, at a different level, one in which we will also be participating, that the last trade-offs must be made.
In the coming months, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the Commission will therefore be working in close cooperation, on good terms, with your two representatives, Professor Tsatsos and Mr Elmar Brok, in order to reconcile our points of view, if need be.
Finally, I should like to make three additional comments, quite briefly, Mr President.
Firstly, to congratulate and thank Mr Napolitano, the chairman, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the extremely original major initiative which it took yesterday in bringing together the competent representatives of national parliaments, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Commission for an initial joint debate.
Such dialogue between the national parliaments, the European Parliament and ourselves is extremely important.
Tomorrow, I shall be in London.
We are well aware that they cannot be completed within these six months and that it will have to hand over to the French Presidency, in the hope that a conclusion can be reached before the end of the year 2000.
The handover will have been made, but the conditions in which the handover is going to be made, by yourself, Mr President, and by the Portuguese Presidency, are going to be extremely important, as is the nature of this handover.
It is all the work which is going to be carried out together, under your guidance particularly, in the course of these few months, which is extremely important.
Finally, let me repeat, we shall have a very great effort to make in order to popularise the topics of these negotiations.
It has thereby succeeded in closing two serious loopholes in the internal market which are of great significance to the European economy and to 5 million third-country nationals in the European Union who are here as workers or on a self-employed basis.
However, the European Court of Justice did not make specific reference to the issue of visa requirements and conditions of residence and consequently the Member States were unable to clarify this issue.
The situation as far as self-employed people are concerned is that current Community invested legal rights do not afford third-country nationals the right to provide cross-border services.
I, together with the European Parliament' s Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, are therefore of the opinion that the Commission has chosen the right legal bases and that the opposite view, as expressed in the report produced by the Council' s Legal Service, is inappropriate.
I am absolutely convinced that it will be easier for us to achieve consensus in the Council on this basis.
However, in order to compensate for this, all possible obstacles must be removed before the service provision card is issued, and as the Commission' s proposal would have it, more stringent conditions must be satisfied before a service provision card is issued.
I would hope that the same holds true for the proposal to reduce the minimum period of duration for a first posting to three months, and to be flexible in adapting the period of validity of the service provision card to the duration of the first posting.
Unfortunately I have to say that I am unable to support this proposed amendment because it in fact changes the substance of the outcome that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market resolved on unanimously, and I would like to stand by this outcome, which we arrived at together after lengthy discussions.
Neither does the Commission accept the proposal that legal status in a Member State should be valid three months after the card has expired.
That is why the Commission supports Mrs Palacio' s Amendment No 22 in both respects.
I hope that, at the end of the debate, when all the speakers have contributed, I will once again be given the opportunity to elaborate upon the different amendments.
Mr President, tomorrow will see a large majority within the PPE Group vote in favour of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as well as the amended version.
If we are going to abide by the one extreme, that is the interests of the Member States, then we certainly have every reason to make the hurdles that have to be cleared in applying for this card relatively high.
Therefore we want applications for the service provision card to be for one or more Member States.
Consequently, I too have to say that I am in favour of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
If a particular Member State was to declare that it had suddenly run into problems because the individual concerned had committed a theft and the card was for their country, then this particular Member State would be able to revoke this card, as it were, for the reasons cited in this directive, which is altogether a flexible and intelligent solution.
I would urge the Council and the Commission to move in this direction.
One of the reasons why we are late is because we spent time earlier today rightly stating the rooted opposition of this Parliament to any form of xenophobia or racism.
Mrs Berger, in your Amendment No 2 to Recital 6, you mention legal security.
The first point on which we disagree is the duration of three months for the residency permit, since all that does is create legal insecurity.
Legal security requires this.
On the other hand, with regard to point d of Amendment No 10, which refers to the first directive, you suggest that, for reasons of public security or public order regulations, a Member State may reject the validity of the card.
There are already some ex ante controls laid down in article 4 of the directive.
It makes no sense for any worker within the Schengen area, since he or she will already have undergone a screening process in order to enter the first Member State, and the second Member State would be justified in rejecting ex ante the entry of that worker into its territory.
However, in the case of the United Kingdom, we believe they go further than that in a manner which is unacceptable.
If there is to be a change to the present United Kingdom border arrangements, that change should be made by the United Kingdom Government and the United Kingdom Parliament and not en passant by the European legislative process.
Having also studied the amendments submitted, I concluded that we can go along with these concerns to a large extent and that this will be reflected in our voting behaviour tomorrow.
Amendments Nos 7 and 8 are acceptable too, provided the situation of posting is established in the Member State in which the service provider is established.
We also welcome Amendment No 13 insofar as, as a result of this, the card' s area of applicability is extended from one Member State to all Member States.
In terms of comitology, Amendments Nos 14 and 21 also apply in part, insofar as the rights of Parliament are concerned.
The other amendments are unacceptable.
As Amendment No 18 refers to Directive 96/71 concerning the minimum wage which is already in force, no change is necessary.
As far as Amendment No 15 on the definition of the term "self-employed" is concerned, the Commission will, as I have already remarked, provide an adequate solution to accommodate the objections lodged.
The Commission would like to propose finding a solution to this problem which would then apply to all companies based in the European Union which employ staff from non-EU countries.
The question is, furthermore, one of whether the two cases should be treated in the same way.
In my opinion, this is an issue which belongs to the debate on the enlargement of the European Union and perhaps not to the present debate.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
Proposal for a Council decision amending Decision 88/591/ECSC, EEC, Euratom, establishing a Court of First Instance of the European Communities (5713/1999 - C5-0020/1999 - 1999/0803(CNS)), and II.
Proposal for a Council decision amending Decision 88/591/ECSC, EEC, Euratom, establishing a Court of First Instance of the European Communities (9614/1999 - C5-0167/1999 - 1999/0805(CNS)).
Mr President, there is no guarantee that the forthcoming revision of the Treaties at the IGC will clear the way for a revision of the Community' s judicial systems.
Therefore, the proposed increase to 21 judges is fully justified because, ultimately, it is a matter of increasing the Court' s efficiency and it will enable two additional chambers to be established, in each of which three judges will sit.
The second reform proposed concerns an increase in the jurisdiction of the Court of First Instance, which, at present, only covers actions for annulment by private individuals but which will then also cover actions brought by Member States.
However, this report is based on long and effective work which has already produced certain results, such as the incorporation into the Finnish Presidency' s document of 7 December 1999 of the commitment to widen the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference to include a study of the future modification of the organisation, composition and competences of the Community Courts.
Mr President, the reform of the Community judicial system has become an essential requirement if, in the future, we intend justice to be done within reasonable time scales, and if, in the future, the European Union wishes to have a judicial system which is equal to the political project which we have embarked upon.
Today - and I must say this with pride and satisfaction - this Parliament has had a good opportunity to demonstrate the extent to which we Europeans believe that the European political project is much more than just an internal market, and that it is based much more on principles than on economic interests.
I would like to make two observations during this intervention, which stem from the report itself, given this Parliament' s obligation, in accordance with the Treaty, to produce a very succinct report, which does not go into depth.
The second is that the translation services of the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice should be separated.
The first concerns this Parliament.
Above all, we wish to see an extension of the competences of the Court of Justice, hand in hand with its capacity to fulfil its obligations, in other words, its resources.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and welcome the contents of this report.
The first relates to a large suspension bridge and whether or not tolls on it should be subject to VAT.
The decision could have huge implications for our local economy.
These are just two examples of real life problems behind delays in Europe' s system of justice.
The proposals in this report are very welcome as an interim palliative, but Europe is a legal construction, its courts are central to its proper functioning.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report.
Mr President, I would like to begin by joining those who congratulated the rapporteur on this work.
It has been said more than once: justice delayed is justice denied.
As your Parliament is aware, the Commission is convinced that, without fundamental reform, the Community judicial bodies run the risk - in the short term - of no longer being able to carry out their task within reasonable deadlines.
The Commission is aware of the request made by the Court of First Instance to increase its number of judges, but at the moment, the former is of the opinion that the proposed transfer of competence should be seen in the light of the study which I have just mentioned.
The debate is closed.
Exceptional financial aid to Kosovo The next item is the report (A5-0022/2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council decision providing exceptional Community financial assistance to Kosovo (COM(99)0598 - C5-0045/00 - 1999/0240(CNS)).
We have been asked for EUR 35 million.
We would like the Commission to make commitments on the amendments we are proposing in regard to this.
This is not in order to limit or be stingy with our financial contribution to Kosovo but, quite the contrary, to ensure that our contribution is being matched by the contributions of other donors.
From that point of view, the proposed facility is a two-phase aid facility and the second tranche must be released as soon as the donors have made clear their interest.
This is serious, since it holds up the whole process of reconstruction in Kosovo.
Kosovo has suffered far too much from delays in payment.
Administration-wise there are now 34 tax inspectors.
It should also be noted that of the 19 departments, 4 already have administrative leadership, which represents an improvement on the situation there hitherto.
The EU Commission cannot pay for everything.
Mr President, I would like to offer a few explanations.
The Union has decided to assist with a further EUR 35 million in additional macrofinancial aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo, on the basis of an IMF report which estimates that a further EUR 115 million is needed for that reconstruction.
This calls into question the agreement which Parliament reached, with great difficulty, with the Council in December, according to which, when the Commission presents a multiannual programme for reconstruction, the financial perspectives would be reviewed where necessary.
I would like to ask the Commission - and I am glad that Commissioner Solbes is here with us this evening - to present us in time with this multiannual finance programme, with the corresponding report, requested by Parliament, so that it may be taken into account when the preliminary draft of the next budget is drawn up, as we have been promised.
Lastly, I would like to insist that, although we have agreed to EUR 35 million now, we know that this is a stopgap solution and that it is not enough, and we should therefore reach an agreement as soon as possible on the multiannual reconstruction programme for Kosovo, which is so badly needed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please excuse my late arrival, but this other political issue is still on the agenda today, more is the pity.
Mr President, when the Alliance intervened in Kosovo its objective was to re-establish conditions in this province which would enable those who wished to do so to stay there or return, with respect for their own heritage and their own culture.
It is true that economic aid is, in this respect, certainly an essential element to the scope of action afforded those people active at the grass roots level.
In short, we should put our faith in those parties who, in these areas, are better equipped than us to make certain decisions.
Some of the amendments in your report pose this question.
For example, Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 4.
The fundamental problem is that, at the moment, the distribution of the burden amongst the different donors has been established in the statements of the High Level Steering Group, but it is also true that they have no legal status.
Amendment No 4 is of a similar nature.
On the one hand, we have been asked to provide Parliament with information regarding the progress of invitations to tender and, in this respect, I can tell you that the Commission was last week able to provide Parliament' s Committee on Budgets with the latest statement of contracts and payments carried out since the task force was sent into action in Kosovo.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that, with the final decision of the Council, we can release these funds and make a positive contribution to maintaining the considerable effort being made in Kosovo by different parties, so that we might achieve that situation of greater coexistence and peace which we all wish to see.
Mr President, I am pleased to see the convergence of viewpoints there is between Parliament, particularly the Committee on Budgets, and the Commission, and we can assure you that, for our part, we shall always be there to assist the Commission in the performance of its duties.
The problem is how in practical terms to implement the compromise which we accepted.
The debate is closed.
The share that renewable energy sources have in total energy production must be increased, but it has to be done in a rational manner.
It is quite amazing as to how doggedly the Member States in the Council tried to fight this programme for alternative energies and an appropriate level of funding.
The original financial package of EUR 81.1 million, as proposed by the Commission, was reduced by the Council to EUR 74 million, unilaterally and without explanation.
It was possible, in the course of the conciliation procedure, to reach agreement with the Council on those of our essential demands, one being to examine the possibility of opening the Altener programme to the associated Mediterranean countries when this programme next undergoes revision.
We were assured that the Council will publish a statement on this in the Official Journal.
We accepted that the funding should be raised to EUR 77 million.
On 9 December last year, the Conciliation Committee adopted the definitive text for the programme, thereby paving the way for the future promotion of studies and projects within the alternative energies sector aimed at tapping into the potential of renewable energies.
In the first place, this new five-year programme will entail extending the actions in the ALTENER I programme.
To my mind though, what is particularly important about the ALTENER II programme are the new actions for relieving market saturation by renewable energies and those for implementing, supporting and monitoring the Community strategy and the Community action plan.
The conclusion reached regarding conciliation with regard to the Altener programme as put forward by the Conciliation Committee is, after all the difficult phases it has been through, at least satisfactory.
Most of Parliament' s amendments have been taken into account and the fact that the programme has seen its total funding rise to EUR 77 million must be seen as positive.
However, in the future, the Union will also have to increase its own input in promoting the use of renewable energy and ensuring that renewable energy is launched without obstacles on the market.
In contrast with that, I see the amounts allocated for renewable energies, which are not only an ecological element but which look set to undergo considerable economic expansion.
In order to ensure that at least 50% of the energy mix comes from renewable energy sources, it is not enough to deal with a few hot spots that will be more profitable in the short term.
The activities of the ALTENER programme will promote renewable energy sources and I believe that such programmes merit financial support at the developmental stage as they offer enormous commercial potential in the future.
As the final text rightly states, actions such as these can play a role in reducing regional disparities.
I can vouch that I have already received significant interest in the ALTENER programme from my own constituency of Leinster, a significant portion of which falls within Ireland' s only Objective I region.
I support all efforts to close the gap in economic development in infrastructural provisions, including the energy sector.
In short, we face a major challenge in meeting our commitments on limiting greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector under the Kyoto Protocol, while at the same time promoting growth in our economies.
ALTENER will make a valuable contribution to the combined efforts of the Member States.
Mr President, Mr Langen, ladies and gentlemen, as our rapporteur mentioned, we are coming to the end of a long and difficult process of conciliation with the Council on the ALTENER programme.
Mr Langen mentioned that the implementation budget proposed by the Council was initially FF 74 million, whereas the Commission proposed 81.1 million, a figure which the European Parliament supported.
An initial conciliation meeting was not successful, because the Council would not at that time accept an increase of EUR 1.9 million.
A second round of conciliation achieved an increase of EUR 1.1 million in order to reach this compromise figure of 77 million.
In spite of an increase of 3 million in relation to the initial proposal, personally, once again I deplore the fact that the funds allocated do not match up to the ambitions expressed and that the concern to save money displayed by the Council in this situation is in rude contrast to its declarations in favour of the safety of the energy supply, job creation and environmental protection, challenges that are just as significant which we must face up to.
All of this will provide greater coordination, transparency and efficiency in our energy programmes, into which we will also have to incorporate the SAVE programme, which we will be discussing soon.
The financial amount finally allocated to the programme is also a considerable improvement on the Council' s proposal at second reading which we found completely unacceptable and we have made quite a lot of progress there.
I therefore propose that this House agree to adopt the proposals on SAVE and the conclusion at the conciliation at third reading.
I would like to remind the House that at second reading Parliament adopted this report containing eight amendments, including a re-instatement of the Commission' s original budget.
The Commission accepted five of the proposed amendments including the budgetary allocation and I thank the Commission for their continued support on the budget during the conciliation procedure as what the Council had proposed was unacceptable.
The issue of the financial envelope was staunchly defended by Parliament in the face of the Council' s very meagre opening offer.
I would like to say however that it is, and has always been, a very modest budget and therefore the funding for this programme is more symbolic than real.
Where the Community can step in is to put the local activators in touch with each other so that they can actually not re-invent the wheel in every region.
We have an important part to play in the Community in the European Union in this regard.
SAVE is the only Community-wide programme dedicated to promoting the rational use of energy.
It is something that we can all support.
Furthermore, behind these programmes, that is to say, the SAVE programme, which concerns greater efficiency and energy savings, and the Altener programme, which concerns renewable energy, there lies an extremely important technological challenge, which, from an economic point of view, may offer significant opportunities to industry and also for the creation of jobs in our countries and therefore in the Union as a whole.
From the point of view of the Commission, in this interinstitutional game, I believe that this is important and I am very happy to highlight it.
The debate is closed.
However, in the spirit of Europe' s founding fathers, we must inevitably bear in mind the model for civilisation which led them to seek to establish lasting conditions for peace.
A Europe of national identities can live for a long time in peace and prosperity if this cultural diversity maintains its vitality and eliminates the small-mindedness and aggressiveness caused by resentments which, as a rule, give rise to excessively nationalistic feelings.
If, however, cultural policies cannot give a superior and clearly distinctive meaning to all of this, neither Europe nor European democracy will be able to make much progress.
The people of Europe whom we represent here have the right to demand a more consistent, effective and above all a more European attitude from the Union' s institutions.
These thoughts are by way of an introduction to this House' s consideration of the joint text of the Culture 2000 programme, which was approved by the Conciliation Committee on 9 December last year.
Let us remember that Culture 2000 establishes a unique financing and programming instrument for cultural cooperation.
With regard to the budgetary aspects of this, Parliament' s delegation came up against the Council' s intransigence on the issue of increasing the appropriations from the EUR 167 million that were originally earmarked.
I believe that the fact that Culture and, fittingly, Education and Youth now fall within the same Commissioner' s remit, will also serve to guarantee more synergy between these three programmes, which are certainly worthwhile programmes for the citizens of the European Union.
If one puts all the money together and creates synergy then one can be a tiny bit satisfied, but then only a tiny bit.
Madam President, I agree with the fine words with which the rapporteur began his intervention and I must add that, during the conciliation procedure, I was personally a little disappointed with the Council.
It has once again been demonstrated that conciliation is incompatible with the demand for unanimity in the Council.
This demand makes conciliation almost impossible and even affects the dignity of the parliamentary institution.
However, Madam President, these considerations must not hide the fact that the joint text which we will vote on tomorrow, and which the Socialists will vote in favour of, will put in place one of the European Union' s most important programmes.
The impetus given to the European idea by this programme is having an enormous impact, especially on small linguistic areas such as the Netherlands which not only has national potential, but is also relying on support from the programme, mainly from a language point of view.
Codecision and unanimity do not go hand in hand.
I have always given the rapporteur my backing in this respect.
I too must say that I will be voting for this joint text for a Council and European Parliament decision with a very heavy heart.
The overall growth of the European Union and the awareness of being European citizens: this is why we believe that the Culture 2000 programme, albeit with a scarcity of funds, can make a considerable contribution to this great common goal.
The Culture 2000 programme was finalised at the end of last year as a result of conciliation between Parliament and the Council.
The outcome can be considered reasonable, when we take into account the fact that the adoption of the programme called for a unanimous decision to be made in the Council.
In this connection, I am very glad to say that soon after the Socrates and Culture 2000 programmes get under way officially at the meeting of the Council of Ministers in March in Lisbon, the country holding the presidency of the EU is to organise a conference to discuss the situation of public libraries.
I hope that this conference will also encourage the Commission to take the issue of libraries into active consideration in the fifth framework programme in respect of the information society.
We have had a great deal to say today about Europe as a community of values, about tolerance, human dignity, human rights, a positive approach to the enlargement process, transparency and respect for each other.
Youth, education and cultural policies are important tools for creating these values, for giving the citizens confidence in the European Union and making it credible in their eyes.
The funding approved by the Council for the cultural programme does not do justice to the importance of cultural and educational policy and of this programme to the European Union' s goals.
We want a colourful Europe.
We want a Europe based on the principle of diversity within unity.
Madam President, as we have heard, all the groups have a common political enemy in the Council.
The battle for a workable compromise lasted almost two years, and now, at long last, the European Parliament can give the go-ahead.
This showed up the weaknesses of the European Union' s cultural policy activities once again.
Out of 410 applications in 1999 only 55 projects with a low overall volume of EUR 6.07 million could be considered.
The cultural programmes launched in years past - Kaleidoscope, Ariane and Raphael - are being replaced by a single programme, Culture 2000, where - and I must stress this here very forcefully - the rapporteur censures a position which should give the European Parliament cause for reflection - as someone said this afternoon - but which still underlines the huge importance of being part of a vast community where cultural interpretation is a democratic factor.
We agree with this approach and despite the lack of funds, this evening' s result will serve to greatly boost this strategy and this opportunity for Europe, which will then give rise to an economic factor and a growth factor; culture then, and an institutional aspect, the basis for structuring a vast community, a prerequisite for economic growth, and not the complete opposite, as Europe, in its cultural habits, has perhaps been used to viewing things in the past.
Europe is its people, its history and now its collectivity; but the reason why Culture 2000 is so important to us is for this: I will wager that when we ask the question - 'What is Europe?' - we answer it by saying, 'It is our art, it is our literature and it is our heritage.' That is what Culture 2000 represents.
Following the conciliation stage, our institutions can now formally adopt the new 'Culture 2000' framework programme.
We shall thus, in the course of the next five years, have a tool perfectly suited to developing clear, well-structured and, I am sure, successful measures in order to promote the cultural sector.
It is with great satisfaction that I today welcome this 'happy ending' in this House, and I thank you for it.
We now have a framework programme, the first of its type for the cultural sector, and this programme makes it possible for us to plan our action from a new perspective and to work to promote culture in a more comprehensive, but also more thorough and detailed manner.
It stated that on the occasion of the report it must draw up in accordance with Article 7 of the European Parliament and Council decision, it would carry out an assessment of the results of the programme, and this assessment will also cover the financial resources in the context of the Community financial perspectives.
If need be, the report shall contain a proposal to amend the decision, and this should be achieved by 30 June 2002.
All this must lead us to intensify our action in favour of developing a common cultural area, within which our cultures can flourish further in all their unique features, in all their diversity, but may also be mutually enriched and the other citizens of Europe may participate fully in them.
I should like this programme to become a practical reality and for culture to be not only a factor of enrichment for our citizens, both in personal as well as in social and economic terms, but a right which it is our job to assert, and also the hallmark of rediscovered interaction within the Union.
This is what our European 'Culture 2000' programme offers.
Secondly, encouraging exchanges, mobility and training in the cultural sector.
The new programme will, I am sure, in terms of its structure and organisation based on transparency, efficiency and balance, prove to be an instrument as successful as it is essential to our measures.
Madam President, I reiterate my thanks to Parliament for its support and for, once again, having shown the importance it attaches to culture in the context of the Union.
I am certain that it will not be disappointed, having given us its support, and I personally undertake to keep Parliament informed, as things progress, of the various phases of the implementation of our measures and the measures of our citizens, which I hope will be great measures for the future of the Union.
The debate is closed.
