Sudan and the International Criminal Court (ICC) (debate) The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Sudan and the International Criminal Court.
The temporary cooperation in a transitional government and preparation of the referendum on independence for the south in 2011 are under pressure because the borders of those areas have not been finally demarcated.
author. - Madam President, the UN estimates that the conflict in Sudan has resulted in about 300 000 deaths and has left approximately 2.5 million refugees.
The International Criminal Court was formed in order to make sure that those that commit war crimes and crimes against humanity do not go unpunished.
The warrants relate to 51 counts of alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Since 2003 the conflict in Sudan has claimed 300 000 victims.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, since 2003 Sudan has been a battleground due to religious and ethnic differences.
The conflict in Darfur resulted in the exodus of over two and half million people.
The Sudanese conflict has resulted in a breakdown of civilisation in Darfur and Chad.
Following the attack on Omdurman on 10 and 11 May, another 200 people lost their lives.
We call on the authorities in Sudan to start cooperating immediately with the International Criminal Court.
Therefore, we call on Sudan to ratify the Rome Statute, to cooperate without delay in accordance with Resolution 1593 and to immediately hand over Ali Kushayb and Ahmad Harun.
The situation is critical: over the five years since the start of the Darfur conflict more than 200 000 people have lost their lives.
The judicial system in Sudan is unable and unwilling to tackle the situation in Darfur.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, in 2004, the European Union called on the United Nations to set up a Committee of Inquiry into the atrocities and crimes committed in Darfur.
On the basis of the recommendations made by this Committee, the European Union asked the UN Security Council to refer the situation in Darfur to the International Criminal Court, which the Council did by adopting Resolution 1593 in 2005.
On 31 March 2008, the anniversary of the Security Council's referral of the situation in Darfur to the ICC, the EU Presidency adopted a Declaration on behalf of the European Union expressing its outrage at the Sudanese Government's failure to cooperate with the Court.
The meeting of the UN Security Council, which will take place on 5 June in the presence of the ICC Prosecutor, Luis Moreno-Ocampo, may be an important opportunity for the international community to present a united front and to send a strong signal in support of the Court's work.
