I therefore endorse the Council’s request for urgent procedure, as does the committee of which I am chairman. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my Committee, I ask that the request for urgent procedure be refused.
I can also tell you, however, that, although we have no difficulties of any substance as regards the content of the Commission proposal, the political significance of this issue means that we do need more time to examine it more closely.
What I would propose to you is that we should make a prompt start on the work and come to a decision on this point at this House’s second October part-session.
I think that this delay should not give rise to any problems when it comes to playing our part in improving relations between the two ethnic communities.
I would ask you to support the proposal. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I just wanted to say, on behalf of my group, that we endorse the view expressed by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that this is not a vote on the content, but about our shared view that this matter needs prompt and thorough discussion.
The message we should be sending to the world out there is that we are ready to discuss this, but not as a matter of urgent and topical importance. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to address you as President of the House.
I will begin by saying how honoured I am that you have decided to place your trust in me and choose me as President of Parliament.
In particular, it must consider the situation in Chechnya, in Iraq and in Palestine, regardless of the angry reactions that may follow.
It should therefore feature prominently in Parliament’s work, and mainstreamed in the many issues filling our agenda.
Two issues are particularly significant in this connection, namely the Statute&#160;for&#160;Members and the language regime.
Between 29 October, the date when the Constitutional Treaty is to be signed in Rome, and 1&#160;November&#160;2006, when it is due to come into force, my Presidency will be dominated by the ratification of the European&#160;Constitution in the 25 Member States.
A report drafted by Mr Corbett and Mr&#160;Mendez de Vigo and debated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is to be adopted before the end of the year.
The debate is bound to be complex due to the range of identities and ideologies, and the different ways in which the various parties understand the notion of Europe we want to achieve.
In my view, the House should prepare a report on the accession of Turkey before the December European&#160;Council, so that we can make our views known to the latter.
Ladies and gentlemen, issues such as Turkish accession serve to justify Parliament’s existence.
Clearly, the Union’s financial resources need to be in line with our ambitions and allow the expectations enlargement has raised in many citizens to be met, whilst taking account of the concerns it has raised amongst others.
It is certainly true that we did have a problem in Europe regarding the call for greater coordination of economic policy.
Good luck and thank you very much for your attention. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, let me, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, thank the President for his speech.
I call upon the General Secretariat of the Council to ensure in future that the Presidency of the Council is represented in this House, for that is the General Secretariat’s function – to ensure that the most important institutions are present.
You spoke about our relationship with the Commission.
Instead, even before the whole Commission gets our vote of confidence, we must get the President-designate of the Commission to make important concessions to us in this House as to how the European Parliament can be given greater powers in relation to the European Commission.
For that reason, our group has submitted a list of ten points that we want to see put into practice before we give the Commission as a whole our votes and put our trust in it.
We also want to know what it is all going to cost.
In essence, it is about us maintaining jobs in the European Union and creating new ones, and the European Union must not, through its own legislation, contribute to the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs, for example as a result of chemicals policy.
That is why, necessary though it is to combat terrorism, we in this House – without regard to the ‘reasons of state’ that governments invoke – must always speak up for human rights throughout the world.
Whether it is convenient for us or not, whether the regimes we are dealing with are left-wing or right-wing or of any other description, we must always defend human rights in the world without deferring to reasons of state.
We have done our work, and we in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wish you, Mr President, every success in yours.
If you stand up for Europe as a community – and I have no doubt that you will – then we will always be by your side.
The best of luck to you! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly thank you, Mr President, for your speech.
You addressed the points that we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament regard as fundamental to the future that we face, and so we are glad that you have spoken about them.
For that reason, I am grateful to you for referring to your establishment of a working party to arrange matters efficiently, which should also, however, continue to make it possible for any man or woman in the European Union, irrespective of their school or university education, to have the opportunity of being elected to this House and working in it.
You also spoke on behalf of this House in repudiating all those who believe that the only way to combat terrorism is with the language of force, and for that I am very grateful.
It is the clash of civilisations that gives rise to continued terrorism; dialogue, of the kind you have described, could be a way out of the terrorism trap, and so I thank you for addressing this point in such clear terms.
This morning, I read in one of the major German daily papers that the debate on this cuts right across group lines in this House, and that all the groups in this House present a diverse picture.
That comes as a surprise to me, as I had always had the impression that only one group was united on this and that the picture in all the others was a varied one.
As of this morning, we know that there is a diversity of views in every group in this House.
At the end of the day, every individual Member will have to weigh up for himself and herself the benefits involved in seizing a short-term political and economic opportunity as against taking long-term, indeed geostrategic considerations into account, in particular as to how different cultures are to be integrated into this Union, but you were right to point out that it is we who have to take that decision, and that taking it without the European Parliament is unthinkable.
It is in any case true that one thing we must not lose sight of when discussing our policy on Turkey is the need for Europe’s actions to be underpinned by reliable statements and promises made on the international stage.
Whatever criticisms one might – and must – make of Turkey’s domestic situation, it is a self-evident fact that, over the past three years, the prospect of accession has made possible more reforms in that country than the forty years of discussions that preceded it.
As regards the Members’ Statute and increased efficiency, you said what had to be said.
The European Parliament cannot afford a superfluous excellency, because you will be our voice; you will speak for us in the Council; you will be the will of this House: you will be our resolution.
This House indeed has a particular duty to stand up for the rights of European Union citizens.
Sometimes that means defending their rights from encroachment by the Union's Member States.
I think, for example, of the nine million stateless Roma or the citizens of Cyprus and also of the people of Gibraltar, now represented in this House for the first time, thanks to a judgment in the European Court of Justice.
I am proud to be one of Gibraltar's representatives here, because only in Europe can Gibraltar look across the line at La Linea, or at the British battleship in the Bay of Algeciras and finally see no contradiction.
The package agreed at the end of the last session is not an end but a point of departure.
The second area is the defence of the European Constitution.
For a quarter of a century this Chamber has gathered powers and asked European citizens for respect, for trust.
There will certainly be plenty for both us and you to do over the coming years, but we believe that the most important challenge for this Parliament is to overcome Euroscepticism and, as Mr Watson said as well, to show that we are not superfluous.
Examples of this are the PNR case – the agreement with the United States on passenger details – and the comitology procedure on GM organisms, but I could mention others.
The Commission has stated quite clearly that it wants to reduce its influence on this matter and we have no access to these procedures, which very often prevents justice from being done.
We think that your role as President of this Institution is absolutely crucial with regard to this matter as well.
The other speakers have already mentioned the Members’ Statute, and therefore I do not need to expand on it too much.
Mr President, we are genuinely convinced that the re-establishment of the Subcommittee on Human Rights may enable this Parliament once again to be a place where we can fight realistically and get results in the area of human and personal rights, rather than the declamatory forum for wishful thinking that it has become in recent years.
We hope we can count on your support to ensure that the subcommittee can work completely independently to rebuild its vast network of contacts and collaboration with those who uphold human rights around the world, giving them a voice and legitimacy and maybe, in the long term, becoming a full committee in its own right. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am in broad sympathy both with most of the main themes of your address and with the approach that underpins them, and, on behalf of my group, I thank you for what you have said.
To put it another way, it aims to allow businesses providing services to apply in all countries the social security regulations of their countries of origin.
As for the mid-term review of the Lisbon Agenda, to which you also referred, and which, in the year 2000, promised us that by 2010 we would have full employment and the most dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, we should not wait until March 2005 before getting down to it.
Quite apart from our legislative work, there are certain great issues concerning civilisation with which we have to get to grips in order to raise at the European Council the issue of what sort of role the European Union should be playing on the global stage.
I am also thinking of the ever more worrying problem of global warming, and of that of media concentration, which is a very live issue in many countries of the EU.
Anyone here could add to the list of subjects that absolutely must have a place on our agenda.
Finally, if you will permit me, I would like to address a transversal subject that you also mentioned: the European Constitution.
In itself, political courage of this kind would be, perhaps not the new European dream to which you, Mr President, have aspired, but at least an encouraging innovation, a positive message addressed to our fellow-citizens and a good start not only for this new legislature, but also – with more personal reference to you, Mr President – for your own term of office. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, dear Josep Borrell, my group would also like to congratulate you on your election as President, and we hope you will be a good President for us all, irrespective of where we come from and irrespective of what we think of the draft Constitution.
It will give more power and influence to us here in this House.
It will be much easier to achieve qualified majorities with the new rules, and the European Parliament will be entitled to table many more amendments to the laws that are to apply in our countries.
The democratic problem is, however, that the national parliaments will lose much more power than the European Parliament will gain.
We are now debating whether the EU institutions should adopt a special communications strategy to convince the electorate of the Constitution’s merits.
Referendums and constitutions belong neither to governments nor to parliaments, but to the electorate.
The voters in our Member States must be given a guarantee that free and fair referendums will be arranged everywhere so that, once the decisions – whether in favour or otherwise - have been made, everyone can say that things were done fairly.
Over the next five years of the mandate of this Parliament, we should be striving to ensure that, in every aspect of our working life, we can give that respect and tolerance to differing viewpoints.
There must also be respect for the Members of this House in their work and for the style in which they work.
I am looking to you, in the light of our previous conversations and the work you have already done in this regard since taking office, to give leadership in ensuring that the respect and dignity of this House is protected at all times.
I also believe that Europe needs to have a strong and accountable Parliament.
The financial support allocated for the political groups is not audited until after it has been used, whereas we have to apply for resources and explain in advance why we are asking for them.
Mr President, all of us here today have been elected in democratic elections to represent our voters.
The European Union safeguards its prosperity through agreements and compromises and we must do everything to ensure that discrimination is eliminated in this Chamber.
In your statement, you made mention of the problems with interpreting.
Since the accession of the ten Member States, that is, since 1 May 2004, their status has changed somewhat, but they are still suffering discrimination in comparison with their colleagues from the old Member States.
Members in the Non-attached Group will draw attention to injustice but we shall always strive to seek compromise and to resolve the important problems raised.
So I wish you well in coping with your difficult job and I also wish you strength in succeeding in it.
Thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mrs Belohorská.
I would, however, like to take this opportunity to assess the situation in terms of our relations and to consider the prospects for improving them in the future, within the framework of a European neighbourhood policy.
I would like to point out briefly that, following its independence in 1991, bilateral relations with Belarus began to move forward satisfactorily towards the adoption of an association and cooperation agreement and a provisional commercial agreement.
Nevertheless, all these negotiations became paralysed as a result of the deterioration of the internal political situation in Belarus in 1996, and regrettably they have not improved since then.
Nevertheless, the Union is still prepared to continue making progress provided that there is some movement on the part of the authorities of that country.
We believe that our proximity can and must manifest itself in the long term through close cooperation and exchange in fields of mutual interest, such as trade, justice, home affairs, transport, energy and the environment.
All of this requires fundamental political reforms in that country, however.
I would like to say once again that the European Union is deeply concerned about recent developments in Belarus, where all indications are that the situation is deteriorating in terms of respect for the Rule of Law, democracy and human rights, and where we are still seeing how policies relating to independent media – some of which have been closed down – the actions of the government and the forces supporting it with regard to political opposition forces and the situation of independent social organisations and higher education establishments are becoming increasingly difficult.
In this regard, I must point out that we are also following the debate taking place in the Council of Europe, here in Strasbourg, on the people who have disappeared in Belarus, with the greatest of interest.
In accordance with the information presented by the European trade union confederations, the Commission has also begun an investigation into alleged violations of freedom of association and of the right to collective negotiation within the framework of the Regulation on the system of generalised preferences.
Depending on the conclusions of this investigation, the Union will have to reconsider Belarus’s future access to the benefits of the system of generalised preferences.
A key element of our policy with regard to that country is support for civil society and for the process of democratisation.
The authorities of that country are currently registering all the free external aid projects, and in practice this is allowing them to reject any international assistance that they believe goes against their partisan interests.
We have developed a European neighbourhood policy in order to continue strengthening our relations with our neighbours, including Belarus.
Nevertheless, under current circumstances, the minimum conditions required are not in place and we cannot therefore go ahead with this policy in relation to Belarus.
The first important milestone for Belarus will be the parliamentary elections and the referendum scheduled for October.
The Union has committed itself to supporting democratic parliamentary elections in the autumn, in coordination with the Office for Security and Cooperation in Europe, and with the Council of Europe.
The Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the OSCE has established a mission of electoral observers for the parliamentary elections.
Now more than ever it is essential that we continue our work supporting civil society and the democratic forces in that country.
I believe that Parliament’s resolution expresses similar causes for concern in Belarus and I am naturally interested in hearing the honourable Members’ opinions about the current evolution of our relations and in particular in considering how we can improve our support, our backing for the democratisation of the country, and therefore our support and backing for Belarusian democratic forces in such a difficult situation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I am very glad that the Commission understands the significance of the situation in Belarus, and in particular the significance of the electoral campaign currently under way in the country and the forthcoming parliamentary elections.
It is also a challenge for our common foreign policy.
There appears to be a need for a more courageous approach in the EU’s foreign policy, and for certain tasks and strategic goals to be reformulated.
Our foreign policy on Belarus must be much more active, which means it must differ from our foreign policy to date.
It was of course right to freeze all programmes under the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement after 1996, and it is right to break off contacts with high-ranking officials of the Lukashenko regime, but our policy lacks political will towards Belarussians themselves.
I am very pleased that the Commissioner has acknowledged that the aim of the EU’s policy is to support civil society, but together we must develop procedures which prove to be effective.
These are our friends.
They speak the same language, they have the same values, they think in the same categories and they believe in Europe.
I hope that the future belongs to them and that one day they will sit in this very House.
In short, a more active and subtle approach is required, which makes it possible to isolate an undemocratic government without isolating society.
As far as short-term strategy is concerned, there is a need for energetic measures, or in other words the short-term measures to which the Commissioner referred.
Firstly, the current electoral campaign should be observed very carefully, and there should be a rapid reaction to any irregularities, such as the banning of the Labour Party, an event which has already occurred, as well as to the fact that many candidates are refused registration and opposition representatives are not allowed to sit on electoral committees.
This election and referendum are so important that our political group, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, is calling in its resolution for an observers’ mission to be sent to Belarus and for a report to be drawn up.
The parliamentary elections of 17 October are around the corner and it is important for us now to turn our attention to the situation in that country.
That is why it is also important that now, with the elections more than a month away, we in this Parliament should send a message about what we expect, in the hope that we do not need to declare the elections unlawful again.
In addition, we want the candidates to be given the freedom to do what they want.
The flow of subsidies intended to promote freedom in that country is being cut off.
Only when all the above changes have happened will we perhaps be able to say, after 17 October, that improvements have finally been made, and that there is at last room for the European Union again to make relations, which have been frozen since 1996, somewhat more open, and to develop more contacts with that country.
We must endeavour to ensure that Europe’s last dictatorship, which is what we generally tend to call these, is brought to an end, and that on that basis, we can actually establish a new neighbourliness policy with that country.
I hope that the elections will be a step in the direction of Europe, but I fear that they will rather be a step in the direction of a yet more authoritarian system.
He appears to want to follow in the footsteps of another dictator, Fidel Castro, who is equally past his sell-by date.
With the systematic and hardly sophisticated system of electoral fraud devised by Lukashenko’s regime, there is unfortunately not very much to suggest that either the referendum or the election on 17&#160;October will in any way be fair.
This means that Lukashenko can remain where he is, while his people become ever poorer and ever more isolated.
It is of course shameful that we in Europe have a Communist dictatorship as our closest neighbour.
Trying to cooperate with the regime has been a pointless and fruitless exercise, and the country is thus miles away from embracing the values we defend.
Belarus is the only country in Europe that executes its prisoners.
Many people who have called the regime into question have disappeared in mysterious circumstances.
Belarus is our neighbour, however, and we cannot abandon the Belorussian people to their fate.
Just as the Commissioner says, we in Parliament, the Council and the Commission must therefore try to find ways of giving economic, political and, especially, moral support to the courageous people and organisations that, in spite of everything, exist and fight for democracy, human dignity and the principles of the constitutional state.
Our new Member States have not only afforded us geographical proximity to Belarus, but also knowledge of that country and of its history.
It is important to use this knowledge and to be creative in finding ways of supporting the forces of democracy in Belarus.
Many people see Europe in terms of hope for a better future and of the opportunity for, and possibility of, a new life.
We must of course preserve the dream that, one day, a democratic and open Belarus, operating a market economy, might also become a member of the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on Belarus has, yet again, been characterised more by despair than by hope.
Contrary to what the President of Belarus says on his country’s television networks, which all toe the party line, his power brings the people no security, but rather fear and terror.
I have to say, Commissioner – and this is where I agree with the first speaker – that the European Union is open to the accusation of not having done enough to drag Belarus out of the black hole of self-isolation, and we know why; our instruments are inadequate.
You have ignored Parliament’s proposals for setting up special programmes for this with other options and financed in other ways, enabling us at last to take the action that is urgently needed, such as, for example, the development of civil society and the strengthening of a free press.
While I believe that we should do more to get the murderers punished and his death fearlessly investigated, we should also carry forward his vision of a democratic Belarus, one that allows its people to share in Europe’s progress and prosperity. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Commissioner for her report, even if there are many points upon which I do not agree with her.
This is the second time I have taken part in a debate on Belarus, the first having been as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I must confess that I have never lost hope.
The EU institutions have the right to express their opinions on remarkable or even exceptional events and situations, and it is therefore natural for them to also pay particular attention to Belarus.
Belarus is a state in an exceptional situation.
It is one of Europe’s youngest states, with a political elite inexperienced in statehood.
It is a country where administrative borders have changed into state borders, thus dividing families, an economy and a culture.
In my opinion, one of the worst possible ways of providing help in such a situation would be excessive criticism of the government and unreserved support for the opposition.
The worst possible start would be to succumb to ideological prejudice and to pass judgment on the basis of the way in which our emotions are guided by the mass media.
On this point I agree with my friend and colleague Bogdan Klich.
I support the proposal for Parliament to send a delegation to Belarus made up of representatives from all political groups, and I hope it will be able to establish the opinions of politicians, the public and experts.
Then we will be able to say what the situation in Belarus is like without using double standards. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Belarus’ current President has called a constitutional referendum to be held at the same time as the parliamentary elections.
The Belarussian people will elect their parliamentary representatives and decide on the form which the Constitution should take.
Voices have been heard from all over the world questioning the integrity of the Belarussian state authorities and the results of the elections in advance, although we will only know the results after 17 October.
It would be like the Congress of the United States of America passing a resolution on democracy in France or Germany, or the Polish Parliament reprimanding the European Parliament.
Democracy is based on respect for the sovereign decisions of nations, irrespective of whether we like them or not.
Despite this close proximity, it is a country in which universities and the remaining independent media are being closed down.
Despite all this and despite this proximity we have no guarantee, contrary to what we have heard, that the referendum process and the forthcoming elections will be democratic.
People who hold views that differ to those of the official authorities in Belarus are being killed.
Democratic candidates find it difficult to register with electoral committees in Belarus.
Anyone who can see no difference between the Belarussian opposition and the Government should take note of the fact that it is not the Belarussian opposition which is responsible for the disappearance of individuals or the closure of independent newspapers.
If the EU’s foreign policy is to be based on respect for fundamental rights, Belarus is one of its most crucial responsibilities today.
If we do not take action on this issue, our credibility in the debate on the shape of foreign policy will be weakened.
It is for this reason that the Belarussian opposition today must be certain that we have not forgotten it and must be entirely certain that we support it.
It is obvious that the situation in Belarus is deteriorating.
Contacts with Minsk should therefore now be stepped up, Mrs De Palacio, not scaled down.
The situation in Belarus is becoming ever more grave.
President Lukashenko has announced the possibility of restrictions on presidential terms of office being abolished.
Let us therefore not ask for whom the bell tolls, let us repeat after Ernest Hemingway that it ‘tolls for thee’, for Europe.
I also believe that the representatives of the Belarussian democratic opposition should be invited to the European Parliament.
Passivity on this issue, and pretence that the problem will solve itself is, in the words of Talleyrand, worse than a crime, it is a blunder.
The European Union should not act like a certain tribe in Africa which believes that if it does not talk about a problem or a disease, and does not mention its name, the problem will cease to exist.
On the contrary, the EU must talk about Belarus and talk details, Mrs de Palacio. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Belarus is in focus now, not only for sharing over one thousand kilometres of border with the EU, but also as the last surviving major European bastion of neo-soviet ideology.
The election of President Lukashenko in 1994 led initially to the hope that authority would be upheld, corruption rooted out and the economy put back on track.
However, especially since President Putin came to office, Russia has responded by seeking to partly distance itself from Belarus.
The municipal elections in March 2003 showed that some favourable political developments have taken in Belarus.
Experience from Spain, Greece and Portugal suggests that given time and economic growth the transition from dictatorship to free market democracy is achievable everywhere in Europe. &#160;&#160; Our role as representatives of the people in our country and in Europe cannot and must not end at the frontiers of the European Union.
It is in this spirit that we must treat the situation in other neighbouring countries such as Belarus.
However one can say that in all the countries that we come from, at some time or another, we experienced moments that did not reflect well on our democracy.
We show our greatest solidarity towards the Labour Party of Belarus and towards the National Front.
I am convinced, as I think many of you are, that in every organisation in every country there are people of goodwill who know how to distinguish good from evil.
We must be aware that the present situation in Belarus is also our responsibility, due to what we did or what we did not do.
On the one hand, the impression is created that this debate is rather pessimistic, since many speakers have been forced to recognise our powerlessness to bring about constructive changes in Belarus.
Various speakers have indicated the way forward.
We need to join forces with civil society, and the population of Belarus must be able to elect their representatives in a free, transparent and honest manner.
In just over one month, on 17 October, this constitutional change could be a .
There is indeed a glimmer of light here, because despite the grave circumstances of the past few years, to date, some 2&#160;500 registered civil organisations have managed to hold their own.
However, such an opportunity – to speak one's own language freely – is denied to Lithuania's closest neighbours, now neighbours of the European Union – 10 million Belorussians.
We believe that the European Union's continued policy with regard to eastern neighbours has to be expressed not only in the condemnation of this regime, with general declarations, which do not have more concrete consequences, but also in concrete support for those democratic opposition forces, which are spreading the ideas of democracy and pluralism by non-violent means, so that the Belorussian nation might live in a country which recognises human rights and freedom.
This is why my colleague Mr&#160;Szymañski and I move to endorse a draft resolution submitted in the name of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group and in this context call for the Sacharov Prize to be awarded to those who will decide the future of Belarus - the opposition youth movement ‘Zubr’, as a symbol of all forces disobeying the regime and determining the future of a free Belarus.
Thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; –Belarus is a neighbour of Lithuania and the European Union and what happens in that country is important to us.
As we know, the President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko, politically isolated by western states because of human rights violations and restrictions on media freedom, is using all means to attain a third presidential term in the elections for a head of state to be held in 2006.
The question, which is to be presented in a referendum scheduled for 17 October, is formulated in very simple and clear terms for the citizens of Belarus: 'Will you allow the first President of the Republic, Alexander Lukashenko, to participate as a presidential candidate in the elections for a head of state?' Unquote.
Today, as previously in the European Parliament, many cases of human rights violations have been mentioned, along with evidence of restrictions on press freedom, and the banning of university and non-government organisations.
However, the people of Belarus know little of our concern for their situation, their life.
If they manage to reach Belarus, statements on this subject by leaders of the European Parliament and other institutions in the democratic world are distorted, they are presented to the citizens of Belarus as the will of global capitalism, as attempts to dictate to Belorussians how they should live.
Information which Belorussians find on the internet, to which they do have access, is less censored, however the level of computerisation in that country is poor, and so a large part of society is fed state propaganda.
A few million Litai each year from the European Union's budget certainly will not bankrupt the European Union, but in my opinion, would be a more effective means of strengthening civil, democratic initiatives and traditions than sending a delegation from the European Parliament to observe the elections, carry out monitoring and record the de facto situation.
Thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I am interested in discussing what can be done, and not what cannot be done.
I would therefore ask the Commissioner to make a note of three things that can be done.
Firstly, diplomats from the EU Member States can be instructed to monitor the pre-election situation in Belarus and to inform the EU institutions, including the European Parliament, on a weekly basis.
Secondly, Commission officials can be ordered to conduct urgent political consultations with states with which the EU maintains contacts, in particular with the United States and Russia, with regard to the development of the pre-election situation in Belarus and to defining the scope of joint appraisals.
As an MEP I would also like to be kept informed on this issue.
Finally, I have something to say to the speaker who could see no difference between Cuba and Belarus.
One result of this, amongst others, is the abolition of independent education, and the European Humanities University has already been mentioned.
This has resulted in the return of practices which are completely incomprehensible to us, in the light of recent developments in Europe.
It is absolutely essential that the European Union take more active measures in this matter.
Now the whole democratic world has received a provocation from Mr Lukashenko.
We can predict that the dictatorship will succeed, as the democratic opposition has been deprived of its rights and silenced behind prison walls.
In this situation, the only hope of Belarusian democrats is to place their trust in the parliamentarians of free Europe and in our readiness to give both moral and financial support to the Belarusians and, of course, to the Commission.
It is our duty. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, throughout history, Belarus has belonged to both Eastern and Western Europe, and relations between the EU and Belarus are strained.
With EU enlargement, Belarus has become a neighbouring country of the EU, giving cause for increased contacts in those areas where such contacts are possible.
Changes to the election process before the autumn parliamentary election on 17 October are thus necessary.
Not only, however, is Belarus to elect a new parliament on 17 October, but President Lukashenko has also announced that a special referendum on a change to the constitution is to take place.
Ever since Lukashenko took office as president in 1994, he has been dictatorial in strengthening his position in that role.
If there is a majority in favour of this latest attempt to remove the limit on the number of terms of office a president is allowed to serve, this means that, in all likelihood, Lukashenko will serve for at least another five years.
If I have calculated correctly, that will make for an uninterrupted period of 17 years.
Together, we must act to bring about increased support for democratic development in Belarus and must combat that isolation of Belorussian society and of the Belorussian people that many have talked about.
The EU must continue to support human rights and the development of a pluralistic society, to oppose trafficking in, and violence against, women and to further civil, democratic society.
We must try to improve the functioning and capacity of our support and therefore improve the capacity of any political measures we adopt with a view to applying pressure in order to promote the democratisation of Belarus.
There remain certain fragments, in Belarus for example, and if one of the objectives of European Union action and presence at world level is to support democratisation and defend human rights, that objective and concern clearly become all the more important in the case of an immediate neighbour, in other words, on our own border.
With regard to the various suggestions, I will refer firstly to the possibility of participating as observers in the forthcoming referendum and elections in Belarus.
The European Union is prepared to work together with the OSCE, which has been invited to attend as an observer solely at the parliamentary elections, not the referendum, which we believe it should also be invited to.
Furthermore, we are going to continue working to ensure that the number of observers is increased and, possibly, that Members of this European Parliament can also participate.
The next issue raised by certain speakers relates to the idea that our actions until now have not been sufficiently effective, that they are not producing results and that we should be much more active.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that there is currently assistance for Belarus for promoting democratisation, as well as shaping and strengthening civil society, but we wish to increase that assistance.
The European Union will maintain its aid in support of civil society and democratisation, regional and humanitarian cooperation, neighbourhood programmes and measures for facilitating movement in border areas.
Specifically, the European Union’s TACIS programme provides for EUR 10 million for 2005-2006 and will focus on supporting that civil society, cooperating in the field of higher education and alleviating the consequences of the Chernobyl accident which unfortunately was not so much an accident as a disaster.
I must also point out that the European initiative for democracy and human rights will play a very active role in Belarus in the coming years.
Specifically, in 2005-2006 the candidates in Belarus will be able to request aid within the framework of two campaigns we are going to launch, aimed at promoting the culture of human rights and promoting democratic processes.
I would, however, emphasise – and I said this at the beginning of my speech in this debate – that the authorities of Belarus are placing administrative obstacles in the way of all the programmes for this type of assistance we are proposing, and we must be able to overcome this resistance.
I also believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must make use of the family relations between Belarusian citizens and citizens of European Union countries to promote the European Union’s ideology, which is the ideology of freedom, of human dignity.
I also believe that we must promote political cooperation between political parties as much as possible and, to this end – as I have said – there are funds, there are possibilities, and this Parliament and its Members have a role to play.
We must be aware that things are not easy, that it does not appear that the latest measures taken by the Lukashenko regime are going to improve the situation, but we must nevertheless have faith in the citizens of Belarus.
The main objective is the full democratisation of Belarus, economic support to promote that democratisation, and then, once that democratisation is achieved through our neighbourhood policy, support for development and economic recovery and the improvement of living conditions in that country, which is a European country and a neighbour of the European Union. &#160;&#160; I should like to thank you, Commissioner, and all the speakers in that important debate.
I have received six motions for resolutions(1) tabled in accordance with Rule 103(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
Naturally, we approached the broad political priorities for next year with a view to ensuring the proper functioning of the enlarged Europe, relaunching growth and improving competitiveness, in other words, the Lisbon strategy as a whole, promoting and protecting European citizenship and creating a circle of prosperity and stability together with our neighbour countries.
We must remember that 2004 is a special year, with a new Parliament, and the current Commission will shortly be replaced with a new one.
Subsequently, we have followed very closely the work of those parliamentary committees and the various resolutions approved by this House over recent months, in particular in relation to the budgets for 2005 and the Commission’s annual political strategy.
At the same time, we have held debates with the Council, the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee on our proposals and they have all contributed their point of view.
What we have to do today is assess the results of this dialogue and point out that, in principle, this Parliament has reacted favourably to our broad proposals from an outgoing Commission which – I would emphasise – is passing the baton on to a new Commission.
The consolidation of the European economy will continue to rest on a healthy macroeconomic policy geared towards stability and based on sustainable public finances, particularly in view of our demographic forecasts.
The Commission has also pointed out the need decisively to support initiatives aimed at sustainable development and to increase coherence between industrial policy and other Community policies.
Specifically, I am also delighted to tell the European Parliament that, in various areas of my responsibility, we have made progress in this direction of openness and competitiveness.
The Commission has noted the increasing interest on the part of this Parliament and the Council in enhancing European action in the field of security, particularly through strengthening controls on the external borders of the enlarged European Union, through better management of migratory flows, and Parliament has also expressed its concern – of course – to increase the effectiveness of the fight against terrorism at European level.
In June, the Commission made an assessment of the progress made since the Tampere European Council in 1999, and following the reactions of all the institutions, in particular the European Parliament, the Commission will carry on with its work in the field of justice and home affairs.
In 2005, the new multi-annual justice and home affairs programme will be launched – which we hope will be supported by the European Council of 5 November – as well as new support measures within the context of the next financial perspectives.
The terrorist attacks in Madrid were a dramatic reminder of the threat of international terrorism facing the European Union and have made the essential need to combat it more obvious than ever.
The third element is our external responsibilities and, in particular, the policy of association and neighbourhood.
As the Council and Parliament have stressed, Europe’s international commitments must be maintained during 2005 and Europe must show greater responsibility in order to promote effective multilateralism.
The multilateral trade negotiations within the context of the Doha programme for development remain the European Union’s main commercial priority, and at the same time we shall continue with the regional and bilateral negotiations under way.
Increasing our capacities with regard to protecting external borders means more European Union investment in this sector, which will perhaps allow for greater facilities in certain States.
If we truly wish to promote a competitive and dynamic society, we must increase investments in the research and development sector in order to support European research and capacity for innovation, and that requires more funds for that sector.
The Commission is implementing and generalising the use of these assessments in order to better define and justify its proposals.
The interinstitutional dialogue has contributed to promoting greater mutual understanding and developing a shared vision which allows us to direct our policies more effectively.
As Members of the new Parliament, we are being asked to decide upon our times, places and methods of work for 2005.
Everyone has now realised that removing Friday mornings, halfway through the last legislature, tied in perfectly with both a strategy of trouble making and with the proposals of Members who are, as a rule, anti-Strasbourg.
Indeed, in a European Union that favours decision-making as close as possible to the citizens and respects the principle of subsidiarity, it is essential that we listen to the political assembly, which gives a voice to local and regional power.
Budget surpluses have been consistent since 2000 – EUR&#160;12&#160;000 million in 2000, EUR&#160;15&#160;000&#160;million in 2001 and EUR&#160;7&#160;000 million in 2002 – due to under-spending in the Structural Funds.
The Member States’ contributions should be reduced permanently with a view to limiting the way in which money is shunted around and, in the longer term, even the EU’s administration.
In order to limit the way in which money is shunted around and, in the longer term, EU administration too, the membership fees should be reduced permanently.
Yet again, the Community Budget has recorded a surplus, amounting in total to EUR&#160;5 469 843 705.65 for 2003.
I therefore want to express my dissatisfaction with this additional surplus, in view of the fact that, quite apart from this amount, the Sixth Amending Budget of 2003 had already reduced the 2003 budget by EUR&#160;5 billion due to a significant overestimation of payments under the Structural Funds.
Let us recall that, at the beginning of the last Parliament, there was no structured dialogue between our two institutions as regards the preparation of the Commission’s legislative and working programme.
First and foremost, it strikes me that interinstitutional dialogue should focus even more on the main legislative priorities, some current examples of which you have already mentioned, such as future Financial Perspectives or the proposals for REACH.
The package of proposals on future Financial Perspectives is an excellent example.
Having said that, despite this cleaning-up operation, a number of proposals remain on the table with little hope of being brought to fruition.
To talk in practical terms, one might in future organise a large-scale budget debate in the presence of the whole Commission, thereby making the debate as specific as possible and making it possible to set out the actual directions in which the legislative programme should go.
Finally, it is essential that we build up still further coordination between our work and that of the Council.
Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we have made enormous progress over the past few years in identifying shared priorities and in planning our legislative work together.
We will have to strengthen participatory democracy, and for that to happen it will be essential that all the interested parties be allowed as much time as they want to identify the priorities for the year ahead.
This means that we need to monitor very closely the actual processes involved and the actual implementation.
That would, of course, be particularly true in the case of Turkey, and also of Croatia, if we want to make rapid progress with Croatia, which – or so I believe – is what not only the Commission, but also the Council and this Parliament definitely want to do.
I am thinking, for example, of the Balkans, where we may well have established peace, but it is very precarious, and where we still have much to do to secure it, along with economic and social development.
The aspects mentioned so far, however, also need financial support.
A second point, one that Mr Schulz has already mentioned, is the issue of competition, the social Europe and sustainable development.
On the other hand, there is also a need for more funding to enable these investments to be made, and consumers have – as this report shows – very long wish-lists in the field of energy, with aspirations towards alternative or renewable energies, which are proving very difficult to promote in some countries.
Some countries have done more than was envisaged in the objectives, but others have done too little.
They will have to be handled differently in the UK to how they are handled in Austria, and the way they are carried out in France will have to be different from the way they are carried out in Poland, because the problems they address are local ones.
The Parliament and certainly the ALDE Group can only agree, but let us look at whether the rhetoric is being translated into reality in the relevant policy areas, in terms of both proposed budgetary resources and democratic accountability to our citizens.
Some of my comments are directed at the Council and I am very sorry to see that they are not in their place.
Unfortunately, President Barroso’s Commission has not even made a start and there are already evident signs of disharmony in its ranks.
Nevertheless, the new Belgian Commissioner for Development and Humanitarian Aid, Louis Michel, who already has some experience when it comes to insulting the Italians, considered it necessary to dissociate himself from his colleague straightaway.
Turkey’s accession seems to be another contentious issue.
While on that subject, let me stress the need to give much more thought to our young people, about whom too little is said in this Chamber.
We must discuss their mobility, their education, not to mention equivalence for diplomas, an area in which the situation is not changing quickly enough, where there are still too many difficulties and where there is a need for us to exert pressure on the Council.
All this depends on financial perspectives, the debate on which must not be solely budgetary in character.
There has to be a real policy debate on our aspirations, on what we want for this Europe of ours, and we must be able to equip the Europe we envisage for the years ahead with the funding it needs.
We do not have sufficient fiscal discipline in our countries.
We do not look at taxes which encourage people rather than discourage them, and although the currency has been debated elsewhere this week, the issue of discipline within currencies is of critical importance in a very competitive world.
We also need to be concerned in our own country with sterling, and indeed with all the other major currencies of the world.
My message is that fiscal responsibility is the key component in meeting those needs. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too wish to thank the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mrs&#160;de Palacio.
I can certainly subscribe to everything she has said here, especially with regard to priorities. 2005 will also be an important year, and we need to find a way to give our citizens confidence in this area of decision-making.
The top priority is security, a subject that has been raised here during our discussions on solutions and decision-making with regard to the border guard force and the fight against terrorism.
Secondly, sustainable development is an important issue.
The Lisbon Agenda is an important issue, but it requires concrete action.
We need results in employment policy in terms of competitiveness, but the main factors in this regard are economic policy and budgetary discipline, on which subject we have heard an excellent speech just now.
We must set an example here to national parliaments and national governments in maintaining budgetary discipline.
We each have our own priorities and would like to see increases in the budget, but this way the budget will grow ever larger, and economic policy will slip through our fingers.
We are bound by a policy where certain matters are dealt with and others take second place, as we only have a limited number of resources at our disposal.
Next year will be an important year, as it is the first complete year of the functioning of a whole new Parliament and an enlarged Europe.
It is with these priorities that we can show our citizens that things are progressing well, and that is a prerequisite for us to be able to continue our work. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, policy priorities are only convincing if resources are available to fund them.
The three priorities should therefore definitely be maintained, and, without denying the importance of the other priorities, I should like to ask you to pay special attention to those concerning competitiveness and cohesion.
If we really want to create more jobs and achieve sustainable development and real social cohesion, we must create a mechanism in 2005 which not only ensures that the Lisbon objectives are put into practice, but should be accompanied by real incentives and big sticks in order to actually achieve those objectives within a framework that does not jeopardise stability.
Let us hope that the Kok report offers us a sound basis for having a debate in the near future, which we should guide towards the taking of decisions that allow us to make a kind of quantum leap.
I would like to remind you that when this Commission began its work our relations were very difficult.
He has talked about presenting legislative programmes in good time and introducing new concepts which until now have hardly been taken into account, such as the possibilities national Parliaments will have in the future with regard to certain texts.
In any event, coordination with the Council is something which must be improved and something which we are working on, as well as coherence between legislative programmes and budgets.
Competitiveness must provide the framework for everything, and without competitiveness, without creating wealth and jobs, we will achieve nothing more than frustration, because we would have promised and agreed things which cannot be realised.
With regard to the issue of suburban transport, public transport, Mr Swoboda has made a number of observations.
We have approved a Directive and we must comply with it, but I would also like to make an observation which I have made publicly within the Commission.
This is absolutely necessary – and I am naturally saying this on my own behalf, I would like to make that clear – and I believe that the next Commission and this Parliament must confront this issue over the coming years.
Let me explain what I mean: the system of emissions trading may be a good one if implemented within the framework of a worldwide agreement, which is the only way emissions trading can have real effects.
If that system operates within a context in which only the European Union fulfils those responsibilities, in which Kyoto is not ratified by Russia or the United States – the only two countries able to provide the critical mass to allow it to enter into force – we may find that we lose our steel, cement, tile, ceramics and other industries consuming energy, which would not mean pollution would be stopped, because the pollution would be created in third countries whose conditions are much less demanding.
If we make all the efforts I have referred to, we will reduce CO2 emissions by 400 million tonnes a year, more or less.
China alone is going to increase its emissions over the next fifteen years by 4&#160;000 million tonnes of CO2.
The question of nuclear energy is a personal position, but I believe that if we do not confront this problem we will clearly be failing to fulfil our responsibilities properly.
The brain drain.
Europe must face this and it is one of the priorities we have included in the next financial perspectives and we hope this will be understood.
Over all these years we in the Commission have not always held the same views, but we have had to reach agreements and we have all supported that position.
Ladies and gentlemen, it has been an honour for me to represent the Commission in terms of relations with the European Parliament, to have been elected, and in this respect I would like to thank President Prodi for having put his trust in me and for having proposed me as Vice-President for Relations with the European Parliament.
Within this interactive dialogue, in which the Commission makes a proposal and then acts as mediator, I believe we have made the proposals approved in recent times more realistic.
I am sure that this new Parliament together with the new Commission will continue this work.
The debate is closed. (1) &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council’s presentation of the draft General Budget for 2005. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me, on behalf of the Council, to be able to present to you the draft Budget as we have decided it for 2005 in the Council in July.
In particular, I should like to mention the chairmen of the two committees, the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control.
As the two branches of the budgetary authority, you in the European Parliament and we in the Council, we have enjoyed excellent cooperation in the past few years, and I am convinced that we can continue in the same fashion.
I think that that is a good starting point for our, that is the EU presidency’s communications and dealings with you, the European Parliament, including where the financial perspectives are concerned.
The Council has, of course, in deciding on the draft budget, taken into consideration the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 with which you are familiar.
Moreover, I am certain that you in the European Parliament will also agree that, as all Member States and all national parliaments have to observe strict discipline, we should do the same at European level.
As you have been able to see, we in the Council have listed with great care our priorities and posteriorities in the different headings of the financial perspectives.
One priority I should like to highlight is the importance of providing the new Member States with sufficient leeway, in line with the agreements we have made in this respect previously, including in Copenhagen.
Finally, in the bracket of general explanatory comments, I should like to mention the importance of what we call activity statements.
As for payment appropriations, that is to say, the cash that the European Union will be required to pay out during 2005, a total of EUR 105 billion has been set aside for this purpose.
The Council has therefore decided to reduce by a total of EUR 1 billion the amounts proposed by the Commission in its preliminary draft budget for common agricultural policy.
We have done this by a general reduction of all items on the preliminary draft budget amounting to more than EUR 800 million.
However, the Council has taken account of the fact that the ultimate level of appropriations will be determined in the autumn, when the Commission presents its letter of amendment as agreed in the Interinstitutional Agreement.
Concerning Heading 2, the structural measures, the Council has adopted the commitment appropriations proposed in the Commission’s preliminary draft budget for this heading.
Nevertheless, and in the light of the substantial under-use of the resources for structural measures, the Council has decided to lower the level of payment appropriations.
Accordingly, the payment appropriations proposed by the Commission in its preliminary draft budget have, by means of a general reduction, been cut by EUR 3 billion.
As for Heading 3, internal policy, the Council has decided to adopt the amounts in the draft budget that were proposed in line with the codecision procedure for multi-annual programmes, as agreed following enlargement.
As a result of the choices within Heading 3 to which I have just referred, the Council provides for a margin of EUR 108 million under the ceiling for Heading 3 of the financial perspectives.
On the basis of this margin, the European Parliament will also need to be able to set its own priorities for internal policy.
The Council was of the opinion that more detailed choices needed to be made in the list of priorities, so as not to exceed the ceiling of Heading 4 of the financial perspectives.
Bearing in mind the resources required for the common foreign and security policy, the Council has maintained the level that was determined for this in the final budget for 2004.
In order to fund these priorities under the existing ceiling of Heading 4 of the financial perspectives, however, the Council has applied a small, proportionate reduction to the amounts proposed by the Commission for the principal budget lines; the appropriations for international fisheries agreements have been given proportionate consideration.
As such, the amounts have been reduced to the level of the financial resources for the current year, with a small margin in Heading 4 for unforeseen circumstances.
I hope and expect that, at the second reading of the Budget for 2005, we can reach agreement as provided for in the Interinstitutional Agreement, with regard to the final budget for the CFSP and international fisheries agreements.
As for the presidency’s efforts in the area of information on foreign policy, I should like to report what has been agreed with Parliament.
As you know, on 21 September, the next meeting will take place within the framework of the special agreement we reached in this respect with your House under the Italian Presidency.
I would, however, remind you that our institutions had already decided beforehand against the deployment of the flexibility instrument for administrative expenditure for 2005.
A controlled development of administrative expenditure goes hand in hand with healthy financial management.
I am convinced that you as Members of this House, the other wing of the budgetary authority, share the Council’s view of healthy financial management.
The Council has therefore decided that a margin of around EUR 50 million will be sufficient, taking into consideration the cutbacks that have been made further to the development of information technologies and interinstitutional cooperation, as well as specific recruitment programmes for personnel.
Finally, I come to Heading 7, the pre-accession strategy, for which the Council has adopted the commitment appropriations proposed by the Commission.
Given the expected implementation level of these measures, however, the Council has slightly reduced the payment appropriations as proposed by the Commission, and has brought them into line with real needs.
Madam President, I should like to thank your Parliament for its attention thus far, and to wish you every success with the debates on this draft Budget.
I hope that this can be done on the basis of the proposals as they are now before us.
The priorities for this budget are clear to the Commission.
Secondly, the forces of growth within the Community and cohesion in the enlarged Union must be strengthened.
We should live up to our heightened responsibility in the world, and unfortunately we have no choice but to place the fight against terrorism at the very top of the agenda.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have presented the key elements of the Council’s draft budget and the outcome of the Council’s first reading.
I would like to go over the key figures of the Commission’s preliminary draft budget once again.
Agenda 2000, which is the current Financial Perspective, provides for a much higher figure for the 2005 budget year, namely 1.08% of combined economic output.
If you also take into account the fact that the European Development Fund is currently outside the budget and must be funded in addition, an actual figure of 1.11% is reached for financial programming for 2005.
I mention this now because a decision must be taken on whether the Commission’s proposals for the next period are really such a dramatic increase.
The figure of 1.11% in financial programming should therefore be compared with our proposal of 1.14% for 2007 and following years.
Today we are not talking about financial programming for the immediate future, but about the 2005 Budget, which is the first to include direct aid to farmers in the new Member States.
This is therefore the first time that direct aid to farmers in the new Member States is contained in the Budget.
There is a very sharp rise in overall expenditure on agriculture for 2005, of a total of EUR&#160;4 - 4.5&#160;billion according to the Commission’s preliminary draft budget, and EUR&#160;3.5&#160;billion even according to the Council’s draft budget.
This is mainly due to enlargement, but I must point out that EUR&#160;240&#160;million of the increase is entirely attributable to changes in the euro/dollar exchange rate.
Most importantly, the effect of the decisions made by the Council of Agriculture Ministers on agricultural reform will not be to reduce expenditure on agriculture next year, but to increase it.
We must therefore also take the Council’s decisions into account, and of course I am emphasising this in the context of the comments that are often made to the effect that it is only the Commission and Parliament that propose increases in this area.
The Council is now proposing a EUR&#160;1&#160;billion reduction in spending on agriculture, although it remains to be seen whether this can be put into practice.
I must now go into a little more detail with regard to the Structural Funds.
The Commission has proposed a considerable increase in payment appropriations for 2005, as well as an increase in commitment appropriations.
No changes can therefore be made to commitment appropriations.
With regard to the issue of how many payment appropriations we will need next year, the Council believes that we can make do with EUR&#160;3&#160;billion less than the figure proposed by the Commission.
By late August we had already spent 67% of funds, whereas last year the figure was only 44%, and this has meant that my fellow-Commissioner Mr Barrot has already asked for additional funds.
At this point I would like to comment very briefly on the debate that was recently opened on whether structural funds should be cut for new Member States which lower their company tax rates considerably.
Firstly, with the exception of advance payments, no structural funds have been received by the new Member States.
Many reforms in the new Member States have in fact been aimed at removing exemptions from the tax base, or rather at closing tax loopholes.
I can assure Parliament that we are in the process of improving dialogue between the Commission and Parliament on this issue, and we will shortly provide you with an update on their implementation.
As far as foreign policy is concerned, the available budget is currently undergoing a reduction in real terms as a result of the provisions of Agenda 2000.
Not only, though, is there the political will to jointly take on more responsibility in the world, but we are also, in fact, constantly faced with new challenges.
Since the Commission submitted the preliminary draft budget, the Council, and in particular the European Council, has taken further political decisions with implications for the Budget.
These include, firstly, the political decision to open accession negotiations with Croatia, which will affect the Budget, and, secondly, the quite justified political decision to provide financial assistance to the Turkish Cypriot community.
According to the Commission proposal, both decisions will have implications for heading 7, pre-accession aid, but also for heading 4, where more funds will also need to be released.
We will, in the next few weeks, submit letters of amendment on the 2005 preliminary draft budget to Parliament and the Council regarding this issue, and I hope that this will enable us to reach a positive decision both on heading 7 and on heading 4, external policy expenditure.
I agree with you entirely, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that use of the flexibility instrument for administrative expenditure should be out of the question.
We must therefore make every effort to find the necessary funds.
I was of course pleased on behalf of the Commission at the Council’s proposal to allow the Commission 680 extra posts next year for enlargement.
I refer to this again because a number of Members have said in the debate on the next Financial Perspective that the Commission was allowing for too large a discrepancy, whereas the one we have proposed is in fact smaller than that in the Council’s preliminary draft budget.
Parliament’s first reading will take place in late October, and I am glad that the debate on the reading will be one of my last official duties.
Not only is this the first full annual budget for an EU of 25 Member States and a new European Commission, as well as for basic European institutions whose composition has been changed or adjusted as a result of enlargement, from the Court of Justice to the Ombudsman, it is also the first year of implementation of the new Staff Regulations.
Despite this, our work will continue to be characterised by continuity, on the basis of the formal and informal rules of negotiation introduced by our predecessors.
At the same time as continuing our work on the 2005 budget this year, we must heed the message from the European elections.
There is an increasing need for an easy—to-understand added value obtained with taxpayers’ money, as well as for transparency and rationality in budget expenditure and for an appropriate channelling of funds to tasks which will bring visible benefits both to local communities and to the environment.
I say this in the context of one of the votes that took place earlier today, on an amendment transferring the 2003 budgetary surplus of around EUR 5.5 billion into the 2004 budget.
In real terms, however, and taking into account the previous amendments to the budget, the surplus amounted to over EUR 10 billion, which is equivalent to one tenth of the EU’s 2003 budget.
This also means that financial programming, in the sense of well-defined financial resources for legislative tasks and initiatives, remains an important task for the coming years of this parliamentary term.
I am however aware of the thoroughness with which Council and Commission proposals are examined in Warsaw, Prague, Tallinn and other cities, for example the proposal to make savings of around 3 billion zloty under the Structural Funds, or to reduce the funding for agricultural subsidies.
In budgetary terms this confirms the political will to see accession in 2007.
Parliament’s view on the 2005 budget will emerge from the amendments currently being tabled, although of course it will not merely be the sum of these amendments.
The deadline for the committees is tomorrow and that for the political groups is next week, in order to prepare for a first reading on 28 October of this year.
The Council has taken a strictly accounting approach at first reading.
If Parliament were to accept – and it is not going to accept – this view on the part of the Council in its current form, it would be a triumph of national accounting over European policy, and I do not believe this would be good either for the Union or for its Member States.
We European Members of Parliament are well aware of national budgetary difficulties resulting from insufficient economic growth, and we know that the Stability Pact imposes very clear rules with regard to controlling budgetary deficits.
The figures are, however, clear: in recent years, national budgets have increased by 22% while over the same period the Community budget has increased by 9%.
That is to say, the European Parliament is much more fertile ground for budgetary austerity and rigour than national parliaments themselves at times.
The Members of the European Parliament – including myself – know that Community policies have great added value in terms of growth and employment, in relation to Structural Funds, research and external cooperation, for example.
We fear that the Council’s approach at first reading is simply to create artificial margins in categories which do not correspond either to the real needs of the Union or commitments to third parties, not even with the political will expressed each year in the budgetary vote in December.
In general, in order to issue a more reasoned opinion in relation to the European Parliament’s reaction to this draft from the Council, I would prefer to wait to receive the amendments approved in the competent committees and in the political groups.
The margins created by the Commission in categories 3, 4 and 5 are politically much more realistic than the margins created by the Council, which is something of a paradox.
The Council’s position is inconsistent here, and I am prepared to propose innovative solutions for resolving once and for all this double political language between commitments and compliances.
Commitments still to be paid as of 31 July stand at EUR 122&#160;000 million.
In relative terms, the categories with the most RALs are, in this order, 7, 4 and 2, the latter being the largest in terms of volume.
Any responsible institution would want to put an end to this situation.
The N+2 rule that the Commission mentioned was created to improve execution and to speed up the completion of projects.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first real budget with 25 Member States.
The provisional draft budget showed that there was no margin at all remaining.
The framework had, in fact, been overstepped and, in its handling of the matter, the Council has implemented cutbacks that provide a margin.
The Council cut back a little on its own budget.
I think it is transparently obvious, however, that the Council’s administrative budget has increased at a rate of almost 5% in relation to the budget for 2004, in which the overall increase for all the institutions is one of 3%.
The Council has made an overall cut of 1.5% to take account of the fact that we must be able to save because new technology has been introduced and because the institutions cooperate.
I can, moreover, only agree that some money can be saved through cooperation between the institutions on the personnel side and in connection with the languages.
Parliament plans to conduct an information campaign concerning the draft Constitution, and account has been taken of this in the budget.
I think that, regarding the administrative expenditure, the Council and Parliament ought together to find a solution that ensures both a suitable margin and sensible conditions for the Commission and the other institutions.
Even a minor reduction in the rate of increase of the budget may be quite damaging to some of the small institutions, especially those that are at the development stage.
Matters relating to agricultural policy have been touched upon, and the agricultural reform we have drawn up will be implemented as of 1&#160;January&#160;2005.
This gives rise to corresponding obligations, and we need to fulfil the terms of the Treaty concluded with the new Member States in Copenhagen.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said that you have supported all agreements relating to the multiannual programmes and made no cuts to any of them.
I would now like to turn to the subject of the agencies, and to ask whether you are shouldering your responsibility in this respect.
Since 1999, or the 2000 budget, we have been faced with the problem that we cannot fund the commitments which the foreign ministers enter into in their never-ending donation frenzy.
I could also say something on the subject of Cyprus, but I will refrain from doing so, as I am running out of time and the President is already giving me a stern look.
Yet again, the Council has made very substantial cuts in the Commission’s preliminary draft Budget.
I will also consider the role of micro-businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises in creating employment and will have something to say about the inconsistency of the Council’s approach to twinning.
We, in fact, are keen that the Council should find other means of funding Iraq, and also that the EU should keep the promises it made to all the peoples concerned, as it does those it makes to its own citizens.
When preparing the preliminary draft budget, the Commission had asked for 1.03% of GNP and, as if by chance, the draft budget has 0.99%, less, you see, than the symbolic figure of 1% on which some rely in order to be able to cut back their national budget.
We want to start from the draft and from the promises made to the public, and, on that basis, produce a budget that is well funded and of use to all.
We will see to it that Parliament will honour its promises and the undertakings that the Council has been unable to include in its draft Budgets. &#160;&#160; Madam President, as Mrs Guy-Quint stated a moment ago, there is always something predictable about debates such as today’s.
The Commission decides on a preliminary draft budget, the Council compiles a draft budget and without knowing the figures, it can be taken as read that the Council will be making cutbacks in agricultural spending, and in all other budget categories, for that matter.
In any event, we need to wait and see what, exactly, the letter of amendment at the end of October will contain.
We in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe hope – and Parliament’s position on the 2005 Budget already partly reflects this – that two trial projects will be maintained.
The first one concerns the possibility, in future, of reaching assurances against infectious animal diseases which can break out at some point in the future and will impact heavily on the agricultural budget.
The second one must culminate in a system of quality assessment for European agricultural products.
With regard to the structural funds, it is, in my view, of essential importance for the effect of the n+2 rule to be analysed very carefully and to be checked in relation to the estimates.
As we have heard, the 2005 Budget is the first for 25 Member States, and budgetary allocations must therefore do justice to the new historical context, in which the division of our continent is finally being overcome.
The results of the European elections showed us that together we face a serious acceptance problem, and that we do not really get across to the public.
I would therefore also like to make it clear that, in our opinion, the letter from the six Heads of Government who wish to fix the budget at 1% in the Financial Perspective is a mistake.
Corrections must be made, and we will also push for this in our Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today the European Parliament, in accordance with established practice, has approved the supplementary budget, which is refunding EUR 5.5 billion of the EU contributions paid in 2003 to the Member States.
Not just the Commission, but also the Member States are to blame for the outstanding commitments that have resulted from underutilisation of the Structural Funds.
This means that the other priorities that Parliament considers important will not be addressed.
This budget is a step in that direction. &#160;&#160; I am a new MEP, representing the June List – the new party in Sweden that polled 15% of the votes in the last European Parliament elections.
I wish, in this House today, to take the opportunity to state what we consider should be the main trends forming the basis of EU strategy on financial policy.
The overarching principle should first of all be that the EU’s total budget expenditure should not exceed one per cent of the EU countries’ combined GDP.
We thus support the position adopted by the governments of a number of countries, including Sweden’s.
My second point concerns the fact that a number of countries now pay significantly more than what they get back in the form of subsidies.
The fourth point is that all the Member States should pay the same gross charge as a percentage of GDP.
New commitments, programmes and promises of subsidies may only be honoured within the framework of the reallocation of old appropriations.
A review of agricultural aid may, in the longer term, create scope for aid to countries with the weakest economies.
We shall vote on the forthcoming draft budget in accordance with these intentions.
Thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, most of the members of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group are concerned at the proposals to permanently cut payments to the EU in relation to the Member States’ gross national products.
Yet at the same time, by making reference to the Lisbon Strategy, for example, the EU continues to aspire to a growing role in the global economic race.
In view of our Danish colleague’s reservations, the entire UEN Group rejects the Council’s proposed payment cuts, and calls for an increase, not a decrease, in payments as a percentage of GDP in the Financial Perspective for 2007-2013.
The reductions in payments proposed by the Council under Headings 1 and 2 are of a plainly mechanical nature, and the fact that they are all round figures is worthy of attention.
In this connection, the UEN Group supports the inclusion of the figures proposed by the Commission.
Little will be achieved by cutting funding for these aims. &#160;&#160; Mr President, esteemed Parliament, in its 15-member form, the European Union had already begun to benefit from its relationship with the new Member States.
The new Member States of the European Union therefore now justifiably expect a welcoming hand and not the construction of barriers to the movement of labour, nor administrative barriers to the provision of post-accession aid and certainly not a reduction in budgetary resources in the field of structural operations and equalisation of regional disparities. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I join in your celebratory mood.
The other problem has already been mentioned by several speakers: it is the issue of the EUR 3 billion reduction in the annual payment of the structural funds in 2005.
We should, however, make our repayments from the EUR 3 billion in such a way that each Member State receives a share of the surplus.
This proposal is based on the same principles upon which this House based last year’s 12% payment increase for the year 2004 for the ten new Member States.
Let us show solidarity with those Member States who have a harder task of joining up than others. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the European Union’s draft budget for 2005 is the first one applying to a Union of 25 Member States for a complete year.
The total payment appropriations in the budget come to EUR 105 billion; that is, 0.99% of GNP, or approximately EUR 9 billion below the financial perspective ceiling.
Outstanding commitments remain the biggest problem with the EU budget.
For example, last year EUR&#160;8&#160;134&#160;000&#160;000 in budgeted payment appropriations in the Structural Funds went unused.
The result of this will be that, over the coming years, an ever larger proportion of the Structural Funds will be used to meet old commitments.
Finally, I would like to say that this draft budget drawn up by the Council will require some substantial revision by Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, sixty seconds does not allow me time to go through the budget item by item, so I will concentrate on the total, of which the Council is so proud: 0.99% of GNP.
If the budget is, without doubt, an accounting exercise, it is equally certain that it is also a political one.
I do not get the impression that the Council has grasped that. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for 2005 expresses the authoritarian, anti-grass roots policy of the European Union, the objective of which is to safeguard and increase the profits of big business.
It does not take account of the needs generated by enlargement in ten countries and it calls on workers, women, young people, small- and medium-sized farmers, trades and handicrafts, the working classes in the less developed areas in all twenty-five Member States, to foot the bill for the creation of an attractive business environment for big business.
Unfortunately, however many amendments are made, they will not change the reactionary character of the budget, which is why we shall be voting against it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we all know that one of the clearest challenges facing the European Union at this time is the implementation of further measures to improve the operation of the European economy.
The budget and restrictions that have been proposed – by the Council in particular – are not going in that direction.
There are two solutions available to you: the first is to dismantle the CAP after 2013 in order to recover the best part of 44% of agricultural funds, a development that has been in the pipeline ever since the CAP was refashioned.
The second, given that it is inevitable that the budget will double, is to create a European tax to fund it.
With codecision, we will be able to calmly do away with the CAP, and, in due course, with our small farmers.
As I expect to have to pay it, I would like to savour these last moments of not being pestered by the taxman. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Dr Brüner, the Director General of OLAF, which is responsible for investigating European Union fraud and corruption, told the Committee on Budgetary Control at its last meeting that it was not his job to snoop.
I now put that question to this Parliament and to the Commission: who is responsible for what is being done to end the European Union's structural and institutional fraud and corruption? &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr President, may I start by extending warm congratulations to you, Mr Ouzký, on your first appearance here as Vice-President of the European Parliament.
I am very indebted to you and your Members for the many interesting remarks as well as remarks concerning content that have been made.
I should like to give a first reaction to a number of important remarks, although I will have to keep it brief.
I do not think that added value is primary for European citizens, or that the highest possible level of funding is brought into Europe and subsequently returned to those citizens for good causes.
That is in any event a guideline for us, the Council, with regard to this budget, and it also says something about what is not on the agenda now but has been mentioned by a few of your Members, namely the new financial perspectives.
Mr Garriga made an interesting observation with his comparison between the increase of national budgets over a number of years and the increase of the European budget.
His position was that, in that light, the European budget increases had been far lower than the national budget ones over a number of years.
If you look into this in more detail, I agree that this can also lead to a different insight.
Indeed, the last few years, particularly since the economic recession from 2000 onwards, give a totally different picture of the national budget.
Secondly, in response to the – in itself very interesting – comparison that Mr Garriga made, I should like to say that the national governments naturally have responsibilities which the European Union does not have and which are linked to increases, such as social security, health care and education.
That is a completely different budget from the European budget where agricultural spending still accounts for nearly half of the budget and structural policy spending for nearly 30%.
What is still at issue is at what level added value can be provided most effectively.
I should like to flag a few essential points mentioned by speakers on your side.
Let me start with the remark made by Commissioner Schreyer, and indeed a number of your Members have mentioned this point, namely structural funds, and the communication which Commissioner Schreyer made, that the level of depletion is positively higher than could previously be assumed.
In fact, she also mentioned the discussion about company tax and her objection to a link being made between that discussion and the structural policy discussion.
With regard to payment appropriations, a number of you have already drawn our attention to them, understandably so, particularly Mr Garriga who was the first to do so.
Many of you were right to mention the importance of new priorities, new countries and solidarity.
A number of you, including Mr Ferber and Mr Mulder, mentioned the subject of agriculture.
Here again, the same applies, and I should like to hammer my message home once more: it goes without saying that agreements or farmers’ and cultivators’ rights are not tampered with.
As Mr Mulder said quite rightly, we will be receiving the latest figures in October, but we will always fulfil our obligation in this respect.
A number of you, including Mr Garriga and Mrs Jensen, have also flagged the agencies as an area of concern.
Certainly where the new agencies are concerned, I think that we have tabled a very solid proposal for the activities of those agencies.
I should like to put this into perspective to some degree, because if you consider the development of this budget over the last few years, there is an enormous increase in this very category.
Finally, some MEPs have made comments, direct or indirect, about the new financial perspectives.
It then makes a number of comments, but without altering the overall result, and this makes it particularly clear that the accounts comply with the EU’s rules.
With regard to implementation of the Budget, which in principle is now also connected with the accounts, I would like to point out once again that Parliament, like the Council, receives implementation figures for the EU Budget every week.
I believe that this debate on the 2005 Budget was a very lively one.
Member States, however, were at that time not able to agree with a view shared by the Commission and this Parliament.
Therefore, at most, only 25% of the entire spare-part market will be affected.
The Commission estimates that spare parts are 6-10% more expensive in Member States where they are subject to design protection.
Secondly, on employment, liberalisation should have a positive net impact on EU jobs, benefiting small and medium-sized enterprises in particular.
Car makers from Japan or any other third country manufacturing or selling in the European Union would no longer be able to keep EU producers out of the market.
Fourthly and finally, a remark on safety.
Design protection covers only the outward appearance of products.
The proposal would therefore not affect the safety or quality of spare parts.
The Commission, independently of the adoption of the proposal today, will undertake a study to ensure that all safety concerns will be addressed by those directives.
As Members will be aware, the proposal has been the subject of intense lobbying on the part of car manufacturers, who are about to turn the full focus of their attention on Members of this Parliament.
After all, the Commission's proposal strikes the right balance.
Speaking as draftsman of the opinion of our committee on the pedestrian protection requirements on motor vehicles, on which this House has spent a great deal of time, I have to say that since 1996 things have moved on as regards the important contribution that visible parts make to pedestrian protection.
Let me deal first with the question of safety.
Secondly, believe it or not, there are 90 directives, concerned with the safety of pedestrians, which apply to all cars and parts of cars, and therefore also to parts supplied by third party suppliers.
The extended impact assessment is a very thorough job and I have held extensive consultations with stakeholders, particularly with the car industry itself.
Members of this House will be able to read the extended impact assessment and form their own opinions.
We all know that the principle of mutual recognition through the use of standardisation is an extremely efficient and competitive method, and this is of course particularly true for spare parts.
In all countries where the CE mark is used or must be used, the consumer is provided with a guarantee that legal requirements have been complied with.
In such cases a separate market exists where the consumer has an additional test mark, and can therefore see that an authorised testing agency has addressed the issue.
As I said earlier, there are 90 directives concerned with the safety of automobiles and these directives are policed, if you like, by the Member States.
The same will therefore apply to spare parts produced by a third party.
So we can rest assured on that score.
This was done, and this proposal is the natural concomitant of his proposal, which was adopted in 2002.
Therefore, it was of the essence that this Commission should deal with this issue because, as I have said, it goes with his proposal.
The second point refers to employment.
If we open the market for repairs and the secondary market for spare parts, it is more than likely that the jobs created by small and medium-sized enterprises – which, we all agree, are very important for industry in general and in particular for German industry – will more than compensate for the loss of jobs as car manufacturers have been outsourcing their components – their spare parts – to suppliers beyond the confines of the European Union.
Work has begun with a view to improving the quality of data in close coordination with the Member States and with the World Health Organisation in order to provide the Member States with better training instruments.
In the case of cot deaths 20 years ago, we changed the classification and then more research was done.
It is very important that training should focus on that particular issue.
This is not, however, the responsibility of Eurostat, it is the responsibility of the World Health Organisation.
In 1999, the Commission adopted a Community anti-doping support plan and set out approaches that the campaign against doping might take.
At the same time, we have helped the Member States to set up, jointly with the sporting world and with the sports federations, the World Anti-Doping Agency.
Prevention is, of course, also of the utmost importance, and so I would inform you that 2004 has been declared the ‘European Year of Education through Sport’.
Ever since I was, in 1999, appointed Commissioner for Sport, I have organised, on a regular basis, an informal Council of Sports Ministers – we were unable to have a formal one – in order to encourage them to cooperate towards this end.
In addition, commercialisation alters the real nature of sport and the existence of the 'professional athlete' poisons and undermines every moral basis for amateur sport.
We must therefore fight doping among not only professional athletes, but also amateur athletes, and we must focus on public health, given that doping is becoming a genuine public health problem.
We shall be able to take direct action in the field of sport.
The Commission itself will be able to propose action programmes, funded, of course, by the European Union, to help sports federations, governments, educators and clubs to move in the right direction.
For the time being, I feel that all that we have done has been in preparation for this new treaty, yet we really must have a legal basis to be able to produce a more solid and higher profile policy.
In view of the options, we have so far done the most that we can, and even more than that. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, I noted with interest that, in your initial response, you noted, despite the steps that have been taken, that there is no adequate legal basis for doing more.
I therefore specifically ask you: for the last two and a half years, the European Parliament Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has been asking for a directive from the Commission in application of Article 152 of the founding Treaty.
Moreover, as regards combating crime, for example, I should like to remind Parliament that, in 2002, the Commission and the Spanish Presidency organised a seminar in Spain that brought together for the very first time those responsible for the fight against doping and representatives of the border police and customs authorities.
This is a highly complex issue; it is a problem that concerns internal security; it is a problem that concerns medicine labelling; it is a problem that concerns sport; it is a problem that concerns the protection of young people; and it is a problem that concerns public health.
This legislation makes it possible for consumers to make free choices by means of clear labelling and a case-by-case risk analysis and also guarantees that genetically-modified organisms authorised in the European Union are harmless to human health and the environment.
The request for authorisation of foods derived from maize from line NK&#160;603 was presented in April 2001 and has been dealt with and analysed over all this time in accordance with the legislation in force.
All the necessary conditions for its authorisation are therefore fulfilled.
With regard to the possible economic repercussions, I would like to stress that foods and ingredients derived from various lines of genetically-modified maize have been notified or authorised for marketing and, therefore, the authorisation of this new NK&#160;603 line would extend the range of possibilities but would not in any way set a precedent.
I would like to thank you for your answer, but I would also like to point out that this is a controversial issue.
It is controversial because the European Council has not taken a decision on the matter, as the required majority for such a decision was not reached.
It appears to me that this is ample proof that this issue will have further consequences, and that some of these consequences will undoubtedly be the subject of much heated discussion.
I would now like to turn to the issue of genetically modified rape, as I know that the European Commission is currently working on a proposal to authorise such rape.
The fact that the previous debate on Belarus and this one on genetically-modified organisms have coincided is testament to the fact that you are doing a good job of defending your views, Mr&#160;Czarnenecki, and that is your job.
I would like to say to you that the current Community legislation, which is the result of the negotiations between this Parliament and the Council on a proposal from the Commission, finally granted the Commission the power to authorise a genetically-modified organism by means of a legislative procedure know as the comitology procedure.
This procedure – as the honourable Member is aware – is used in many areas of Community legislation, and is provided for in the current legislation, and allows the Member States of the Union to play an important role and the European Parliament to participate.
This procedure does not authorise the Commission to act against a majority in the Council.
In authorising this NK&#160;603 line, therefore, the Commission will simply be fulfilling its obligation to apply Community legislation, and I would like to point out that the companies legitimately trust that their applications will be dealt with fairly and objectively, in accordance with the Community legislation in force approved by this Parliament and by the Council.
With regard to the second issue, you have mentioned unfair competition in relation to farmers.
Some time ago, concern arose in port circles when it became known that the Commission was planning to submit a new proposal for a directive on the liberalisation of port services even before the inauguration of the new Commission.
The discussions intensified with the proposed Directive presented by the Commission in 2001, and the in-depth debates which took place in relation to it led the Commission to introduce various modifications to the text, particularly in response to the opinions expressed by Parliament at first and second readings.
This approach differs fundamentally to the proposal of 2001 and is intended to respond to the concerns expressed by those who called for greater attention to be paid to these points.
In order to guarantee a competitive transport system in the European Union, I believe it is absolutely essential that a significant proportion of the new demand, which we expect to grow by around 40% in ten years for goods, be channelled towards maritime cabotage within an enlarged Europe.
These days, there is also a certain level of distrust in port circles with regard to the proposals you will shortly be tabling.
I would therefore like to ask you quite specifically whether you are planning another thorough consultation with all those involved from the sector – workers and employers – in order to reach a mutually acceptable compromise in the next few weeks, before the issue is presented to the Commission.
Having said that, we must be clear: do we or do we not want to promote maritime traffic and transport?
Neither, however, must we make it obligatory – as in some ports of the European Union today, for example – when loading or unloading a lorry onto a roll-on roll-off transport system to employ a specific driver from port staff or pay somebody – although they are not employed – as if they were employed.
Throughout all this time we have held discussions with the sectors.
You have told Mr El Khadraoui that you have consulted all those involved and refer in this respect to your visit to the Antwerp port.
I have been employed, and this Parliament has put its trust in me, until 1 November.
I am not against anybody, but rather I am in favour of certain things: in favour of port activity, of wealth in ports, of the development of port cities and areas and in favour of the European economy, competitiveness and living conditions.
Finally, many of the elements of the proposal we will present will be restricted to cabotage.
I am going to earn my salary up until the last day and respond to the trust which you, this Parliament and the Council, have placed in me, and that means doing my job, which consists amongst other things of presenting this proposal for a Directive, if it is ready. &#160;&#160; – The workers and their trades union have expressed their categorical opposition to the liberalisation of port services.
Workers were concerned that it would lead to job losses, a decline in social conditions and lack of safety.
I therefore believe that these concerns are unfounded.
I would emphasise that this proposal represents an opening up, but, above all, what it must mean is more activity for the regions you have referred to. &#160;&#160; Questions Nos 29 and 30 will be replied to in writing. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the two other Commissioners each have only one question to answer, which will certainly not take 20 minutes.
I believe we could therefore follow a different procedure to that which we usually follow, as there is no point in taking 20 minutes for one question. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I have been in this Chamber since before Question Time began.
I presented my question in July and I have been waiting and listening to every question.
I am afraid that you are mistaken, Mr&#160;Posselt, as we have a great many other questions, especially for Commissioner Dimas.
The overall strategy that we have adopted consists of considering the European textiles and clothing sector, as the questioner himself has done, not as an industry of the past&#160;–&#160;whose gradual disappearance would have to be managed, more or less decently, from a social and political point of view – but, in sharp contrast, as an industry of the future.
Europe is the continent in which there is no more modern and productive sector than that of textiles and clothing.
In essence, what we are proposing is firstly to start monitoring international trade – and in particular our imports – a little more closely.
We shall therefore put in place at the end of this year a monitoring system in more or less real time, so that the figures&#160;– and, in particular, possible sudden rises in imports&#160;– can be spotted more easily, and we can draw our own conclusions as necessary, as the WTO entitles us to do.
We shall also pay increased attention to questions of international competition and, in particular, to illegal practices such as dumping, fraud and the protection of intellectual property, each of which are, of course, cancers that must be monitored extremely closely.
This, as far as we are concerned, remains the most effective weapon for ensuring the future of the sector, whether the markets concerned are major ones that remain protected, such as the US market in several cases, or potentially significant markets for us, namely a number of markets in some, but not all, developing countries which, in the textiles and clothing sector, are now potential importers of high added value products, including European products.
We have set up a system of bilateral dialogue with the Chinese as regards the textile trade to look into ways of ensuring that trade is not disrupted too significantly as a result of quotas being abolished.
We shall therefore approach the end of the year deadline in full knowledge of the facts, but also with a toolbox that has recently undergone significant improvements. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, despite the fact that I am wasting valuable time, I should like publicly to congratulate Commissioner Lamy on the work which he has accomplished on the portfolio which he has managed to date as Commissioner.
My supplementary question concerns what general measures, reciprocal measures and measures to abolish non-trade barriers the Commission intends to take at both multilateral and bilateral level, as well as within the framework of trans-regional cooperation.
Reference was made to them, but there needs to be a transition from words to action, which is always difficult.
I am referring here to a series of technical measures as regards the composition of materials, protection against certain risks and specific characteristics that are imposed from time to time, in particular in the USA or in certain important developing countries, such as Brazil, South Africa, Egypt and India.
This area of non-tariff barriers is therefore also part of the negotiations that we are pursuing within the World Trade Organisation. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the textile industry is facing major changes.
The European market is being opened up and trade barriers mean that many markets are not accessible to our exporters.
One of the conclusions of the Irish Presidency Conference held in Dublin in May 2004 was that family and family life remain among the top sources of individual well-being.
However, given that the issue of family cuts across many different policy areas in which the Commission is active, it has already contributed to an evaluation of the interactions between various employment and social policies and the changing nature of families.
For example, the objectives underpinning the Union's social inclusion process, the open method of coordination on poverty and social exclusion, stress the need to ensure access to housing, healthcare and education for all and to develop policies designed to preserve family solidarity.
In this context, it is noteworthy that child and family poverty has gained increased prominence within the social inclusion process in recent times.
For instance, one of the six key priorities agreed by the Commission and the Member States in the 2004 Joint Report on Social Inclusion is to develop a focus on eliminating poverty and social exclusion amongst children.
Also, in the recent Commission Staff Working Paper on Social Inclusion in the New Member States, one of the key social inclusion challenges identified is to strengthen policies to support families and social networks, and to protect the rights of children.
Another important policy area in which the Commission gives prominence to the family is in its emphasis on developing family-friendly policies in such areas as employment and childcare.
More specifically, the European employment strategy, in line with the Presidency Conclusions of the European Council in Barcelona, addresses the problem of reconciling work and family life and provides quantitative objectives for increasing the availability of child-care provision.
As to the future, the Commission envisages that the family will continue to be an issue of concern in the European employment strategy and in the Union's social inclusion process and thus for the further development of the Union's social policy agenda. &#160;&#160; – I should like to thank the Commissioner for his reply.
Most of our legislative measures or our policies attempt to achieve this.
As an example, we are shortly to have a revision of the working time directive, the provisions of which are designed to ensure reconciliation between family life and work.
This directive requires the Member States to take measures to: one: improve the quality of fixed-term employment by ensuring the principle of non-discrimination is applied and two: prevent the abuse caused by the use of successive fixed-term contracts.
Numerous countries have such rules within the framework of a package of measures to prevent abuse; however, the directive does not introduce the right for workers on fixed-term contracts to become permanent employees.
As far as the new Greek presidential decree is concerned, article 10 on transitional arrangements makes provision for certain successive contracts to be converted to open-ended contracts of employment.
The first legislative act transposing the directive in Greece to which Mr Papadimoulis refers was indeed unsatisfactory as regards measures to prevent abuse from successive fixed-term contracts.
According to the Commission's preliminary examination, the rules for successive fixed-term contracts in the new decree do not contradict the directive on fixed-term employment.
As soon as Greece notifies the Commission of any additional relevant legislation transposing the directive, we shall ascertain if it complies with Community law and if it adopts the measures needed in each case. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, if we assume that Greece, our common homeland, had applied the Community directive which we are discussing on time, even after the extension which it was granted in 2002, thousands of people would have ensured their contracts were converted to open-ended contracts under the provisions of the presidential decree to which you refer.
As Mr Papadimoulis correctly observed, the Commission raised questions in the past concerning the measures taken by the Greek Government in order to prevent abuse from the use of fixed-term contracts during the delay in transposing the directive into national law.
The question to the Commission concerned the previous presidential decree which, on the one hand, was late in transposing the directive and, on the other hand, transposed it incorrectly.
Had this situation not been corrected in the meantime under the new presidential decree, the Commission would in theory have been able to institute the proceedings for which provision is made in articles 226 and 228, the purpose of which is to proclaim that the Member State has failed to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty and to force it to comply.
In addition, as Mr Papadimoulis referred to civil rights, the Commission could in fact take action against the Member State in the event of damage caused by late and incorrect transposition of a directive.
In this way, citizens are protected from damage which they might sustain as a result of culpable and illegal delay in the transposition of a directive by a Member State, in which case the national courts have jurisdiction and may rule on compensation provided that, first, the Member State has engaged in illegal, infringing conduct, such as the delayed or incorrect transposition of a directive into national law and, secondly, there is a link of cause and effect between the Member State's conduct and the damage sustained.
For the new Member States, the deadline for the transposition of both directives was 1 May 2004.
In its role as guardian of the Treaties, the Commission has launched infringement proceedings against Member States which have failed to transpose the race discrimination and employment framework directives into national law by the abovementioned deadlines.
Five Member States have been referred to the European Court of Justice for their failure to transpose the racial equality directive into national law.
Should this not be the case, the Commission will take the appropriate measures. &#160;&#160; I want to commend the Commissioner and his predecessor for the seriousness with which they have taken enforcement action on these directives.
The world is gradually losing its patience with a government that appears reluctant to assume full responsibility for all its citizens.
This applies to Darfur as well as to the North-South process.
Sudan should as soon as possible become a country in which all citizens are free and safe, not dominated by violence and discrimination.
The continued tensions between Ethiopia and Eritrea, the problems in Somalia, the war in northern Uganda and further afield, and the ongoing crisis in the Great Lakes area are all indications of instability on the African continent.
Therefore, the EU's support and engagement should, in the first instance, be through coordinating its policies with the African Union.
Support for the African Union constitutes a simple element to the EU's Darfur policy.
The plan envisages an enlarged AU mission to Darfur, with increased numbers of military observers, increased military personnel in the protection force, in the civilian police and civilian support staff.
The European Union has been represented during the first round of negotiations and urges both the government and the rebels to resume the talks with great urgency.
Together with the African Union, the United Nations is an important player in resolving the crisis in Darfur.
On 6 August, Mr Pronk reached an agreement with the Sudanese Government on a plan of action.
The EU supports the action plan but sees Resolution 1556 as the main framework to maintain pressure on the Government of Sudan.
I believe that the message to the Sudanese authorities should be consistent and straightforward.
Since the presentation by Mr Pronk to the Security Council on 2 September, there have been ongoing discussions on a new Security Council resolution.
The European Union is in favour of a strong resolution to maintain pressure on the parties in the Sudan.
The United States supports this line also.
In a public hearing in the Senate, Secretary of State Powell announced support for the expansion of the AU mission and for the idea of curbing Sudanese military flights over Darfur, and raised the possibility of introducing sanctions.
This coincides with the EU point of view, as stated in our conclusions last Monday.
Finally, a word on humanitarian assistance and the way forward.
The EU is an important contributor to humanitarian assistance and so far has provided EUR 288 million.
Finally, the way forward.
The EU is committed to helping to bring peace and stability to Sudan.
The EU works shoulder-to-shoulder with the African Union and the United Nations, but will take its own responsibility based on the Council's conclusions of 12 and 26 July, and of 13&#160;September.
The mission has returned with a clear picture of a complex situation and has expressed indignation at the terrible events which continue to unfold in Darfur.
Things are so terrible now that we have mobilised to date EUR 105 m.
Normally, the Commission's share of support in these humanitarian crises is about 20% of what Member States give in total.
I mention this because I find the qualitative value of what the EU as a whole is doing in a given situation is related not only to what the Commission is doing or the total amount of what we do, but also to the genuine character of commitment across Europe as a whole in support of our activity.
We are also directing money and effort to the situation in Chad, by providing shelter for an estimated 200 000 refuges from Darfur.
As to logistics, ECHO is opening a technical antenna in Darfur and another in Chad to improve coordination in the field.
They will be operational by the end of this month and we are planning for an initial period of 12 months.
I am aware that the mission has returned with accounts of terrible violence and great fear.
It is important for the international community to remain mobilised, as the humanitarian needs will continue for another year, even in the best-case scenario.
In parallel to humanitarian aid, the EU has been very active in the political sphere.
The most urgent objective is clearly to ensure maximum protection for the civilian population.
It is also important to emphasise that a sustainable political solution for Darfur necessarily has to be articulated and worked out in parallel with and in relation to the global Naivasha process.
In fact the problem in Darfur did not come out of the blue, it was a result of the problems in Sudan.
A measure of political agreement has been reached in Abuja and that is a good start, but we have to support all forces working to push this in the right direction and at the same time focus on the enormous task of improving the humanitarian situation in the field. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was a member of a fact-finding mission of the European Parliament to Darfur.
My conclusions are as follows: the security situation there is alarming; the political situation has not changed; the Sudanese Government is not willing to take any steps beyond those forced upon it by international political will; the humanitarian situation has improved only slightly.
Fifty per cent of the population in the camps is under 15 years of age, so we are creating a new generation of deprived people who can only take up Kalashnikovs and become new fundamentalists and new extremists.
The situation is even more alarming in security terms than in humanitarian terms.
With regard to humanitarian aid, it reaches up to 60% of IDPs in the camps.
The situation has improved because the Sudanese Government allows NGOs and certain humanitarian organisations to reach the territories under its control. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to say at the very outset that everything I saw in Darfur confirmed the view that what we are seeing there is a genocide.
The evidence and the testimonies that we took from the people we spoke to all referred to collaboration between the Janjaweed and the Government of Sudan.
What the people talked about was coordinated violence against them.
To both the Commission and the Council I would say that in Al Fasha the African Union expressed no enthusiasm for an increased protection force.
They had little coordination with the United Nations or discussion on the plan of action.
To both the Commission and Council I would also say that the plan of action agreed by the UN is leading to the Government of Sudan now deploying forces towards the safe areas, into the rebel areas, and causing immense instability and difficulty.
When we landed in Al Fasha, an attack helicopter was hovering overhead.
As a result of brutal attacks by the government of Sudan and its allied militia, a quarter of the population of Darfur had fled their homes in terror.
All displaced persons need access to humanitarian aid and they will need it for at least another 18 months because they have not been able to grow crops this year.
If we fail to be practical in this crisis, then we will let down more than one million Sudanese people who are dependent upon us for their survival. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we naturally share Parliament’s stated desire to come to the aid of the civilian communities of Darfur and to put an end to a civil war that has been appalling from both a humanitarian as well as a political perspective, and to do so, as has already been mentioned, with the support, for example, of the African Union’s initiatives.
Not only are the USA and Europe – particularly France, which has a major influence in the region – implicated in this situation, but so are China and a number of Asian countries.
I feel that this could constitute an essential and even priority task for the future representative of a strong common foreign policy – a policy that we all wish very much to see. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the displaced persons camps in Sudan and the refugee camps in Chad our parliamentary delegation came across an extraordinary, woeful section of humanity: civilians, women, children, men, the new damned of the earth, fleeing from violence and death and living in fear of being attacked and of having to flee yet again.
They are therefore asking the international community for a greater presence.
We are facing an immense tragedy – a million displaced persons, 200&#160;000 refugees, 30&#160;000 dead – faced with which the international community intervened very late in calling for a cease-fire and the opening of peace negotiations.
Indeed, the Darfur democratic opposition groups that we met, whether they were African or Afro-Arab communities, agreed that the armed conflict begun by the SLA or JEM forces was rooted in underdevelopment and a policy aimed at marginalising the region, specifically the African communities.
We must put pressure on the Sudanese Government and the SLA or JEM forces to observe the cease-fire and, as you yourself said, we must cooperate especially in strengthening the presence of African Union forces and human rights observers.
We must also help those parts of civil society that uphold human and social rights to put across their message more strongly.
As many people in Sudan told us, the only possible solution is a political one; it cannot be by military means.
That is why I believe a strict arms embargo needs to be imposed on Sudan not only by the European Union but also by the United Nations, just as strong pressure also needs to be put on Eritrea or anyone who sells arms to the rebels.
These are difficult times, because war and terrorism are destroying our lives.
I believe we have to act wisely and with determination so that the people of Sudan can move on towards development and justice. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, a humanitarian disaster on an almost unimaginable scale is taking place right now in Sudan.
The surrounding world is aware of what is happening in Sudan but, in spite of this, is powerless to act faced with this humanitarian tragedy.
We agree that the surrounding world must act immediately.
Firstly, that of broad international support and, secondly, that of respect for international law.
The UN should act in cooperation with the African Union.
The plans for an EU intervention in the Sudan conflict also give the impression of being a springboard for the creation of an EU army able to act without a UN mandate.
The EU Constitution makes it possible for the EU to intervene in conflicts without UN support.
In that way, the intervention would also take place within the framework of international law.
Thank you for giving me the floor. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Sudanese Government has failed to carry out its serious international obligation under UN Security Council Resolution 1556 of last July.
It appears that many camps in the western region of Darfur in Sudan are still in control of both the Janjaweed armed militia and the Sudanese Government.
The agencies must be given free and unencumbered access to these camps.
Many aid agencies are working in very difficult situations.
This too is the view of members of the Committee on Development who recently travelled to the Darfur region on a fact-finding mission on behalf of the European Parliament.
The Sudanese Government has, for the most part, imposed stalling tactics, which has resulted in the small numbers of African Union peace-keepers being denied access to all regions around Darfur.
The more one listens to people - whether it is aid agencies or members of our Committee on Development or other groups - who have been out there and have seen first hand what is going on, one has to say that there is a total lack of commitment to do anything about the violence that is happening on the ground.
Its value is in excess of EUR&#160;400&#160;million this year.
The European Union, together with the United Nations, should seriously consider imposing a global arms embargo on Sudan.
I believe that the horrors of which we have heard cannot be resolved by simply increasing the aid resources allocated to these people in order to provide for their basic needs for survival, but that there is a real need to attempt to settle these matters through economic pressure on the government.
A joint approach by all the organisations which might be able to help here involves treaties with the African Union or the UN and also with the United States.
I shall keep my fingers crossed that a decision will be taken as soon as possible on behalf of these unfortunate people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in Darfur genocide has unfolded before our eyes.
Despite humanitarian aid, refugee camps are currently witnessing around 100 000 deaths per month due to dysentery and the atmosphere of insecurity.
The crisis could lead to a further genocide.
We must show that this is not Rwanda, that we now know how to react to this type of crisis in order to save human lives as we demonstrated in Congo.
Khartoum also needs to accept the deployment of international observers from the African Union and the European Union.
Military aircraft should be grounded in Darfur and the disarmament process of the militia speeded up.
We must finally act to put an end to this situation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Darfur humanitarian crisis has political origins.
The people of Darfur have been involved in an uprising, not for separatist claims, but against the under-development and political and economic marginalisation to which they have been subjected by Khartoum, which has been fomenting inter-ethnic conflict since the 1980s.
We are not dealing with a government that is reluctant to carry out its responsibilities, but with a dictatorial government that spends over half of the State budget on ‘Migs’ and other military supplies, and does not invest the profits from oil in helping the Sudanese people.
It is a regime that is accustomed to living with sanctions, adept at exploiting the rivalries within the international community and capable of mobilising countries to which it sells oil or from which it purchases arms, such as China and Pakistan, under the protection of the Security Council.
The African Union is undertaking a mission that is worthy of the European Union’s praise and support.
More must be done as regards logistical and military capability; more needs to be done to assist coordination between the African Union and the United Nations; more needs to be done in terms of the rapid support provided to the humanitarian organisations and to the humanitarian agencies on the ground.
It is essential that we increase the international presence on the ground, with both African Union ceasefire monitors and peace-keeping forces, and the humanitarian agencies, human rights monitors and an international police force.
There must also be a clear mandate from the Security Council to protect the civil population at risk.
This is the only language that the Sudanese Government understands.
The EU and the entire international community must demand that the ceasefire be enforced and must demand that the present agreement be extended to all regions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are reacting to a crisis that was sparked off and exploded in March 2003.
I should like to remind the Presidency and the Commission of the existence of an instrument, namely the International Criminal Court and in particular Article 7 of the Statute, on the basis of which the Security Council can ask the Prosecutor to initiate an investigation.
We must therefore take quick measures and I am therefore also happy that both the Council and the Commission are taking measures in this regard.
We must continue with humanitarian aid, we must put pressure on the government of Khartoum to disarm the militias and if this means sanctions are needed, they must be imposed.
The number of people killed in and around Darfur is currently estimated at 50&#160;000, and more than a million people are on the run.
The Arab militiamen who are responsible for these atrocities are given free play by the Islamic Government, which has a crushing responsibility for the events that are now unfolding.
According to Mr&#160;Pronk, the UN special envoy in Sudan, the Sudanese Government is cooperating in good faith, but, and I quote ‘the agreements on the ground are not yet applied in Darfur’.
It is therefore time that bold sanctions were taken, such as for example an oil embargo, together with all other necessary measures, in order to put a stop to the violence in Sudan. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a humanitarian disaster of alarming dimensions is taking place before our very eyes in Sudan’s western province of Darfur.
Although I have not been a member of the committee, and do not have relevant experience in this area, one thing that has become clear to me so far from this debate is that the crisis is following the same pattern as all such crises.
This means sanctions of any kind, which will force the Khartoum Government to abandon the cynicism which they show in their dealings with us. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr President, 50&#160;000 have been killed in the last 18 months, there are a million refugees and the Government in Sudan, a dictatorship dating back to 1989, is still in government.
A government which nods diplomatically in agreement with the international community and politely listens to its requests, but meanwhile accepts the Janjaweed militiamen in its own army, while the killing and raping continues as before.
It is apparent that this government is prepared to conclude real peace agreements only if there is a real threat, and the willingness to realise this threat is being illustrated.
In the Security Council, Europe, together with the African Union and the United States, must continually and unanimously press home that either the Sudanese Government must observe the agreements with Kofi Annan or else that a specific oil boycott will be introduced which is irrevocably proclaimed via the Security Council.
I truly hope that there is strength in unity in this respect. &#160;&#160; Mr President, almost undoubtedly the Darfur humanitarian crisis is the worst in the world today, with approximately 1.4 million people displaced, many to camps in Chad, and an estimated 50 000 killed, and, according to WHO estimates, 10 000 dying monthly from disease and violence.
The USA is now accusing the Khartoum Government of genocide by its proxy Janjaweed Arab militiamen against African local tribes, who rose up in February 2003 against the government.
The hands of Dr al-Turabi seem to be at work in Darfur, settling scores against President Bashir, responsible for expelling Osama Bin Laden from Sudan in 1996.
I call upon the African Union to show the world what it can do. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the figures and numbers that Mrs Hybašková and Mrs Morgantini have given us need no comment but just deserve our absolute respect.
That is an option to be avoided, most of all because we would risk turning this region into a never-ending war zone. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I personally am not inclined to use the word genocide too freely.
Nevertheless, the situation in Sudan is extremely serious and requires a radical change in the European Union’s position.
It would therefore be helpful if Parliament took a harder line in condemning the actions of the Sudanese Government, which is continuing to arm militias with the aim of terrorising the civilian population of Darfur.
The Sudanese Government is cunningly playing for time in order to gain a unilateral advantage, while also benefiting from the difficult international situation that sees the supranational institutions and the whole of public opinion concentrating on the fight against global terrorism.
Parliament therefore needs to pass a new resolution, which must include a demand for a total arms embargo as well as selective sanctions that can put pressure on the government and the armed forces without hurting the civilian population.
We are following the situation very closely and I share your concerns.
Military force would only lead to further bloodshed and we want to avoid that.
At the same time, however, we see how important it is that a cohesive and coherent effort be undertaken so that the African Union, together with the United Nations, the European Union and the United States, exert increasing pressure on the Sudanese Government as we have done from the beginning - notably as the Dutch Government, but also as the European Union over these past months.
It is very important that we cooperate very closely and that the African Union tries to find an African solution to an African problem.
On the one hand, I share the feelings of all those who have said that continued, strong diplomatic pressure on the government of Sudan is an absolute requirement.
There was a strong exchange of words on the situation.
Even with that risk, I would like to make the point that in relation to the tradition of impunity in these matters, I find it important that the African Union has been encouraged to do something and is not sitting passively waiting for the government to comply.
The African Union is totally publicly committed to putting pressure on the government, and at the moment is making an effort to increase its engagement in Darfur, both quantitatively and qualitatively in terms of the mandate.
The UN's role is absolutely essential.
More than EUR&#160;400&#160;million is available via unspent funds – which could not be used for normal development cooperation activities during the many years of fighting between north and south – and new money from the ninth EDF.
It is a political fact of life, which comes as no surprise anywhere not here and not in Khartoum that the situation in Darfur must be seen as part of any definition of peace in the country.
This pressure is a major element in our effort to push things in a better direction.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at noon. (2)
