Mr Rübig, we will be very happy to give you that number.
Following on from Okinawa last year, the G8 will be looking at development issues in a much more serious fashion.
The action plan on fighting communicable diseases was adopted by the Council earlier this year.
Mr Annan's presence in Genoa to take part in an 'outreach' meeting between the G8 and other leaders will help to focus attention on the global health fund issue.
Many issues remain, and we must make sure that the fund's focus and management is in line with the objectives of the European Union action plan.
Thirdly, there is the question of market access for the least-developed countries.
The Commission will be keen, as will no doubt the other European participants, to discuss our concerns about the United States' present stance on climate change and on the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol.
As regards food safety, the Commission is keen that the G8 conclusions include a reference to the precautionary principle.
In this vein, the Italian hosts have invited leaders from South Africa, Nigeria, Mali, Algeria, Bangladesh and El Salvador to attend a working session and a dinner which should focus mainly on the poverty reduction strategy and the global health fund.
As I said earlier, this part of the summit will also be attended by the UN Secretary-General, as well as by the President of the World Bank and the heads of the World Trade Organisation, the World Health Organisation and the Food and Agriculture Organisation.
The G8 is not an organisation or an institution.
As in the past, Mr Prodi intends to make full use of this opportunity to convey the views and positions of the European Union.
It is not enough that world leaders meet and discuss these issues between themselves, however.
The Japanese last year added an NGO centre in Okinawa.
However much one agrees or disagrees with some representatives of civil society on issues such as globalisation, it seems to me exceptionally important to have an open dialogue which is not disfigured by street violence.
Some of the scenes we have seen surrounding recent summits and meetings have, I think, sadly made it more difficult for legitimate representatives of civil society to get their point across to the leaders who are present.
Fighting against poverty means improving cooperation between the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the ILO and the WTO in order to integrate macro-economic stability and development policies with social policies.
As you can see, a great deal has changed since the summits of the mid-'70s.
Madam President, at Genoa on 20 July next, the eight major economic powers will be in full view of the world, tackling a full agenda which includes poverty, the environment and the fight against AIDS.
When the discussion turns to setting up a fund, providing debt relief etc., one must also remember to talk about 'additional money' so that we leave behind the situation in which it is the same money that circulates through the system and is never paid out.
Those same objectives are shared by hundreds of civil society groups across the European Union, and many thousands of individuals care so much about those issues that they will travel to Genoa to take part in peaceful demonstrations to draw the world's attention to the need for urgent action on these issues.
Many social and political organisations, including ourselves, see the G8 as illegitimate, as an expression of a serious tendency to take important decisions away from the sovereign powers.
I feel that we have a lot to learn from the lesson that, while Europe is silent, a great religious force such as the Catholic Church succeeds in expressing more effectively and interpreting the requirements of the civil society of this great continent, expressing all the criticism of the illegitimacy of this summit and of the inability to manage the great processes of world modernisation.
This is shown by the almost unanimous position adopted on the Kyoto Protocol, by the battle to abolish the death penalty and to uphold respect for human rights and by the cohesion policy - as yet maybe not sufficient but still important - that we are developing.
However, in addition to this, we need comprehensive political action.
If, however, we succeed in making progress on the road to European integration and we succeed in ensuring that it is not just some European countries which go to important world summits but Europe, acting with one voice, we will have contributed to resolving not just the problems of Europe but the problems of the world as well.
The Italian government is making progress in seeking dialogue with all the social players.
Commissioner, as far as possible, globalisation must mean globalisation of rights and freedoms.
Madam President, Commissioner Patten, our world leaders will be meeting in Genoa in just over two weeks' time.
Nearly half of the world population has to survive on less than USD 2 a day, and one fifth of the world population lives under the internationally recognised, absolute poverty line of USD 1 per day.
Even in 2001, 130 million children never attend school and another 150 million children start primary education only to stop it before they can read and write.
The AIDS epidemic is causing an unheard of social breakdown in the developing countries.
Financial pledges in Genoa for an international fund for poverty-related illnesses are, of course, laudable and particularly newsworthy, but they remain the proverbial drop in the ocean if those same donors do not even meet the international agreements: 0.7% of the gross national product for development aid.
Madam President, in an article in an Italian newspaper today, President Prodi refers to the conclusions of the Gothenburg Summit on sustainable development as an example of directing globalisation towards objectives of world redistribution of wealth and protection of the environment.
Protecting the environment is no longer merely a moral matter but an opportunity for a new wave of innovation that will generate growth and employment.
The political importance is clear: this is a point of no return for the Member States but also for the candidate countries and third countries.
Madam President, G8 summits are in fact an attempt to find global political answers to the globalisation of the markets, which is now a fact of life.
Two points which should be obvious to all of us, as democrats concerned about issues such as global social equity, but nevertheless important to make.
There is a real danger in occasionally implying that there is a moral equivalence between people who go to these conferences with a balaclava helmet in their back pocket, prepared for violence against police officers and against property they do not like, and the democratically elected leaders of the governments who are meeting in the city where the demonstrations are taking place.
So I think it is very important that the message from a democratically elected assembly like this is very clear: that there is no moral equivalence between violent demonstrators and those who are elected.
The only way you can address issues, such as the decline in aid flows during the 1990s, is through multilateral efforts.
Now how you make multilateral efforts without world leaders coming together as they will in Genoa later this month beats me!
Therefore, when we talk about the Kyoto Protocol at Genoa, it is very important that we are able to do so in a way which leads to action on climate change and not the collapse of what has been an extremely important effort by the international community to address a major change.
The object of this proposal is to complete the internal market and to protect the health of users and third parties in Europe: those are indeed laudable aims.
Furthermore, it is of course extremely difficult to see how they could possibly be policed in practice without having inspectors in every boatyard, every harbour, every port, every river and every canal in Europe, which we are clearly not going to do.
I am sure that the problems presented in one or two lakes in Germany and Austria could be solved, but imposing these limits throughout the whole of Europe where they are often unnecessary will not do that.
If you include sailing boats and rowing boats, there is one boat for every 70 citizens.
The point here, I think, is that we need to reduce the level of noise generated by these recreational craft.
The main problem is with sports craft and - I repeat - jet skis in particular, which are produced in large numbers and used on sensitive inland waters, including waters used for relaxation and drinking water supplies.
I therefore think that Amendment No 15 is unworkable, and that is also the point made by the rapporteur.
I recently read in the press that, in the past, no attention was paid to research and technology on noise pollution and that is the reason for the delays in development.
While exhaust emissions from recreational craft are relatively small in comparison to the total amount of pollution in the environment, the effect of pollution is amplified by the way recreational craft are used.
The Commission proposal is a good example of synergy between environment and industrial policies contributing to sustainable development.
The Commission can accept the amendments which aim to clarify and improve the wording of the initial text in relation to partly completed craft and weather conditions, as well as those concerning the simplification of the noise-testing procedures.
As regards the institutional aspects, the proposal envisages, in conformity with the rules governing comitology, a regulatory committee to deal with a number of standard issues relating to the adaptation of technical provisions to technical progress, including measures concerning the evolution of exhaust and noise emission limits.
Consequently, the amendments requiring the rescission of this provision relating to comitology cannot be accepted by the Commission, as they are contrary to its executive powers under Article 202 of Treaty.
The Commission will consider the most appropriate ways to take into account the evolution of exhaust and noise emission limits.
For example, the question of possible further reductions in emission limit values could be dealt with in the report to be presented to the European Parliament and to the Council under Article 2 of the Commission proposal.
I am convinced that further work in close cooperation with the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, will lead to a balanced solution offering a clear benefit for the environment and the internal market, while minimising additional burdens to SMEs.
Furthermore, the Commission can accept in principle Amendments Nos 3, 5, 7, 8, 12, 13, 21, 23, 35 and 36.
In addition, the Commission can accept in part Amendments Nos 10, 43 and 45.
On the contrary, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 2, 4, 9, 11, 15, 16, 17, 20, 24 to 26, 30 to 34, 38, 40, 42 and 46 to 50.
The debate is closed.
In the last two years, more than five million people have been forced to leave their homes.
According to current estimates, more than thirty million people are displaced, some as refugees seeking shelter in foreign countries, others forced to seek refuge in safer areas within their own countries.
The continent that has been worst affected is Africa, but the situation in Asia has also deteriorated.
Since 1984, the European Parliament has promoted the creation of a budget heading designed for refugees in Asia and Latin America.
The line of aid discussed in this report seeks to fill the gap that exists between emergency aid and development aid.
Nevertheless, the 1997 regulation expired in 1999.
It is precisely in order to ensure coherence that we must make more appropriations available: we must increase them from EUR 36 million in 2001 to around EUR 55 million per year over the next three years.
I should also like to draw your attention to the urgent need within the European Union to address the refugee issue in a united way.
We must invest in conflict prevention and in establishing conditions that save local populations from the tragedy of major large-scale displacement.
As she said, this report is important because it aims to help uprooted people, in other words, refugees, displaced persons and returnees in Asia and Latin America.
Parliament has always been in favour of having a separate action for uprooted people on the basis of the unique circumstances facing them, as outlined by the rapporteur.
My opinion includes an amendment replacing the management committee with a consultative committee in order to enable the Commission to exercise more adequately its responsibility for implementing the budget.
One of my main concerns is that the legal base for these actions expired at the end of December 2000.
I should like to commend the rapporteur for having tackled all the most important problems and thank her for having adopted all my amendments.
On the one hand we have asylum-seekers coming to Europe and seeking help, shelter and aid and, on the other, we have displaced people living in camps in countries such as Afghanistan and right throughout the world.
These are the same people and we need to make that connection: the people who come here are actually the same sort of people who are living in camps.
If we can help them to be resettled, then we are not only helping them fundamentally but we are also helping to alleviate a problem that is growing in Europe.
Yet there are 59 civil conflicts around the world creating uprooted people and many of these conflicts are about looting natural resources, greed and dictators wanting to run their show their own way.
I find it very curious that on the one hand when we give aid, we treat people with a certain measure of circumspection, but when we recognise the national sovereignty of a country we apply the Montevideo Convention and say they are all sovereign.
Firstly, it is important to say to the Commission that we in Parliament, having established this budget line, have adopted some important principles that we want to see adhered to in the way that it is implemented, strengthening our commitment to non-refoulement.
I suspect Commissioner Patten will agree with that point.
He is doing a lot of very good work in terms of emergency assistance there, but the safe and protected return of internally displaced people in that country is crucial and it is bizarre that they do not include that in their plans.
It is important that we be seen to ensure that the reform is on track, and that means these issues being dealt with much further in advance than we are now once again seeing.
I would like to ask the Commission whether there are any plans regarding how this is to happen, bearing in mind that Germany is now down to 0.25 per cent of GNP and that only Sweden, Denmark and Luxembourg have achieved the target or exceeded it.
Meanwhile, however, the situation on the Moluccas has become far more serious.
On 20 May, another nine people were killed and seventeen wounded in Belakang Soya and Karan Pajang, and even after that incident, violence simply carried on.
People from the Christian communities are also fleeing because they are forced to convert to Islam.
Mr President, I should like to invite the House to support the report by my colleague, Maria Carrilho, which aims at improving a regulation which we consider important.
Europe must do all it can to help displaced people, in this case in Latin America and Asia.
The European Union must make a political effort at an international level to encourage countries to adopt a flexible interpretation of the Geneva Conventions and also to promote new instruments of international law to protect these internal refugees.
In our capacity as donors, the European Union Member States and the European Union itself must not hesitate to use every possible means to ensure that the countries with which we cooperate guarantee the safety of their nationals and respect for their human rights.
Of course, taking on the responsibilities of the Union in the field that we are concerned with here must be matched by a consistent financial effort, which should already be reflected in the budgets for 2002.
The analysis, conclusions and amendments contained in her report are, in the Commission's judgment, of the highest quality and contribute to improving significantly the original Commission proposal.
On 21 June, the international community celebrated the 50th anniversary of the 1951 Geneva Convention on the status of refugees.
It is a good time to state clearly that the European Community will continue to earmark financial and human resources to help uprooted people to go back to their homes, to start a new life and live in peace and security.
Parliament has decided to send a political signal in this respect by proposing an increase in the financial resources available and we welcome this proposal.
Since 1997, more than EUR 200 million have been committed to finance projects throughout Asia and Latin America in favour of uprooted people.
Money has been used to help refugees to live a decent in camps, to return to their home country, or to resettle in a third one and to become self-sufficient.
The budget line has financed projects to protect uprooted populations in the host countries on their way home and at their final destination.
However, we consider that December 2004 is a very reasonable compromise, particularly in the light of our intention to revise the Asia and Latin America regulation, and will examine the possibility of incorporating the question of uprooted people into a single geographical instrument.
Once again, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent job which she has done and I hope that as a result our programmes in this very important sector will be both generous and better focused and managed.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, yesterday afternoon there was a demonstration in front of Parliament.
I think that is a very important point.
Supplementary and Amending Budget No 4 deals primarily with the balance for the financial year 2000, and also provides for a strengthening of the supplementary payment appropriations for the Western Balkans from the 2000 balance, raising them from EUR 350 million to EUR 450 million, or EUR 70 million more for the Balkans and an additional EUR 30 million for supplementary financial assistance for FRY.
The resolution therefore states that the purpose of the reform should be to provide Europe with an 'autonomous source of revenue' , and it supports the establishment of a direct European tax, at the same time demanding full association of the European Parliament in the budgetary procedure, in particular as regards revenue.
The French delegation of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group is opposed to all these inappropriate proposals, which in any case infringe the Treaty. (Explanation of vote shortened pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure) In relation to Supplementary and Amending Budget Number 3 of this year, I would like to refer to an amendment which I tabled on behalf of my group, UEN, at the Budget Committee but which unfortunately was not accepted.
As many colleagues will be aware, the Commission is attempting to impose conditions on the Bureau which would have the effect of closing its office in Dublin.
The Bureau was set up some years ago on an initiative of the Irish government and is still co-financed by the Irish government.
I have been in contact with the Irish Minister responsible for language matters and I believe that it would be very difficult to sustain the same level of interest in the Bureau among Irish government circles, should the Bureau be forced to close its Dublin office.
Once the new budgetary procedure begins next September, I will be seeking support once again for such a move.
Haug report (A5-0238/2001) Mr President, on the subject of the use of the European Parliament's own resources, I would like to say, both on behalf of the Pensioners' Party which I represent and on behalf of the associated French, Dutch, Spanish, Swedish, Slovenian, Bulgarian and Lithuanian Pensioners' Parties, who have authorised me to speak on their behalf, that I openly support the proposal that the European Union should levy its own taxes and that this should not mean an increase in taxation for the citizens but, on the contrary, a reduction in the taxes that the citizens pay in their own States.
Mrs Haug proposes in her report to abolish the previous system of transfers from Member States and to modify the own resources system so that the European Union can achieve financial autonomy.
Our thoughts turn in this context, for example, to the introduction of a Tobin tax to cream off profits from financial transactions or the introduction of a pan-European CO2 tax on companies, which would also help us to implement a forward-looking environmental policy by applying pressure for more environmentally-friendly ways of generating energy and helping to safeguard the Kyoto agreement.
As these two first historical resources are the only ones specifically belonging to the Community and able to make it financially independent of the Member States, their decline means the Community budget depends on payments from the Member States.
This constantly increasing levy already provides more than 45% of Community resources and in fact boils down to classic contributions by governments to finance an international organisation.
We have thus arrived at the astonishing situation where the European Commission, the beating heart of federal integration, has pursued a world customs policy which has reduced the Union to financing itself like any other intergovernmental organisation under entirely intergovernmental international law. (The speaker was cut off pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure) I have voted against the proposal.
If the EU receives what the report calls 'financial autonomy' , this will also lead to political autonomy from Member States and their governments, with all the dangers and the lack of control which this brings with it.
Apart from issues of principle raised by such a proposal, it must be emphasised that the reduction in the Community budget is primarily a result of the restrictive guidelines laid down in the Stability Pact.
Niebler report (A5-0232/2001) Mr President, it is the year 2005.
Every evening, I watch Fatuzzo's European Show.
McKenna report (A5-0219/2001) Mr President, we have just adopted the report by my colleague, Patricia McKenna, and I must certainly recognise that it has turned out to be a good document, covering in detail all the circumstances and problems affecting our coastal areas, both on the geographical, climatic, environmental and biodiversity side and as regards their economic, social, cultural, and leisure and recreational aspects.
I believe the governments involved should act firmly and put a stop to the consequences of their lack of control over these illegal building projects.
Lastly, I must express my dissatisfaction that my proposal was not accepted to give this document, which we have just adopted as a simple recommendation, the rank of a Community directive, which would make it mandatory for the Member States to comply with it and make it part of their own national law.
This report makes a critical analysis of the proposal for a recommendation on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council recommendation concerning the implementation of Integrated Coastal Zone Management in Europe and tables various amendments which, for the most part, deserve our support.
Not only do eight million Dutch people and two million Flemings stand to lose their residential areas, but so do the people living in the Po plain in Italy, Les Landes in south-western France, and parts of cities including Helsinki, Copenhagen, London, Hamburg, Barcelona, Lisbon and Thessaloniki.
In addition to population pockets, coastal areas also boast areas of special natural beauty, such as the étangs on the French coast and the Wadden Sea in the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark, which is under continuous threat of being encroached upon by ports and industrial areas.
Although certain regions have been faced with an exodus of their endogenous population, most of the coastal zones are experiencing an increase in overall demographic pressure, as well as significant seasonal variations in employment, essentially linked to tourism.
This could even be an excellent occasion to restore vigour to a particularly inert ESDP, whose true impact still remains very limited.
Brok report (A5-0244/2001) I should like to use the opportunity provided by the resolution on macro-financial assistance to Yugoslavia to express my support for the assistance measures, even though they are minimal in comparison with the destruction wreaked in Yugoslavia by the NATO attacks.
At the same time, however, I wish to express my categorical condemnation of the manner in which assistance from donors has been used to circumvent and disregard constitutional procedures in Yugoslavia in order to bring Milosevic to the Hague tribunal.
What is happening now bears little relation to justice, and more to the trading of a political rival by the President of a federal state, in contravention of the federal government and the Supreme Court.
We do not disagree with these programmes, we just consider them to be of secondary or tertiary importance.
The importance of that report is only highlighted by the fact that the EU human rights policy is clearly now at the development stage.
It is difficult to defend freedom of speech of the people and the press in a credible way if this freedom is increasingly being used irresponsibly.
If the EU is to be a globally important human rights player, its citizens will also serve as important models for the administrations of other countries of what the implementation of freedoms might mean in practice.
Mr President, I naturally support the Wuori report on human rights in the European Union but I feel - I am convinced - that the European Union needs to do much more.
We often discuss human rights throughout the world in this hemicycle in Strasbourg, but we, the European Union, continue to provide economic aid in the form of funding to countries in which there is no respect for human rights.
Respect for human rights must be a priority in all EU activities, including conflict prevention.
The rapporteur is proposing that the Council and the Commission elaborate more focused common strategies on human rights.
I welcome the call for a better EU human rights strategy towards third countries and candidate countries.
I voted against the rapporteur's Amendment No 10 because it deletes the passage calling for the Turkish government to guarantee the return of more than 3 million refugees.
I should also like to add, à propos the Wuori report, that there are not just Christian minorities in Turkey, as stated in Article 90, there are also the Yezidi, a religious community which is not recognised.
However, there are a number of elements in the resolution with which many of us disagree, such as: the redefinition of human rights (paragraphs 50, 51 and 72); the unbalanced condemnations of Turkey (paragraphs 88 and 89); the misunderstanding of the nature and status of caste in India (paragraph 106 etc.); the call for legally-binding criteria for arms exports (paragraph 113).
As I did in 1999, I shall give just one example, taken from our rapporteur' s own region of Rhône-Alpes.
The magistrates of the Lyon Court of Appeal, Dominique Fournier, Jean-Luc Gouverneur and Marie-Odile Théolleyre, also banned publication of the review with a ruling worthy of Stalin' s court.
The counsellors at the Court of Cassation, Bruno Cotte, Christine Chanet and Guy Joly, failed in their duty by not censuring the manifestly abusive use in the case of a law on publications intended for young people.
Human rights problems that affect sexual minorities are still regrettably common today in the Member States.
Article 32 proposes to 'humanise' detention for minors, but they should not have to suffer that degradation at all.
If the recitals and amendments on the right to vote and the rights of homosexuals are maintained, we will vote in favour of this report.
However, there can be no question of granting them the rights of a surviving spouse in terms of social security, or, for example, the same rights as a married couple, with or without children, in terms of taxation and adoption.
In a chapter on European citizenship, there is an attempt to get it accepted that a Member State is violating fundamental rights if it does not grant the right to vote and to stand for the European Parliament and local elections to nationals of third countries legally resident in their territory for at least three years.
The right to vote is acquired on the basis of reciprocity by citizens of Member States of the Union living in another Member State.
The Portuguese can vote and stand for election in Luxembourg and I could do the same if I lived in Portugal.
However, why grant an Algerian, for example, the right to vote in a Member State if a national of that Member State does not have the right to vote in Algeria?
I have also voted against items 119 and 120 on giving people without citizenship in a Member State of the EU the right to vote in European Parliament elections.
Wuori report (A5-0193/2001) and Cornillet report (A5-0223/2001) Two reports, one on human rights in the world (the Wuori report) and one on fundamental rights in the European Union (the Cornillet report), were debated by the House today.
These are two provocative texts, both in what they say (mainly in the Wuori report) and in what they fail to say (mainly in the Cornillet report).
The disgraceful manner in which former President Milosevic was recently abducted, in direct defiance both of the constitutional jurisdiction of his country and its president, and handed over to the opportunistic International Criminal Tribunal in the Hague are eloquent examples of how the EU thinks human rights should be defended.
For example, although it is directly critical of the Socialist government of Cuba for repressing 'free' journalism, it is particularly polite and cautious in the case of Turkey and Ukraine, even though it is a well-known fact that dozens of journalists are in prison in Turkey and that a journalist was murdered during the last round of elections in Ukraine.
Death penalty in the world The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B5-0486/2001 by Mr Méndez de Vigo and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats; B5-0497/2001 by Mr van den Berg and others, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists; B5-0504/2001 by Mrs Malmström and Mr Rutelli, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party; B5-0484/2001 by Mrs Frassoni and others, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance; B5-0512/2001 by Mr Manisco and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left; B5-0527/2001 by Mr Dupuis and others, on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members on the death penalty in the world and on the introduction of a 'European Day against Capital Punishment' .
Mr President, it would appear that, considering that there are very few subjects on which the entire European Union is united and the abolition of the death penalty is one of them, we must, first and foremost, welcome and take pride in the initiative taken by Parliament and the Council of Europe together to hold the Congress on the death penalty, which took place on 22 June.
I feel that this must be our task in the coming months and I hope that the Belgian Presidency will live up to the commitment it made yesterday before this House and support us.
We have therefore made progress.
For that reason, complying with a resolution of a conference held two weeks ago in Strasbourg, we have asked in this resolution - which I am sure will gain the unanimous support of this House - for a special day against the death penalty to be set up: a European day, which I hope will soon be a world day, since I believe there is room for hope.
Mr President, I believe that, if intelligent people change their minds, we shall be able to win this battle throughout the world.
Joaquín José Martínez was recently acquitted in the United States.
According to Amnesty International, at least 1 475 prisoners were executed and more than 3 000 death penalties given in 2000.
China, Iran, Saudi-Arabia and the United States account for approximately 88% of those.
The first world congress against the death penalty took place here in Strasbourg between 21 and 23 June: 87 countries in the world uphold the death penalty, to which the under-aged and also mentally handicapped people often fall victim.
We very much regret the fact that countries which often boast a very high standard in terms of human rights still elect to use this penalty, and execute - what often later appears - innocent people, while it is often clear from statistics - this is especially pronounced in the US - that social and racial aspects play a major role.
Allow me to draw your attention to point 4 of the resolution which states that we urge the Belgian Presidency now to try to organise another vote in the sitting of the General Assembly of the United Nations in September on a resolution to abolish the death penalty.
Our joint fight has resulted in one applicant country after another abolishing the death penalty.
Just the suspicion that one single person has been falsely executed - and we know this has happened in the US - should be sufficient reason to abolish the death penalty.
We have read yesterday and today what happened with the so-called 'suicide' of 15 women in a concentration camp.
We passed resolutions in this House two years ago about the trade in human organs transplanted from executed people.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me make one comment first of all.
There are actually 71 countries which continue to apply the death penalty, and I think the difference is important given that there are 180 countries in the international community and that means the majority of abolitionist countries is much bigger than Amnesty International' s figures suggest.
The problem is not to abolish death.
Our problem is to abolish the death penalty because we believe there is a way to render justice without recourse to it.
Consequently I believe our work over the next few weeks will be important to enable the Belgian Presidency to present a resolution on a moratorium in New York.
Mr President, we in the European Union must support any action leading to the abolition of the death penalty.
The abolitionists, who have met in Strasbourg at the first world conference against the death penalty, can count - and know they can count - on our full and active support.
We must also encourage the Community institutions and the European Union Member States to take our belief to its ultimate consequences - our belief, which without any doubt is reflected in all our legal systems, that the death penalty is against the law and is just as bad as other historical monstrosities, such as slavery.
The European Union should, therefore, as we request in the resolution, consider the abolition of the death penalty to be an essential aspect of its relations with third countries, and consequently this should be reflected in the conclusions of international agreements, aid programmes and trade relations.
Since Mr Van den Berg has already done so, I do not wish to mention such aberrations as the execution of minors or the physically disabled, nor to talk about cases of innocent people condemned to death.
The abolition of the death penalty is an elementary principle in the state of civilisation in which we now find ourselves, and nobody should be deprived of their life by a court sentence.
I therefore support both this resolution and the European day against the death penalty, but I believe we still have to go a little further in all our work to achieve the abolition of the death penalty.
Fighting for the abolition of the death penalty - as has been said here - means fighting to strengthen human dignity and extend human rights.
I think the European Union is doing that and it must continue its efforts, but I also think it is sometimes important, in an assembly like the United Nations, to put one' s own house in order first.
That, in my opinion, is a sine qua non of whether or not they become members and a guarantee that this fundamental principle of human rights is respected within the European Union.
Then, as Robert Badinter has underlined, the debate has moved forward enormously.
From amongst the 3 700 people who are still on death row in the United States, Moumia Abou Jamal stands out as a symbol because he is in prison and on death row for being black, and in that respect his case reminds me a little of the struggle of Nelson Mandela.
The death penalty violates the right to life and is degrading.
According to Amnesty International, 1457 people were executed in 2000, of which 85 were executed in the USA, 1000 in China, 75 in Iran and 123 in Saudi Arabia.
The first world congress against capital punishment was held in Strasbourg in June.
Secondly, I should like to recall here, Mr President, that on the other two occasions on which I spoke against the death penalty I talked about a Spaniard who was on death row in the United States, Joaquín José Martínez.
I had the chance to talk to him and his parents last week, and among other chilling details that they told me was the 100 million pesetas that they had to raise to have their son released.
This is a common situation for minorities in the United States.
The Council is pursuing implementation of the European Union guidelines where the death penalty still exists.
The European Union also presses, where relevant, for moratoria to be introduced.
It might just be helpful if I set out in detail the guidelines of our policy towards third countries on the death penalty.
The guidelines stipulate that démarches should be made when there is a threat that the death penalty will be restored or that an official or de facto moratorium will cease.
For example: when there is a lack of legal safeguards; when the death penalty is to be applied to those who were minors when the offence was committed; to pregnant women or to the mother of a young child or to the mentally ill and the application of the death penalty for non-violent crimes or offences such as crimes of opinion and conscience and financial crimes.
In the recently adopted communication on human rights and democratisation, the Commission identified the campaign for the abolition of the death penalty as one of the four priorities that we would pursue over coming years under the European initiative for democracy and human rights.
We have already funded a number of projects in this area by mobilising public opinion worldwide against capital punishment.
I agree with honourable Members that the first World Congress to abolish the death penalty in Strasbourg on 21 and 22 June 2001 was a very important gathering.
I also take this opportunity to thank the President for her initiative to invite a number of presidents of parliaments as well as the Congress participants to attend the solemn appeal that took place in the European Parliament in Strasbourg on 22 June last.
I am sure that as long as it is required, this Parliament along with the other European institutions, will continue to give this issue the priority and the importance which it deserves.
Beijing's application to host the 2008 Olympic Games The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: B5-0487/2001 by Mr Thomas Mann and Mrs Maij-Weggen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats; B5-0498/2001 by Mr van den Berg, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists; B5-0505/2001 by Mrs Malmström and others, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party; B5-0524/2001 by Mrs Frassoni and Mr Wuori, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance; B5-0525/2001 by Mr Dupuis and others, on behalf of the Technical Group of Independent Members on Beijing's application to host the 2008 Olympic Games.
Anyone who thinks that Beijing does not stand a chance after failing in its bid in 2000 and 2004, has not thought hard enough.
Politics in China have nothing in common with the spirit of the Olympic Games.
Tibet has been occupied for over 50 years.
In the spirit of the Olympic Games, however, and given our position and values in Europe in terms of human rights, we cannot possibly support China' s application today.
That is why our group supports this resolution.
For two years, there has been a systematic persecution of followers of the Falun Gong movement, with tens of thousands of followers being arrested and tortured, in some cases to death.
However, that is exactly what the Chinese regime will do.
Mr President, the Olympics are an event which celebrate man's beauty, which remind us of all that is most noble in the human character.
Considering what my colleagues have said I feel that I can stop here, for this is another of those issues on which the whole of Parliament is in agreement.
Today, the direct evidence of doctors who participated in the operations is in all the papers, and nobody can deny the evidence any longer.
The human rights situation has not improved since the start of the political dialogue with the European Union.
The Chinese leaders are extremely frightened of the peaceful, religious movement, Falun Gong.
Recently, another 15 women were tortured to death in a labour camp.
The environmental and animal welfare situation is atrocious.
The history of the modern Olympic Games shows very clearly how the sports festival can be used to enhance the glory of a political regime.
The global media attention will only exacerbate this potential.
Especially states which could do with a complete make-over of their international reputation will seize the opportunity of setting a new Olympic record in exploiting this event politically.
Economic ties between China and the world will also mean that liberal values and standards could enter the country.
We cannot isolate a nation-state of 1.3 billion people.
They have achieved nothing and we see that the North American embargo is actually proving to be the main political prop shoring up Fidel Castro' s dictatorship in Cuba.
I appeared in front of it in 1990 in support of the magnificent bid by Manchester to host the Olympic games.
The European Union, as a whole and the Commission do not take a position on whether the games should be held in China or elsewhere.
I do not have to explain to Parliament that I share the concerns which have been expressed about the human rights situation in China - and I will return to that in a moment.
I concede that at the margins, it can be helpful occasionally to take measures in regard to sport.
For example, one could not argue that taking those measures in relation to South Africa during the years of apartheid was anything other than helpful, largely because of the emphasis which the white community in South Africa placed on sporting links.
If you take the issue of the Olympics, while I accept that there are some horrendous examples of the Olympic spirit being abused - and one speaker mentioned the 1936 Olympics in which my late father-in-law ran - one should also take account of the Olympic Games in Seoul.
Our dialogue with China is undoubtedly the most complex and multi-faceted dialogue on human rights which we have with any country, as befits discussions with a country in which so many abuses continue, alas, to occur.
The European Union is constantly seeking to work with China to make it more effective and to have more tangible impact on the human rights situation on the ground.
We welcome the Memorandum of Understanding, which China has signed with Mary Robinson, but we hope that they will now implement it.
I commend to the House's attention an article written recently in the Asian Wall Street Journal, which summarised the academic research of Robin Monroe, a very distinguished China-watcher, the author of probably the best book on Tiananmen, Black Hands of Beijing.
I share Parliament's concerns for the environment in Beijing and in China more widely and for the effects which preparation for the games could have on the city.
The same is true for any country or city which hosts the Olympic Games.
Sydney's success derived from the whole-hearted commitment of its citizens to hosting the games and making them a success in the eyes of the world.
I know the appalling problems that exist, but it seems to me at the very least inconceivable that any country like China, although there is no country really like China, but any country with the sort of authoritarian repressive government that China has, would find it impossible to host the Olympic Games without that having a considerable impact on the development of civil society within that country.
The vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
The recognition of the rights of children is of vital importance.
I am glad to be able to say that 25 years ago I published an article which, at least from a certain point of view, helped in pushing forward that case.
Like many people I can just imagine what it would be like to have a child ripped from your hands at the age of 20 days and never to see them again, be yourself in prison for five years under torture and cruel treatment, and then spend the rest of your life at liberty trying to find your lost child.
Sara Méndez from Uruguay was in this Parliament yesterday to press forward the case for recovering her child, or getting information about her son Símon, who was ripped from her arms aged 20 days after her illegal capture in Buenos Aires in 1976.
That is a dreadful thing to happen and we should add to this admirable motion for a resolution a clause calling upon those who are in authority in Uruguay to recognise the evil of disappearances, to recognise their bounden duty to bring children back to their parents and to end this scandal and disgrace.
Mr President, ten years after the first World Summit for Children, the UN has decided to take stock.
In September 2001, on the eve of the summit, our group is naturally tabling a resolution in witness of our commitment, as we have always done.
The Dutroux affair had to happen before budget lines could be freed up and a certain number of resolutions passed for our children.
The latest is the reference to children in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and some of us in this House, notably under the leadership of Mary Banotti, have won a few battles.
Finally, Mr President, we think it is important to be in a position to establish a European solidarity fund for the world' s children.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group is pleased with this initiative and with the broad consensus that we were able to achieve on the compromise resolution, in which we saw our main concern included, as it was in our own draft resolution: a deep concern at the terrible situation seen in many armed conflicts and the cruel and barbaric use of great numbers of children who are recruited as soldiers at a very tender age.
Generally, however, children live within a family environment and a policy for children must inevitably also be a policy for the family, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
As I am fond of saying, a world fit for children must also be a world fit for the family.
So 29 countries have signed up to it.
At least ten are required for it to come into force.
The European Parliament should pay extra attention to the situation of children in the candidate-Member States, specifically Bulgaria and Romania.
In addition I should like to urge the EU in bilateral exchanges between European Member States and third countries to focus attention systematically on the situation of children in the third countries.
Mr President, Commissioner, according to the International Labour Organisation, whether we like it or not, we are indirectly responsible for the fate of 250 million children aged 5 to 14 years.
I think our position should therefore be implacable.
The minimum to be demanded at the Conference in September is every child' s right to education, every child' s right to leisure, and every child' s right to be informed of his or her rights.
Through my work in Parliament I too have experienced the fact that so many children are deprived of the company and love of both their parents, very often due to selfishness and lack of understanding about the particular needs of children.
Mr President, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child has so far been signed by 191 countries.
The purpose of the special session of the United Nations in New York in September must be not just to get this convention ratified but to ensure that all the countries then apply it.
One fundamental element is the fight against child labour.
All too often children are seen as an investment to secure the survival of the family.
This NGO was founded jointly by German development aid organisations and carpet manufacturers.
This special programme has been set up for ten years and children are being paid a total of EUR 850 million a year to go to school.
Religious freedom in Vietnam Mr President, there is no freedom of religion in Vietnam.
It is an important debate as part of the preparatory process for the UN Special Session on Children.
The Commission, in coordination with Member States, firmly supports a rights-based approach founded on the Convention of the Rights of the Child.
Since 1992, for almost one decade now, all cooperation agreements between the European Union and third countries have incorporated a clause defining human rights as an essential element of the agreement.
On 15 September 2000, the Commission underlined its support for the ILO's efforts against child labour by adopting a recommendation to the Member States to ratify this new convention.
As a complement to the European Union's intervention in international fora such as the UN, the Commission offers substantial support to projects designed to address the plight of children affected by conflict, and there were several references to that problem.
Since the beginning of 2000, more than EUR 40 million have been spent on projects providing assistance and protection to children affected by armed conflict.
The Commission is therefore active in supporting children's rights both at the political level and through practical initiatives.
We shall now continue with religious freedom in Vietnam, and the presidency of this sitting would like to apologise wholeheartedly for having to cut Mr Belder off.
Mr President, it was worth waiting a moment for the contribution of Commissioner Patten.
There is no freedom of religion in Vietnam.
This unconstitutional situation issues directly from the nature of the country' s political constellation.
It is therefore perfectly reasonable for the Council and the Commission should take Hanoi seriously to task about the desperate lack of freedom of religion in its own country.
We are in favour of contacts with Vietnam and we are in favour of economic contact with south-east Asia.
We take the view, however, that the only basis for economic collaboration is the rule of law and democracy.
We must give massive support to the process of reform in Vietnam, which is still in its infancy, by saying quite categorically that freedom of religion and conscience, freedom for the Buddhists, Catholics and Protestants who are brutally persecuted and imprisoned there, is our yardstick for collaboration with this country.
The problem in Vietnam is also that domestic human rights monitoring is not allowed, and that independent human rights monitors continue to be prevented from visiting the country.
Furthermore, they need to look at their criminal code sections on crimes against national security to ensure that these laws cannot be applied against those merely exercising their right to freedom of expression, as well as at the administrative detention directive which allows for the detaining of individuals for up to two years.
I think, Mrs McKenna, that our friend Mr Posselt is referring to communist regimes rather than to communists, which is somewhat different.
As some of you may know, I went on a short trip to Vietnam recently.
I accompanied the Most Venerable Quang Do, the number two in the Unified Buddhist Church, in order to enter Vietnam and take the patriarch back to Saigon, where he could, at last, receive the necessary medical care.
The patriarch was imprisoned for 20 years.
I say all this to describe the situation in Vietnam, a situation which is not confined to Saigon.
In dozens of other pagodas in the country, monks took to the road to accompany the Most Venerable Quang Do but were stopped, very often by louts who beat them up; in other cases, it was police officers who used force to take them back to their pagodas.
This is the reality of Vietnam today; it is the reality, once again, of a regime which describes itself as reforming but where there are no reforms to be seen, and I believe that, in this respect, this resolution is important.
This is urgent - the lives, freedom, at least a minimum of freedom for these people are at stake.
I would also like to ask the Commission and the Council to make representations to the Vietnamese authorities and remind them that there are examples of former communist countries, such as Poland and Hungary, where the communist classes understood the need to change.
In other countries, these communist classes did not understand and were swept aside.
This is an important message which we must send to the Vietnamese authorities without delay.
South Africa Mr President, in the context of the long-suffering continent of Africa and, in particular, for the whole subcontinent of southern Africa, the Republic of South Africa stands out as a crucial factor for political stability and for development.
The European Union' s cooperation with the Republic of South Africa has a projected budget for the period until 2006 of around PTE 180 billion, that is around EUR 9.02 billion, to which we can add an equal amount of funding from the EIB, the main aims being to combat poverty, to encourage economic and social development, to create jobs, to stimulate the private sector and to consolidate democracy and the rule of law.
It is nevertheless crucial that under this cooperation, new actions are planned and that measures already in place that have a direct impact in terms of fighting crime are improved, such as measures for providing the police with organisational and institutional support and support for the modernisation and improvement of the judicial system.
We all remember the exemplary way in which President Nelson Mandela led the process, and his choice was not accidental.
South Africa' s transition was acknowledged by the Nobel Peace Prize being awarded to the two presidents: the last president of the apartheid era and President Nelson Mandela, that great African statesman.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is often said that history repeats itself and, with regard to South Africa, this seems to be happening.
Today, Nelson Mandela is fighting anti-white racism.
This is where the crisis prevention is needed that we have spoken of so frequently over recent weeks, this is where we need self-help development programmes for the black population, health protection, support for preventive health care and, most importantly, educational support, before it is too late.
Mr President, the document we are about to adopt contains, in my opinion, points that might seem contradictory.
We reiterate our support for the government of South Africa but, at the same time, we ask it to make greater efforts in a number of areas, such as improving the living standards of the black population, reducing inequalities, creating employment, respecting minorities, fighting crime, and preventing and treating AIDS.
Of course, we must remain vigilant, but without forgetting the serious difficulties that South Africa is facing, and of course we must turn our concerns into supportive cooperation to give the South Africans a better chance to achieve their objectives, which, moreover, coincide with our own demands.
In an ocean of instability, however, of never-ending wars and conflicts, such as in the long-suffering Angola, one regional power could guarantee a degree of order and peace in southern Africa - the Republic of South Africa.
South Africa made a peaceful choice for democracy and thereby put an end to decades of racial oppression.
The changes in South Africa have given rise to great hope, however.
The wisdom and the prestige of Nelson Mandela gave South Africa enormous authority in the world.
We must support South Africa, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and help it, without adopting a paternalistic attitude, to develop and to combat a lack of safety, conflict, violent death and murder.
A drift towards violence would be a tragedy not only for South Africa but also for Europe and for the whole world.
Belarus Mr President, these are tense times for President Lukashenko.
No wonder that over half the population state in opinion polls that they do not expect fair and free presidential elections on 9 September.
In this connection see particularly the presidential decree of 12 March, approved by parliament on 7 June.
In view of the influence on developments that Moscow can exert on developments in Minsk, participation of Russian monitors in an OSCE mission to observe the presidential elections of 9 September would be advisable.
I should like to know whether Commissioner Patten is able and willing to take initiatives in this direction.
In this point, the European Parliament "calls on the Russian government and President Putin to support, within the political union between Russia and Belarus, a democratic multi-party system and pluralistic development in Belarus" .
We must be critical where criticism is needed but we must also provide support where we can.
Mr President, when we talk of Belarus, we are talking about more than just the situation in an albeit important country.
Situation of refugees from Burundi in Tanzania Mr President, Hutus of Bantu origin form the majority tribe in Burundi with a population of 6 million.
The Tutsis of Nilotic origin are the minority tribe, but they dominate the government and the army.
Such tribal polarisation as we often see in Africa has been a major factor in the internal conflict, not only in Burundi but in neighbouring states.
A further 150,000 civilians have been killed since then.
The Democratic Republic of Congo has experienced similar conflict and almost 2 million civilians have been killed there or are missing over the last two to three years.
In the Horn, East and Central Africa covering 12 countries, there are 20 million displaced persons, displaced from their homes and their villages.
The Lusaka and Arusha peace accords have failed to end the violence and internal conflict.
We must be more active and rethink our strategy.
We must first of all give the poor a stake in their rural economies so that they may own their own land and have an opportunity to build their lives.
The European Union's policy toward Vietnam, as it is towards all countries, is to encourage and support continued progress on human rights and democratisation and to raise concerns both publicly and in private where abuses or a deterioration in the situation is observed.
In Vietnam, permitting freedom of opinion and freedom of religion are of paramount importance to the European Union.
The cases mentioned in today's debate seem to me to be more concerned with freedom of opinion than with freedom of religion, a freedom which of course the European Union holds to be equally important.
Father Ly has called publicly for the United States not to ratify its bilateral trade agreement with Vietnam, linking this action to human rights issues.
The first article of the EC-Vietnam Cooperation Agreement which we signed with the government of Vietnam in 1995 states that respect for human rights and democratic principles is the basis for our cooperation.
We will shortly be holding in Hanoi a meeting of the EC-Vietnam Joint Commission at which all aspects of our relations will be reviewed including our shared commitment to respect for human rights.
In the meantime, the Commission delegation participates with the Member States represented in Hanoi in all EU démarches to the government of Vietnam on human rights issues, as well as in the regular discussions on human rights which the EU missions pursue with the Vietnamese authorities.
The Commission shares the European Parliament's view that South Africa/EU cooperation should seek to redress the existing inequalities inherited from the apartheid era and to work to improve the living conditions of the population with programmes targeting employment, health, education and housing.
We strongly share the European Parliament's concern that there is an urgent need to combat the HIV/AIDS problem in South Africa and I am sure - as I said this morning during the debate on the forthcoming G8 Summit - that will be one of the subjects which is discussed then in Genoa.
The Commission also agrees that there is a need for a climate of greater security in South Africa as a prerequisite for a peaceful society and for economic development.
As the House knows, the priority areas under our current multiannual indicative programme for the years 2000-2002 are poverty alleviation through the provision of basic social services, private sector support and the consolidation of the rule of law and promotion of human rights.
Programmes under consideration for funding in 2001 include a major health programme on primary health care, and that will also cover HIV/AIDS in selected provinces.
I congratulate honourable Members on highlighting the extremely worrying situation in Belarus.
Improved cooperation with the OSCE will be a vital ingredient in this.
The presidential elections on 9 September will be the next test of the democratic credentials of the country and we are in close touch with the OSCE-ODIHR discussions over the desirability of an international election monitoring mission.
The European Union has condemned the recent government decree on external funding for non-governmental organisations, and we are urgently seeking clarification on how it might affect our own assistance programmes.
Our restrictive policy on political dialogue has not prevented the European Union from repeatedly airing our deep concerns about prominent public figures who mysteriously disappear or who are imprisoned for political reasons.
European Union heads of mission in Belarus have recently undertaken a study into the impact of Chernobyl on public health.
The Commission is keen to discuss with Member States how the European Union should respond to these disturbing findings and on how we should react to Professor Bandashevsky's imprisonment, taking account of the strong views that are felt by honourable Members.
The government of Tanzania has since reassured the UNHCR that its policy towards the Burundian refugees is not in question, and it undertook to respect its earlier commitment to facilitate a gradual voluntary repatriation once the security conditions in Burundi permit.
For our part, the European Commission will contribute EUR 25 million towards the implementation of the UNHCR plan for voluntary repatriation of Burundian refugees to be launched once the situation is favourable.
Through the humanitarian aid office, ECHO, the Commission is funding more than a third of the total humanitarian aid available to refugees in Tanzania.
Last year ECHO's budget for aid to Tanzanian refugees was nearly EUR 27 million.
This was increased to over EUR 32 million this year.
The war that is currently raging permits not only so-called 'legal' exploitation of this type, but also much less covert forms of plunder.
Mr President, the conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is one of access, control and trade in key mineral resources.
The wealth of the country is appealing to its greedy neighbours.
The United National panel of experts warns: "These criminal cartels have ramifications and connections worldwide and they represent the next serious security problem in the region".
Mr President, the report of the panel of experts on the illegal exploitation of natural sources of energy is particularly brave.
The report is lucid and clear in its recommendations.
It is in fact the second such report after the Fowler diamond report.
The number of people affected by this disaster is extremely high.
Uganda, Rwanda, Congo, the new debate, the Lusaka agreements, the facilitation of a dialogue.
Hundreds of thousands have become refugees and some 28 million people are being oppressed, plundered and violated under the military occupation.
Angola, Zimbabwe and Zambia also participate without scruples in the violence in this country.
It is high time that clear conditions were imposed on these foreign profiteers.
That report covers the illegal exploitation of the DRCs natural resources and other wealth.
It was presented to the Security Council by the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, on 14 April 2001 and it was the subject of a heated debate.
The report will be an important point of departure for the international community, which will have to take a position on it.
The international community is aware of the link between economic interests and the continuation of the war in Kivu.
Honourable Members, and particularly Mr van den Berg, focused their arguments on the relationship between the illicit trade in some commodities and the conflict.
Southern Peru is experiencing a tragic situation caused by the earthquake of 23 June, the devastating effects of which have left over a hundred dead, over a thousand injured, and have destroyed over ten thousand homes, leaving over 40 000 people homeless in the provinces of Arequipa, Moquegua and Tacna.
The economic damage has set these regions back by more than 20 years.
The European Union humanitarian office mobilised in record time, and I should like to congratulate those responsible in the European Commission on their rapid intervention with a package of measures which, right from the first few hours, included food aid, temporary accommodation, supplies of products for purifying water and deliveries of medicines.
In this context I must also feel proud of the solidarity expressed by the Spanish government and people, who have contributed very generously.
This sad human tragedy may be an occasion for Latin Americans to be more united and determined when facing their numerous difficulties, and also for them to deepen their ties and their process of regional integration with, perhaps, larger doses of solidarity.
Above all, we do not believe it is the right moment to tell the government of Peru how it should prepare its budget for 2002.
I hope that in this new stage Peru may find an important ally in the Commission and the European Union, and that the Commission may soon present to us proposals for aid for the recovery of Peru and aid for cooperation with the Andean Community, which, as we know, finds itself in difficulties, not only in Peru but also in other countries.
Mr President, I would like to make some additional remarks regarding the humanitarian resolution that we have signed.
It is indeed important to attempt, as a matter of urgency, to do something to address the damage caused by the terrible earthquake on 23 June this year.
The consequences of this earthquake have been described by the previous speakers.
Unfortunately, there is no Richter scale to gauge the extent of the institutional, economic, social and cultural devastation brought about by almost ten years of dictatorship under Alberto Fujimori and his henchman, Vladimiro Montesinos.
In a room in this Parliament not far from this one, only the day before yesterday, Alfredo Toledo, the future president of Peru, painted an uncompromising picture of the situation in his country.
He told us that he is going to start the task of rebuilding as soon as he has been sworn in, which should happen on 28 July, Peru' s national holiday.
We therefore believe that Japan should be asked to extradite the former dictator Alberto Fujimori, and that he and his accomplice, Montesinos, should be tried in Peru itself.
As the House knows, a strong earthquake struck southern Peru on 23 June 2001.
A debate on a resolution on the Peruvian earthquake is not perhaps the most appropriate framework to discuss the political situation in Peru, but I would nevertheless like to stress that we are extremely satisfied with the capacity shown by Peru and its transitional government to carry out transparent and clean elections after the political disasters described very effectively by the honourable Member in his maiden speech.
We want to congratulate the interim government and the people of Peru for the maturity shown in this situation and for the support and cooperation provided to our team in the field.
I was able to say to President Toledo when he was here with us that the approximately EUR 60m in programmes for the alleviation of poverty blocked by the conduct of the elections in 2000 will now be released.
The President himself underlined his commitment to reforming the judiciary and making sure that there is in place a rule of law in the institutions to make that rule of law effective.
We all express our condolences to those who have been affected by this terrible earthquake but at least it has given us the opportunity of expressing in this House once again our solidarity with democracy in Peru and our encouragement of the new Peruvian government.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to thank my colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries for the considerable interest and support elicited by my report on the multiannual guidance programmes for fishing fleets.
It shows that this is a very important report.
According to the Commission, there are 7 or 8 Member States which do not comply with MAGPs.
European fishermen are entitled to a more stable fisheries and quota policy as a basis on which to organise their industry.
The EU' s over-capacity when it comes to the fishing fleet is therefore a great weakness.
I look forward to the Commission' s using the new tools in the form of Articles 6 and 10 of the Council Regulation which of course enable the Commission to withhold aid for, respectively, fleet renewal and the modernisation of vessels.
One is almost tempted to propose introducing a system of rewards for those countries which comply with the common decisions and reduce their fishing fleets.
The various figures are set out without any comments as to their reliability.
In other words, the annual report is not easy to read and it provides absolutely no overview of the situation.
It is, unfortunately, a very poor point of departure for the reform of the common fisheries policy in 2002.
The Commission therefore has a very great deal of work ahead of it, Commissioner, if a new and better guidance programme for the reduction of the fishing fleet is to be carried out and if this is to be implemented in all the Member States.
Our group is going to support this report from the first line to the last.
The report echoes yet again the request by this Parliament that the European Commission should make an example of and apply truly dissuasive penalties to those Member States that repeatedly fail to comply with the fleet objectives they have been assigned, so as to avoid once and for all that the general objectives for the Community fleet should be forever jeopardised, despite the very high social and economic sacrifices made in some regions of the Member States that have traditionally complied.
This lack of compliance with the MAGPs has led the European Commission to present its proposal to extend MAGP IV until the end of 2002, unfortunately setting out a number of conditions which are absolutely unacceptable.
In a further attempt to adapt the fleet to the resources, the Commission has again forgotten that there are countries that have broadly complied with their objectives, and is presenting a global proposal which will punish everybody with the threat of new cuts in fleet size and the intention of withholding aid for the modernisation of the fleet.
For this reason, the multiannual programmes for reducing the fishing fleets are an important component of the measure that has been implemented in order to protect species that are being fished at dangerous levels.
A permanent reduction of the fishing fleets is, of course, viewed with apprehension by fishermen and others in the industry.
The next report, by Mr Nicholson on cod in the Irish Sea, clearly shows the failure of the present approach to fleet management.
We must ensure that they are doing what the MAGP intends they do in the long run.
The multiannual guidance programme (MGP) has generally acted too much as an end in itself and too little as a means to an end in all this.
Despite their elevated cost, these MGPs have not achieved their objective.
He, like myself, has been given the great problem of trying to deal with a highly technical report and trying to find a way through.
I think those of us who participate in the fisheries committee in this parliament do not always get the credit for what they achieve or indeed what the Commission achieves.
Until we find a way of encouraging all the Member States to do this, there is no point in one Member State doing it, there is no point in two or even three, four or five Member States: it has to be right across the board of all Member States or else you will end up with massive recriminations between Member States as to who is doing what.
The fact that we have not been able to give it that priority in the Member States is certainly something that we all view with great concern.
We have the Member States going one way, we have the Commission going another way, we have scientists telling us another thing and in the middle we have fishermen and the fishing industry wondering what way they can go.
Mr President, it is essential that fishing effort - and I mean effort as opposed to capacity - is matched to fishery resources.
Member States must also be obliged to fulfil their fleet reduction targets so I welcome the general thrust of Mr Busk's report.
Quota penalties are impractical as well as unjust, punishing fishermen for their Member State's wrongdoing.
I ask therefore for a separate and split vote on paragraph 4 of this text and I urge Members to reject the references to the Cunha report and make sure that effective sanctions are targeted against those who are obliged to fulfil MAGP targets, that is, Member State governments, and not fishermen.
According to this regulation, the Member States had to file tonnage estimates by 1995 and have until 2003 to measure all vessels in accordance with uniform regulations and notify the actual values.
In all events, I intend to raise this question again when we consider the reform of the common fisheries policy and investigate it more closely.
We have prepared infringement proceedings against several Member States and we now intend to set them in motion because there is no other way of making sure they toe the line.
The debate is closed.
Discussions were based on the debate about what happened in the North Sea.
This report also helps French fishermen.
Can I first of all congratulate my friend and colleague, Jim Nicholson, on his report.
Technical measures to aid the recovery of cod stocks in the Irish Sea are of very great importance and they are of considerable consequence to fishermen in Scotland who are now desperately searching for ways to rejuvenate cod stocks in the North Sea.
Fish stocks, as you know, have collapsed in the North Sea, recently forcing the Commission to introduce emergency measures for the first time, when they closed 40 000 sq miles to cod fishing for 12 weeks, and to introduce emergency measures to protect northern hake stocks.
The Commission has also recommended devolving some aspects of fisheries management to zonal committees, involving key stakeholders such as fishermen and scientists in an advisory role.
There is a manifest need in fisheries management to take account of the local eco-system and the regional differentials which exist.
In this regard, I also welcome proposals to make additional funds available for tie-up schemes as a necessary part of the management tool box for conservation purposes, going in tandem with the recovery plans.
In Scotland, the need for recovery is acknowledged by all the stake-holders, but fishermen also must have the financial and the social protection that they need to encourage them while taking responsible actions.
Therefore, I ask the Commission to ensure that a system is set in place which allows for compensated tie-ups, but without being subject to the whims of Member State governments, to ensure that a more level playing field exists between fishing industries in the different Member States, which from time-to-time will be affected by recovery plans.
Scientists have come to the conclusion that 6 mm thick single-twine netting is equivalent in terms of selectivity to 4 mm thick double-twine netting.
The debate is closed.
Report (A5-0213/2001) by James Nicholson, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 2549/2000 establishing additional technical measures for the recovery of the stock of cod in the Irish Sea (ICES Division VIIa) (COM(2001) 165 - C5-0140/2001 - 2001/0083(CNS)) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Motion for a resolution (B5-0327/2001) by Caroline F.
Jackson, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the European Union's strategy for the Bonn Conference on Climate Change (COP-6, part 2) (Parliament adopted the resolution) Report (A5-0214/2001) by Jonas Sjöstedt, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, on the Commission communication on safe operation of mining activities: a follow-up to recent mining accidents (COM(2000) 664 - C5-0013/2001 - 2001/2005(COS)) (Parliament adopted the resolution) Report (A5-0188/2001) by Niels Busk, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the annual report from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the results of the multi-annual guidance programmes for the fishing fleets at the end of 1999 (COM(2000) 738 - C5-0107/2001 - 2001/2056(COS)) (Parliament adopted the resolution) EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE- Resolution B5-0327/2001 We shall be voting for the resolution on the European Union's strategy for the Bonn Conference on Climate Change.
This resolution shows how far the situation has deteriorated today.
In this context, I support the idea of providing aid to developing countries which will enable them to ensure respect for the environment.
We shall be voting in favour of Mr Sjöstedt's report.
Report A5-0188/2001 The rapporteur focuses a great deal on the need to reduce the capacity of the Member States' fleets and to establish a system of penalties that will compel the Member States to 'comply with the provisions requiring them to reduce their fishing fleets under the MAGPs' .
He also points out that not all Member States have met the criteria laid down in the MAGP.
Unfortunately, the rapporteur does not name the Member States that have failed to meet the MAGP objectives.
Furthermore, reducing the fishing effort does not necessarily mean a reduction in the number of vessels.
