We had hardly had any political debates about the relationship between the two institutions – there were seven lines in reports of European Council meetings when at some point in the text there was a passing reference to the United Nations; and the only active institution was the Commission which, in the quiet, calm, effective manner familiar to all of us, paid 60% of the budget for development programmes for humanitarian aid.
That was when Parliament began to say that this was perhaps an interesting subject after all, that we wanted to make relations between the European Union and the United Nations more political in nature, and that we wanted to produce a report in order to ask the other institutions to consider introducing more politics in our relations with the United Nations.
We also need a European Minister for Foreign Affairs, who will have to bring together our policies with those of the Council and the Commission and represent us all internationally.
The Union is an important partner of the UN and we should stand by our commitment to effective multilateralism.
The full support of the House for this endeavour is important and I welcome it, especially on the day that UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan will address the Parliament.
The Commission set out its views on the subject in a communication of 10 September 2003, entitled 'The Choice of Multilateralism'.
The paper provides an impressive inventory of the extensive cooperation between the EU and the UN that is already taking place, and of our support for UN activities on a wide number of issues, ranging from conflict prevention to development aid and from crisis management to poverty reduction.
Third, we identify a large number of practical actions to improve our internal coordination on UN questions in the UN bodies themselves, in Brussels and also in the Member States, with the overall aim of enhancing our influence in the UN, and in an attempt to assist it more effectively.
Witness to this are not only the proposals of the Convention to streamline the CFSP and the EU’s external action more generally – and here I note in particular the proposal to let the proposed foreign minister speak on behalf of the Union in the Security Council whenever there is a common EU position – but also the European security strategy with its leading theme of effective multilateralism.
The European Union should be ready to stand up for its belief in the importance of the United Nations.
After the Iraq crisis many in the international community have made great efforts to find our way back towards collective action, including renewed UN engagement in Iraq.
It is in this perspective that we should support the work of the high-level panel on UN reform established by the Secretary-General last year.
The Commission will participate actively in this exercise.
As for the creation and subsequent implementation of multilateral instruments, the Commission shares the report’s opinion that the European Union should play a leading role and assist third countries in fulfilling their obligations, as we have done, for example, in relation to counter-terrorism.
Parliament could in this context use its cooperation with third countries to address these kinds of issues and in that way help to build bridges between North and South.
Let me conclude by commending the report to the House and by underlining as well the Commission’s determination to work closely with the Parliament, with the Council and with the UN to implement the recommendations that are contained in it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, by honouring Kofi Annan and receiving this report on cooperation between the European Union and United Nations, the European Parliament has, today, clearly declared its support for multilateralism in international relations and indicated that we see cooperation between the European Union and the United Nations as an essential part of conflict resolution.
The road to a common foreign and security policy will also undoubtedly lead to greater cooperation between the EU and the UN.
We are currently a global player, providing over half of all contributions to the United Nations and over 60% of total international development aid, but we should move on to become a global player capable of taking a leading role in this critical phase of the United Nations’ development and helping to shape the UN of the future.
Strengthening cooperation between the EU and the UN should and can have a positive effect in developing multilateralism.
It can and should also affect all activities undertaken by the two organisations: the fight against terrorism, conflict prevention, human rights, crisis management, environmental protection and weapons of mass destruction.
If we are to do this, the EU must have more influence within the United Nations.
UN-specific elements can be included at all levels of the European Union, and it seems appropriate for the European Parliament to be included in the process.
Precisely because the idea of the EU speaking with one voice in the United Nations Security Council still seems somewhat idealistic, multilateral instruments and commitments should be used to boost the EU’s role and profile within the United Nations.
The first is a strong commitment to principles and values.
In our societies and in the whole world, the application of principles and values is our principal interest.
There are two ways of doing this: one is the establishment of a common and strong European Union foreign and defence policy; the other is to make progress towards a European Union presence on the Security Council in a positive way and on the basis of speeding up the current constitution-building process, which ensures that the voice of its peoples, by means of their representatives, are respected by governments and that we establish as soon as possible a European Constitution which allows us to implement a common foreign and security policy worthy of the name. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the new world order both requires a stronger United Nations and, at the same time, hinders its coming into being.
The UN should undergo a thorough overhaul in order to reflect the new relationships and to carry out the many tasks in an adequate manner.
The proposed double veto system is better than what we have at the moment, but offers no real solution, especially not if the number of permanent seats is being increased still further.
The Laschet report contains many interesting recommendations for building up relations between the European Union and the UN.
The enlarged European Union can, and must, make a substantial contribution to the desperately needed reforms of the United Nations.
The weakness of the European Union lies in the fact that it has been incapable of integrating the sovereignties of its Member States in a way that would have led to consistent respect for human rights and a foreign and security policy which is genuinely based on global multilateralism.
Article 19 of the Treaty on European Union has often proved very unsatisfactory in this regard.
The 2001 action programme against torture, on the other hand, has been very much a case of empty rhetoric.
We will all then be the losers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is really too much!
On the very day on which we are discussing this report and when we will be receiving Kofi Annan, the United Nations Secretary-General and Sakharov Prize-winner in 2003, Parliament has received depressing news from the Jurassic Park of dictatorships: we are being prevented from receiving Oswaldo Payá, to whom we awarded the Sakharov Prize for 2002.
This authoritarian ban by Fidel Castro’s communist regime in Cuba, which brings to mind the worst excesses of the Nazis and the Stalinists in the twentieth century, draws attention to an important part of this report, which states that, as regards the United Nations and its reform, the European Union and others must succeed in placing human rights, democracy and fundamental freedoms at the top of the world agenda, with all the consequences suggested in paragraph 19.
Oswaldo Payá’s situation is a scandal, as is the hostile gesture the Cuban regime has directed at this Parliament.
We are sure that, through Kofi Annan, Parliament will send a powerful message to Cuba and that, in the form of a permanent open invitation to Oswaldo Payá, we will continue to express our active solidarity with the winner of the Sakharov Prize 2002 and with all Cuban democrats.
Only in this way does it appear possible to create peace, welfare and justice with the UN as central, vital and decisive pivot.
Jesus Christ underwent the punishment that brings us true peace.
In keeping with his eminent introduction, the rapporteur considers cooperation between the European Union and the UN a cornerstone of EU foreign policy.
The EU's future Foreign Affairs Minister will, on the basis of the future European Constitution, need to fulfil the future mandate on behalf of the EU.
The EU has no constitution, is not a legal entity in the UN and there is no mandated European Foreign Affairs Minister.
Moreover, the recent past has acutely demonstrated that both in the IGC and in the Security Council, European unity seems to be further away than ever.
Articles 10 and 12, the core of the resolution, propose to expand the Security Council and to weaken the current veto system by replacing it with a requirement for a double veto, when the subject is the fundamental issue of threats to peace, chapter 7.
This, however, is what is implied by the proposal to make the European Union a permanent member, ‘as soon as its legal personality is recognised’.
This seat, of which there could only ever be one, would be occupied by the infamous European Minister for Foreign Affairs who would, incidentally, no longer have, on his own, the right of veto.
It is the Community method applied to the United Nations.
I believe that it is no exaggeration whatsoever to state that, today, history is blending with the present, and that in this historic present which we are living in, the European Union and United Nations are two principal actors.
From the founding spirit of the San Francisco Charter to the twenty-first century, from 60 nations to 190, from colonial regimes to independence and from the fall of the system of blocs to today’s globalised world.
Today, following the lessons of 11 September, it is clear that notions of security, defence policy, trade, conflict prevention, crisis management, humanitarian aid, culture and even civilisation are notions which are mixed up with each other and that it must accepted in the common conscience that, in view of the dangers and threats which affect us all equally, our response must also be equal amongst all of us.
Therefore, Mr President, moving beyond the Parliamentary dimension of relations between the European Union and the United Nations – which is necessary and correct – it is important that we act in an agreed manner, in a complementary manner, and that the European Union demonstrate clearly that its strength lies in its unity and its weakness in its fragmentation.
I believe that many in this House share my group’s feeling – and my own – that the United Nations is the one global political institution that needs to be strengthened, that represents the rule of international law, and should not be pushed aside, as it was over Iraq.
Reforming the Security Council along these lines is certainly essential.
Let me say once more: we have had enough of this world where individuals, individual governments and individual states think they can police the world.
If there is one role the United Nations was made for, it is the role of upholding law and order throughout the world, and doing so with the full support of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the EU must have a common foreign policy and common Foreign Minister and be a legal person.
In the UN, there is consensus on well over 90% of matters, so I wonder if the issue right now is not so much a shortage of new institutions but, rather, our feeling unable to use the power we do in actual fact have.
Are we too, however, in a position to comply with our obligations, namely to support the UN system when required: as when, for example, the weapons inspectorate told us that there was probably no imminent threat from Iraq in the form of weapons of mass destruction; or when Hans Blix told us that there was probably no threat and that, if these weapons of mass destruction were in fact there, he was certain that he and his colleagues would be in a position to find them.
We need to reform the Security Council.
So that the exit from Iraq does not turn into a nightmare of the kind we have sometimes seen in the past, everyone is now calling upon the UN to intervene in Iraq by launching an initiative and by playing an active role there of the kind that, for months, has been blocked by two countries which, to some extent, had a lot to fear from a UN role and which thought that this was in danger of being less effective that it should be.
The report also looks at the role that the EU should play within the UN.
China is still not a democracy or a respecter of human rights, making security the main responsibility of the UN and it has a vital role to play in the world.
I believe there is a case to be made for India and Japan to be given permanent membership status as a result of their size and democratic status.
With my party, however, I will of course be monitoring closely any attempt to reform the UN.
Furthermore, the resolution that we are going to vote on in a short while also shows in a clear and detailed manner the direction that relations between the Union and the UN should take.
A very large number of proposals, which I support, have been tabled, both as regards reinforcing the role of the European Union within a stronger United Nations through, for example, a seat on the Security Council, and as regards reinforcing cooperation between the Union institutions and the United Nations system.
These are ambitious proposals for reform, since the European Union would eventually see itself as having the roles of secular arm of the UN or of the UN’s elder daughter, in the same way that a country that I know well was once spoken of as the Church’s elder daughter.
The UN and the European Union must, together, continue to make a huge effort to ensure that the UN really can exercise this credible multilateral international authority that the whole world really needs. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, this report definitely belongs in the list of top-quality Parliamentary topics.
The report refers to a European Constitution that does not yet exist, and unfortunately the draft Constitution text is more focused on increased defence activities and greater ability to intervene in situations around the world than on disarmament and civil conflict resolution.
The report highlights the importance of development and cooperation, but should be even more specific.
If we are to weed out violence and terrorism, we need as much money as possible and more effort. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in 1945 the Charter of the United Nations stood for equal rights for all nations, large and small, as the best guarantee to maintain international peace and security.
I should like to remind you that under Article 103 of the United Nations Charter, in the event of a conflict between the obligations of countries as members of the United Nations and their obligations under any other international agreement, the Charter shall prevail.
We are following the debate in the UN Committees with great interest – and let me emphasise once again, Commissioner Patten, that the European Parliament supports the Costa Rican initiative, which also has the backing of over 60 other members of the UN.
This seat would not overshadow those seats held by the two European permanent members and their sacrosanct right of veto, but it would force the governments of Member States to try to see the main points and to compromise.
In recent years, the UN has been devalued, partly at least by the military policy of a fundamentalist president of a country that still practices the death penalty in many of its states and that rejects international organisations, not least the International Criminal Court.
Together with the message sent out by awarding the Sakharov prize to Kofi Annan, it is a clear message designed to restore value to the European Union and the United Nations and to once again give them a role.
The Security Council must, in any case, be enlarged, and we then need to consider new permanent members, without the right of veto.
This is why I attend meetings of United Nations associations in my East of England constituency, where the role and ideals of the UN are cherished at a very local level.
It is why Europe rightly champions UN policies: the 0.7% target in the Millennium Goals within EU development policy, and Europe providing over half of all support to the UN High Commission for Refugees, which stands up for fundamental rights as a bulwark against the racism and xenophobia now sweeping our continent.
This is why we back UN reform that will secure greater efficiency and also inject new vision.
Other policies championed by the EU are the UN convention on disability, the move beyond the Global Compact towards a binding treaty on corporate accountability and the idea of an economic security council to oversee the Bretton Woods institutions.
Finally, I am concerned that some of the proposals for changes in the veto system, the composition of the Security Council, or suggestions for an EU mandate prejudge the outcome of the Intergovernmental Conference and may not carry support in all of our countries.
The report we are debating is in essence a single proposal on relations between the European Union and the UN, but it is a strategic proposal for the UN itself at the dawn of the twenty-first century.
The enlarged European Union, with the 25 members, will have the possibility to be expressed by many more members of the Security Council, in that it will have the possibility to be expressed by three different geographical areas of the UN.
This possibility, in conjunction with the presence, which I hope will come about, of a minister of foreign affairs at the UN, will provide many more possibilities.
It comes at a sensitive time for both the European Union and the United Nations.
The report made in 2002 on the subject of Arab human development was described by magazine as the most important publication of the year, and more than a million people downloaded it from the UNDP website.
The Arab world also logged the highest rejection of authoritarian rule – the figure in this regard was 80% – and was indeed the third highest in favour of gender equality in higher education.
By contrast, the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights – a rather smaller fund aimed at the ex-Soviet Bloc – which I had the honour to set up a few years ago, amounts to only EUR 106 million.
Regarding paragraph 19, I would, secondly, emphasise the value of depriving countries that systematically infringe human rights of their right to vote in the UN Commission on Human Rights until such breaches cease.
This must be pursued in a UN context.
The third point I wish to emphasise concerns the UN Security Council.
The EU should make better use of the two votes that EU Member States, namely Great Britain and France, now already, in actual fact, possess in the Security Council.
We support Costa Rica’s initiative and the UN General Assembly’s decision to work on a corresponding convention in 2004 on banning human cloning. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report is splendid, and it is even more splendid that we will, in a few minutes, be able to welcome the current Secretary-General of the UN, Kofi Annan.
I would of course like to take this moment to recall that there have already been three UN Secretaries-General who hailed from Europe: Trygve Lie, Dag Hammarskjöldand Kurt Waldheim, and that Europe is home to two permanent UN offices, in Geneva and Vienna.
The most recent UN Secretary-General to come from Europe, Kurt Waldheim, wrote this in his book ‘Die Antwort’: ‘I have to concede that the UN, notwithstanding all our efforts and our unquestionable sincerity, has not yet managed to break with the political habits and attitudes of past centuries and to come to terms with the new realities with which we have to live.
We can make our contribution if France and England leave the Security Council and the EU joins it; we would thereby be reforming the EU and our own Common Foreign and Security Policy, and forcing through a reform of the UN Security Council. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the report is a positive response from Parliament to the Commission’s outline of relations between the EU and the United Nations.
Secondly, the veto system must be reviewed and may only be used when peace is under threat – under real threat – and in the event of aggression.
Thirdly, the European Union must acquire full membership in the Security Council and in the General Assembly.
The Council is firmly and formally committed to effective multilateralism in its external action.
Yesterday I told Secretary-General Annan that, in implementing the European Security Strategy, the European Union will work particularly closely with the UN to enhance mutual cooperation on conflict prevention and crisis management.
This will involve working together on the practical implementation of the Joint Declaration on EU-UN Cooperation in Crisis Management signed late in 2003.
The Union will therefore support the work of the High-Level Panel on Threats, Challenges and Change.
I believe that the European Union can make an important contribution to this highly relevant debate.
The presidency appreciates the enthusiastic support of the Commission in this endeavour and the work presently under way.
The Secretary-General has made clear his view that any changes must be a means to an end, not an end in themselves.
Developing our rapid reaction capability in the coming months will be a demonstration of this Union's willingness to contribute and to assist the UN in this important area of activity.
Given the challenges to the multilateral system that Secretary-General Annan has placed in the spotlight in such a determined way – including last Friday at the World Economic Forum in Davos – the central thrust of this report, which reaffirms support for a strong, reformed UN at the centre of the multilateral system, is very welcome.
This confirms that the Secretary-General, the Council, and the Commission have the support of the people’s representatives in Parliament in this endeavour.
The report clearly articulates the need for the European Union to 'punch its weight' at the United Nations.
The European Union will, as the report notes, represent some 450 million people from 1 May 2004.
The general thrust of the report strengthens the Council in its engagement with the United Nations.
The question of EU representation at the United Nations will certainly need to be addressed in the light of the final outcome of the negotiations on the Constitution, which will confer a legal personality on the European Union.
The High-Level Panel appointed by the Secretary-General will address this question, among others.
The necessary consensus remains difficult to develop.
It has provided a stimulus for the ongoing discussion of the EU’s support for the UN and the Parliament’s role in that regard.
I therefore join Kofi Annan in his call for a radical reform of the UN.
For hazardous operations in Africa, we are forced to call upon badly equipped and unmotivated troops from Bangladesh, Pakistan or India.
I therefore call for a European Union which decisively takes the lead in the reform of the United Nations, not only with fine declarations and symbolic contributions, but, above all, with concrete commitments and actual solidarity at the coalface. &#160;&#160; We shall now proceed to the vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I have been told by those of my colleagues who understand Italian that, on paragraph 35 of the UN report, you said ‘, which apparently means ‘rejected’.
It seems that we are putting things off for no reason whatsoever. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as my group’s shadow rapporteur, I would nevertheless like further reassurance that this is only about deferring the vote, and that the agreements reached between the groups will be unaffected and will not again be rescinded. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, this part contradicts a resolution already adopted by this House on the liberal professions.
Calls therefore on the Commission to allow associations of the liberal professions the discretion to take measures to permit them to perform their functions correctly.’ &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, when I was a law student, my tutors, among them my father, taught me the fundamental distinction that German philosophy draws between – the world as it should be – and – the world as it really is.
This morning, in adopting this resolution on relations between the European Union and the United Nations, it is quite possible that Parliament has indeed perceived the world as it should be.
On this point, we cannot support the present report.
This proposal represents a clear attack on each country’s sovereignty in its international relations.
All of us want a strong United Nations. &#160;&#160; – The Laschet report purports to be a plea for multilateralism in international relations.
It considers that the UN should take centre stage in achieving this objective, with the European Union playing an enhanced role within it.
As with Europe, an attempt is being made to embroil us in an institutional debate so that we forget the underlying problem: the fact that it is free competition above all else that determines the European Union’s policy; the fact that the major powers assume the right to decide unilaterally what merits or does not merit economic or military intervention on the part of the UN.
For all of these reasons, we voted against the report. &#160;&#160; – Whenever Parliament tables a report on the Union’s external policy, the federalist majority in this House cannot resist the temptation of adding points that are completely irrelevant and that, ultimately, detract from the overall work that has been done.
It presents a set of proposals for the institutional reform of the UN and reiterates the desire to develop and promote democratic values and respect for human rights.
Next, the European Union has no legal personality or Minister for Foreign Affairs.
We are then presented with the impractical idea of enlarging the United Nations Security Council, giving the EU a seat, without considering the more than likely opposition of the other countries that have places on the Security Council, or the fact that it would be hard to persuade France and the United Kingdom to give up their seats.
The suggestion to abolish the simple right of veto is also entirely inappropriate.
I believe this to be an important new element in the multilateral system.
The purpose of this proposal for a Council decision is thus to ratify, on behalf of the Community, the aforementioned International Treaty.
The importance of adopting the report is reflected in the fact that 33 countries out of the 40 signatories have already ratified the International Treaty, which covers 35 food crops and 29 forages and establishes a legally binding framework for the sustainable conservation of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the main issue at stake in the vote on the Fava and Sanders-ten Holte reports on the single European sky is to adopt rules on the organisation and use of European airspace with the aim of improving the operational capabilities, safety and punctuality of the air navigation services that are provided on a daily basis to thousands of consumers, including most of the Members of this Parliament.
Account was thus taken of the safety interests of air operations, the most important of all being: greater cooperation and technical interoperability, coordination with the military air authorities and the sovereign rights of the Member States in the field of air navigation.
However, we find the agreement reached in conciliation on the Single Sky unsatisfactory in several respects.
Military issues do not fall within the remit of the EU but of the Member States, which have their own defence policies and international obligations.
It is important that the Member States retain their right to make the final decision.
From the outset, we have supported and reported on the action taken by the European unions, who have tirelessly defended the general interest against these moves to transform the sky into a commodity.
However, in the light of the liberalisation of the other transport sectors, we remain very concerned about the future of public authority control over this sector, which is subject to fierce competition.
Moreover, the agreement leaves the Member States free to decide whether to entrust air traffic control to a public service or a private company.
Portugal’s control over the Santa Maria Flight Information Region (conferred by the International Civil Aviation Organisation) was also safeguarded.
The interinstitutional agreement that was reached shows that it was possible to improve this regulatory framework, in accordance with the Treaties; to acknowledge the rights of Member States to exercise their sovereignty over the airspace above their territories; to safeguard existing international agreements, such as the agreement in force that gives Portugal (through its control centre on Santa Maria, in the Azores) control over North Atlantic air traffic; to establish flight information regions, known as functional airspace blocks, by means of agreement with the Member States concerned; and to license air navigation service providers.
Although it is acknowledged that the services in question are clearly of public interest, this option is extended to operators in the private sector too.
In its proposals, the Commission considered and addressed airspace management as if it were like any other economic service, comparable to the liberalised telecommunications or transport services markets, under the supervision of a European regulator.
The text that has been agreed on steers clear of this approach, because it not only expressly states that each Member State can, within its own airspace, designate a service provider of its choice – under the auspices of national supervisory authorities and without deferring to other bodies – as a means of protecting total freedom for the ways and means of achieving this.
It should be recalled that the Commission’s original proposals completely ignored the unique and vital nature of the services in question and their relationship with the exercise of Member States’ public powers.
This is something I naturally welcome.
The new provisions must ensure that the internal market works better and must ensure greater transparency in the awarding of contracts.
The Commission’s proposal for a directive of 12&#160;July 2002 complements the ongoing process of liberalisation in the energy, postal services and transport sectors, in line with the aims and targets set out in the ‘Lisbon Strategy’.
We therefore voted against the common position of the Council and Parliament, although we do acknowledge some improvements on the original proposal. &#160;&#160; – Two pieces of Community legislation are being amended today: one on the procedures for the award of public works contracts, public supply contracts and public service contracts and the other on the procurement procedures of entities operating in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors.
We find these changes, which are based on the principles of free competition in an open market, worrying, coming as they do at a time when France is moving towards greater decentralisation and is engaging in a national review of public procurement.
We are therefore voting against these two directives. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my Group voted against this agreement.
I fully support the aims of the Commission proposal in this area.
Indeed, this strategy ties in well with the priorities of the Irish presidency in the environment area, recently outlined in Parliament by Minister Cullen.
The most significant moves are to raise the compulsory minimum level of recycling of packaging waste from 25% to 55% by 2008 and to provide a series of specific actions aimed at recovering and recycling the various materials commonly used in the manufacture of packaging.
While I understand that, in the absence of adequate infrastructure, the targets that have been set are utterly unrealistic, I am bitterly disappointed that as far as my country is concerned, along with Greece and Ireland, the implementation of this new directive has been postponed until the end of 2011.
I voted in favour. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, it is part of the European Parliament’s legislative activities in the Community to undertake the difficult and sensitive role of controller of the executive authority in all of its forms.
When carrying out its tasks, it has to assess the gravity of the lapses that inevitably occur at any time and in any place as a result of human nature; it has to be conscientious in exercising control but must do so without stifling initiatives and, above all, it should act in the general interest and avoid taking sides.
And ‘no comment’, in the sense that OLAF, a body responsible for combating fraud, has not provided this Parliament or any of its committees with adequate information in this regard, which could provide a detailed and complete picture of the situation.
As for relations between Eurostat and National Statistics Services, we must not overlook issues of data protection regarding information passed between administrations.
The recent case undermines the credibility of the Commission’s administrative reform and shows the way in which internal information structures become corrupted, in which the prevailing culture of secrecy has given rise to ‘financial envelope systems’ in Eurostat and in which the information and communication systems within the Commission have managed to remain oblique.
The report as such was constructive, however, and I therefore voted for it in the final vote.
The report was adopted by 467 votes in favour, with 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. &#160;&#160; .Satellite navigation is a particularly important space application with many uses: in shipping, in aircraft navigation, even in search and rescue operations.
The development of the Galileo satellite navigation system by the EU would be a contribution to mankind if, despite assurances that it is a purely non-military system, there was not every indication that the European imperialists also intend it to be used for military purposes, within the framework of their ambition to share the role of global policeman with the USA.
This illustrates the real intentions lying behind the desire for an EU space policy - it is driven by the desire to establish the EU as a military superpower.
Galileo was sold to the European Parliament as a civil project, and that is what it should remain.
This is one of the main arguments in favour of a European satellite system given that the American GPS system is a military project which the US Government can jam at any moment.
The current systems in the US (GPS) and Russia (GLONASS) are both financed and run by the military, which means that signals may be interrupted or tampered with at any moment in order to protect the national interest.
I should lastly like to underline the need to ensure that it remains free or almost free for users of basic services ... &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the European Parliament’s adoption today of the new resolution on the Draft European Constitution is a tacit recognition that it was wrong to ask the Italian Presidency to achieve the impossible, which is what it did in the proposal that we adopted in December.
The European Parliament would grow in stature if it were to acknowledge this explicitly, but no one is perfect.
Having said this, the Draft Constitution remains a bad and dangerous initiative and I still do not see any reason therefore to hope that it will be adopted at either Easter or Trinity.
That is why I voted against. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I also voted against this resolution.
Let the ten new countries in and let them find their feet first before we start rushing into further European integration. &#160;&#160; .– In its resolution on the Irish presidency’s programme, Parliament is attempting to rush the IGC’s negotiations by demanding that it finalise a text for the Constitution before 1 May 2004, which is the date of enlargement.
I can do no other than take satisfaction in this, having for years been a constant opponent of this plan for reasons that can all be found in my previous interventions, notably those on 17 December of last year.
The forces and interests behind the so-called ‘European Constitution’ – namely, major capital and the most powerful countries in the EU – have once again begun to mobilise.
Stressing the primacy of competition over other considerations, be they economic, social or environmental, results in policies aimed at liberalising and deregulating the markets, in addition to a fundamental bias against State intervention in the economy, especially through State aid.
That is why, contrary to the representatives of the bankruptcy association sitting on the right and left of this House, I categorically reject this text. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the link between the common foreign and security policy and space policy is very clear, both in the Commission's White Paper and in the resolution.
The Galileo technology is a very precise type of technology which will be used for military means.
There are a lot more important areas into which EU resources could be going, rather than this: it is clearly in the interests of the military.
It is completely unacceptable that the space policy and EU resources should be funding and facilitating military expansion or the development of new military weapons.
That is why I do not support it. &#160;&#160; .The MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the resolution on space policy in accordance with everything I said in my position yesterday and, furthermore, because the amendments which we proposed against the use of space for military purposes and to serve defence and security policy were not accepted.
We condemn the position of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (including New Democracy) which voted almost in its entirety against the amendments, as well as the stand taken by the socialist group (including PASOK) which, while voting in favour of the amendment which accepted the principle of the use of space solely for peaceful purposes, at the same time voted against an identical amendment opposing the use of space for military activities!
It is simply an artifice, an attempt to muddy the waters, an alibi to cover their all-round support for the militarisation of the European Union and the militarisation of space. &#160;&#160; We have today voted in favour of the present resolution on EU space policy, just as we previously supported the own-initiative report on the Commission’s Green Paper on European space policy on 9&#160;October 2003 and the report on Europe and space on 17&#160;January 2002.
We would however emphasise that the EU’s commitment to the area of space policy should be based upon the agreement between the EC and the European Space Agency (ESA) from 2003 and be limited to the competence the EU now has in the area of space research.
We are equally appalled that this House has called on the EU to make ‘a significant financial commitment that specifically provides for developing space-based research into global security’, acknowledging the contribution that the ‘space policy could make to Common Foreign and Security Policy and the Common European Security and Defence Policy’ and calling for defence-related companies to coordinate programmes in order to achieve this objective.
I therefore voted against. &#160;&#160; – As usual, the European Parliament has debated the future of an industrial sector without considering the workers who keep it going, if only in a secondary role.
I cannot but support the parliamentary resolution on this issue.
This is the only way in which jobs can be guaranteed in the sector and in which we can safeguard what remains of Europe’s textiles and clothing industry.
The unilateral abolition of import quotas, set for 1&#160;January 2005, places the textiles industries of EU Member States on an unequal footing compared with other producers around the world.
Symbolic, because today affords us, the European Parliament and the United Nations, an opportunity to mark and to celebrate the values and the public purpose that we share and hold in common.
We support the fight against global terrorism, but we also insist on recognising the duty to fight against global poverty.
Let me tell you, Mr Secretary-General, that as Europeans, our Union and its Member States are proud to be the largest donor community of untied development assistance, humanitarian aid and food aid in the world.
Members of the European Parliament, Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen and dear friends, I am deeply touched that you have honoured my friend and colleague, Sergio Vieira de Mello, and the many other UN staff who lost their lives in working for peace in the world.
This prize for freedom of thought is not only a worthy recognition of the ultimate sacrifice that they made in the cause of peace.
I also thank you, President Cox, and all of you, as Members of the European Parliament, for inviting these special people to share this occasion.
The hope for further enlargement in years to come promises to build other bridges of cooperation and understanding – including between the West and Islam, and between peoples who have fought each other in bloody wars.
But all of your societies – and many others around the world too – will become more diverse in the decades to come.
However, when refugees cannot seek asylum because of offshore barriers, or are detained for excessive periods in unsatisfactory conditions, or are refused entry because of restrictive interpretations of the Convention, the asylum system is broken and the promise of the Convention is broken too.
After all, seven out of ten refugees seek refuge in developing countries, where resources are far more stretched and human rights standards more uneven.
If we ignore this fact, there is a missing link in our approach to refugees – as Professor Gil Loescher, who survived the Baghdad blast and is with us here today, has rightly pointed out.
Most immigrants are not refugees.
It is our shared duty to do what we can to ensure that there are more opportunities in developing countries.
That would mean that one in three Italians, for example, would be over the age of 65 – nearly double the proportion today.
In 2002, in formal remittances alone, migrants from developing countries sent back at least USD 88 billion to their countries of origin – that is 54% more than the USD 57 billion those same countries received in overseas development assistance.
After all, just as developing countries often want to attract emigrants back home, developed countries often have an interest in immigrants returning home after a period of time.
You have already given more thought than most regions to this issue – and the Tampere framework is a basis on which to forge a common European policy.
The message is clear.
Migrants need Europe, but Europe also needs migrants.
But let us also rejoice in the enormous contribution that migrants have made in science, academia, sports, the arts, and government – including some of you as Members of this Parliament.
I believe therefore that the Parliament has made a wise and kind choice in reflecting on and commemorating the enormous sacrifices made by UN personnel in the cause of peace and justice.
On 19 August 2003 we were all horrified at the appalling attack on the lives of UN personnel in their headquarters in Baghdad.
The loss of Sergio Vieira de Mello was a cause of particular sadness.
We are indebted to Secretary-General Annan on many levels and for many things.
This morning, of course, I would draw attention to the courage and the clarity with which he has addressed the challenges facing the multilateral system and role that migration policy can play in it.
A stronger, international society, a rules-based international order and strong international institutions are critically important EU objectives.
It is imperative that the UN be given the means to meet successfully the many and varied challenges of today.
As the Secretary-General said in his report last year on the implementation of the Millennium Declaration, human rights are universal principles, but inspiring as those principles are, they do not implement themselves.
The multilateral system embodied in the UN Charter is the only way that human rights and humanitarian law can be effectively defended.
In October 1999 the European Council in Tampere agreed on the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice in the EU, firmly rooted in our shared commitment to human rights, democratic institutions and the rule of law.
In its proposals and actions on immigration and asylum, the Union is committed to taking account of both the humanitarian and economic aspects and to ensuring full respect for the human rights-based principles enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and other international norms.
It is being given, of course, in memory of Sergio Vieira de Mello, and his life exemplified those values.
Sergio Vieira de Mello was an extraordinary man.
I was privileged to see his work at first hand, in Hong Kong, in Kosovo and in East Timor.
When, in the Conference of Presidents and in this House, we voted that you should receive the Sakharov Prize for 2003, we did so gladly and not merely as a matter of political judgment.
Now, as we offer you our heartfelt gratitude, we remember Sérgio Vieira de Mello and the many who were killed by a murderous terrorist act in Baghdad, we remember the many who have laid down their lives in the service of the United Nations, and, to those members of their families who are here today, we extend our sympathy and express our solidarity.
Today, our thoughts are also with his widow, Yelena Bonner, who shared decades of exile with him and to whom our group awarded the Schuman Medal, and today we greet her in her simple and modest home in Moscow’s Ulitsa Skalova.
We would have been glad of the presence of the Sakharov Prize laureates Leyla Zana und Oswaldo José Paya Sardiñas, who, along with others, are unable to be with us today.
Credible and legitimate democratic government in Iraq is not possible without the presence of the United Nations.
A mature Europe would find the political will to put behind it an institutional settlement at the UN that leaves power where it lay in 1945.
Your staff who lost their lives with Sergio Vieira de Mello – including Fiona Watson who was known to me – died defending a vision of national renewal in Iraq that is now our duty. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Secretary-General, thank you for your magnificent speech, which was very apt and brought each country face to face with its responsibilities.
One year ago, Secretary-General, almost to the day, the European Parliament adopted a resolution in support of the mission of the United Nations inspectors in Iraq.
Finally, it is that there is more to building a world of peace than taking action against terrorist networks.
If, to our dismay, the tragic deadlock in the Middle East should persist – 13 Palestinians were killed yesterday in Gaza by the occupying army and 10 Israelis have just lost their lives this morning in a suicide bombing in Jerusalem; this is the kind of thing that must stop at all costs – should the Iraqi occupation, the war in Chechnya and the dreadful conflicts in Africa continue; should the peace plans such as the one for Western Sahara remain unimplemented; should there continue to be humiliation and despair nourished by social and cultural divides and should violations of human rights continue to mar the world, it is probable that, in the future, the world will not be safe and no one will enjoy a peaceful life.
That, Secretary-General, is how we understand the particular tribute that we are paying to you and, through you, to the countless others who embody the universal values symbolised by your organisation. &#160;&#160; – Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that when I was listening to you, Secretary-General, another great speech was resounding in my ears, the speech by Martin Luther King, who once declaimed in New York: ‘I have a dream’.
And listening to you, I had a dream too, a dream that your words on immigration were echoed by all of the Members of this House and did not remain yours alone.
Of course, in choosing you we also chose your colleagues, all of those who paid with their lives to fulfil their chosen role in the service of the most just and noble of causes.
More than four million young people have died of AIDS.
I am therefore very happy that, in the Conference of Presidents, I was able to register my group’s unanimous support for the UN, because never before have there been so many innocent and poverty-stricken children who need a helping-hand from ourselves in our cosy little corner of the rich part of the world.
We who sit in Parliament may disagree about a lot, but we can all agree in paying tribute to you as Secretary-General of our common, worldwide organisation, the UN.
This candidate has the support of the President of the European Commission and of key figures from all of the Union’s institutions as well as from other countries and regional groups.
In the brief conversation that the Bureau of the Foreign Affairs Committee was able to have with you earlier, it became even clearer to us that the European Parliament and the European Union really can work together on joint projects, and that we can cooperate very closely where policy matters and budgetary resources are concerned, as well as in many other areas – be it on issues connected with the supply of water, with education in the developing world, infrastructure measures or the fight against epidemics.
I believe that, if we succeed in this way in raising standards in the world’s less-favoured areas, we will also be creating the right conditions for peace, freedom and human rights, and it is for that reason that we need to cooperate in this area.
The same is the case with political objectives and problem-solving, whether this be in the Middle East or in Cyprus.
While I have to say that I listened to what you had to say about migration with a great deal of admiration, I would also like to point out at the same time that migration is an admission of failure, for we should deal with problems where people actually live; that is where we have to start. &#160;&#160; On behalf of Parliament I should like to thank the Council for being present here today and also the Commission, the High Representative and the laureates of the Sakharov Prize.
And most of all, Secretary-General, I thank you for being here and for the appeal to conscience which you launched in our House today.
