The proposal for a regulation establishes a mechanism, on the basis of which Member States will be able to renegotiate, negotiate and conclude bilateral agreements with third countries in the area of judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters.
An analogical mechanism is foreseen in relation to bilateral agreements in the area of jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments and decisions in matrimonial matters, parental responsibility and maintenance obligations.
The first condition is met by limiting the proposed regulation to bilateral agreements in the areas of jurisdiction and recognition and enforcement of judgments and decisions in civil and commercial matters.
However, it would seem to be necessary to make clear that the proposed mechanism will be applicable not only to sectoral agreements determined by the limited scope of this proposal, but also to other agreements such as bilateral understandings and regional agreements between a limited number of Member States and neighbouring third countries - of course only in very limited cases, concerning specific matters, and with the intention of resolving local problems.
I was sceptical as to the need to set the 'sunset clause' at 31 December 2014, if, according to the proposed regulation, the European Commission has to present a report on the application of the resolution by 1 January 2014.
Despite the differing view of the European Commission, I am of the opinion that in its report on the application of the regulation the Commission should present the regulation in the context of other legislative instruments, such as Brussels I.
I would like to stress that the procedure for concluding bilateral agreements with third countries gives us a unique opportunity to demonstrate that the European Union is able to solve the problems of its citizens in their interest, which is particularly important in the context of the economic crisis and the growing Euroscepticism in many Member States.
Each of us has heard of or knows cases where a marriage with a person from a third country has failed and where the father or more often the mother no longer has the right to see the children, who have been taken by the spouse to his or her country of origin or elsewhere, and sometimes is unable to discover their whereabouts.
There is an urgent, legitimate need to attempt to find a solution to this, in particular by negotiating agreements with third countries.
The answer is simple.
For all of these matters, the negotiation and conclusion of agreements with one or more third countries falls within the exclusive competence of the Community.
That is why, in the end, I agreed to the compromise negotiated with the Council and the Commission, but I wish to make it very clear, Mr President, Commissioner, that the Community's exclusive competence must remain as such.
The second consideration on which I based my report is that, as may be seen from the report on the implementation of the Hague Programme for 2007, the level of implementation with regard to legal cooperation in the criminal field was somewhat low, even though satisfactory developments were registered in other sectors, such as civil co-operation, border management, immigration and asylum policies.
I am very firm on this and I agree with what Mr Deprez said, when he pointed out that the Member States must not take advantage in this way of the situation to reclaim certain competences and to encourage the Commission to somehow abandon the idea of making proposals.
I would like in any case to thank the rapporteurs from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs for the work they have achieved, and I also thank them for their understanding, which has allowed this agreement to be reached before the end of this Parliament's term of office.
I will now mention the report by Mrs Pagano, with whose approach and content I am in agreement.
It is thanks to the principle of mutual recognition that the Union has achieved major successes, including the European arrest warrant, and all this is a blueprint for a true area of criminal justice.
The report also deals with the issues faced in implementing the principle of mutual recognition, and it is true that the transposition and the full and consistent application of the many existing instruments that are based on the principle of mutual recognition must be monitored.
It is also true, though, that there can be no mutual recognition unless the mutual trust between Member States' legal authorities increases.
I am also convinced that, together, we will succeed in building this criminal justice area, this area of law which should characterise a community of citizens which quite rightly have the right to enjoy quality justice, in whichever Member State they find themselves.
It could in fact be argued that, by making it possible for Member States to negotiate and conclude agreements with third countries that are compatible with Community law, the range of operation of Community law is extended to countries outside the European Union.
The procedure established by the two proposals will apply primarily to the negotiation and conclusion of bilateral agreements between a Member State and third countries.
I would like to conclude with a few comments on Parliament's recommendation on the development of EU criminal justice, which is the subject of the report by Ms Pagano.
Congratulations, Mrs Pagano.
The regulation will not supersede Community laws, but is only to be applied when the relevant Member State demonstrates that there is a specific interest based on economic, geographical, cultural or historical relations, especially between the Member State and the third country in question, in signing a bilateral sectoral agreement with the third country.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Pagano for her excellent report and her cooperation in drafting compromise amendments which took in, for instance, some of my suggestions.
However, when it comes the possibility of the Member States concluding the agreements themselves, as a nationalist I am of course pleased with this and hope that it is not a process that is necessarily limited in scope and time.
I should also like to express my satisfaction at the fact that, according to the Commissioner, the Commission accepts almost all the points included in this report.
Pursuant to Article 307 of the EC Treaty, Member States need to eliminate all provisions which may be present in agreements of this kind and which are incompatible with the acquis.
In its Opinion 1/03 of February 2006, the Court of Justice held that the Community has acquired exclusive competence to conclude international agreements with third countries on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters.
Mr President, I will be brief because I can only express the satisfaction I feel about the way in which Parliament has helped to shed light on this area of law, justice, security and freedom that we wish to build in the Union; I welcome all that has been said, especially on the principle of mutual recognition, which itself brings us back to mutual trust between judges.
Above all I am grateful to Parliament, and I must say - as I will not get to speak again - that I will have been greatly enriched by my experience as commissioner, insofar as I really feel that a good alliance between the Commission and the European Parliament can often - I apologise to the Presidency for pointing this out, but it is the truth - highlight and promote the general European interest.
Thank you, Mrs Pagano.
Finally, on behalf of the Council, I would like to thank Parliament for its inspiring recommendations on the development of EU criminal justice, which are the subject of the report by Mrs Maria Grazia Pagano.
I would like to thank Parliament for this fruitful debate and for the excellent outcome.
