It has to do with Europe’s rules on the equal treatment of women and men in the workplace.
Despite the euphoria about the simplification of the law and this new directive, we must not forget that considerable deficits still, in practice, remain in the equal treatment of women and men, particularly in the workplace.
There is also work for the two sides of industry to do, in the shape of even more decisive action to counteract discrimination – particularly against women – in the labour market.
This is where European impetus can make it clear that even more needs to be done where the balance between work and family life is concerned.
Mr President, the proposal for a revised directive indeed seeks to simplify, modernise and improve Community legislation on equal treatment of men and women at work.
The text proposed today is the result of interinstitutional negotiations, through which a reasonable and very satisfactory compromise – which is acceptable to both co-legislators – has been reached.
The overall compromise also includes two statements by the Commission and the Council which underline the great importance of reconciling work and private life as well as the importance of parental leave.
Reconciling work and family life is a challenge for each and every woman in our society.
In its statement, the Commission said that it is committed to promoting parental leave as an instrument of paramount importance in order to achieve full equality between men and women in working life.
In conclusion, the Commission therefore plans to make the reconciliation of work and private life one of its priority objectives and part of the roadmap on gender equality which was adopted very recently on 1&#160;March 2006.
I am truly proud of that, in my capacity as group coordinator in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality.
I believe that this directive addresses those problems that have been pointed out to us: equal pay, equal treatment in occupational social security schemes, and equal treatment in access to work, to training and to career promotion.
Thus I am pleased and, once again, I would like to express my thanks for the work that has been done. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to pay tribute to the excellent work of our rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Niebler, who has at all times been careful to take account of the differing points of view of her fellow Members in order to improve this recast directive as much as possible.
I am also delighted at this agreement between our institutions, because the recasting of these seven directives on equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and working conditions will enable us to increase transparency and to clarify what rights our fellow citizens have, particularly with regard to direct or indirect discrimination, harassment, and equality in terms of pay and occupational pension schemes.
The gathering of statistics will also give us an impression of the overall situation and allow us to assess the changes and adjustments made at European level.
It is our responsibility to establish a real European policy on equal treatment for men and women, which must be effective and must be able to change mentalities quickly, since this is absolutely vital for a true transformation of society. &#160;&#160; . – Gender equality in the European Union is viewed as a democratic value, freedom of self-expression and the basis of fully fledged interpersonal relations.
By emphasising the reconciliation of work and private life as one of the priority aspects of the EU's gender equality policy, the European Commission is promoting a uniform approach to men and women in all areas, including employment, pay and the individual right of every parent across the entire European Union to appropriate childcare leave.
Although there are different implementation models for the integration of gender equality strategy in the European Union (the dual family breadwinner model, the male breadwinner and female part-time worker and housewife model, the male breadwinner and female housewife model), gender equality is an important issue everywhere in the realm of employment – professional and vertical sex segregation in the labour market, linked to women culturally being allocated most responsibility for house work.
By cooperating with social partners we must improve women's position in the workplace and solve the problem of gender pay differences which is still relevant, as well as the question of clear gender differentiation in the labour market.
We must review regulations on flexible working hours to allow men and women to coordinate work and family commitments more successfully, and guarantee equal opportunities for employment and for vocational education which determines employment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I completely support the agreement and genuinely wish to thank the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Niebler, for both her constructive cooperation and her considerable readiness to listen while the work was under way.
However, we regard the equal treatment of men and women as discrimination and as being unfair to women, who in the vast majority of cases are mothers and bring up the younger generation.
For this reason we require specific legal solutions that will not only ensure equal treatment of men and women, but which will also protect women, particularly those of reproductive age and those taking maternity and childcare leave.
In national legislations there should be provisions which are more favourable to mothers, including counting time taken off for childcare towards their years of service and for pension purposes, and even the introduction of some kind of financial support for childcare leave, which would reduce unemployment. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I greatly welcome the willingness shown by our institutions to address a problem that is constantly and seriously undermining the soundness of our social model.
Equality between men and women is in fact a basic principle of Community law and is enshrined in Articles 2 and 3 of the Treaty.
Although the European Union is in the forefront as regards the protection of citizens’ and workers’ rights, gender discrimination, both direct and indirect, is unfortunately still the order of the day in many Member States.
The call for the Member States to implement a deterrent system of sanctions for any possible cases of discrimination is therefore a necessary and urgent measure that needs to be promptly adopted by all the competent national authorities. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, it is 20 centuries since it was proclaimed 'there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female'.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I shall always remember the reaction of the Commission representative when he realised that, apart from the general view of Community legislation and the case law of the Court of Justice on equal pay, equal treatment by social insurance systems, equal treatment in vocational training, recruitment and deployment at work and the burden of proof of inequalities, we added equal treatment and equal opportunities within the framework of parental leave.
Of course, the compromise amendment on the review of parental leave within the framework of the new possibilities offered by the roadmap for women's rights offers a great deal of hope together with a new agreement on equality and I trust that Mrs&#160;Niebler's children and all our children will live in a society of equality. &#160;&#160; – I wish to begin by congratulating Mrs&#160;Niebler on her report and Mrs&#160;Vergnaud, shadow rapporteur for my group.
I welcome this Commission initiative aimed at modernising and simplifying Community law in the area of equal treatment of men and women in the labour market.
The Member States must, as a matter of urgency, adopt measures to enable women to achieve a better reconciliation between work and private life.
The review of the directive on parental leave should help to combat the economic, social and cultural prejudices associated with the right to paternal leave.
Member States should set up paid maternity and paternity leave when a child is born or adopted and should, of course, observe best practice as regards the duration of maternal leave, which varies between 14 and 28 weeks, the mandatory period and the amount of money provided during the leave period.
Standardisation and definitions are clearly important but, most importantly, what we need now are sanctions.
Women want to work.
If forced to choose between working and having a family, an increasing number of women choose to work.
One of the most obvious forms of discrimination against women is the gender pay gap.
For more than 30 years we have had a directive dealing with this, but how much has the situation changed during that time?
Nothing less than the future of Europe is at stake. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in terms of access to work and work-related activities must be implemented across a wide range of areas.
All Member States must show the political will needed to implement the legislative proposals before us, in order to combat the discrimination that still goes on as regards salaries, access to employment, vocational training, promotion, the kind of harassment and sexual harassment that often comes with such discrimination, and any unfavourable treatment of women in relation to pregnancy or maternity.
The new directive streamlines previous EU regulations by consolidating provisions from a number of other directives implementing the principles of equal pay and equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions.
The Member States need to allocate funds to help with childcare, including special regulations on parental leave to which either parent would be entitled, as this would largely ensure equal access to employment, vocational training and promotion.
I join the others in congratulating Mrs&#160;Niebler on her fine report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Treaty of Amsterdam states that one of the missions of the European Community is to support equal rights for men and women through the implementation of common policies and funding as defined in Articles 3 and 4.
The Treaty attaches fundamental significance to gender equality, stating that the spread of this principle is as important as developing a competitive economy.
We now have the opportunity to move forward and to regulate a range of existing legislation, such as the Equal Pay Directive, the Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in occupational security schemes and the Directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions.
Today’s society is dependent on the talents of all workers and must therefore seek to integrate women more into the labour market and keep them there in the long term.
We must, however – particularly when considering society as a whole, and the changes in its population most of all – bear in mind the fact that we, as a society, are getting older, and must, in future, try not only to produce more children, but also, and at the same time, to enable people to combine working life and a family.
That is why I believe that this recast directive is a vitally important step, in that it simplifies and modernises a substantial amount of existing law on the equal treatment of women and men.
The vote will take place today at 11.00 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0148/2006) by Mrs Lívia Járóka on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality on the situation of Roma women in the European Union [2005/2164(INI)] &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is the second time that we are conducting a debate in a plenary session of the European Parliament specifically focused on the situation of the Roma.
In Hungary, which is probably the only EU Member State advocating a progressive Roma education policy, the number of segregated children has continued to grow in the past years, in spite of desegregation efforts.
Following in the footsteps of the civil organisations who have worked on this for two decades, it has taken us almost two years of hard work to ensure that more and more issues affecting the Roma are brought to the attention of the European Parliament in the course of our work.
The day before my visit, an elderly Roma woman became brain dead because it took the Roma twenty minutes to push the ambulance out of their settlement.
The Roma are facing significant difficulties in the area of employment, because the unemployment rate in some European regions with a high Roma population reaches 100%.
It is true that in many cases unemployment is a consequence of low level, segregated education, but most often it is a result of the fact that when the Roma go to a job interview, they are automatically turned down because of the colour of their skin.
Equality and the fight against discrimination are indeed the two fundamental values of the European Union.
These values therefore inspire the implementation of our policy and we take actions in different forms.
For instance, earlier this year, we created a high-level group on the social integration of ethnic minorities and their full participation in the labour market.
We asked this group to submit recommendations to us by the end of 2007 on examples of good practice, which you also mentioned.
The European Union provides financial support for specific projects through the structural funds and various Community programmes.
We will also have a special year: the year 2007 will be the European Year of Equal Opportunities.
The Roma community itself has a very important role to play in encouraging the full participation of women in social, economic and political life.
The institute’s work programme will be in line with the priorities of the Commission, but it is up to the management board to also decide on how best to integrate the issues relating to the situation of Roma women. &#160;&#160; It is very difficult to write a&#160;balanced, unbiased report on the issue of the Roma and Roma women.
The report mentions resolving a&#160;major problem, which is the situation of Roma women.
We should remember that the total number of Roma in the EU is estimated at 7 to 9 million, and according to UNDP figures, their number will go up by 2 to 3.2 million after the accession of Romania and Bulgaria.
On the other hand, what Mrs Ferrero-Waldner says is also true.
The EU does have anti-discriminatory legislation, but in my view the European Commission should demand much closer observance of these directives, as in the case of the Roma there is clear infringement of these directives, whether in the form of direct or indirect discrimination. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I find it extremely useful that a report has been prepared on the situation of the Roma in the European Union.
Secondly, because the Roma are facing cumulative discrimination in almost all areas of life, for their race, ethnic group and gender, which is often further exacerbated by social exclusion and the threat of poverty.
Thirdly, because the situation of Roma women is particularly difficult and almost hopeless.
Although the report affects the Europe of the twenty-five, it is worth addressing separately the situation of Roma women living in new Member States.
Let us not be ashamed to admit that the problem is far worse in Central and Eastern European states, because the proportion of the Roma population within the total population is much higher than the EU average.
Member States must collect and publish accurate and extensive statistical data regarding the Roma, and must ensure regular data collection in order to provide us with an objective picture of the situation of the Roma.
The report of my colleague, Mrs Lívia Járóka, is the result of well-thought-out and conscientious work.
I propose the adoption of the report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased that, as my colleagues have already stated, the European Parliament is addressing the situation of the Roma in the European Union for the second time.
However, it is imperative to address this issue as a separate topic – like this report has done – in the form of a report or a separate decision, or even by creating new directives.
It is imperative that we attempt to deal efficiently and very successfully with the issues mentioned by my colleagues who have spoken before me.
As we have heard before, the EUR 750 million mentioned earlier, spent by the European Union on the situation of the Roma or on attempting to resolve their problem, did not manage to resolve their situation, but has, in fact, exacerbated it.
Unemployment has risen in every state, and in particular, the number of discrimination cases has increased both in European Union Member States and candidate states.
However, Member State governments are often trying to address the problem of Roma women with a paternalistic approach.
It would be good if we could address these issues, and it would be good if we did not include Roma traditions in the fight against discrimination, because it would be very dangerous both for EU Member States and other legislators to intervene in such cases and to interfere with private family matters. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I endorse this report.
Few European minorities are faced with such prejudice and lack of understanding as the Roma, and few national minorities present so many problems in terms of integration into the majority environment.
I firmly believe that the obstacles confronting the Roma, particularly Roma women and children, are the legacy of a long-running clash between two differing principles of civilisation.
The outcome of this lack of understanding is the distorted image of Roma life presented in the media, exclusion from education and employment and the many problems of the Roma population.
I have had experience of this in the Czech Republic too, and this fills me with optimism for the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, a researcher told me that if all the gypsies were brought together in one state, it would have about the same sized population as Germany, in other words they would have over 90 MEPs.
We need to give them a place, a place in education, especially for women, because if the women are educated, they will educate their children.
Hunger, disease and a lack of work and housing have pushed this community into extreme poverty, which I have witnessed in Ukraine, in Romania and in other EU countries where the Roma community constitutes a sizeable ethnic group.
One place of hope was the orphanage in Liptovský Ján, where a group of Roma children were clothed, smiling and playing, rather than begging.
The resolution and the proposals it contains are sound, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, some ethnic groups, such as the Roma, have their own rules for marriage and procreation.
National legislations have an age limit for official marriage, but these are often ignored in minority groups such as the Mormons in the United States, or among the Roma.
I am also very pleased with the results of the vote within the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
Access to education still seems to present a problem for Mrs&#160;Járóka, but a majority of my colleagues in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality chose to support my proposals, for which I am grateful to them.
I hope that the same will be true in plenary and, more generally, that this excellent report will receive broad support, because it is initiatives such as this that will help to provide more information to the citizens of Europe and to improve the everyday life and integration of the Roma. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as we have heard, many Member States still discriminate systematically against Roma, and Romani women suffer this even more than Romani men.
As stated in the Járóka report, there are recent reported cases of sterilisation in two Member States.
In respect of the Roma, taking a firm stand for human rights has become particularly urgent following the accession of the ten new Member States, and 2007 will make this excellent report even more relevant.
And let us not forget that without an attitude that accepts, accommodates and respects other cultures, even the best-intended assistance offered by the majority society can have damaging effects. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank my colleague, Mrs Járóka, for her excellent own-initiative report.
At present, many Romani women are in effect denied their right to their own body and their own health – a sovereign right of any individual.
Most of these steps can be accomplished as part of the mainstreaming programmes in ensuring equality of opportunity and would thus not impose new burdensome regulatory effects on Member States.
Racial segregation and biased attitudes in a wider society are to blame, but responsibility must also lie with the Romani communities themselves.
Thinking back to the situation that prevailed in some places before enlargement, I do believe that some improvements have been made in this respect since then.
There are still more things left for us to do in order to end the vicious circle, and I agree with what was said in this debate to the effect that this is very much a matter in which the Roma themselves bear greater responsibility for doing something for their own women.
The European Social Fund is an essential tool in this respect, and we will make use of it. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the adoption of the report drafted by Mrs&#160;Járóka, addressing the situation of Roma women living in Europe.
Although the report paints a very dark picture of the situation of Roma women and of the Roma in general – of their multiple social disadvantages, poverty, defencelessness, and the discrimination they are faced with, especially in the new Member States and candidate states – every word of the report is true.
Based on the values and policy of the EU, European Union legislators have already created several laws against racial discrimination and in support of equal rights for women.
We need resources that are actually able to change the situation of the Roma and of Roma women.
Well, now in 2006 everything still remains to be done, and in my report I wanted to shed light on three aspects of this.
The third aspect is even more sensitive, because women are not only vehicles of peace, but also – alas – vehicles of war; the American servicewoman in the Abu Ghraib prison is a terrible example of that.
We must analyse it in Parliament, we must undertake a study, and we must hold a conference, but we already know that there are three intermingled factors.
The second aspect is resistance, in situations of conflict that violate international law every day: a resistance which we must understand, whilst still rejecting it and condemning the fact that it kills innocent victims.
That is where we will find female suicide bombers – among women who are already the victims of society.
In all of our financial instruments, in all of our programmes – the stability instrument, the neighbourhood policy – and through our action plans, we must implement measures in which the issue of gender and the dignity of women is taken into account.
We must also train our peace-keeping forces, now that we have them, to ensure that they, too, respect the rights of women, that they are sensitive and that they also include women in their midst.
We have a lot on our plate, and I am grateful to all my colleagues in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality for the way they have risen above ideological debates to say 'we agree with this report'.
For my part, I will respect everything adopted in the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality and I should also like to thank the chairman of that committee, Mrs&#160;Záborská, who is not here today but who sent me a brief note this morning.
Indeed, we also see the three trends that are there, and I agree with you that all the legal instruments are already there, but very often what is necessary is much better implementation.
We are fully committed to implementing UN Security Council Resolution&#160;1325 of October 2000, on women, peace and security, where indeed all these issues mentioned.
For instance, in Palestine and Israel we see that women are coming together and they are those in the society that would like to go forward with peacemaking.
We have also training programmes that can perhaps be enhanced in the future, where more than 800 Commission officials and other staff are involved in channelling the implementation of those programmes.
When I say that supporting civil society organisations plays a key role, I think this is very true for instance for women in Bosnia and Kosovo, but also for training women in conflict resolution in Rwanda or Burundi and strengthening women’s active participation in peace processes around the world, such as for instance in Georgia and Colombia.
In total EUR&#160;9.7 million are available for this campaign from the 2005 budget and this year’s budget.
Then we have to see how we can implement that. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs&#160;De&#160;Keyser for her report, which contains much that is important and that I can unreservedly endorse, particularly the demands she makes in the field of reproductive health.
Women suicide bombers are a relatively new phenomenon and one that calls for expert analysis and special aid programmes.
The report drafted by Mrs&#160;De&#160;Keyser on the role of women in armed conflicts goes beyond the prevailing public opinion stereotypes.
It is a fact that in armed conflicts, the majority of women are passive sufferers and often victims.
Once more, I thank the rapporteur for this extremely good report. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, actions speak louder than words, and I want to thank Mrs&#160;De&#160;Keyser most warmly for her very compact report, which considers every angle, not least the imbalance of power between women and men as the cause of many conflicts.
For social democrats such as ourselves, then, it is for this reason that the participation of women, through gender mainstreaming, in all missions, as described in UN Resolution 1325, is so enormously important.
We want them to have an equal say in all areas of diplomatic policy even before conflicts set in.
It is an unfortunate fact, Commissioner, that only three EU missions around the world are headed up by women.
Our group is continuing to work on this issue, and we will be using the Gomes report to pursue at greater depth in the diplomatic field, an issue that is of enormous importance for us as a group.
In fact, this report – on which I congratulate the rapporteur, and I would also like to congratulate her on the sensitivity she has shown in accepting many of our amendments – goes even further than what is laid down in United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325 and the Bulletin of the Secretary-General of the United Nations on special measures for protection from exploitation and sexual violence.
However, paragraphs 14 to 20 indicate a risk of further militarisation.
Furthermore, the role of women is especially justified because women, who protect life with their maternal instinct, are particularly predisposed to caring and to preventing conflict through their characteristics of kindness, selflessness, empathy and compassion with other people and their willingness to help them. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I too am going to speak about this extremely sensitive issue, which has been addressed very intelligently and very thoroughly by Mrs&#160;De&#160;Keyser.
I too will focus on three fundamental points that were highlighted in the report and which I would like to emphasise here.
The first point concerns the age-old evil of sexual violence at times of war.
I think that the presence of women in this area is what our world can offer in terms of modernity and democracy: a really new, contemporary contribution. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I too congratulate the rapporteur on producing a really good report.
I shall just deal with two points.
This has happened because women are considered the bearers of cultural identity and, since sexual violence carries both a symbolic and a political message, it has been turned into a strategy of war.
Sexual violence, rape and prostitution associated with the armed forces are indicators that warn of possible conflicts, as is a reduction in the participation of women in civil society and in political parties, as was seen in the case of Afghanistan.
Let us stop this silly nonsense from people with no experience of the armed forces at all! &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I congratulate Mrs&#160;De Keyser in all sincerity on the commitment she has shown in the own-initiative report presented to Parliament.
She has undertaken a methodical analysis both of the situation of women in armed conflicts and of their role in peace processes.
The courage shown by many women in the face of adversity gives the lie to the cliché that depicts women as the most vulnerable members of society in situations of armed conflict.
Whilst some of these risks are common to the whole of their community, it is true that others are specifically related to the fact that they are women.
It is important that we secure adequate resources for projects in which women can play an active role in resolving conflicts.
It is important that we bring about greater cooperation with local women’s organisations and that we insist on the need to integrate the gender aspect into peace research, conflict prevention and conflict resolution.
I would like to stress, however, that the decisions leading to such a situation were probably not taken by women, because there are practically no women in the places where decisions are taken on security policy or at negotiation tables.
It is a main focus of our approach and of the action plans in the Neighbourhood Policy.
We are in the process of doing so, not only as part of the Neighbourhood Policy, but also, for example, in Latin America – as was discussed at the summit – and, in general, in the context of mainstreaming.
The minutes of yesterday’s sitting contain a statement by the Chairman of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, Mr&#160;Schulz, who said he was also speaking on behalf of the Chairmen of the other groups, Mr&#160;Wurtz, Mr&#160;Frassoni, Mr&#160;Watson and Mr&#160;Poettering.
Mr&#160;Schulz and his colleagues have been misinformed.
Item 9 is meant to be the vote on the Hughes report.
What it says exactly is: ‘The Commission shall ensure complementarity with the work of the United Nations High-Level Group for the Alliance of Civilisations and any other initiative for cooperation with third continues, in particular developing countries, which is relevant to the intercultural dialogue objectives of this European Year’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, under Rule 132 in connection with Rule 170 I rise to propose, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, that the votes on the Guantánamo motions be postponed for two weeks until the next part-session in Strasbourg.
If that is your message, Mr&#160;Brie, then I could recommend a ‘yes’.
I would, however, propose that we ignore the vote on Part&#160;1, which is identical with 2, 3 and 4, apart from the difference that split votes have been proposed for 2, 3 and 4 and that Part&#160;1 proposes that 2, 3 and 4 be voted on together.
The proposal for a split vote on Parts 2, 3 and 4 refers only to the amendments to the English version and not to the versions in other languages.
I would like to add ‘and biodiesel’ after the word ‘bioethanol’ in Amendment 15. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I shall read the text of my amendment: ‘Points out that the Commission shall publish its findings on countries that are considered not to be ready yet to join the euro area each time an evaluation is carried out, and present this to the European Parliament in order to ensure a high level of transparency and accountability in the decision-making process at EU level.’ &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs decided, by a very large majority, that we should not, by means of this report, pass judgment on individual countries, but only express a view on the conditions for membership of the euro zone.
I learned yesterday evening at five past eleven that the Social Democrats had abandoned this position, and would therefore recommend to the whole House that it vote a different way.
What I would like is for the plenary to vote in favour of Slovenia, that is, to say ‘yes’ to it, and do the same with Amendments 1 and 3 on Estonia, but firmly reject the Liberals’ Amendment&#160;2, which implies that the Commission and the European Central Bank have made gross errors in assessing the situation in Lithuania and that the Commission should therefore submit a revised version of its convergence report.
Although almost everyone in this Chamber is in favour of the speedy enlargement of the euro zone, if this House wants to maintain its own credibility, if we want to be taken seriously, then we cannot express ourselves contrary to the rules of the Treaty and the Maastricht criteria.
I therefore ask that we, in a roll-call vote, should vote against Amendment&#160;2 and in favour of Amendments 1 and 3. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to clarify the content of Amendment&#160;2.
We in our group have always said that we support the Commission in dealing with the Treaty and the protocols to the Treaty.
If that is the case, I would like to so request. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, if I understand the rapporteur rightly, he would like us, by reason of the unsatisfactory state of our proceedings, for which we all share responsibility, to adjourn the vote to the next part-session and call it a day for now.
I support the content of this report, however I do not feel that Amendment 21 proposed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which calls on the European Commission to identify measures to coordinate Member States' fiscal policy and taxation, has any place in a report which purports to encourage innovation and competitiveness; on the contrary it is only by fostering a greater sense of competitiveness between SMEs and other businesses across the EU in terms of their differing fiscal obligations and other variable market conditions that a truly competitive and innovative market will become a reality for all European businesses. &#160;&#160; .Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) are at the economic heart of our countries, the real creators of jobs and of wealth.
The rules for participation in these programmes must be really simple and transparent, and must not give rise to the prohibitive costs of compiling reports for SMEs.
Consistency and complementarity with other European programmes and, in particular, with the Seventh Framework Programme for research and development, must be guaranteed.
The demand for better Community regulation that is simpler and more in accordance with the subsidiarity principle must cease to be, as it has been for the last 20 years, the slogan repeated over and over again but never applied.
In developing countries in which there are no large companies, it is of course more important to ensure that there is an institutional framework that makes it possible for small and medium-sized enterprises to operate.
Agriculture, craft industry, and industry must continue to hold their own, while at the same time employment in the tertiary sector must grow within a healthy community framework, making possible a virtuous economic and social circle.
Yes, we want to and must support Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SME) in developing countries but as long as ‘cooperation’ goes with ‘corruption’, it will be impossible to help these countries to take responsibility for the welfare of their people.
The EU should not have control over working time regulations, parental leave and other significant national issues.
These are matters that the Member States are better dealing with independently and in accordance with international agreements already adopted. &#160;&#160; .When we know that in comparable employment a woman earns 11% less than a man, there can be no doubt that we have still to increase awareness of the effort that each of us needs to make in order not to establish parity and egalitarianism between men and women by force, which would be ridiculous, but to reach a state of justice and social balance.
Advances in this area will not be achieved by means of a frenzy of feminism or by means of coercive measures which seek to forcibly impose the presence of women, whether it be in representative bodies or in management, far too often, as we very well know, without regard for their competence or quality.
I voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in implementing the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation.
The act of bringing together in one sole document the various initiatives on equal treatment will serve to simplify the existing legal framework.
I regret, however, that in spite of the fact that equal treatment is enshrined in the EU Treaty and in various directives, it remains an unfulfilled dream, no more than a vague political principle with a level of implementation that leaves a great deal to be desired. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I voted in favour of the report on the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue and I am happy with its contents.
However, one aspect of intercultural dialogue should be underlined: in many cases we refer to ourselves as ‘Europe’ and ‘Europeans’, forgetting the fact that a huge part of eastern Europe, including the largest European nation – Russia – is not a Member State of the European Union.
Inviting young artists, students and journalists and encouraging cultural exchange between Member States and the eastern European nations will strengthen our common European identity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the same way as most of you, I too have been deeply shocked by the number of racially motivated murders that have taken place in some European countries recently.
I consider 2008 to be the right time for this, in view of the fact that by then the European Union will have increased to 27 Member States.
For these reasons I regard the report we have just adopted as a step in the right direction. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my group colleague Mr&#160;Dillen will shortly be drawing your attention to a German study in the which shows a lack of willingness to adapt among many immigrants, a trend that is also reflected in many other polls; according to an Austrian study, for example, no fewer than 45% of Muslims are hostile towards the idea of integration.
With the past European capitulation to intimidation following the publication of the Danish cartoons still fresh in people’s minds, I hold out little hope, particularly if I remind myself of the opinion poll that was carried out in the United Kingdom for the , which shows that 40% of Muslims in Great Britain are in favour of introducing law &#160;&#160; Mr President, my colleagues and I have voted against this Hennicot-Schoepges report, because the so-called European Year of Intercultural Dialogue, an initiative that, by the way, is going to set us back EUR 10&#160;million, is yet another example of how official Europe is blind to the reality actually experienced by the public.
This reality is that Europe accommodates an ever growing number of Muslims who not only refuse to adapt to common European values, but who also want to impose their own world view and their way of life on us.
Germans have had enough of honour killings, large-scale violence in schools and burkas on the streets.
What such initiatives can perhaps do, however, is in some way to crystallise the objectives towards which our institutions’ efforts are directed.
A ‘no’ vote would mean more money for the EU’s institutions and for PR campaigns. &#160;&#160; The June List believes that the whole idea of a European Year of this or that is unnecessary and not something that EU taxpayers should fund.
This initiative on its own disqualifies your proposal. &#160;&#160; I am voting in favour of the report because its main purpose – that of combating discrimination - is very positive and necessary.
It will accordingly be possible to stop a person who has been convicted of paedophilia in one Member State, and has been banned from any activity involving contact with children, from sidestepping that ban by moving to another Member State.
A disqualification of this nature handed down in one Member State will have a legal effect in the other Member States, thereby broadening the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of disqualifications and prohibitions. &#160;&#160; . – I strongly support the initiative of the Kingdom of Belgium as an indispensable factor for effective cooperation between Member States with regard to the protection of children from sexual abuse.
Let us consider – and Belgium fully realised the gravity of the matter at the time of the horrifying revelation of the Fourniret affair – at the moment, when a person is convicted in one Member State for paedophile acts and is subject, in that State, to a prohibition on pursuing activities likely to bring that person into contact with children, he needs only to move to another State in order to evade this prohibition!
Europe's policy should serve as an example to the US and others as to how to proceed in future.
I did not support the inclusion of paragraph 9 in the resolution, however.
Yet the values and principles on which our civilisation is built must not under any circumstances be undermined.
The idea that the United States engendered an internal split in Europe is false.
Nevertheless, we all condemn the inappropriate and excessive use of the death penalty in countries such as China and Iran.
Furthermore, we do not believe that an immediate closure of Guantanamo Bay is desirable or feasible while the war on terrorism remains a priority for both the United States and the European Union.
I respect, although I do not share this opinion, but I would like to see a similar degree of demands and indignation when this Parliament debates Europe’s relations with countries where concentration and forced labour camps are still in existence.
The transatlantic free trade area, therefore, is a common market from Warsaw to San Francisco, from Helsinki to Patagonia and from Malta to the Canadian Great North.
The EU and the United States of America play a unique role in world trade.
There are therefore three aspects that I consider to be fundamental in any debate on the matter.
The first of these is loyalty.
The second is international-level cooperation.
This goes against a principle that, as a Socialist, I feel duty bound to defend: a social Europe based on principles of solidarity! &#160;&#160; Mr President, I eventually voted in favour of the Langen report, but only because we have also accepted the verbal amendment of Mrs&#160;Starkevičiūtė.
I would like to say that my reason for this is that even the manner in which Parliament is handling this issue, without a serious debate, is absolutely revolting.
This is unacceptable, especially when the Commission has done so on the basis of dubious inflation-related and other criteria, and it calls to account a country that has made many sacrifices, for criteria that are continuously breached by four or five Member States.
I believe that this whole procedure damages not only the credibility of the European Parliament, but also that of the European Union and of the euro zone in the states that joined in 2004 or will join in the future.
Therefore, both the Commission and that part of Parliament that did not wish to conduct a longer debate on the unilateral decision of the Commission, have a very serious responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Commission’s decision to leave Lithuania out of the eurozone and the related opportunities for rapid integration with those better advanced was based on a formal notification concerning a breach by Lithuania’s economy of the inflation rate limit, indeed with a minimal and disputed drop margin.
The Government in Vilnius fell yesterday, burdened as it was by greater mistakes and failures than a lack of special concern and cautiousness over keeping the inflation programme on a positive margin, avoiding the risk of getting negative zero-comma-commas.
The position of the EU appeared rather shameful: instead of standing by its Member State, the EU instead appeased Russia, leaving Estonia to cope alone with Big Brother again.
In the case of the eurozone, the European Parliament adopted some positive opinions in amendments critical of the Commission and therefore I changed my mind and voted in favour of Mr Langen’s report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the single European currency may well be helpful as a means of fostering a common European identity, and so one ought, no doubt, to welcome the admission of the Republic of Slovenia to the euro zone.
As there have already been problems with Turkish coins, I believe that we should, where the design of euro coins is concerned, be more rigorous in imposing our own conditions.
The issue is thus settled for the foreseeable future as far as Sweden is concerned.
The European Union must make sure that the criteria used in order for a country to join the euro zone are the same for all, and that the assessment of the criteria is transparent.
Entry in the euro zone should be based on the Maastricht criteria, and should have no other implications.
We need to ensure that the decisions we take here regarding certain countries do not contribute to strengthening those eurosceptics who are using the decisions of the European Union as a means to undermine its achievements. &#160;&#160; In the vote on the euro, I abstained from voting on whether, following its referendum, Sweden should be regarded as qualifying for a derogation.
The motion also goes too far, since it is based on the absurd idea that, through referendums, individual countries will be able to opt out of parts of the common treaties.
The 10 new Member States are already eager to join, as they voted for in the separate and unanimously positive referenda before accession.
The Langen report attempts to find a balance between dogmatic adherence to the Maastricht criteria and the Stability Pact, praise for the euro and considerations of good sense about the state of preparedness of the countries or even the euro zone’s capacity to cope with an enlargement which will increase its heterogeneity and, consequently, its difficulties.
Informing them about the practicalities of the transition to the euro in their country is not what we should concentrate on, but rather on consulting them again, by means of a referendum, about the loss of their currency. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of Amendment&#160;9 because I believe that Sweden should demand a derogation following Sweden’s referendum on the euro in 2003.
Although the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs decided not to focus on recommendations regarding the level of preparation of specific countries in its report, the truth is that the main issue in this vote was the negative verdict on Lithuania, which meets all the convergence criteria, except for the inflation criteria.
In the last 12 months, the inflation rate in Lithuania has been slightly above the threshold value.
This has led me to vote for Amendment&#160;2, which calls for a clear and exhaustive explanation regarding the calculation of the inflation criteria and calls on the Commission to update its report on Lithuania with a view to enabling it to join the euro zone at the earliest opportunity. &#160;&#160; I am abstaining in the votes on the technical ways in which countries are to implement the changeover to the euro.
Nor do we think that the construction of a Europe House in Brussels or the European Parliament’s purchase of buildings in Strasbourg are justified. &#160;&#160; This report might have contained much more of general interest regarding the European Parliament’s budget.
I am, however, voting against the report because I do not want the money concerned to be wasted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a shadow rapporteur I would like to say that the original premise of Mr Markov’s report was that trade has caused poverty.
Despite the reservations of members of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, as shadow rapporteur I have proposed that the report should be approved, for if used responsibly and sensibly by the players in this field, it can help to level out the differences in living standards, and raise standards in the poorest societies. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am happy to concur with the previous speaker, who has already made some very valid points about the Markov report.
I should like to add that I too happen to take the view that the plea for the large-scale debt cancellation of developing world countries will bear little fruit, will offer little in the way of a solution and could even have the opposite effect, because the already restricted control on those developing countries, on the management of those developing countries by organisations such as the IMF and other international institutions would then become much more difficult, if not impossible.
I know that I risk setting myself up for finger wagging by the likes of Louis Michel, Bob Geldof and Bono, but I maintain – and that is the honest truth – that the huge tragedy in many developing countries, particularly in black Africa, is that they are being plundered and robbed by their own leaders; I think that that is the first conclusion we have to draw before we can start giving poor people real aid. &#160;&#160; .
The salient issues of the report focus on the fact that whilst there has been a general rise of GDP per capita on a global scale, there has also been an increase in the number of people living beneath the poverty line.
The report therefore considers that a radical change of policy is needed both in developed and developing countries in order to alleviate the problems behind this perpetual increase in poverty.
Poorer countries are clearly not always prepared to protect themselves against any adverse effects or to take advantage of any opportunities that may arise.
Lastly, our role should continue to be that of promoting support for development and democracy in developing countries with a view to delivering decent working conditions and opportunities for growth for the people of those countries. &#160;&#160; Globalisation offers a number of opportunities, especially for reducing poverty.
What is more, environmental legislation at international level, as well as in many poor countries, leaves a lot to be desired, leading to a rapid increase in waste products, as well as in over-exploitation and in the unsustainable use of a variety of natural resources such as forests and fish, and all these developments are intensified through swiftly growing trade.
However, we have decided to vote in favour&#160;of the report&#160;as it contains positive proposals relating to energy efficiency, conservation and access to energy by disadvantaged members of society. &#160;&#160; The report concerns the situation of Roma women in the European Union and the complex, multiple discrimination to which these women are exposed in the EU Member States.
The June List champions Roma women having access to better protection of their reproductive and sexual health.
The Member States are very diverse in terms of culture and traditions.
We therefore believe that, in working to achieve the goal of equal opportunities for women and men, it is possible to have a more flexible and pluralistic approach at national level.
However, we have abstained on this report today as we do not support the proliferation of new EU agencies and institutes (as outlined in paragraph 1) that will add to the burden of the taxpayer and increase bureaucracy without any proven benefit to the people they are supposed to serve. &#160;&#160; We have abstained from voting on the report on the situation of women in armed conflicts.
Efforts to prevent conflicts and to put a stop to terrorism must be aimed precisely at doing just that, and the best methods for achieving those aims need to be used.
The report also states that, in spite of all the resolutions laid down by all the European and international institutions, women do not take part in areas such as conflict prevention and resolution, and peace keeping operations.
We support measures outlined in this report including prosecuting those responsible for genocide and war crimes and other crimes mentioned in this report.
The core elements of Mrs De Keyser’s report, which really do have to do with women in armed conflicts, are generally good in themselves, but the rapporteur has proved unable to draw a line between the actual subject of the report and general positions on the EU’s military policy.
I regret that the rapporteur emphasises the suffering of women in conflict situations in order to impose and export her notion of ‘sexual and reproductive health’, including the promotion of abortion, which is certainly not accepted by all Member States.
