Democracy, Human Rights and the new Partnership and Cooperation Agreement EU/Vietnam (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Council by Marco Cappato, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on Democracy, human rights and the new EU-Vietnam Partnership and Cooperation Agreement - B6-0473/2008), and the oral question to the Commission by Marco Pannella, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on Democracy, human rights and the new EU-Vietnam Partnership and Cooperation Agreement - B6-0474/2008).
author. - (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, representatives of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, negotiations are taking place on the new cooperation agreement with Vietnam and I believe it is important for Parliament to be informed about the substance of the negotiations, particularly with regard to respect for human rights and democracy.
I hope that in the resolution that will be adopted tomorrow this Parliament can put to the Commission and the Council some especially serious points, which were also brought up at the hearing held by Parliament's Subcommittee on Human Rights, with figures such as Kok Ksor, Vo Van Ai and members of the non-violent radical party, among others.
Mr Cappato, you mentioned the situation of Christians in Central Vietnam, a matter to which we are particularly attentive, and I thank you for having mentioned it.
I would like to point out that the European Union is the only power to pursue such a global and purposeful policy on this matter, and this at times makes us a target for criticism by our partner.
A new session of talks is currently under way in Hanoi, and will continue until 22 October.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, and, of course, ladies and gentlemen of this House, Mr Cappato, the Commission is very pleased with the attention paid by Parliament to the negotiation of a Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with Vietnam, as well as to the human rights situation in that country.
I can tell you that the human rights situation is an absolutely crucial concern of the European Union in its relations with Vietnam.
Indeed, the current draft agreement, as our President said, includes a vital, suspensive clause on human rights; consolidates the regular EU-Vietnam dialogue on human rights by conferring a legal status on it; and makes provision to help Vietnam equip itself with a national action plan on human rights.
This agreement is thus a legal instrument and a lever for political action that I believe we need in order to increase our involvement in the areas of human rights and democratisation.
The political repression and human rights violations in China tend to distract us from what is going on in neighbouring Vietnam, where things are every bit as brutal.
We must not, for the sake of trade or other short-term gain, sanitise the outrageous human rights record of Hanoi. (DE) Mr President, Vietnam is a country that is becoming increasingly open to the European Union, but it has one serious stumbling block, and that is human rights and the fundamental freedoms.
We can never accept that when a journalist uncovers evidence of embezzlement of USD 750 000 within the Transport Ministry, in part used to wage bets on English Premiership football matches, that journalist should find himself in jail.
The current evidence presents a clear breach of Articles 2 and 18.
The government in Hanoi unilaterally controls the Catholic Church's assets, in contravention of prior undertakings.
The Archbishop of Hanoi, Quang Kiêt, is under house arrest and remains under surveillance, living in fear for his life.
The new agreement between the European Union and Vietnam must address the issue of religious freedom in that country.
There will be a human rights clause in the new agreement.
