It was the first time that European and Arab political leaders had expressed a united position on this crisis.
On 24 August, the Bureau of the EMPA met in Brussels; it had previously summoned all of the MEPs who are members of that Assembly.
The EMPA Bureau approved a statement that called for European participation in the intervention force and decided to send a delegation to Lebanon, Israel and the Palestinian Territories.
Finally, on 25 August, as you know, the governments of the Union’s Member States decided to respond to our appeals for action and also to the appeals to them from the United Nations to send a significant contingent of troops from European countries to operate on the ground.
I have been in constant contact with Commissioner Frattini, whom I would like to thank for the decisions he has taken and for the impetus he has given to cooperation amongst the countries of Europe in resolving certain cases of illegal immigration that are particularly dramatic from a humanitarian point of view.
I would like to draw Parliament’s attention, the attention of all of us, to the fact that we are not dealing with an emergency of an exceptional nature which only arises from time to time: we are dealing with a structural problem that is going to become more serious every summer because the income and demographic differences between Europe and Africa will increase this immigration, and Europe must respond by implementing a policy of development in Africa and cooperation amongst the European countries, to this end implementing a common immigration policy.
We have also been reminded of this by the fatal attacks in Turkey, in which European citizens have lost their lives.
The following amendments have been proposed: I have received a request from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to replace the item on Zimbabwe with an item on Transnistria. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the situation in Zimbabwe is, of course, a dreadful, tragic and disastrous one, but, since there have – unfortunately – been no new developments on this front, it would be perfectly possible to replace this item in this part-session by the item on Transnistria, where, on 7&#160;September, there is to be a referendum, with the possibility of the situation there being made considerably worse.
Those Members who argue that this is not solely a human rights issue may well be right, but the situation in Transnistria does have to do with the human rights of those who live there, and do so under dire conditions.
This will also show that we have set a precedent in our House, in the sense that we do not follow behind events, but are confident in our position and demonstrate that in a precautionary manner. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would not deny that Transnistria is a very important issue, but it merits a debate in this House on Tuesday or Wednesday.
It should be a full debate within this House, because this is a key issue connected with the European Neighbourhood Policy.
Regrettably, on Thursday afternoon, half the Members will not be here to debate this serious issue.
We shall clear it up by means of a vote. &#160;&#160; The next item is one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the fortnightly retrial in Libya of the five Bulgarian nurses and the Palestinian doctor – ongoing since 13&#160;June – resumes again tomorrow.
In particular I should like to thank the President for his intervention in this case with the Libyan authorities at the beginning of July.
I am appalled that the Libyan prosecution has again called for the death penalty during the most recent court hearing on 29 August.
Three months have passed already, and this has been going on since 1999.
I should like to call upon the Commission and the Council – and again upon you, Mr President – to redouble diplomatic efforts with the Libyan authorities in order to bring this matter to a speedy and just conclusion, with the immediate release of the Bulgarian nurses and the Palestinian doctor. &#160;&#160; We shall do so again.
I have already invited the European Parliament, and I am doing so again, to more actively promote the democratic process in the post-soviet countries and clearly express its opinion on the anti-western propaganda in the EU’s eastern neighbours. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, with all the nuclear power stations we have in Europe, we are all in greater danger than we think – in Denmark, too, which has in fact declined to adopt nuclear power.
Take the Swedish nuclear power station, Forsmark.
He calls the situation the most dangerous since Chernobyl.
In general, details of the safety of nuclear power stations and of the requirements imposed on them by the authorities are not available to the public.
We must ensure that we put a stop to this development as quickly as possible. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, 12&#160;September will see the eighth anniversary of the unjust detention in the United States of America of Antonio Guerrero, Fernando González, Gerardo Hernandez, Ramón Labañino and René González, Cuban patriots whose sole motive was to protect their country from falling victim to terrorist attacks promoted and carried out by Miami-based organisations.
It should be noted that, in the opinion of the United Nations Working Group looking into the case of these five Cuban citizens held in the United States of America, their trial did not take place under objective and impartial conditions, the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta deciding unanimously to annul the verdict handed down in Miami.
Mr President, justice must be done by putting an end to this cruel and inhuman situation.
These five Cuban patriots must be released and their convictions overturned. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Union for Europe of the Nations Group requested an oral question in the debate on forced labour camps on Italian soil whose inmates included Polish nationals.
The European Parliament should call for Member States to address the issue of foreign workers.
We are a country of 10&#160;million inhabitants, 2.5&#160;million of whom are illegal immigrants: one in four inhabitants in Greece is a foreigner.
It is an unbelievable figure.
If we act now, we can act in time. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in mid-July, Belarus, the State located right at the very centre of our continent, pronounced a verdict on Alexander Kozulin, a leader of Belarusian Social Democratic Party who dared to challenge Alexander Lukashenko in the presidential election.
He was sentenced to five and a half years of imprisonment.
The country chairing the European Union has announced a declaration not only on behalf of 25 Member States, but of 12 other European states as well, calling for the immediate release of Alexander Kozulin and other political prisoners.
I think that the President of Parliament and the political groups should express their opinions, if possible.
Ján Slota asserted his anti-Hungarian and anti-Roma views with impunity during the election campaign in Slovakia this spring more and more vociferously, a fact which we have drawn attention to on a number of occasions.
According to estimates, there are currently 800&#160;000 Roma living in Slovakia under very difficult social and economic circumstances.
The most important task facing the country and the government is to put an end to the Roma’s exclusion.
However, these typical utterances from Ján Slota cannot be allowed in a democracy under any circumstances. &#160;&#160; Mr President, over the past few weeks our Slovakian friends have informed us of a number of aggressive acts and provocations targeted at people from the Hungarian and gypsy minorities.
If we want to stay loyal to the Union’s principles and to respect individual and collective human rights, we must act immediately before the atrocities lead to tragedy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to return for a moment to the matter of seasonal workers in Italy.
However, I would also like to strongly emphasise that the Italian police are collaborating with the Polish police.
This cooperation is unconditional, as the governments of these two countries are also working together.
Let us pay more attention to the issue of temporary work, especially seasonal labour, in our Community.
I would also, very briefly, like to ask for a positive response to the idea of providing public aid for the shipbuilding industry in Poland, which has undergone radical reforms.
We also face a massive humanitarian catastrophe, as the hard-line Sudanese junta absolutely refuses to accept the UN troops, as agreed by the Security Council last week in New York.
One such individual is Tomo Križnar, a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union, who travelled to Chad and later Sudan as the Special Envoy of the President of the Republic of Slovenia.
His intention was to help the Sudanese people and alleviate the humanitarian crisis in Darfur.
During his visit to Sudan, Tomo Križnar followed the refugees in Darfur and reported the situation in Sudan to the world.
On 19&#160;July of this year the Sudanese authorities detained Tomo Križnar on alleged charges of espionage and illegal entry to the country.
I should like to thank the European Union in particular for its help in securing his release.
Despite the fact that Tomo Križnar has been pardoned, I call on European politicians to continue to pay attention to Darfur, especially as regards of human rights violations and the severe humanitarian crisis in the region. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, over recent years we have witnessed a constant increase in the rate at which forests are destroyed by fires, especially in southern Europe.
In Greece, we have had serious fires: in Halkidiki, which is perhaps the most important and beautiful tourist spot in Greece, approximately 60&#160;000 decares were burnt.
We have a duty to protect the environment and man. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr&#160;Barroso, the President of the Commission, often speaks of a Europe of results, but he seems to be referring exclusively to economic policies.
I am thinking of a number of incidents in particular that took place this summer, when gay people wanted to go out on the streets and demonstrate for gay rights.
There have been other cases of homophobia, for example, involving the Minister for Education in Poland.
I would like to ask the Commission to make use of Article 7 of the EU Treaty, which makes it possible to start an investigation into such incidents – I am not even talking about sanctions – but I would like there to be an investigation to see if these ministers can be held responsible for violations of fundamental rights. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a representative of the Slovak Republic I would like to take this opportunity to condemn and apologise for the attacks committed recently against persons belonging to national minorities.
If we are afraid of saying that neither Iran nor other states refusing to recognise Israel must be in these forces, our behaviour is immature.
The European Parliament must adopt a conceptual resolution. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, according to articles in the Greek press, the six biggest Greek banks, which account for over 80% of the Greek banking market, reported net profits of EUR 1.6&#160;billion during the first six months of 2006.
As the European Union has rightly identified this sector as a target sector of its unification policy, I should like to point out – and this observation is directed at the European Central Bank – that specific and effective measures need to be taken to achieve greater convergence of retail interest rates in the eurozone. &#160;&#160; Several groups in the European Parliament, as well as the socialist party groups, expressed their concerns over the coalition formed in Slovakia in the summer that included one party leader who has been making hate speeches for years as an incitement against minorities.
It is unlikely that Martin Schulz, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, Hans-Gert Poettering or Elmar Brok spoke out last week in favour of stirring up the Hungarian coalition.
Prime Minister Robert Fico was slow to respond and did not distance himself appropriately from the xenophobic behaviour and anti-Hungarian attacks.
EU institutions should pay closer attention to current events in our Member States, and if necessary, should respond and act immediately in order to nip disorder and lawlessness in the bud. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wish to condemn the arrest of three journalists from three different channels in Cyprus by the occupying forces occupying 40% of the Republic of Cyprus.
We must act with decisiveness to put an end to the high-handedness of the occupying forces and the occupying regime and to effectively protect the mission, the work and the rights of journalists.
The implications of this are very traumatic, because incomes will fall despite the compensation that is on offer.
Finland was the first country in the world in which all women had the right both to vote and to be elected.
In Estonia, for instance, where women were granted full suffrage in 1918, still only one fifth of members of parliament are women, and women hold only every seventh ministerial position – that is, 14%.
This means that the European Union is not currently applying the necessary resources and we therefore believe that it should increase its efforts in order to put an end to this problem of illegal immigration, given its consequences both for the European Union itself and for the fate of the Africans in question. &#160;&#160; Mr President, recently the Turkish army occupying the northern part of Cyprus has increased its attacks on press freedom.
I call upon you as the President of this House to express to the Turkish Government your deep concern and strong condemnation of these arrests, which constitute a blatant attempt to severely curtail freedom of expression in an EU Member State. &#160;&#160; – As you rightly said at the start, the flow of immigrants towards European shores has persisted during this summer and hundreds of them have lost their lives without even getting there.
New technologies and distance learning help and the European index of language skills must not be limited to five languages; it must include all the official European languages. &#160;&#160; Mr President, during August we lost François Lamoureux at the age of 59 – far too soon.
Once adopted it will have a direct impact on about 15 million new passenger cars presented for registration in the EU each year and, to a certain extent, on more than 200 million used passenger cars circulating on the roads of the Community.
The proposal is designed to benefit the internal market, the citizens, the car industry and the environment.
The proposed Community measures are furthermore aimed at avoiding double payment of car-related taxes, when a car registered in a Member State is exported or permanently moved for registration to another Member State.
The proposal also promotes sustainability by implementing fiscal measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions from passenger cars, as it establishes a more direct relationship between taxation levels and carbon dioxide emissions.
It is important to mention that the application of the proposed measure is budget neutral: the gradual abolition of registration tax and its replacement by an annual circulation tax does not involve revenue losses for the national budgets, nor does it increase the total tax burden for citizens.
It does not introduce new car taxes, but instead provides for the gradual abolition of registration taxes in the 16&#160;Member States currently applying such taxes, as well as for their gradual replacement by an annual circulation tax.
The proposal has been discussed only once in the Council so far, and the reaction of the Member States has been mixed.
Strong support from the European Parliament can maintain the momentum and help the Council reach a unanimous decision.
Alongside this, technological innovation is of major importance in order to be able to achieve our climate objectives.
In that light, we welcome the Commission proposal to differentiate annual road tax depending on CO2 emission, according to which a proportion of annual road tax would be calculated on the basis of the quantity of CO2 emitted by the car per km.
I wish him good luck. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, what I actually wanted to do was to thank the rapporteur, but she is not here yet, so we will have to do that later.
That is difficult enough as a project, one that demands considerable efforts of some of the Member States, particularly of the new one, where the cars on the road are older than the average for the European Union.
With this in mind, we endorse the report and support you in your difficult task as Commissioner for tax. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I must start by emphasising that the Commission proposal on passenger car related taxes concerns a sector which does not come within its exclusive jurisdiction, given that its proposals relate mainly to the creation of a new system of taxes on the purchase and maintenance of cars.
As a matter of principle, it cannot be disputed, at least not by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, that taxation must gradually be combined with protection and improvement of the environment, as indicated in the Kyoto Protocol.
The Commission proposes gradual abolition over five years; the European Parliament proposes ten.
Secondly, the proposal to introduce a registration and annual circulation tax refund system for vehicles exported and transferred definitively to another Member State should be adopted.
I wish to congratulate the rapporteur in her absence on an excellent report, which, I believe, is a very significant contribution to the debate.
However, the thrust of this proposal would improve the functioning of the single market and, crucially, would greatly assist in our goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions, without compromising the ability of any country to levy its own taxes.
Ireland has one of the highest rates of VRT in Europe, with almost 10% of the total tax take coming from motorists.
Indeed, consumers in nine Member States, including Ireland, have been penalised by a measure which has reduced their purchasing choices.
Furthermore, I think it is an excellent idea that Member States be encouraged to apply fiscal incentives for passenger cars, in order to encourage the placing on the market of cars and vehicles that meet energy-saving and energy efficiency requirements.
From 2003 to 2004 alone, emissions in Europe increased so much that it was the equivalent of three million people driving their vehicles right around the world.
Abolition of registration tax in all countries will not make things better for the environment.
Studies in the Netherlands show that the most effective way of getting consumers to choose vehicles that produce fewer emissions is a differentiated registration tax based on carbon dioxide emissions, as is the system in Denmark, for example.
Various Member States, when determining car tax, already take greater account of the pollution they cause.
According to the draft directive, which aims to integrate the emission of cars gradually and partially in motorised vehicle tax, a quarter of tax should be based on the CO2 emission by the end of 2008 and half by 2010, but why stop there?
Instead, the Commission would like to gradually phase out registration tax on cars across the European Union and, in so doing, make the car cheaper in 16 Member States.
So far, taxes and the differences in them have been a matter of national autonomy and national considerations.
Car emissions have over the past ten years increased by 30%, despite the Kyoto Agreement and despite technical improvements.
The easiest way of solving this is by changing motorised vehicle tax into a levy on fuel according to the emissions.
Belt-tightening measures and privatisation in this sector, supported by the European Union, have so far had only the opposite effect. &#160;&#160; .
Can a small and medium-sized European Union Member State, however, really carry out its own tax policy with respect to passenger cars with a specific goal of environmental protection or energy efficiency?
I am therefore convinced that the reduction of CO2 emissions or other environmental goals in this field must be tackled at the European Union level, not at the level of individual Member States.
Finally, I would like to say that, in view of the widely differing views of the governments of EU Member States on these issues, I think that Parliament ought to take a very even-handed step, and make the wording of this draft directive likely to be accepted unanimously by the Council, to avoid its being rejected for its very nature. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the passenger car is universally used throughout the European Union.
The Council Directive on passenger car related tax is necessary for the single market and should be adopted as soon as possible. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I, too, would like to thank the rapporteur for drawing up this report.
Among those Member States that levy a registration tax, there are massive differences not only as regards the amount of the tax but also the basis on which it is calculated.
Every gram of CO2 discharged into the atmosphere has the same effect on climate and should therefore be subject to the same amount of tax.
As everyone knows, the European Parliament is only consulted on taxation matters and the final decision rests with the Council, which has to come to a unanimous conclusion.
Our hope is that the national governments will support this proposal.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs voted in favour of the proposal by a considerable majority because it aims at gradually abolishing vehicle registration tax and identifying common European standards for national circulation taxes to be linked to pollutant emissions.
Each Member State currently has its own taxation system, in which the two taxes are often combined at very different rates.
Lastly, it is a step forwards on the road towards the social and environmental sustainability of development, since it aims at fighting pollution and protecting the environment in order to guarantee a future for the generations to come. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many Finns have been amazed that Finland can maintain a road tax that has made it almost impossible for people to buy cars abroad and has forced them to pay much higher prices than others.
Finland’s stock of cars is therefore one of the oldest in Europe, meaning old-fashioned safety solutions and less environmentally friendly cars.
A uniform road tax would also mean a more efficient common market and more efficient competition.
We hope to see a better proposal. &#160;&#160; Madam President, according to a Dutch newspaper this summer, car purchasing tax is being evaded on a massive scale in the Netherlands.
Evasion is, after all, very lucrative, because the tax is high and the chances of being caught are minimal.
The Commission proposal is therefore in contravention of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
I should like to emphasise that this proposal does not entail introducing a European tax policy or the European Union encroaching on the sovereignty of the Member States when it comes to taking decisions about taxes.
What we are taking a decision about in this case is the structure and system of taxation with a view to facilitating the internal market.
It is, however, also important that, through this approach to car taxation, we give the European car industry an opportunity to develop more quickly in terms of its response to environmental considerations.
In order to meet European Union environmental protection aims and the Kyoto protocol, CO2 emissions should be significantly reduced in order to achieve the Community target of 120&#160;grams of CO2 per kilometre.
Initiatives in individual Member States in this field are currently not very well coordinated and vary significantly.
A tax system where the vehicle registration tax depends on CO2 emissions is a step in the right direction.
We have already had a debate on this report and very much agree with the Commission’s proposal.
It is constructive because it takes account of the environment.
As is well known, the proposal is about abolishing registration taxes on passenger cars and instead introducing a new system involving an annual tax based on the car’s emissions of pollutants.
In my report I therefore recommend that the tax be based on all pollutants and particles detrimental to air quality.
It is important to send a signal to the car industry to the effect that tax on cars depends on the level of pollution they cause.
Hopefully, the proposal will therefore create an incentive for the car industry to produce cars that consume less petrol and cause less pollution.
There is a risk of double taxation, and car owners often have to pay proportionately much more on their used cars when they transport them from one Member State to another.
I would therefore also call on the Council to vote in favour of this proposal, even though I know that it is on a sticky wicket in, for example, my own country and the United Kingdom.
It is important for the whole market, the industry, car owners and systems generally to be able to get themselves organised, and I therefore consider that a ten-year period is necessary for countries to be able to change their systems without incurring anything other than necessary costs.
I also of course agree that we must protect veteran cars, and I therefore have nothing against veteran cars being exempt from the proposal.
You will see that almost 70% of the cars in Europe are between 140 and 200 g/km, and only 25% are below 140 g/km.
So, we have a contradiction in our text, and if we want to be effective we have to remedy this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, they do not give up, do they?
Despite the Commission’s insistence that this proposal is not aimed at tax harmonisation, it will force countries that apply tax on registration of vehicles to phase that out and it will make all countries apply the same level of emissions-linking to the so-called ‘annual circulation tax’.
Moreover, competition over tax rates and tax bases between national authorities is actually a good thing for business and economic growth – witness the general reductions in company tax over the past few years.
I sincerely hope, though, that this particular piece of legislation may be stopped. &#160;&#160; I would like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Riis-Jørgensen for her excellent report, but at this point, I also need to express my appreciation to the Commission and to Mr&#160;Kovács personally for the proposal he has drawn up.
At the same time, I also support the idea for us to put an end to this situation in a budget-neutral manner by introducing an operating charge.
I do believe that Mr&#160;Kovács may also be familiar with fiscal pressure; after all, he had to vote for the registration tax in Hungary a couple of years ago.
There are two other things I would like to mention.
In very many cases, having a car only a couple of years old is already a step towards renewing the car fleet, especially in the new Member States with old cars, where people are unable to trade in their old cars for new ones due to social or financial reasons.
The first is that it is reasonable, from the point of view of environmental policy, for all emissions to be included in the tax base for any taxation of private motor vehicles.
The second is that the planned demise of vehicle registration tax is also to be welcomed, not only from the consumers’ point of view but also in terms of environmental policy.
This results in needless movement of vehicles and in higher purchase prices for them.
However, the level of passenger car emissions is a function of the amount of fuel used, that is, the distance driven, the quality of the petrol, and, essentially, also of time.
The proposed tax solution has two aims: to remove the currently compulsory registration tax and replace it with a new tax levied when the vehicle is purchased or annually.
The programme that we would be prepared to support reads as follows: we should gradually set stricter emissions standards for new passenger cars, introduce more stringent standards for fuel quality and abolish taxes on the purchase of cars.
Only these solutions will benefit consumers, producers, environmentalists and the whole economy in the long term. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank Mrs&#160;Riis-Jørgensen for this excellent report, which you presented here despite the travel problems you had.
The present situation, in which the car is one of the most difficult objects to move inside the Union, is intolerable.
For example, in Finland, a country where distances are long and the population is sparse, a passenger car is not exactly a luxury, but a necessity for working people and their families.
If cars in Europe are to be redesigned and if there are to be more environmentally friendly cars on the road, it is appropriate to reduce car purchase tax, abolish registration tax, and compensate for that with moderate rises in circulation tax which acknowledge regional balance and on the basis of fuel consumption and polluting emissions.
There is an unparalleled number of old cars on the roads in Finland, which in other countries would have ended up on the scrapheap by now.
Car taxation should also move towards a system of tax concessions for equipment that increases safety on the roads.
Obviously, it is not worth talking about car tax unless you include fuel taxes.
In Europe we should be promoting tax concessions on biofuels and lowering taxes on diesel.
Besides, the latest research shows that carbon dioxide emissions from diesel engines are lower than those from petrol cars.
It is still very difficult for a European citizen in one country to buy a car from another country and go back home with it.
The position of the European Parliament, which I hope we will adopt so that registration tax will be removed, will be sending a powerful signal to governments of countries who are still resisting a similar agreement, including my own country’s government.
Before my country joined the European Union, it was relatively easy for emigrants returning to my country, and bringing a car back with them, to pay a reasonable amount of tax.
For the past two years however, people in this sort of situation are being asked to pay a prohibitive amount of tax.
We have heard numerous proposals here concerning the ratios between pollutants and taxation.
They earn EUR 1&#160;000 and we earn 500; they pay EUR 20&#160;000 for a car and we pay 40&#160;000.
The poorest country in Europe, with its deficits, cannot have the most expensive cars just because certain people cannot find a different ratio. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Europe really does not have a good reputation among the people who live in it; it has become proverbial that ‘everything bad comes from Brussels’.
In my own country, Austria, we have national parliamentary elections in four weeks’ time.
Our main opposition party, the Social Democrats, are covering large surfaces with posters claiming that Chancellor Schüssel’s Federal Government wants to bring in a universal toll on private motor vehicles.
Let me tell you, then, that the Riis-Jørgensen report is a step towards a rational way of taxing motor vehicles and protecting the environment.
The move to use road tax to effectively promote energy-efficient cars by charging significantly more tax for cars with bigger engines that use more fuel will mean that drivers will have to pay more for bigger and more powerful cars.
Any family with more than three children, or families with grandparents or other household members, are dependent on bigger cars like people carriers and therefore will be forced to pay the consequences.
I am advocating a dual system in which the road tax increases with engine size and, within each engine size category, by energy efficiency.
We must ensure that measures are both environment- and family-friendly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as you have probably gathered from the number of Irish contributors, this is a very vexed issue in my own country.
In Ireland we consider VRT to be a national tax and we consider the mix of taxation, the rate of taxation, to be a matter falling within national competence.
Having said that, we are now holding out a prospect of abolishing VRT and perhaps somewhat dishonestly indicating to Irish consumers that at last they may get a car at a much cheaper rate, in much the same way as in other Member States.
If we need that money to run our country – and that is a matter for our national government – it must still be collected from the motoring public.
Having said that, I am all for balancing the taxation structure of motoring in order to decrease emissions - carbon emissions and particles and NOx and all the rest, but how that is done in each Member State is up to each Member State to decide and this is what we must be very careful about.
I would love to see this debate taken side by side with the debate tomorrow on national allocation plans in relation to our Kyoto targets.
It is in that context that we should be talking about taxation on passenger cars and indeed all vehicles.
This lack of joined-up thinking between two different sectors or two different parts of the DG in the Commission upsets me, because it is really part of tomorrow's debate as well and I would just like to make that point very clear.
Manufacturers of cars have been selling cars to countries like Ireland, where there is a high rate of VRT, at a much cheaper rate than they have been selling them to other countries that have no VRT or very low rates of it.
The report we have before us clearly addresses the issue of taxation.
Whether a report deals with tax structures – which is the case here – or tax levels, it is not a competence of the European Union and these discussions should not, in my opinion, be taking place here.
In other words, buying a car in my country is much more expensive than in most EU countries, and this makes no sense.
In my country, for example, because new cars, which are more environmentally-friendly, are more expensive, people buy less safe, more polluting used cars from other countries.
To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that raising car prices does not reduce the number of cars in circulation.
A fair and balanced circulation tax is always better than an excessive registration tax, for the environment, for the economy and for the citizens.
The registration taxes imposed in some Member States have – as we have heard often enough – the inevitable effect of making the public negotiate financial and administrative obstacles if they want to take a vehicle from one Member State to another.
After all, tax measures are one of the three pillars of the Community strategy for reducing the emission of CO2 from motor vehicles.
The object of reducing the costs involved in buying them is that the consumers will get rid of their old cars as soon as possible and replace them with new ones that save on fuel and pollute the environment less.
The latter implements the third-pillar measures provided for by the Community strategy to reduce CO2 emissions from passenger cars endorsed by the Council in 1996.
The Commission could accept 15 amendments in principle – amendments 3, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 19, 23, 24, 28, 29, 31 and 32 – which reinforce and clarify the proposal.
However, at this stage in the legislative procedure, the Commission will not formally revise its proposal.
I now turn to the group of amendments suggesting that car tax differentiation should be based not only on carbon dioxide emissions but also on other pollutants – in particular amendments 1, 2, 7, 8, 15, 16, 17, 18, 21, 25, 26, 27, 30 and 36.
However, mixing the objectives on carbon dioxide emissions covered by the Kyoto Protocol with those on pollutant emissions covered by the Sixth Environmental Action Programme would lead to increased internal market fragmentation in the area of passenger cars and endanger the whole compromise in the Council.
As far as the Commission is concerned, it is not necessary to include fuel consumption or fuel efficiency, because CO2 emissions and fuel efficiency are directly linked.
Some of you suggested that the transitional period – which in the proposal we set at between five and ten years – be fixed at ten years.
Amendment 4 refers to double taxation, while amendments 13 and 22 ask for a one-stop online solution in order to calculate registration taxes.
Amendments 34 and 37 ask for the scope to be extended to cover light duty vehicles.
The Commission, although sympathetic, considers that those measures would be difficult to adopt, mainly for reasons of subsidiarity of an economic or technical nature, or because they are beyond the scope of the proposed directive.
The Commission does not support amendment 20, which requests that a study be carried out by the end of 2006.
The Commission cannot support amendments 33, 35, 38, 39 or 40, either.
I should like to express my thanks to the rapporteur and to Parliament for the support and efforts to conciliate and strike a balance, taking into account the complexity of the issue of passenger car taxation. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The aim of the proposal for a regulation is therefore to establish procedures for the Community contribution, which has been set at EUR&#160;154&#160;million – the reference figure for 2004 – for the period 2007-2013.
Of these activities, I should like to draw particular attention to the operational assistance given to Member States that want to strengthen their national mechanisms to deal with pollution, using specialised ships, specifically standby ships equipped for the recovery of pollutants from the sea, which the Agency will make available to the Member States.
This constructive approach between the two institutions should enable us to adopt this regulation quickly, to give us a viable system for combating pollution at Community level without delay.
Firstly, we are talking about a regulation of a financial nature, which will make it possible to implement the Agency’s new tasks on the basis of a multiannual commitment of seven years, covering the period 2007-2013, in accordance with the new financial perspective.
The new tasks assigned to the Agency are intended to increase maritime safety and prevent pollution caused by ships in Member States’ waters.
It should be remembered that the purpose for which the Agency has been created is to provide an appropriate framework for carrying out concrete actions aimed at increasing maritime safety and preventing pollution from ships in Member States’ waters, and also to provide the States with additional resources when national response resources are insufficient to deal with a large-scale incident.
The contracting of the first stand-by oil recovery vessels – a total of seven – was carried out in 2005 via a restricted tender procedure.
Finally, I am pleased with the consensus reached by the three institutions with a view to increasing transparency in the management of the resources given to the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA).
The Commission’s proposal for the sum of EUR&#160;154&#160;million over the seven-year period is very realistic, being based as it is on the experiences gained in 2005 and 2006.
It already has important responsibilities, as the Commissioner and the rapporteur have mentioned, in supporting the efforts of the Member States to combat pollution and in providing the Member States with suitable information in connection with the prevention and combating of pollution and the evaluation of their policies.
The sum of EUR&#160;154&#160;million is important, not only because it is an adequate sum, but also because it also offers security over seven years.
As far as operational support is concerned, the Agency has – as already mentioned – already chosen the way in which it will act to prevent and combat pollution.
Something must be done about this, and I very much hope that the satellite monitoring system that the EMSA is to help set up will enable us to make a better job of dealing with the criminal acts in our waters.
To sum up, our adoption of this regulation tomorrow will see this House and the Council making an important contribution towards clean and better protected seas in Europe.
Amongst those support measures, the European Maritime Safety Agency is establishing a system for the collection and analysis of information on pollution caused by ships, which would include photographic surveillance by satellite, scientific-technical assistance and operational assistance, by means of ships spread out in different geographical maritime regions and ready to act in the event of accidents and disasters at the request of the Member States affected.
Now, almost four years later, it seems as if the level of ambition has fallen considerably.
That being said, we are pleased that this compromise has been reached, and we support it.
We assume that it will be possible for the content to be increased and for proposals – such as the one now tabled – to be incorporated so that it is possible to pursue the very many criminals who are quite indifferent to what happens to our marine environment and who therefore have no compunction about using it as a dustbin, unwilling as they are to pay what it costs to get rid of their pollutants properly.
I do not believe that the proposal is good enough to enable us to prevent behaviour like that, but I hope that it is good enough to be improved and that it can therefore operate as a necessary framework.
According to information from the International Maritime Organisation and other competent agencies, tens of thousands of tonnes of oil leaked into the sea and have spread along the shores of the Mediterranean to a distance of over 170&#160;kilometres.
The murderous attacks by the Israelis caused the death of thousands of Lebanese and Palestinians and caused incalculable repercussions on the local environment in general.
The much-vaunted European Union principle of 'the polluter pays' is proving to be false and hypocritical, given that, in this case too, the European Union has not made any reference to those responsible, to Israel, which caused this huge ecological disaster.
The European Maritime Safety Agency cannot and must not replace the International Maritime Organisation and its members, who bear chief responsibility for the safety protection of life at sea and the environment.
The European Agency needs to focus its action on improving maritime safety and combating pollution, concentrating its attention in particular on preventing pollution.
The Agency must help with additional measures rather than replace the infrastructures and activities of the Member States; it must complement their action in dealing with disasters.
That is why great care is needed in order to secure financial assistance so that the Agency can perform its new duties. &#160;&#160; – People in countries with a coastline are well aware that sea pollution cuts across borders, and ships tend not to choose where to run aground.
Economic areas can and must continue to be exclusive, but the sea is a common good and when there is an environmental tragedy it affects all of us.
As Mr&#160;de&#160;Grandes&#160;Pascual’s report correctly points out, and I take this opportunity to commend the rapporteur, what we need is a sustained, long-term financial framework that will deliver prevention for the Member States and enable them to use up-to-date, appropriate technical resources to protect our coasts from spills, such as those that have happened in the recent past.
The EUR&#160;154&#160;million allocated to the European Maritime Safety Agency for 2007-2013 will hopefully help to implement the action plan to combat maritime pollution, to set up a framework of specialised stand-by vessels to take action in the four priority zones and to set up a satellite image service centre to support the activities of the Member States and the Commission in the fight against spills from vessels, among other tasks in the fight against pollution.
This is a project which, with the amendments proposed by the Committee on Transport and Tourism and others, has our full backing, not least because it reinforces the idea that the Member States have a shared responsibility in this joint effort.
In adopting this resolution, we in Parliament are fulfilling our share of that responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as our coordinator, Willi Piecyk, has already said, we Socialists support this multiannual financial framework for the European Maritime Safety Agency and we are also pleased that an agreement has been reached.
In fact, even though the Commission expressly acknowledged that the area most affected by large-scale oil slicks over the last thirty-five years had been the Galician coast, with more than seven slicks greater than 10&#160;000 tonnes, of the seven anti-pollution ships contracted by the Agency, not a single one was located in Galicia: five in the Baltic, one in the Mediterranean and another in the English Channel-North Atlantic region.
I congratulate the Commissioner and our rapporteur for their excellent work on this matter, but it is only a start.
Commissioner Dimas has launched an investigation into the potential environmental consequences of these proposals and I hope his investigation will stop these proposals from being implemented.
I believe my Group wants us to go further still.
It is very important that its duties be extended, so that the EMSA can acquire every effective new means for combating all forms of deliberate and accidental pollution.
Nonetheless, the Agency must also address other matters, such as the disposal of the oil recovered and air surveillance, activities for which additional funding will be required.
I am thinking in particular, Mr&#160;President, of the current situation on the coast of Lebanon, where we should like to be able to respond more easily to the needs of our Lebanese friends.
That said, I have also noted your desire to ensure that the efforts undertaken by the Agency in terms of combating pollution do not result in a disengagement from the Member States.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; – Europe has constantly promoted the development of international maritime law to protect the environment.
Similarly, we recently had the crisis in Lebanon and the associated problems created by the hostilities.
In this instance, the European Union immediately sent experts both to Cyprus and Lebanon.
Firstly, we mobilised the civil protection mechanisms in the European countries, coordinated the aid mission and addressed the more specific problem of transporting humanitarian aid, given that certain countries offering aid did not have any means of transportation, which is a specific problem which needs to be examined in future.
Secondly, as I already mentioned, European citizens and third country citizens were transported as quickly as possible from Cyprus to their own countries.
The European Union, with the civil protection mechanism, coordinated transportation, with aeroplanes scheduled to arrive so that the citizens of the various countries had to remain in Cyprus as little as possible.
I should also point out and emphasise the exceptional efficiency with which the Cyprus authorities and a great many volunteers dealt with this crisis, with our participation, of course.
Throughout southern Europe we have very efficient extinguishing mechanisms, but the resources are never sufficient: suffice it to say that this summer in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, there have been more than 7&#160;000 people and more than 60 aircraft dedicated to putting the fires out, but how can they fight 300 fires every day?
One relates to Forest Focus.
When we are facing fires or floods though, we in the European Union carry on acting as if each one were an isolated event that did not deserve or require a genuine global approach and, in some people’s view, as if they did not have a genuine European dimension.
We hope that the European Commission will take this into account in the report that it has to produce before the end of 2006.
There must be no further delay in adopting effective public policies aimed at strengthening prevention, reforestation, and forestry development.
Once again we see disastrous forest fires in the south.
Farmers in Poland and elsewhere are asking the European Union for aid, which currently is symbolic rather than real.
It is imperative for us to create a European system which can be used to provide aid to the countries and people affected by natural disasters.
People whose houses have been destroyed by catastrophic fires, whose fields and crops have been destroyed by droughts or flooding, have to be able to count on solidarity and aid from the European Union.
One of the reasons the European Union was created was so that its communities and citizens could help each other in times of need.
It is a problem which affects my country on an almost annual basis.
This is because, for many of our citizens, the European Union is about providing real aid in the event of such disasters. &#160;&#160; – I believe that today's debate is not being held so that we can express our sorrow about the phenomenon or to emphasise our support for the victims.
The fires we experienced this summer in my country, in Greece, are one such instance.
Of course the Member States have the initiative in this sort of natural disaster, but that is no excuse for the European Union not to demonstrate its solidarity in a tangible manner, that is no excuse for the European Union to be absent.
The tragedy of the fires is still affecting a number of Member States this year, although it appears that Spain is currently the worst affected, with countless human tragedies, including loss of life, and economic and environmental losses that cannot be quantified.
It should be remembered that Parliament recently dedicated a great deal of attention to the issue, over several months, and mobilised the resources and the good will to gain a better understanding of these phenomena, to identify the causes and to propose short-, medium- and long-term solutions to reverse this appalling situation.
Various commissions interviewed researchers and experts, made contact with local authorities and communities, and formulated proposals and recommendations to the Commission and the Council that obtained broad political support in Parliament last May.
The fresh tragedy this summer has merely served to remind us that we need to act with increasing urgency so that next year we do not have to be restricted to expressing words of mutual solidarity in the face of a new tragedy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as an MEP for the Galeuska electoral coalition, I would like to speak on behalf of the Galician Nationalist Bloc, which has asked me to communicate its concern and its political condemnation of all of the fires that have taken place this summer, particularly those that have destroyed huge areas of forest, including the Natura 2000 Network in Galicia, and which, furthermore, have cost the lives of several people.
If penalties need to be increased, if European legislation has to be amended, there is no question that that must be done and, in particular, we must keep a close eye on this inquiry, because there are people behind this and they must be exposed. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is sad to realise that only in recent years has the subject of civil protection been aired in this Chamber and it is debated each time in connection with a particular kind of disaster: an earthquake the day before yesterday, marine pollution yesterday, fires and floods today, and so forth.
Russia must comply with international agreements, and Parliament should call on the Commission to take action and negotiate with Russia to ensure that it too adheres to these agreements, provides its neighbouring countries with sufficient information, is prepared to accept help and also takes adequate action itself.
In 2006, the European Commission presented its proposal for changing the existing Community civil protection mechanism.
Lastly, the Commission must exert its influence on the Member States, so that, at the very least, stricter legislation is introduced on changes of land use and reforestation after fires is mandatory. &#160;&#160; Mr President, accelerating climate change means that we are experiencing an ever greater number of freak weather conditions which cause great damage to the countryside, farming and our environment, in the broad sense of the word.
We often forget that the economic situation of those living in certain regions is affected not only by natural disasters but also the state of the economy and systems designed to foster regional development.
Entire homesteads have been destroyed or damaged and the hailstorms have almost entirely wiped out the already meagre harvest.
I think it is high time the European Commission drew up an effective means of combating the effects of natural disasters and providing aid to the people, families and regions affected by these disasters. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, I should like to start by expressing my solidarity with our friends in Spain, Greece, Italy and other countries who have suffered from these forest fires, and by sparing a thought, of course, for the victims, because these fires are both ecological and human tragedies.
Parliament has already adopted provisions instituting European coordination regarding civil protection.
It is our farmers who will suffer most, particularly in these cases.
It is true that Europe must support the pro-active policies of the Member States and fund the action taken to reach the objectives.
Public money is not intended to finance bureaucracy, but to respond effectively to the people’s expectations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by sending a message of condolence from the European Parliament to the families of those killed and of solidarity with the victims and inhabitants of all of the regions of the European Union in which there have been fires and floods this summer.
I would call upon the Commission to draw up a proposal for a directive to combat fires, to implement a Community programme for 2007-2013, to activate the Galileo system and the technological resources for the detection and fighting of fires, and to strengthen civil protection through the creation of a European civil protection force. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, for more than a decade we have hardly seen a year without a drought.
Over the last two years, the European Parliament has adopted as many as three resolutions on the droughts in Portugal and Spain and on the effects of the natural disasters on the agricultural sector.
Whilst welcoming the initiative for a European Parliament resolution on fighting forest fires, I wish to emphasise that this sort of issue, which affects almost all the countries of southern Europe every summer, requires serious preparation and responsible action by all the agencies involved.
The major issue is still prevention, not merely extinguishing the fire and its consequences.
In Portugal 420&#160;000 hectares were burnt in 2003, and 320&#160;000 in 2005.
In Portugal and in other countries great efforts have been made, but more needs to be done.
The Commission must adopt the proposals put forward by Parliament. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, this summer there have again been numerous fires in several countries of southern Europe.
They have been especially devastating in Spain, particularly in Galicia.
We must therefore make progress with the construction of a European civil protection system capable of responding quickly and effectively to the disasters that take place almost every summer and which affect the forests of southern Europe in particular.
Neither Galicia, Spain nor Europe can resign themselves to the continued disappearance of our forests, as if that were their unavoidable fate. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am delighted to have with us today Commissioner Dimas, who is particularly sensitive to the question of natural disasters, given that this year fires swept through once again, especially in the countries of southern Europe.
We need to examine the issue beyond the question of the fires. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today, I myself was hemmed in by flames while on holiday in Halkidiki, and saw two thousand people gasping for breath.
I also think it important that we in Europe should set up a civil protection force, the primary function of which would be to resolve the problems arising in disaster situations of this kind, and which would be able to try to get the situation under control as quickly and efficiently as possible.
This is why earlier this year the Commission prepared a legislative proposal to reinforce the mechanism both politically and operationally.
In April 2005, the Commission also presented a proposal for a Council regulation establishing a rapid response and preparedness instrument for major emergencies.
One part of this proposal provides the legal framework for the future financing of civil protection operations and will result in a budget of EUR&#160;119 million over a seven-year period.
I would also like to offer specific thanks for Parliament’s initiative to earmark an additional EUR 6.5&#160;million in the civil protection budget for 2006.
This cooperation and coordination will make our fight against natural disasters – such as the floods in several European countries, or the summer forest fires in Spain, for which assistance was requested by the Spanish authorities on 9 August – even more effective.
On the specific question of forest fires, which was raised by a number of Members, it is necessary to note as I have before that forestry matters are a Member State competence.
The main aim of the measures we take at European Union level is to reinforce the Member States’ policies.
These measures include the possibility of financial support available under the new Rural Development Regulation, the Forest Focus Regulation and, from 2007, the Commission’s proposal for LIFE Plus, which explicitly provides for the possibility of financing forest monitoring programmes and forest fire prevention activities in order to continue the work of the Forest Forum.
The Commission is preparing a study to look at the effectiveness of Community measures for forest protection and at options to improve the effectiveness of these measures.
The results of these analyses are expected by the end of 2007.
In 2006, the Commission’s civil protection mechanism responded to floods, earthquakes, forest fires, marine pollution and emergencies with a humanitarian dimension.
Four European countries requested assistance in the spring floods, even though a greater number were eventually affected.
With your support we shall continue to better prepare ourselves and to improve our response for the benefit of the Member States and those we seek to help. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
You will recall that, after the Lusaka ceasefire agreements were signed in July 1999, the European Union and the European Commission worked tirelessly alongside Congo not only to restore peace and stability there, but also to restore peace and stability throughout the Great Lakes region.
It is with a certain pride, I believe, that we can say today that the peace and democracy process in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) is one of the rare cases in which the European Union has been able to show itself to be a real political player by deploying all of its external policy instruments.
It is worth pointing out, in this regard, the increased importance of development cooperation in the context of the Cotonou Agreement, which had been suspended for more than a decade, the Common Foreign and Security Policy, the European Security and Defence Policy, the appointment of a special envoy and the only military operations conducted outside Europe: Artemis in 2003, in order to bring peace to Ituri, and now EUFOR, in order to directly support a United Nations peacekeeping mission and an election observation mission led by your fellow Member, General Morillon, and in which a good number of you have participated.
This first brush with democracy, after more than 40 years, occurred under what can be described as model conditions, given the overall situation in the country.
The election observation mission was able to observe first hand the objective difficulties that the country and its population are experiencing.
I can assure you that, throughout this process, the task has not been easy for anyone, and especially not for the people of Congo and their leaders, who have inherited a country that has been divided and rocked by years of war.
Congo possesses considerable natural resources, occupies a strategic position at the crossroads of Central Africa, and has high-quality human resources; I firmly believe that Congo will be called upon one day to play a major role in the stabilisation and development of the whole of Africa if good governance, the rule of law, human rights and the key elements to which Congo has subscribed by ratifying the Cotonou Agreement are fully respected in there.
Thanks to the work done thus far, there is now an opportunity to really lay new institutional and administrative foundations in the country and to embark upon – and I am by no means exaggerating here – a radical reform of the State.
The deplorable events that, on 20, 21 and 22&#160;August, followed the provisional publication of the results, have not, in my opinion, done anything to taint the symbolic value of this major act in the history of Congo.
Indeed, the new Constitution provides the country with the institutional structure of a modern country in which the separation of powers guarantees a balance of forces and in which the government is called upon to be accountable to its citizens by regularly submitting to elections.
In spite of the difficulties over the last few days, the aim of the European Union’s action in DRC can only be to make a success of a transitional process that must hinge on the establishment of new authorities and institutions on the basis of the results that will come from the ballot boxes, in line with the international standards of transparency and reliability in electoral matters.
Let every one of us, then, be careful in what we say in our contributions to this debate.
Let us play our part in preparing the provincial elections; Europe and its Member States must play an effective supportive role, not only in the electoral process from beginning to end, but also in the subsequent period of reconstruction.
MONUC and EUFOR have found their roles and enjoy respect, and we MEPs will observe the forthcoming round of elections.
This operation, and indeed the entire transitional process in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) since 2003, could not have come this far were it not for the European Union.
The election should therefore be a source of pride not only for the Congolese people, but also for Europe, which provided 80% of the funding for the presidential and legislative elections, with the European Commission contributing EUR&#160;165&#160;million.
The EU’s involvement in the DRC since the terrible war that devastated the country has been the best example of the implementation on the ground of Europe's security doctrine: humanitarian and development aid, technical support for demobilising and disarming militias, the maintenance of the political process and use of the instruments of European security and defence policy, with any additional resources used coherently to achieve a single goal, namely a democratic, peaceful and prosperous Congo, in control of its resources for the people’s benefit.
As regards EUFOR, the European military force which, since the 30&#160;July election, has played a key role in reducing tensions between the forces of the two presidential candidates, Mr&#160;Kabila and Mr&#160;Bemba, consideration should be given to the idea of extending its tour of duty until the new government takes office towards the end of January, in order to guarantee that the electoral process is carried through to a successful conclusion.
It is not only Azarias Ruberwa and Jean-Pierre Bemba who retain private armies.
An entire book could be written on the exceptional adventure embarked upon by the people of Congo in order to provide themselves with democratic institutions with the help of the international community and of the European Union, in particular.
I shall confine my speech this evening to some comments about the new stage that was reached on this road on Sunday 30&#160;July, during the first round of the presidential elections, which coincided with the legislative elections.
Finally, we were calling on them to develop the peace process observed and to make a lasting contribution on the road to national reconciliation and to the rebuilding of the country.
It is up to us to demonstrate the greatest vigilance and to continue to use all of our political and, if need be, military, weight to put pressure on the two candidates that are still in contention until the second round of the presidential elections, scheduled for 29&#160;October.
That is what we must continue to help them achieve. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union has committed itself financially and politically, with a great deal of determination, to the electoral process in the Democratic Republic of Congo, and we can only be delighted at that.
The same goes for the desire expressed by the Congolese people to finally be able to choose their leaders by themselves, and for Europe’s support in this area, provided that this support is perceived as being completely neutral, something that has posed problems recently.
That being said, the situation remains very tense, and while it is clear that these elections seem to be necessary or urgent, after so many years of war, chaos and victims, they will not be enough to put right a country that still has serious problems, starting with extreme poverty and a high level of violence, which regularly undermine the efforts to establish the rule of law.
Finally, the mineral and forestry resources in DRC are now the subject of shameless exploitation, whereby corruption more often than not goes hand in hand with a disastrous social and environmental impact.
The situation would have been markedly worse than it is now.
Many persons in positions of responsibility within the EU – and none more so than Commissioner&#160;Michel – displayed a bias in favour of Joseph Kabila.
We also know, Commissioner, that a whole array of economic interests are at stake here.
However, according to UN statistics, around four million people have died during almost ten years of internal conflict in DR Congo.
From an economic point of view, DR Congo is a very important country for the world economy.
Finally, I would like to say that I do not agree with the proposal made by the previous speaker, Mr&#160;Pflüger, with reference to the dismissal of Commissioner&#160;Michel.
It is far more entertaining to have Commissioner Michel here in this House. &#160;&#160; – () Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in Kinshasa on 21 and 22 August showed clearly that the European Union was right to take the decision to send troops to help secure the elections in Congo, even though there had been many, in various of its Member States, who had expressed doubt as to the wisdom of this approach and as to whether the European Union and its forces really could make an effective contribution.
I am confident that the Commissioner, now that these elections are over, will continue to develop the plans that are needed if this country in the heart of Africa, which is important not least in terms of the security of Europe, is to be made even more stable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is unusual for this Parliament to debate an electoral process in the middle of that election taking place.
Firstly, as colleagues have said, the three million deaths in five years; there are still one thousand people a day in the Congo dying from the indirect consequences of that war.
Thirdly, this is an electoral process where the EU is playing a central role, as Commissioner Michel has already explained: 80% of the cost of the election is being met by the European Union, the biggest ever EU electoral observation mission in Africa and all of it backed up by an EU military mission assisting our UN partners in providing the necessary protection to enable the election to take place in peace and stability.
The electoral observation mission, ably led by our colleague General Morillon – whose work I commend – has made only a preliminary report and any political assessment this Parliament makes must similarly be guarded before drawing our own conclusions in this House.
I have been taking part in elections since 1979.
Finally, my colleague, Mr Schröder, has already made it quite clear that it was necessary to enable Commissioner Michel last week to answer on the record the questions raised with him, and that process has been completed.
Tonight, I want to simply repeat my closing statement to the Commission last week and say that redoubled efforts should be made to insist on the European Union’s neutrality in this process and that the European observation mission must be specifically tasked with monitoring the allegations of bias made in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
I invite the Commissioner to join with his colleague, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, to ensure that the results of this monitoring are fully evaluated, both for the second round of the elections in the Congo, and for the benefit of future European electoral missions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like all observers, I was very impressed with the high turnout, the discipline and excellent organisation, a real feat in a country such as Congo, where both infrastructure and communication are lacking.
Finally, there is the painful conclusion that Congo’s democratisation process remains very fragile.
It is important in the weeks up to the second round that as much is done as possible to tighten up on any procedural weaknesses, so that there can be no technical grounds for dispute at what will be a very sensitive moment.
For example, I can tell you that President Kabila reproaches us for not having reacted sufficiently when, in the course of the election campaign, candidates used arguments based on ethnicity or ‘being Congolese’ and made xenophobic statements.
I mention all this in order to say that I utterly and completely reject the accusations of partiality that certain people have levelled at me.
Moreover, it is legitimate enough for any country, for any business to deem that it has the right to seek economic or commercial partnerships with any other country, on condition that it ensures that natural resources are respected, that it prevents these resources from being pillaged – this is what foreign forces have done for a very long time and what internal forces are still doing today – and on condition that it respects basic economic ethics, a factor that, unfortunately or fortunately, must be taken into account in the open world with which we are familiar.
Today, the economic interests that I encounter in the Congo are Chinese, Indian, Israeli, American.
The truth has rights, and I must tell you that I would hope that European businesses would invest in a country like the Congo.
Mr Forrest creates 630 jobs through his company; he creates hospitals and schools: a whole social system is developing there.
This is the reason why, as regards the political assassination of Mr&#160;Lumumba for example, I also apologised in the name of my country to Mr&#160;Lumumba’s family.
Perhaps you have been to the Congo, perhaps not, I do not know, but in any case you have an image of the Congo partially distorted by the excesses of certain parties who use any old argument in the campaign.
As for the army, I have noted what was said with great interest and I obviously agree for the most part with the various speeches that have been made.
It is easy to talk about but difficult to achieve, and a certain amount of time is required in order to carry out this process properly.
I think that the second round can succeed if the international community tells both candidates unequivocally that they do not have the right to sabotage the second round because that would be to insult the Congolese people’s passion for democracy.
The real response is based on what we have already debated in this House.
I think that, more than ever, we must suggest and encourage projects of good governance in the Congo.
We all know that the Congo is in fact a very rich country.
In the first place, it has its people and extremely important human resources.
I thought that it was important to set the record straight on a number of points and to specify my hopes concerning the second round of these elections. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
