I am likewise grateful to OLAF, in the person of the Director, Franz-Hermann Brüner, for its unstinting support and for the vital work it does, which is far from easy.
Finally, I would thank all my colleagues for their helpful contributions, as well as all the national bodies and institutions that have cooperated with us in this arduous task, especially - if I may - the Italian Guardia di finanza, whose approach in this field has been highly professional.
The data gathered are worrying: in the areas of own resources, agricultural expenditure and structural actions, irregularities notified in 2006 totalled EUR 1 143 million, compared to EUR 1 024 million in the previous year.
In particular, we consider it unacceptable that Spain and Germany have not been forwarding information on irregularities to the Commission in electronic form, despite an obligation on all Member States to do so.
In particular, a period of 39 months between the time when an irregularity is committed and the time when it is notified to the Commission is unacceptable, as such a delay makes recovery more difficult if not impossible.
The increased focus on the national declarations, placing responsibility for spending with the Member States, should go hand in hand with cooperation over tackling irregularities and fighting fraud.
The Commission fully agrees with the European Parliament on the need to analyse in greater depth the structures existing in Member States in charge of combating irregularities, to support them and facilitate cooperation and the exchange of information.
In addition, the report examines the steps taken by Member States to improve recovery of amounts not collected or wrongly paid, as well as the mechanisms under national law for recovery by offsetting.
The report also contains information on amounts recovered and the financial corrections, in particular when a payment has not been made in conformity with Community rules.
The role of organised crime, such as the Mafia, in undermining the EU's financial interests is a subject close to the heart of the rapporteur.
The Commission tabled a proposal in this regard in May 2006.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - (FI) Mr President, Francesco Musotto has produced an excellent report on the annual reports of the European Anti-Fraud Office 2005-2006, and I want to express my sincerest thanks for that.
The number of irregularities notified by the Member States rose in 2006 to the equivalent of EUR 1 143 million.
Of this, the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund accounts for an amount of EUR 87 million.
The Commission should speed up the recovery process and if necessary apply corrective measures.
His review reveals a very mixed picture and I believe that we really need to take action here.
Firstly, there has been a significant increase in the sums affected by irregularities in the area of own resources, EUR 328 million in 2005 and EUR 353 million in 2006, compared with EUR 212 million in 2004.
In this sense, too, this debate is a warm-up act for the hearing next week with Commissioners Špidla and Hübner.
We are back to the level of 2002, following better figures in 2003, 2004 and 2005.
The problem sectors are clearly own resources and the Structural Funds: own resources accounted for EUR 325 million of reported irregularities and the Structural Funds accounted for EUR 700 million.
We had the agreement with Philip Morris.
There is a new agreement with Japan Tobacco, which should deliver a lot of money and will also bring about a reduction in smuggling.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has already organised a hearing and the Committee on Budgetary Control will do the same on 4 or 5 May.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, this report is a long catalogue of failure.
First of all, it is intolerable that some countries do not even provide information on agricultural expenditure.
The second issue is that notification of irregularities can take up to 39 months - more than three years.
Commissioner Kallas will see in the 2006 discharge that this is a problem and we will expect him to take action and not just sit back and watch.
I would just like to ask Mr Clark to read the report of the British House of Lords on VAT carrousels.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their comments on this report.
That will probably also help in all our future debates on discharge, and of course all the three reports - including the next one - are all very closely interrelated.
The vote will take place on 19 February 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, congratulations on this report, which highlights not only the successes of the recent past, but also some lamentable shortcomings and long-standing debts.
Knowledge - whether protected or in the public domain - is becoming increasingly widely accessible.
A car on display in one room can be copied in the space of 5 minutes in the room next door.
It is particularly important to reduce the number of irregularities relating to use of EU funds to below the tolerable error rate: fraud of this sort makes the European Union as a whole look ridiculous when it involves EU funds being used in a manner that contradicts the declared aims of the EU.
