A political solution with regard to the piracy off the Somalian coast (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on a political solution with regard to the piracy off the Somalian coast.
There are currently 75 suspects being held in Kenyan jails.
A recent agreement with Seychelles, which I imagine you are aware of, on the transfer of suspected pirates constitutes an important additional contribution in this respect.
At the end of the day, of course, what we are doing in the maritime waters cannot be a substitute for what needs to be done in Somalia or on Somalia itself, but that, as I indicated earlier, is something where immediate success cannot be taken for granted.
We need to sustain the operation, and the support of the Parliament is very important in this respect.
The Commission has always maintained that piracy can only be finally eradicated by addressing the underlying causes, beginning with the instability in Somalia and also addressing the country's development needs, which manifest themselves in the most extreme poverty, including massive illiteracy and vulnerability.
The new contribution agreement of EUR 60 million has just been finalised.
The joint strategy paper 2008-2013 defines Commission assistance to Somalia and, in concrete terms, the EC support programme for Somalia has a budget of, altogether, EUR 215.4 million from the European Development Fund (EDF) for the period 2008-2013.
For this reason, we must take a consistent approach to following up on these matters.
The resolution that we will be voting on tomorrow takes the wrong track in two respects and we do not endorse these approaches.
Secondly, it is highly questionable to launch a European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP) training mission which has not been properly justified and which will not make a demonstrable contribution to state-building in Somalia.
It would, therefore, be a mistake to hold back on development aid and on solutions concerning the governance of the country.
Their efforts are very important, because the accessibility of this zone is crucial for international trade and goods transport.
Of course, let us also consider what else we can do and, as the Commissioner rightly said, let us, at the same time, tackle this problem at the source, effectively and on various fronts. (DE) Madam President, Somalia is a country in a constant state of emergency and has had no government for almost 20 years.
That is why we need to coordinate, to persuade the Council and the Commission to take more political initiatives. (ES) Madam President, piracy is a very important issue for Spain since it is affecting our fishing vessels, and I welcome the release of the vessel Alakrana and commend its fishermen, its owner and the Spanish Government for their efforts.
While it is certainly sad and regrettable that sailors are being kidnapped when, at the end of the day, they are only doing their job, it is also deplorable that there are those who are taking advantage of the lack of government, not only in Somalia but in the region as a whole, to fish the waters illegally or dump pollutant waste.
The international community, the United Nations and others have been struggling with Somalia for a very long time.
Our Greek colleague who asked me a question that I wanted to answer is no longer here, but I wanted to say what we have been doing and why I said that there was a certain success.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Thursday, 26 November 2009).
The only possible answer to the situation in Somalia is a comprehensive approach to the conflict there, with coordinated action of all parties engaged in efforts at achieving stability in the region and ending piracy.
At the same time, we must not lose sight of the long-term goal, without which a lasting solution to the problem of piracy will never be found.
Therefore, acting on a long-term basis, we must concentrate on: • strengthening the AMISOM mission, • resolute maintenance and execution of the arms embargo on Somalia, • stabilisation of the country by a coordinated and comprehensive strategy for action involving the European Union, the African Union and the USA, • striving for lasting peace agreements between the parties, and, • support in building State institutions active throughout the country.
