Measuring devices containing mercury (debate) The next item is the debate on the report by Mrs Sornosa Martínez, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directive 76/769/EEC relating to restrictions on the marketing of certain measuring devices containing mercury - C6-0064/2006 -.
It has been proposed in your House that there should - subject to a review at a later date - be a derogation from these restrictions for devices for measuring blood pressure, and I do in fact believe that there should be one.
In that way, we shall contribute to guaranteeing a high level of protection of the environment and human health, whilst preserving the internal market, as required by Article 95 of the Treaty.
The agreement we have reached relates to the exemption from the obligations laid down in this Directive for scientific instruments containing mercury, such as barometers over 50 years old intended for sale or marketing on the international antiques market.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, may I first of all pay tribute to the work that Mrs Sornosa Martínez has done on this report, even though I do not agree with all of her conclusions.
I would point out to the Commissioner that we are not talking about the general introduction of new mercury into the environment - the vast majority of these makers actually use recycled mercury taken out of the environment in the production of these new instruments.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I think the case for this legislation is compelling.
That is not what the Council wanted, but we have 25 governments here, experts from 25 countries, the European Commission and the majority of political groups, and I hope that the House will support the report and be consistent with the principle of substitution of dangerous chemicals.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (SV) Mr President, mercury thermometers have been banned in Sweden for more than 20 years now.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (EL) Mr President, I too should like to take my turn, having thanked and congratulated Mrs Sornosa Martínez on her work, to urge you to support the compromise amendments designed to remove mercury from measuring devices used by European consumers.
This specific action is of paramount importance in order for the legislation on measuring devices containing mercury to be adopted as quickly as possible.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, although mercury and the compounds produced by it, in particular methyl mercury, are highly toxic, banning the sale of mercury thermometers, including specialised thermometers and other measuring devices with just an eighteen-month transition period is excessive and unreasonable, particularly for Poland and other countries where mercury thermometers are universally used not only in hospitals but for basic home diagnosis.
We are in favour of a longer transition period. - (SK) I also welcome this report on mercury in the environment and on ways of reducing it.
