It is an enormous honour to recall that the Conference of Presidents decided to award the prize to Oleg Orlov, Sergei Kovalev and Lyudmila Alexeyeva, on behalf of Memorial and all other human rights defenders in Russia.
Natalia Estemirova should have been among us today, as should Anna Politkovskaya.
On 16 December, exactly 28 years ago, strikers were killed in the Wujek coal mine by the Polish communist police because they fought for solidarity; that is, for basic human rights, for dignity.
Twenty years ago, on 16 December in Romania, a revolution started which claimed the lives of over 1 000 people because they fought for their freedom.
For 40 years now, first in the Soviet Union and then in Russia, human rights defenders have been standing up for 'European' - that is to say, universal - values.
And the first name I should cite is that of Natalya Estemirova, a fellow member of Memorial, murdered this summer in Chechnya.
I cannot go on without mentioning other names, too: the lawyer, Stanislav Markelov, and journalists, Anna Politkovskaya and Anastasia Baburova, murdered in Moscow; ethnologist, Nikolai Girenko, shot in St Petersburg; Farid Babayev, murdered in Dagestan; and many others - sadly, this list could go on for a long time.
Andrei Sakharov, who died 20 years ago, was a distinguished champion of human rights as well as a distinguished thinker.
The European Union, whose Parliament instituted this prize while Sakharov was still alive, is, perhaps, today the closest model to that future united humanity dreamt of by Andrei Dmitrievich Sakharov.
Naturally, this development also gave rise to a multitude of new problems that are still not fully resolved - an example being the doctrine of humanitarian intervention.
If the Second World War was the impetus for the post-war political modernisation of Western Europe, having become the logical conclusion of the relatively short period of domination by the Nazi regime in Germany, then for the USSR and Russia, the need for reconstruction was dictated by the experience of 70 years of domination by the Communist regime, the culmination of which was Stalin's terrorist dictatorship.
The human rights movement positioned itself, from the outset, first and foremost as a movement for overcoming Stalinism in the public, political and cultural life of the country.
In one of this movement's first public texts - a leaflet distributed by the organisers of the historic meeting of 5 December 1965 in defence of the law - it was said in this regard, with the utmost simplicity and brevity: 'The bloody past calls us to vigilance in the present'.
In essence, this special connection between two components of civil consciousness - legal thinking and historical memory - is inherited in its entirety by Russia's modern human rights community, and perhaps also by Russian civil society as a whole.
This resolution, like the OSCE resolution that followed in July, on divided Europe reunited, demonstrates that a united Europe understands the sense and thrust of our work.
In recent years, more than 100 judgments have been delivered in Strasbourg in 'Chechen' cases, concerning serious crimes by representatives of the state against citizens.
