Risk to close down the company QIMONDA in Germany and Portugal and the loss of thousands of jobs in Europe (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on the risk to close down the company QIMONDA in Germany and Portugal and the loss of thousands of jobs in Europe.
The level of unemployment in the EU could be around 10% in 2010.
The situation in the company Qimonda, which has announced the closure of plants in Germany and Portugal, is, unfortunately, not unique.
Most Member States have introduced targeted measures in an effort to support employment and limit the effects of the crisis on ordinary citizens.
The Commission has strengthened financial instruments at a European level with the aim of helping the Member States to overcome the crisis and its social consequences.
The European social partners are also due to submit a joint contribution on how to overcome the crisis at the tripartite meeting on 19 March.
On 4 March, the Commission also received a contribution designated for the meeting of the European Council on 19 and 20 March, which concentrates, among other things, on the requirement and the methods for supporting workers affected by the crisis and vulnerable persons on the labour market.
The possible closure of Qimonda puts nearly 2 000 jobs at risk in the north of Portugal, which has, in a few years, gone from being one of the most industrialised regions of Europe to being one of the continent's poorest regions.
The Portuguese Government has already decided to make EUR 100 million available for this purpose.
Keeping Qimonda going in Germany and in Portugal is of such strategic importance for Europe that European Union support is well justified.
During the last year, it received EUR 325 million in subsidies, which proved to be inadequate.
In 2007, Qimonda employed 13 500 people.
There are many more such enterprises in our countries, including those in Krośno or Stalowa Wola in Poland.
The Qimonda case shows that it is also up to the Commission to ensure that re-training takes place for jobs with a future rather than just taking a scatter-gun approach.
First of all, Qimonda is capable of ensuring a crucial technological advance for the European Union in terms of semiconductor technology and nanotechnology.
Secondly, Qimonda has no competitors in Europe but does have some in Asia, where they are assisted by 70% subsidies - that makes the crucial difference.
Saving the plants in Munich will have a decisive impact on those in Vila do Conde and Dresden.
The European Union cannot continue to allow its industries to be destroyed, particularly in a strategic area, and become dependent on the United States and the countries of Asia, which support their industries.
It is regrettable that Mr Špidla has demonstrated in this House serious insensitivity to the issue of Qimonda as a productive company.
There is an enormous amount of research threatened by the risk of closure of Qimonda in Germany and the knock-on effects that such a situation would have in Portugal.
It must be kept in mind that Vila do Conde is in the north of Portugal where unemployment has grown most, whether because companies in the textiles and clothing industry have closed down or because multinationals which manufactured footwear and cabling, amongst other things, have relocated.
This has happened in my own area in Ireland South, where Dell has announced layoffs of 1 900 of its staff at its factory in Limerick.
Likewise, in Waterford, where Waterford Wedgwood may be closing in the not too distant future, and again, between that and downstream jobs, another thousand jobs may be lost.
Therefore, I welcome Commissioner Špidla's resolution to do his utmost to deploy monies available in the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund and the European Social Fund.
