I, for my part, do not take this resolution seriously and, as far as I am concerned, there can be no freedom without total freedom of political expression. (NL) Mr President, I too voted against the resolution on extremism.
I have rarely set eyes on a more hypocritical document than this motion for a resolution on 'rising extremism' in Europe - and God knows that Europe and this House have already broken records for hypocrisy.
in writing. - (PT) The agreement reached between the Commission, the Council and Parliament for the 2008 EU budget reveals the true weight of the 'big countries' and the 'rich countries' as it responds to their demands to limit the EU budget ceiling as much as possible.
In spite of all the attempts to hide it, the truth is that the Commission's, the Council's and the EP's proposals for the EU budget, and this agreement, were below the figure for 2008 envisaged in the 2007-2013 financial framework.
In reality, this EU budget for 2008 represents a reduction of more than EUR 9 billion in terms of payments as compared with what was agreed in the financial framework for 2008 - that is, in terms of payments, the EU budget has been reduced from 1.04% to 0.96% of the Community GNI.
in writing. - (SV) We support the basic principles of the EU budget for 2008 and stress that it must give the taxpayers good value for money.
in writing. - During Budget negotiations, Parliament decided with Council to redeploy EUR 50 million from the Decentralised Agencies to part-finance the European GNSS programmes (EGNOS/GALILEO) and the European Institute of Technology.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the proposed 2008 budget, firstly because the proposal is clearly in line with the principles set out in the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective.
This Agreement aims to ensure complementarity and added value and to avoid duplication with the activities of the Council of Europe, as laid down in Article 9 of the Regulation establishing a European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights.
I agree with the amendment to the Commission proposal to the effect that a specific date should be set for the system to come into force, 31 December 2009 being the most appropriate date, as Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf's report suggests.
in writing. - (PT) Increasing mobility in the EU, combined with the growing number of couples separating, has brought an increase in the number of cross-border disputes regarding maintenance claims.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, I am voting in favour of the report on the proposal for a Council Regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations - C6-0079/2006 -.
in writing. - (PT) Since 1997, when the Ottawa Convention was signed, on the basis of data available last November, 156 States have signed the Convention.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, we are against racism, xenophobia and political extremism.
in writing. - (FR) Front National, Vlaams Belang and FPOE are not extremist, racist or xenophobic parties.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, I categorically oppose racism, xenophobia and political extremism.
in writing. - (PT) The resolution adopted today in the European Parliament expresses solidarity with the victims of the shipwrecks that occurred in the Kerch Strait - that is, the Strait linking the Black Sea to the Sea of Azov - causing an environmental disaster.
in writing. - (FR) The enlargement of the European Union calls for our solidarity with the population of the 431 000 km2 around the Black Sea.
A Russian cargo vessel also broke in two, releasing 4 000 tonnes of fuel oil on a migration route for diving birds coming from Siberia.
in writing. - (FR) The textile sector in France and in Europe since the end of the Multi Fibre Arrangement has turned some of our regions into economic and social deserts.
in writing. - (PT) Amongst other things, this report contains a veritable misconception.
