The message that we are sending to this House, to the Commission and to the Council is focused on five chapters: the first is fighting poverty and promoting social development, and it contains a whole series of specific proposals.
Trade legislation, the rules of international trade and rules on investment must therefore be made subject to sustainable development criteria, and not the other way round.
The proposals that we make in this regard are both credible and ambitious.
I think, for example, that as far as we are concerned, some European Union policies - and I am thinking in particular of the common agricultural policy, the fisheries policy and the trade policy - will need to be reviewed if we are to avoid their running counter to the objectives of sustainable development.
I believe that if it is applied at all levels of decision-making, and in particular at the level of international institutions, the use of this term will become more credible.
I therefore hope that our contribution will help the European institutions to play a leading role in this preparatory meeting, if there is still time, and in any case I hope that we will avoid giving the impression of thinking that handing over the responsibility for managing the problems related to sustainable development to partnership initiatives with the private sector is the way to resolve the problem.
It is clear that the EU should be playing a leadership role in Johannesburg.
The Development Council and the Seville Summit should therefore insist on a proper revision of the Commission's communication in order to address existing gaps, add timetables for implementation and develop action plans for each measure.
We do not need any more monitoring of the problem: we are in danger of going down as the only species that monitors its own extinction instead of taking steps to prevent it.
Rather, the Johannesburg Conference gives us the opportunity to start all over again, making a world-wide commitment to a development model that blends the economic dimension with both the social dimension and the environmental dimension.
In any case, there is a further difficulty associated with the Rio de Janeiro Summit.
There are, however, certain paragraphs and a few amendments that, in our view, take away some of the objectivity and detachment of Parliament's resolution - I mean the Tobin tax and writing off the debt of the developing countries.
One sample figure that sticks in the mind is the fact that the four richest people on this planet own as much as the 48 poorest nations combined.
For example, we allow 5 500 children to die every day because of polluted air, polluted food and polluted water.
Political priorities need to be set.
I would propose five avenues for the European Union to explore in the run-up to the Johannesburg Summit.
The first is a Marshall Plan-type programme for the two billion people who, even today, do not have sufficient energy resources and often live in rural areas or shanty towns.
The second, which is probably the most simple and most economic way of combating the greenhouse effect, considering the levels it will have reached by 2020, is to set minimum standards for millions of new household appliances - in China alone there will be 100 million new fridges in 2020 - for new engines and for millions of new computer tools.
Finally, EUR 350 billion in subsidies currently go to fossil and nuclear energies.
The term appears in all European Union documents, government documents and, more importantly, in the documents of those who wish to destroy sustainable development and foster unsustainable development and a model of consumption that is going to prevent us from leaving Johannesburg with clear priorities and mechanisms for action, although, of course, I hope to be proved wrong.
The priorities have to be sustainable management of resources and changing production models.
Regarding another priority, eradicating poverty, Mr President, the results of the Monterrey Summit were meagre.
Along with the World Bank, which has no members in our Group and which has calculated that in the next thirty years the number of poor people in the world will more than double, we have been saying for many years that unless action is taken to tackle poverty, marginalization, environmental degradation, conflicts, epidemics and migrations, there will be serious economic and political destabilisation at world level.
The basis for Denmark's proposal is the desire for a global agreement consisting, for example, of practical concessions from the wealthy part of the world, as only a global agreement can create the framework capable of translating the political declarations from Rio into genuine action in Johannesburg.
This excellent report confirms that.
I think that in this House, we sometimes fail to recognise the opportunities afforded to us in this context by the Treaty of Amsterdam, namely the co-decision procedure.
We are now in actual fact still further from that objective than when the Brundtland report was presented in 1987 and when the Rio Conference took place.
The number of poor people is increasing, not decreasing.
In the light of this, the Johannesburg Summit is very important, but, as has been indicated in this House, hopes are fairly low-key.
There are more than 20 000 different disciplines in our universities, and specialisation is, of course, good for solving a variety of individual problems.
I would like to point out, on the basis of my own almost three years of experience, that even in this House, the majorities are not always in favour of sustainable development and sustainable solutions.
We cannot talk about a global partnership for sustainable development without highlighting the link between poverty and environmental destruction.
This means more pressure on natural resources and more pressure on the environment.
My group will not vote for the Greens' Amendment No 5 to delete paragraph 26.
However, I should also stress that we are working from the French original.
The environment, social and cultural issues, development and governance are, of course, all intrinsically connected.
Vital resources are being further depleted and the gap between rich and poor becomes ever wider.
In another ten years, people will be asking what action we took in 2002 to address and to reverse the lack of progress in the past ten years.
The Johannesburg World Summit is another outstanding opportunity for tackling head-on the vast, complex problems facing the human race, most especially those people who live in the poorest countries.
During the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, we agreed to take sustainable measures for the environment and development via world-wide cooperation.
We are now 10 years on and the Summit in Johannesburg is around the corner.
The extreme diversity of the areas of activity addressed in the Lannoye report underlines this risk of distraction.
Obviously, there is no question of considering ODA as a substitute for international trade, but as a necessary addition to it.
It is absolutely vital to avoid perverse scenarios, such as food-producing crops disappearing because of cheap imports of agricultural products and, as a corollary to this, developing countries gearing themselves up to export cash crops - which do not foster local development - or raw materials, which are an unreliable basis for sustainable development because of the huge variations in price.
It is essential to redirect this aid towards reinforcing national State structures in developing countries, which in many cases are still fragile, and towards developing the rural world, which has to be a top priority.
Of all of the issues mentioned in the Lannoye report, Mr President, these are what I believe our priorities should be if we are to ensure that the concept of sustainable development makes a genuine contribution to poverty reduction in the world today.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, five years ago, in 1997, the Rio + 5 meeting took place in New York.
We know all of this and we are environmentally aware, but we keep increasing consumption, and we in the developed world, which represents 20% of the world population but uses 80% of its resources, are the ones responsible for it.
I say that the political measures are also nominal because the majority of them, following international agreements, are not carried out or are inadequately carried out.
The Kyoto Protocol has still not been ratified by the majority of the countries, after ten years of debate.
The United States are not going to sign it and, to give an example of a country that has agreed to it, my country, Spain, has increased emissions by 33 % compared with what it had agreed to do.
Mr President, I have rather mixed feelings about this debate and about the Johannesburg Summit.
Voluntary undertakings can help, but what is required is for a world environmental organisation within the UN to ensure that human rights and environmental regulations are complied with.
An economic system which on the one hand subsidises set-aside and destroys or stores food so as to prop up prices, while on the other leaving 826 million people undernourished, 16 million of them to starve to death, is an absolutely criminal system.
While huge private interests pillage the planet, taking advantage of the poorest, and widening the gap between the rich minority and the poor majority, the European Parliament adopts powerless resolutions, knowing full well that summits such as those in Rio, Monterrey or Johannesburg will not change anything about anything.
Ten years ago in Rio, we already identified commitments together, commitments which it has not been possible to keep.
Today we see that liberal economic policies have widened the gaps between countries, making the rich even richer and the poor ever poorer.
Today we are being asked to consider the future development of our planet.
The draft report is rather pessimistic in its assessment of developments to date.
The first point concerns the section of the communication on trade for sustainable development.
The Commission is still too willing to make the unthinking assumption that trade liberalisation is an aim in itself, rather than a tool to serve the greater purpose of sustainable development.
Contrary to the Commission's assertion that most causes of global inequality are unrelated to globalisation, the widening gap between the rich and the poor has developed precisely because unregulated markets and free capital mobility have tended to favour the countries, companies and individuals most able to harness these forces for their own benefit, at the expense of those with fewer resources or less political and economic influence.
Accelerated environmental degradation over recent years has occurred as a direct result of the increase in resource consumption and economic activity generated under globalisation.
Secondly, coming from Parliament's rapporteur on corporate social responsibility, the Commissioner will not be surprised to be told that his commitment to simply promoting the OECD guidelines for multinational enterprise is wholly inadequate, in Parliament's view, as the European Union's contribution to developing global corporate accountability.
That is why we will support Paragraph 59 in the resolution.
The EU should use its development assistance and other external powers to pursue the objective of binding minimum standards with respect to the social and environmental performance of companies.
Commissioner, you can make a good start by making a clear and unambiguous commitment in your response to support the proposed framework convention on corporate accountability at the Johannesburg Summit.
The world summit due to take place in less than four months' time in Johannesburg in South Africa is certainly an opportunity for the entire international community to give practical effect to its efforts and keep its promises in the field of sustainable development.
Addressing and attempting to provide a credible, sustainable response now to the issues which can no longer be put off - such as combating poverty, including the fundamental question of the debt which we debated during the last part-session in Brussels too, the huge social and health problems afflicting the poorest countries of the globe and, last but certainly not least, environmental protection, trade and access to international markets - would be a clear, coherent signal which the European Union itself, as the principal donor of aid, should be the first to give, in line with its recent undertaking to increase development aid by USD 20 billion by 2006 and by a further USD 7 billion from the year 2006 onwards.
Indeed, a unilateral approach not bound by a practical commitment on the part of the governments and the local authorities with adequate management and sound internal policies would serve little purpose.
The first positive signs which, despite everything, give us hope are the undertakings given at Barcelona - and, before that, at Laeken, Gothenburg and the G8 Summit in Genoa - to work towards providing the planned 0.7% of GDP in aid to the developing countries.
It is clear from the messages we receive on a daily basis that we can no longer satisfy our requirements by borrowing against the future of our children and future generations.
The Union must also recognise the right to development of developing countries, by taking initiatives and setting a proper example on all aspects of sustainable development and ensuring that non-governmental organisations are involved in all development plans.
The Stockholm Summit led to a general increase in awareness about the major threats to our environment.
The Rio Summit defined a new arena, that of sustainable development.
However, the concept of shared but differentiated responsibility has not gained the necessary support from the wealthiest countries.
In the ten years between Rio and Johannesburg there has been a significant change of scenery to a globalised society in which social and economic inequalities seem to be closely linked to environmental problems and to the governability of all countries.
We are aware of the key elements required to achieve fair growth in this globalised world, but we are not being determined enough in applying them.
Transparency and openness in the markets, knowledge management, innovation management and the transfer of technology, efficiency in our processes and products and accepting and practising social and environmental responsibility in all sectors are some of the most important elements.
Madam President, I should like first of all to thank Commissioner Nielson and also express my thanks for two commendable reports.
Poverty is spreading, and the gulf between rich and poor is growing every single day.
The use of natural resources is increasing every day, there has been no reduction in humanly induced climate change and, every day, species of animals and plants disappear forever.
There really is a vital need for us in the EU to assume a global responsibility at the World Conference in Johannesburg.
We should break the link between economic growth and increased environmental damage, namely through the increased use of renewable energy and cleaner technology.
Finally, I think it important that we establish more specific objectives for the proper use of natural resources and for safeguarding the diversity of the natural environment.
Let me say a few words about this New York preparatory conference, which took place from 25 March to 5 April.
The forthcoming preparatory conference in Indonesia has now been extended, and will now take place from 24 May to 7 June.
Today, corporate social responsibility requires us to recognise that if you take the top 200 largest multinational companies, their combined turnover is greater than the combined GNP of 172 countries.
So the 200 chairmen of these companies have enormous social responsibility.
It is a sad fact that progress towards the goals established at Rio has been slow and in some respects conditions are worse today than they were ten years ago.
It is a way of attracting the world's attention back to these issues.
We still have a lot of work to do to ensure that the last preparatory meeting in Bali at the end of May produces results.
The Union is in the process of identifying a series of key priorities for common action derived from our Sustainable Development Strategy.
Concerning education - the Union will also increase, over the next five years, the volume of development assistance in education and invite recipient countries to develop supportive policy frameworks and appropriate national budgets.
In this context we will also actively engage in the emerging debate on global public goods and will explore innovative mechanisms for international financial solidarity and for incentives for reducing externalities.
This was one of the elements that we missed in the Monterrey consensus but which the Commission and some of the Member States took up during the week of discussions in Monterrey, making sure that what was not included in the Monterrey consensus was in fact re-injected in the international debate during the conference.
We find it natural and necessary to move forward in creating global governance on a large number of issues, where the US Government, which is less multilateralist, favours a different course of action.
Several speakers, from all political groups in this House, have mentioned that we need to make progress in reforming the agricultural policy and the fisheries policy in Europe in order to be able to present ourselves in a credible manner internationally in these areas.
The reform of these two areas is as important as any other contribution by Europe to global development, as far as international consequences are concerned.
Let us ensure that the European Union plays a leading role in achieving an ambitious and action-oriented outcome at Johannesburg.
Some speakers have mentioned the lack of clear decisions concerning participation from the highest levels of government.
Let me use this occasion to inform Parliament that it is clearly the intention of the President of the European Commission to take part in the Johannesburg Summit.
Thank you, Commissioner Nielson.
The vote will take place today at 12.00 p.m.
In a world of increasing prosperity and plentiful food supplies, it is unacceptable that close to 800 million people still suffer from hunger and malnutrition.
Eliminating hunger is one of the most important challenges facing humanity, and can only be achieved through concerted action by national governments and the international community.
This has led the FAO to convene Heads of State and Government to the World Food Summit five years later to review the progress made in achieving the 1996 goals and to reaffirm the political commitment to fighting poverty.
The Commission has made considerable efforts in line with the 1996 commitments and its Plan of Action.
The forthcoming World Food Summit provides an opportunity to renew the Commission's commitment, to present our views and to report on progress made.
The Summit is to be seen in the broader international context of a series of high-level events, such as the least-developed countries' conference in Brussels, Doha, Monterrey and Johannesburg, providing fresh impetus and new opportunities to make progress towards sustainable development.
The Summit will be able to build on the commitments and results of the various international processes and should integrate food security objectives more firmly into the broader poverty reduction agenda and strengthen the links to sustainable natural resource management and through this to sustainable development.
This Summit will provide another political opportunity to pursue our dialogue with the developing countries and to demonstrate our solidarity with the less-developed countries and poor hungry people everywhere in the world.
However, over the last 25 years that has been largely identified with conflict situations, and the real problem is malnutrition.
It is exacerbated again when we close our doors in Europe to their agricultural exports, on the perfectly understandable grounds of hygiene and food safety.
It means that we prevent them from earning enough to afford to meet our standards.
We said we must solve the problem and, then, in 1996, we identified 800 million people undernourished.
We aimed again to halve that number by 2015: that means over 20 years, a reduction of 22 million a year.
But we are reducing at 6 million a year, and five years on we are not going to meet our target.
The paradox is that world food production has outpaced population growth: the 5.8 billion in the world today have, on average, 15% more food per person than the 4 billion 20 years ago.
In 2000, out of 5.8 billion people, 826 million people were still hungry.
I ask them to think that in the last 50 years almost 400 million worldwide have died from hunger and poor sanitation.
That is three times the number of people killed in all the wars fought in the entire 20th century.
Lastly, I ask you remember that every year some nine million people die from hunger.
It is therefore vital that at this summit the European Union participate fully in this battle to gain recognition of the fact that the right to food is a fundamental human right.
It is true that famine may seem to be the consequence of bad distribution of food between over-nourished and undernourished countries.
In this sense, promoting agricultural practices which are adapted to local conditions, processing food products locally, developing local markets and ensuring that developing countries have freedom of choice when it comes to new technologies are priorities which are just as important in regions stricken by famine, and this means that the WTO's provisions on special and differentiated treatment will need to be reinforced.
I would therefore ask our Commissioner to defend the ideas contained in Parliament's joint motion at the forthcoming World Food Summit.
It is always necessary to strike a balance between the interests of the people in the towns and the people in the country, but it is a sure thing that if the prices for agricultural products are not sound, farmers will stop producing and the population will become increasingly dependent on imports and food aid.
In addition, Europe must, in my view, also be cautious when it provides food aid.
As far as the prices on the world market are concerned, we cannot influence these, but we can enter into a dialogue with the governments in the countries in question to adopt a clear price policy, thus ensuring that imports from the world market do not adversely affect local food production.
Obviously I welcome the adoption of a European Parliament resolution on the FAO World Food Summit.
Five years after the first summit, it is clear that the progress made - a fall of 40 million in the 800 million who are suffering from hunger - is very small compared with the objective of halving the number of undernourished people by 2015.
The resolution contains some interesting paragraphs, such as the one about the need for the new WTO round to focus on development and food security and the need for concomitant reforms of the common agricultural policy and common fisheries policy.
The time has come to put an end to unfair commercial rules and practices where trade in agricultural goods is concerned.
The European Union should not delay in scrapping its export subsidies.
The objective of the millennium is to halve poverty by 2015, not to protect our farmers, our fishing fleets and our agri-food industries; that is why we will be asking you to support our amendments.
The right of everyone everywhere to a healthy and adequate diet should be recognised and respected in practice throughout the world.
The preparations for the World Food Summit should in fact make it possible not only to affirm this, but also to put it into practice once and for all.
The time is over for expressing wishes and making declarations, too few of which are followed by action, when there are 826 million people in the world who are still suffering from hunger - almost 800 million of whom in developing countries - and when there are 2 billion people who are badly nourished.
The commitment we made six years ago was already to halve the number of people suffering from hunger by 2015, but a quick calculation shows that at the current average rate of reduction of 8 million a year we will not be able to meet this objective.
Access to adequate food and the means of producing it and access to resources are the best ways to guarantee the right to food and make it a reality.
At this rate, the objective to halve the number of malnourished people by 2015 will not be achieved.
According to the FAO, trade liberalisation is beneficial to all countries.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, given that 826 million people worldwide suffer from chronic malnutrition, I welcome the fact that this House is aware of the situation and is adopting a resolution on the forthcoming World Food Summit in Rome.
At the World Food Summit in 1996, four priorities were set: food security, international agricultural trade, sustainable management of natural resources, and rural development.
Democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, a sound economic policy, gender equality and environmental aspects must be at the forefront of development.
The European Union has developed an agricultural model which is designed to establish framework conditions for all farmers in Europe, regardless of location - even in less-favoured and peripheral regions - to operate effectively with a secure income.
The job of the farmers is not only to produce food; they also play a key role in protecting and preserving natural resources and landscape.
Madam President, the World Food Summit, which is to be held in Rome next month, is part of a series of meetings that are setting the parameters for contemporary international relations, but I do not think that this is just one more summit: the World Food Summit concerns the most important fundamental right, the right to life or survival, which regrettably, hundreds of millions of people are currently deprived of.
For these reasons, the Socialist Group has worked particularly hard on this resolution and we have introduced the fundamental right to food security, the principle of food sovereignty and freedom of choice of agricultural and biological technologies, considering water and biodiversity as inalienable public property, the need for coherence among European policies, particularly among development and trade policies and the common agricultural policy, and the principle of proximity of production, processing and sale of food products, including food aid.
We think that the Rome Summit should be a success that revitalises the objectives of the millennium, including reducing hunger and malnutrition by half by 2015, an objective on which we are behind, because as has been said it is decreasing at a rate of 6 million people per year when the figure should be 22 million per year.
Mr Mulder also mentioned that giving food aid, as such, can be problematic.
He mentioned both the European Union and the United States and the agricultural policies here as part of the global problem.
The figures are the following: we give about USD 50 billion a year for development assistance globally, whereas we are spending more than USD 300 billion on subsidising agriculture in the US, Japan and Europe.
Finally, on the need to move towards food security and long-term development instead of continuing old fashioned food aid, again I could not agree more.
Amendment No 2: Mr President, with the agreement of the coordinators of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I should like to propose an oral amendment to Amendment No 2, which is, by the way, equivalent to Amendment No 40.
The amendment would then read as follows: '?between the economic integration of the Union already in place and its social and political integration.' The words 'already in place' would therefore be added.
Amendment No 6: Mr President, on Amendment No 6, I should like to draw the attention of the House - and particularly of all those who support the general philosophy of the report and intend a priori to vote in favour of it at the end - to the fact that this amendment stands in total contradiction to the rest of the report.
Mr President, the first sentence of paragraph 19 is translated incorrectly in the German version.
What our rapporteur Alain Lamassoure actually says in his own language is that the Union's own competences must remain small in number.
In German, it says here that the Union's own competences must remain limited.
I am sorry. (Parliament adopted the resolution) Report (A5-0157/2002) by Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the situation in Iraq eleven years after the Gulf War [2000/2329(INI)] Before the vote: Mr President, I have an oral compromise amendment to recommend to the committee, which updates paragraph 14.
Two days ago there was a new United Nations Security Council resolution on Iraq.
My oral amendment would delete paragraph 14 and take account of Amendments Nos 12, which would fall, 13 and part of 15.
Mr President, our Rules of Procedure specifically state that the explanatory statement shall be the sole responsibility of the rapporteur.
Most countries already use some method or other for fixing book prices, or they are considering introducing this in the foreseeable future.
In its resolution of February 2001, the European Council drew attention to the book's special cultural value and the importance thereof for promoting cultural diversity within Europe.
It thus appears that the book justifies its existence as a cultural entity and falls within the remit of Article 151 of the Treaty.
What is important is that all market operators involved obtain legal certainty via a stable, economic and legal framework, but also, and this is just as important, that the cultural diversity, of which the 'book' as an item of cultural value forms part, is respected and promoted. . (FR) The 2002 broad economic guidelines are less attractive than the Commission suggests.
The report calls for employment to be more flexible.
Nevertheless, economists, governments and the European Commission continue their relentless pursuit of ever more liberalism.
In particular, we support the measures to increase transparency (making Council debates public when it is meeting in legislative formation), to refocus the role of the European Council on providing impetus for the Union's development, to increase efficiency by separating the current General Affairs Council (GAC) into two formations: a General Coordination Council (with the national ministers for Europe) and a Foreign Affairs Council (with the ministers for foreign affairs).
Basically, however, the important thing to stress is that it bypasses the central issues that the Council is debating today, particularly the model for rotating the presidency or the working languages, amongst other matters.
The Lamassoure report responds to that demand and provides the Convention with valuable ideas on the crucial matter of the division of competences between the institutions of the European Union.
In my brief speech, I should like to point out that, in its initial draft, under the concept of partner regions of the Union, the report attempted to institutionalise the presence in the European Union's institutions of territorial units with legislative competence, that is, constitutional nationalities and regions, Länder, federal states that have a constitutional and, in certain cases, an historical and political identity as nations, which cannot be ignored or denied in this Europe of unity in diversity.
In the final report adopted today, however, this appropriate and necessary concept does not appear.
Nevertheless, it clearly welcomes the need to recognise the role of territorial units, pointing to the part they should play in implementing Union policies and encouraging the Member States to let them participate in those Union decisions that particularly affect them.
I think it is particularly significant that the Lamassoure report should ask the European Parliament's Committee on Constitutional Affairs to draw up a special report as a way for territorial parliaments with legislative powers to participate in the European Parliament's Committee on Regional Policy.
Thank you, Mr Fatuzzo.
Significant parts of the report confirm and clarify the current situation, but the report also includes other important features, such as a demand for open coordination necessarily to be accompanied by parliamentary control.
On certain points, we cannot, however, concur with the report.
The members of the French parliament have outlined this basic treaty, which is available for public inspection at our secretariat.
The report says nothing about a guaranteed high level of social protection for one and all, nothing about the implementation of a coordinated approach to pay rises, nothing about quantified, verifiable objectives in the fight against poverty and exclusion.
The majority vote therefore takes no account whatsoever of the demand - the broad-based and rightly exacting demand - of our citizens for the social situation to be improved and for real economic and social government to be created in the Union.
The European Parliament barely even defends what is an unsatisfactory social status quo and has confined itself to perpetuating the image of a bureaucratic Europe in the pocket of major financial interests.
On this basis, therefore, the attempt in this report to circumscribe or better define the competences of the Community - however well motivated - breaches our fundamental view of how nation-states should work together.
And for those of us who advocate a federal model, that division of competences means that we can establish a federal rather than a subordinate relationship between the Union, the Member States and the regions with legislative powers, which is the foundation for a federal Europe based on the principle of subsidiarity.
It is a shame that the proposal to create a status for a region associated with the European Union was ultimately rejected through the opposition of those who do not wish to understand that the European Union is a global entity that does not end at the borders of the Member States.
The fundamental texts of the European Union cannot continue to ignore the existence and functions of the regions with legislative powers as a result of, in cases such as Catalonia, an irrefutable sense of collective identity, because those regions are responsible for managing a large proportion of Community policies and because Europe cannot be built behind the backs of the people that are part of it.
Even in the case of competences shared between the EU and the Member States, the definition places the EU as the one that 'lays down the rules', 'coordinates' or 'intervenes in a complementary or a supplementary fashion'.
This means that, by majority decision, it will be possible for the EU to take initiatives in all the areas in which it sees itself as called upon to act, without the Member States being able to curb initiatives or seek the opinion of their national parliaments or the people of Europe.
I always wonder, Mr President, whether it is right that discussions on sustainable development in the world never include mention of the fact that one very important aspect of the lives of men and women in Europe is the quality of life they enjoy during the various stages of their lives.
Commissioner Nielson, I believe we are in complete agreement on the need to forge an effective partnership between the European Union and the United Nations, especially in the fields of humanitarian affairs and development.
Even so, I think the general sense of the communication is positive, especially when the United Nations is taken as a basic reference and pillar for the pursuit of the Community's aims and policies in these fields.
It is important, however, to go beyond the contradiction which is quite obvious today, in that, on the one hand the Member States play a major role in the United Nations, especially in terms of their financial contributions to its various activities and its budget or the large contribution made by the same Member States and the European Union itself to the various United Nations funds, whereas, on the other hand, they clearly both have relatively little political influence, particularly in the specialised agencies.
With a view to achieving the stated aims of this partnership, the Commission Communication points out the need for administrative arrangements: the ongoing negotiations on the so-called 'verification clause', which would ensure there is sufficient information on the use of available Community funds, must be brought to a quick and satisfactory conclusion; the 1999 EC-UN framework agreement should be renegotiated with a view to changing to an approach oriented more directly towards co-financing operations, output-based budgeting, and upstream programme financing.
We share these concerns and these positions, but we also stress that the pursuit of an effective partnership and the achievement of compatibility in structures and procedures must be promoted on three fronts: through strengthening strategic political dialogue in order to define policies and programmes; through strengthening cooperation on the ground in developing countries so as to ensure complementarity and coherence at an operational level; and through the creation of a stable financial framework, with consistent rules and principles in the two institutions, as well as the above-mentioned new framework agreement, of course.
In his report, the rapporteur advocates the need for more effective participation from the Union in coordinating its initiatives with the United Nations, not only on political matters and in decision-making, but also from an operational point of view and in managing projects and specific activities.
This should happen even more given that the economic and financial contribution from the Union is significant in terms of quantity and that its contribution in terms of material and human resources is just as significant in terms of quality.
This coordination must take place through increasing multilateral institutional political dialogue and through greater cooperation to improve the criteria for ensuring that development aid, whether bilateral or multilateral, is supplementary and complementary.
With the resources available it will not be possible to achieve the objective of eradicating poverty in the world by 2015, which we are committed to, and that is unacceptable.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although we recognise the need to move forward in consolidating the partnership between the European Union and the United Nations, we must keep in mind a series of general principles that should guide our policy towards the UN and point out the inadequacies that we currently see in establishing it.
The first thing identified and criticised in the report is the unjustifiable gap that exists between the substantial financial contribution from the European Union and its Member States to UN actions and the meagre political influence that the European Union has in terms of defining and implementing those actions.
The contributions from the Member States of the European Union represent 47% of the UN budget and more than 40% of its spending on peace-keeping operations but, with the addition of direct contributions from the Union, our contributions exceed 50% of the resources for the various UN funds and programmes focused on development and humanitarian and food aid.
All in all, here too we are continuing in the unacceptable role of paying but not playing.
The Commission Communication gives us a sense of a change towards more ambitious strategies and objectives that are more in keeping with what the European Union should represent on the international stage, and Parliament agrees, perhaps in even stronger terms, with the direction advocated by the Commission.
With this report we are also expressing the urgent need to establish the legal personality of the European Union so that it can cooperate effectively with the United Nations and its various agencies.
Finally, the Resolution establishes objectives, such as fulfilling the commitments made in the Millennium Declaration in this field, in which the European Union must be a coherent and powerful influence in order to promote the role of the UN as an agent of peace and a guarantee of solidarity, international social cohesion, justice and progress for humanity.
This should basically be easy, as the UN and the EU are natural allies.
However, I have often thought that development cooperation is one area in which we could improve our cooperation.
His explanatory memorandum sets out what exactly we are doing and, in his motion for resolution, he has drawn up a strategy for more effective policy cooperation between ourselves and the United Nations.
There is point at which we have to arrive before that cooperation can really become effective.
Nevertheless if there is one objective we should set ourselves in this area, it is to use our economic trading strength and our economic resources for the betterment of the Third World.
If we look at what we are discussing here, the problems we have in the Union today, the rise of the Right or whatever it may be, the slowness of economic growth, the unemployment which we have in parts of the European Union, we find that these are not serious problems at all.
If there is any thing we should do while we still have power and influence in the world, while we still have riches beyond the dreams of the vast majority of people who live on this earth; if there is any objective we could set ourselves which would be a historic achievement for a united Europe, it is to help along the less fortunate peoples of the world.
We can tap into the expertise of the various nations in the various regions of the world.
We can distribute responsibility around the various Member States, but we must have a coordinated policy.
Mr President, if we had known that this afternoon speaking time was duty-free we would have all taken the opportunity not only to speak for longer but to express ourselves in a more detailed and precise way, worthy of the subject.
In my group we are against the inequalities between the North and the South.
Mr Martinez, you see, I have not cut short anyone's speaking time this afternoon.
This only occurred at midday because the debate on the reports took longer.
This makes us an inadequate and even sometimes unwelcome partner because we lack predictability and a more long-term perspective.
The following year this was down to 4.1 years and, at the end of 2001, the figure was 3.6 years.
We have not finished yet, but things are moving.
It was adopted unanimously by Member States in November 2000 and Parliament has also endorsed this policy unanimously.
The main effect of this policy is to focus more clearly on poverty reduction or eradication as the guiding principle for whatever we do.
However, reality can be different.
Let me applaud the positive and constructive report of Mr Miranda.
Enhancing dialogue and cooperation to build a strategic partnership between the Community and the United Nations will improve the effectiveness and efficiency of development cooperation and humanitarian aid, thereby strengthening the Community's contribution to poverty reduction and human security.
Our Member States are the real owners of the United Nations as an organisation.
This is a very important, and also a very real, aspect.
We saw this demonstrated in Monterrey, and it is the intention of the Commission to continue along the same lines.
The follow-up to the Communication we are discussing is already well advanced.
A broad fact-finding exercise on mandates and capacities of potential UN partners was launched in November 2001 to determine how their key capacities match with our priorities.
The United Nation's response, called "A Vision of Partnership", supports much of the Communication and proposes to go even further.
Thank you, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
There were many speakers, also in our group, who would have liked to rise during this important debate - and I would like to congratulate the Commissioner on his excellent statement - but who were not granted speaking time, while the Members who were granted speaking time left afterwards.
Mr Nielson, you were just talking about the budget arrangements which are the basis for your endeavours in the field of food aid.
I think that would be helpful for us.
Sometimes we are not invited to participate in a consortium because of this problem and end up doing less interesting things.
This has created enormous problems in our decision-making and reporting back to Parliament.
Our colleagues cannot understand why we are so difficult to work with.
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr Morillon, Mr Bowis, Mr Posselt and Mr Gemelli, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Mr Andrews, on behalf of the UEN Group on the situation in Madagascar (B5-0289/2002); Mr Sylla and Mr Sjöstedt, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the situation in Madagascar (B5-0290/2002); Mr Rod, Mrs Maes and Mrs Isler Béguin, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the situation in Madagascar (B5-0301/2002); Mr Van den Bos, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the political situation in Madagascar (B5-0302/2002); Mr Fruteau, Mrs Kinnock, Mrs Carlotti, Mr van den Berg and Mr Scarbonchi, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the situation in Madagascar (B5-0305/2002); The situation in Madagascar is getting worse, despite efforts by international organisations and the successive promises made by the two leaders.
Mr President, as Mr Morillon has just reminded us, Madagascar is in dire economic and political straits.
I should add, as our motion states, that a settlement will only come about if no other state unilaterally recognises the legitimacy of either leader.
We have seen what happens in such cases in other regions of the world.
I think, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a role to which the European Union is eminently suited.
Not only is the humanitarian and economic situation at least as catastrophic as described in the motion before us; it is also mired in a bloody civil war and power struggle which threaten to split the country.
The Commission is monitoring developments in Madagascar closely.
It supports and welcomes the mediation efforts of President Wade of the Organisation of African Unity and of the United Nations to encourage a democratic dialogue between the parties with a view to achieving a peaceful, global and lasting solution to the crisis.
In line with this objective, the Union has welcomed the agreement signed by the two leaders in Dakar on 18 April, aiming at national reconciliation.
It considers that only an agreement between the parties, and national reconciliation, will make it possible to resolve the present crisis and to preserve the integrity and unity of the country.
The Commission is convinced that the Dakar Agreement remains the appropriate framework for a democratic dialogue and for the achievement of a solution.
We welcome the renewed efforts of President Wade and of the OAU to organise a new meeting between the two leaders in order encourage the implementation of the objectives of the Dakar Agreement.
The Union is prepared to offer political and technical support in order to restore civil peace and the principle of democracy and to find a political solution to the crisis.
Moreover, the implementation of the substantial Community co-operation programme will help resolve the economic crisis facing the country.
Moreover the Commission has taken measures, together with some Member States, in order to supply food and medicines and establish a food safety net.
The vote will take place at 5.00 p.m.
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mrs Maij-Weggen, Mr Bowis, Mr Posselt and Mr Sacrédeus, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Belder, on behalf of the EDD group, on Moluccas (Indonesia) (B5-0288/2002); Mr Di Lello Finuoli and Mrs Eriksson, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the situation in Molucas and Aceh (Indonesia) (B5-0296/2002); Mr Van den Bos, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the situation in Moluccas and Aceh (Indonesia) (B5-0297/2002); Mr Menéndez del Valle and Mr van den Berg, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the situation in Molucas (Indonesia) (B5-0306/2002); Mr Wuori and Mrs McKenna, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on Indonesia (B5-0307/2002); Mr President, Indonesia is a massive country, both in terms of population and area.
It is also a multi-ethnic, multi-religious and multi-region nation, and any Indonesian Government has our sympathy and goodwill in its efforts to hold its disparate regions, religions and cultures together.
Laskar Jihad is a threat to the first three of these.
Another 12 Christians died recently on the same day that the leader of Laskar Jihad, Thalib, launched his renewed jihad.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when President Wahid took office in Indonesia, Europeans that we are, we dared hope that the political climate in this country would improve under a president who defended human rights, was opposed to any form of sectarianism and supported the religious neutrality of the state.
In the new resolution before us today, the European Union reiterates four main points.
Thirdly, these initiatives only make sense if the economic situation in the archipelago really can be improved.
Without political and financial aid on our part, there is a risk of the walls closing round the contradictions of the Indonesian experiment, which would probably put an end to the democratisation process which, all said and done, is still in its infancy.
We call on the Indonesian government in our resolution to set up just such a committee of inquiry.
The terrorist group Laskar Jihad - for it is nothing less than a terrorist group - is digging the grave of anything that might be called religious life.
I also wish to emphasise that many Muslims in the Moluccas have been badly affected by this invasion by the terrorist group, Laskar Jihad.
Between 5 000 and 10 000 people have been killed, and 25 000 seriously injured.
The attitude of the Indonesian Vice-President, Mr Hamzah Haz, only adds fuel to the religious fire of the Moluccas.
This is why we would ask the Council and the Commission once again to urge the government in Jakarta quite emphatically to promote this difficult peace process to the best of its ability.
The Indonesian army plays a crucial role in this respect.
Like their fellow citizens, they are extremely shocked about the findings of the National Inquiry Committee into the assassination of Papua leader, Mr Theys Hiyo Eluay, on 10 November 2001.
In Paragraph 10 of this resolution, the EP unreservedly endorses this justified request.
Every life is important and sacred to us, but the situation in Indonesia has already claimed thousands of lives.
We appreciate the initiatives of the present Indonesia regarding the normalisation of relations with East Timor and Portugal.
Finally, we urge the United Nations Human Rights Commission not to persist in its inexplicable silence towards the events in Indonesia.
Mr President, like the Northern Ireland conflict, the conflict in Indonesia is far from being a religious conflict.
In Aceh, the same problem occurs between the indigenous Muslim subjects of the old sultanate of Aceh and immigrants from the main islands such as Java and Sumatra.
Together with the EU diplomatic missions in Jakarta, we have been monitoring the situation in the Moluccas since early1999 and we have participated in two fact-finding missions in late 2000 and early 2001.
In addition, the Commission has provided more than EUR 4.6 million in humanitarian assistance to the people of the Moluccas since May 1999.
The joint statement recognised the special autonomy law as the starting-point for further negotiations in an all-inclusive dialogue and confirmed the intention of both parties to work on an agreement for the cessation of hostilities.
The EU condemned the kidnapping and murder of Theys Eluay in November 2001 and called on the government of Indonesia to ensure a full investigation of this dreadful incident and to bring its perpetrators to justice.
In the case of Papua, too, it is clear that full implementation of the special autonomy legislation will be key to the resolution of the situation.
All of these measures are consistent with the Commission's support for the EU's stated position, which firmly supports the territorial integrity of Indonesia, while encouraging the government to make urgent efforts to address and resolve peacefully Indonesia's internal conflicts, whether separatist or sectarian in character.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr Tannock and Mrs Martens, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on the religious clashes in India (B5-0287/2002); Mr Vinci, Mr Sjöstedt and Mr Seppänen, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the violence in the State of Gujarat (India) (B5-0291/2002); Mr Van den Bos, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the inter-communal violence in the State of Gujarat (India) (B5-0298/2002); Mrs Lambert and Mr Messner, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on India (B5-0299/2002); Mr Sakellariou and Mrs Carrilho, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the situation in India (B5-0304/2002); Mr President, we are here to express our concern at the recent outbreak of inter-communal violence that has erupted in the Indian State of Gujarat - violence which has claimed hundreds of lives and left thousands homeless and destitute.
In addition, it is significant that the violence did not spread to other parts of India and large areas of Gujerat itself remained calm.
In the Indian Parliament, the government accepted the Congress Party opposition's motion as the basis for discussion with cross-party support, reaffirming its belief in democratic pluralism and respect for minorities in a giant country of over a billion people of diverse backgrounds and race, and the independent Justice Verma commission is now reporting back to the government.
Clearly lessons have to be learned, but we should not forget that India is currently reeling from a series of atrocious terrorist attacks by Islamic Jihadi extremists - most recently the killing of 30 people, including women and children, and scores of wounded on the outskirts of Jammu.
The international community must urgently do everything possible to prevent any further escalation of violence which might threaten global peace.
We have to take account of the atmosphere of high tension and violence that we are experiencing and which I believe has increased since 11 September, and the supposed clash of civilisations, with the war in Afghanistan and everything that goes with it, because that shows that we are seeing the consequences of the process that we call 'globalisation', which is gradually increasing inequalities and tension, and as a result, confrontations arise between communities.
Mr President, the violence between the different population groups in India cannot remain undiscussed.
A concrete example of this so-called multicultural society is the fact that Muslims occupy high government offices.
Last Tuesday, there were already 32 casualties in an Indian army camp too.
I take the view that the European Union and the European Parliament have every interest in continuing the support India as a constitutional state, where Hindus and Muslims are treated equally, in their endeavours to respect the democratic principles.
It was the action of those so-called "pilgrims" which resulted in an appalling massacre of 58 people.
The resolution states that whereas numerous independent inquiries by human rights organisations confirm that state officials and the police of Gujarat were involved in the clashes, this involvement runs deep.
The Human Rights Watch report states that the Gujarat Government chose to characterise the violence as a spontaneous reaction to the incidents at Godhra.
On 3 April India's national Human Rights Commission released the preliminary findings of its report on the violence, a strong indictment of the failure of the Gujarat Government to contain the violence.
There are now about 100 refugee camps organised by NGOs in the area.
Mr President, first of all, I do not think this emergency resolution is the best way to help solve the still worrying situation in Gujarat, mainly because the violence seen in this state during recent months is a manifestation of an extremely complex phenomenon affecting the whole region and not just India.
It is, however, quite right that the European Parliament should feel concern for a case that has already cost the lives of a about thousand people - or even more, as estimates vary according to the source.
In any case, on behalf of my group, I recommend adoption of this resolution without any changes, as we consider it well balanced.
Mr President, in the 1980s, there were violent clashes between Hindus and Sikhs, and in the early 1990s between Hindus and Muslims in Bombay and Uttar Pradesh.
Now violence has erupted in Gujarat, where murders, massacres and burnings alive by both sides have claimed around 1500 victims since February this year.
The Hindu nationalist parties justify their radicalism by referring to the spread of Islam in neighbour states and its influence on India.
The Indian Supreme Court's ruling of 13 March gives cause to hope that the violence will end.
Mahatma Gandhi led the Indians with a message of non violence, tolerance, and overcoming religious differences, in an epic campaign that has remained among the most symbolic victories of peaceful methods in politics, as it established the most populated democracy in the world and a society considered to be a model of co-existence of races, languages and, in short, of civilisations.
It is a paradox that it is precisely where the material and social needs are greatest that religious extremism and intolerance arises and builds up.
We are talking about a country where the inequalities are devastating and where the physical environment and natural disasters often make life even more difficult for the people, and it is there that conflicts between the followers of majority beliefs and other smaller communities have permanently marked and tarnished the history of the greatest democracy in the world.
The international community must ask the Government of India to guarantee the safety of its people with the same amount of effort that it is making with other challenges of development in which it is achieving significant success.
The Indian Government must maintain its efforts by dedicating sufficient resources to enable people who have been displaced to return to their place of origin and to re-establish harmony in Gujarat and other areas affected by the recent clashes that led to our debate, and they must also purge the cases of collusion by the security forces in episodes of religious and political violence.
I think that all this is the result of this inability, this democratic relativism spreading throughout Europe which prevents us from getting to the root of problems, which prevents us from remembering that, with 1 billion inhabitants, India is the largest democracy in the world, which prevents us from realising that, by going to Beijing rather than to Delhi, we are encouraging dictatorship, that by supplying arms to Pakistan for 40, maybe 50 years, we are strengthening the dictatorship, that by doing what we have done to the Taliban regime or by not doing what we should have done, we generated a tragedy in Afghanistan, especially for its women.
I think that if there is a problem, Mr Marset Campos, it is not globalisation but the lack of globalisation.
There is still a special unit within the Commission - I do not know if Commissioner Nielson can confirm this - which ensures that Indian textiles do not enter the territory of the European Union.
We cannot expect to keep on exporting our products to India while stopping imports of Indian products into our countries.
The Commission has a significant cooperation programme in Gujarat of more than EUR 100 million.
The mission I am talking about was different and more problematical because of its background, but it was necessary to send a mission to Gujarat to assess whether the riots had implications for the principles on which our cooperation is based, including respect for human rights and democracy and the rule of law.
In line with India's healthy and vigorous democratic tradition, a lively debate has been going on in the country about the consequences of the events in Gujarat and the responsibilities of the government at state and national level.
The central government and the state government have already taken steps in this direction.
Both in Delhi and in Madrid, the EU troika has raised our concerns about the crisis with the Government of India, and the Commission has participated in these démarches.
From a humanitarian point of view, the Commission is currently examining the possibility of giving humanitarian assistance to the victims of the riots through ECHO.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mr Van Orden, Mr Deva, Mr Parish, Mrs Foster, Mrs Banotti, Mr Corrie, Mr Gahler, Mrs Korhola, Mr Lehne, Mrs Maij-Weggen and Mr Sacrédeus, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, Mr Andrews, on behalf of the UEN Group, Mr Belder, on behalf of the EDD Group, on the situation in Zimbabwe (B5-0286/2002); Mr Sjöstedt, Mr Seppänen and Mrs Frahm, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the situation in Zimbabwe (B5-0295/2002); Mrs Maes, Mrs Isler Béguin and Mrs Lucas, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the situation in Zimbabwe (B5-0300/2002); Mr Van den Bos, on behalf of the ELDR Group, on the situation in Zimbabwe (B5-0303/2002); Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the negative developments in Zimbabwe are in inverse proportion to the degree of international attention focussed on this country since the rigged presidential elections in March.
One of the most dramatic outcomes, for example, are the growing food shortages which, as Commissioner Nielson has already mentioned in another context, are largely man-made, namely by the Mugabe regime itself.
However, I would also like to draw your attention to another quite scandalous aspect, namely the Council's response to the situation.
How has the Council managed to achieve a situation in which a country which is in freefall has vanished completely from its operational agenda?
We have already adopted several resolutions on Zimbabwe in this House.
Mugabe appears to be unassailable.
It is possible that the Council may decide to further extend sanctions in view of the stalemate and lack of progress in inter-party dialogue and the continued repression and violence we see in Zimbabwe.
EUR 18 million is available to cover immediate needs.
Unfortunately, about 18 months ago, one of our attempts to distribute food in an even-handed way was disrupted by violence.
Moreover, we have emphasised that in Zimbabwe - once a food-exporting country - the present food shortages are mainly the product of misguided policies and only partly the result of drought.
Mr President, I can say to Mr Gahler that a troika is one thing, but we, in the Commission are in an ongoing, quite intimate dialogue with governments in the whole region, with or without troikas.
It is also a good signal to our partners in the SADC region that we want to build further and, in a more systematic manner, have an ongoing, very direct exchange of views on problems of this character.
The debate is closed.
I just wanted to say this: I would ask that in future, whenever this occurs on a Thursday afternoon, the Sittings Service should amend the timetable by automatically adding an extra 20 minutes.
Therefore, I can only hope that, in future, the European Union will send a single representative to the United Nations, and I hope that this representative will be the young Mrs Kauppi, who has shown both the Pensioners' Party and all the parties represented in this Parliamentary House in Strasbourg that she cares deeply about elderly people.
