Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Kauppi for her report on the electronic company register, which I fully support.
I am pleased with the result and would like to thank all my fellow Members who voted in favour of raising the allowance from EUR 5 000 to EUR 10 000, meaning that less modulation funding is taken away from small businesses.
I am therefore pleased about the result of today's report on modulation and hope that the Council accepts our results. (PL) Mr President, today's vote ended almost twelve months of work on the preparation of our opinion on the operation of the common agricultural policy.
What I have in mind in particular are proposals dealing with the simplification of cross-compliance requirements, including postponement until 2013 of the implementation of requirements relating to the area of animal welfare, area C, by new Member States.
The policy must be flexible and the Member States must be permitted to raise or lower that modulation as they wish.
I regret there was not a vote in favour of the ALDE amendment regarding compulsory modulation.
The Fine Gael delegation supported these reports with caveats.
On the issue of milk quotas, we voted for greater flexibility and a higher percentage increase in quotas, giving farmers the opportunity to produce milk should they wish.
The raising of the franchise to EUR 10 000, on which Parliament has voted in favour, is welcome.
I hope that the Council will assist the ailing sheep sector in its deliberations of tomorrow and today. (BG) I would like to draw your attention to proposed amendment 54 tabled by Mr Deß and a group of other MEPs.
The milk quota due to apply until 31 March 2015 is designed to stabilise European milk markets.
This has put serious pressure on milk prices.
Pactio Olisipiensis censenda est! (DE) Mr President, I have voted in favour of the Capoulas Santos report and of Amendment 186, which recommends a franchise of EUR 10 000 for the modulation.
This concerns small-scale agriculture in Europe.
The modulation process must be applied in moderation.
This is why I have voted in favour of the Capoulas Santos report. (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against the report prepared by Capoulas Santos on the European rural development fund.
Written explanations of vote in writing. -? (LT) The European Environment and Health Action Plan 2004-2010 recognises the necessity to improve the quality, ability to compare and accessibility of data on health conditions and disorders linked to the environment by using the Community statistical programme.
This regulation establishes a joint system for organising Community statistics on society's health and workers' health and safety.
This regulation establishes a common framework for a systematic production of Community statistics in public health and health and safety at work.
I agree with the proposed regulation because it aims to consolidate the progress made in regular data collection in the two areas in question, by formalising the current informal agreement between the Member States, guaranteeing the continuity of data collection and establishing a regulatory framework for improving the quality and comparability of data through common methodologies.
in writing. - At present there are no harmonised standards with regard to Community statistics on public health and health and safety at work.
We have many problems that we need to confront and we need statistical data in order to keep up with the latest developments.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of the Scheele report.
It is obvious that we need Community statistics for public health and for health and safety at work in order to provide support for the strategies which are aimed at developing high-quality medical care, which is viable and accessible to all.
In today's vote, I voted to accept the recommendation on the Council's common position on the acceptance of the Regulation of the European Parliament and the Council concerning Community statistics on public health and health and safety at work.
This strategy will be effective if we provide people with appropriate health care and treatment facilities, and if we reduce differences in access to health care between European Union Member States.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Kauppi report.
Hence, when harmonising EU statistical systems, we must take their importance into account.
I support the Commission's proposal on the Regulation on European Statistics, which is a legal basis for collecting statistical data at a European level and which reconsiders the legal system in force, according to which the organisation of statistics at a European level is regulated.
in writing. - The collection of data plays a vital role in policy development and decision making.
The Commission's proposal in this area will give a firm legal status to data collection and I voted in favour of Mr Schwab's report.
However, the problem of the future of farming has not been solved: this will be the electoral debate in 2009 and in the political negotiations that will open immediately following the elections.
I confirm that I voted for the Capoulas Santos report, but I would like to point to two aspects that may become untenable for farmers in my country.
Decoupled support allows for more market-oriented, and therefore more competitive and more innovative agriculture, but we should not veer the other way to a fully liberalised agricultural market.
The June Movement has voted against Amendment 208 in the report, as the outbreak of infectious animal diseases is due to insufficient veterinary separation of the animals.
The aim of reforming CAP should be to improve policy so that rural life throughout Europe would be more sustainable on a social, economic and environmental level.
in writing. - While I supported the Santos report on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers, I am not in favour of the amendment that passed on increasing modulation.
The majority agreed to reduce direct aid by only 6% for 2009 and 2010.
The Commission had proposed to reduce aid by 7% in 2009 and 9% in 2010.
Under the original proposal, this switchover would have applied to subsidies from EUR 5 000 per annum and upwards.
The majority has now voted to increase that threshold to EUR 10 000.
Despite improvements made to this report, to which we contributed, not least with the adoption of our proposal to increase the modulation exemption from EUR 5 000 to EUR 10 000, in order to promote greater social justice in the payment of aid to farmers, we regret that other proposals were rejected, even though some received more than 200 votes in favour, such as support for sugar production in the Azores.
This would have been a way of combating the lack of social sensitivity of the Commission proposal, by simplifying the process and cutting red tape, which was actually used as a pretext by the European Commission to propose that aid of less than EUR 250 per year should be ended.
in writing. - The European Parliamentary Labour Party had a number of serious concerns regarding this report that will perpetuate and increase distortions within the European Union and on a global level regarding agricultural production.
In view of today's vote where a series of amendments were carried to reinforce and worsen this situation, I was unable, on balance, to vote in favour of either the amended proposal or the draft legislative resolution despite the fact that the report has other detailed elements I support.
In many ways, the Capoulas Santos report improves the Commission proposal, particularly by giving greater flexibility to Member States in terms of setting minimum thresholds for payments.
I therefore voted in favour of the threshold of EUR 10 000/year for the application of modulation, which will favour many small and medium-sized farmers, and the non-application of higher modulation rates to cooperatives and other legal entities made up of several farmers who, taken in isolation, do not receive more than EUR 100 000, in order to avoid unfairly penalising farmers.
The declared objective of the Commission is to adapt even further to the market by reducing direct subsidies for environmental and rural development policies.
These direct payments, which are essential to our farmers, should only be reduced by 1% in 2009 and 2010 and 2% in 2011 and 2012 at the most.
in writing. - I support a 2% increase in milk quotas over four years as I believe the 2% will give the smoothest landing ahead of the abolition of the milk quota system in 2015.
I voted against the report by Capoulas Santos on the new support scheme for farmers under the Common Agricultural Policy, because I consider that the sustainability of agriculture cannot be safeguarded at European level.
However, the crisis management system proposed by the Commission falls short.
in writing. - Conservative MEPs voted against this report as it is a step in the wrong direction.
We consider it to be essential that the decoupling process initiated in the 2003 Reform be extended to all sectors so as to allow farmers to produce what the market demands and achieve a genuine level playing field.
I voted in favour of the package because of the importance of the result achieved in terms of the Community contribution to insurance premiums and the retention of lower subsidies which are extremely important in countries such as Portugal.
I am voting in favour of the rejection of this report and in favour of the report being referred back to the committee since it has further weakened the reforms put forward by the Commission, which were already too small in scale and too slow.
The proposal that the Commission has produced is important for further measures of liberalisation in line with the reforms of 2003.
It was important for all farmers in the European Union.
I voted in favour of the report on support schemes for farmers as part of the CAP.
The European Union needs to support farmers by granting direct payments and developing the rural infrastructure.
I also feel that Member States should be authorised to use, as a supplement, 5% of their ceilings to support farmers or groups of producers in the form of financial contributions to expenses related to insurance premiums.
The regulations for the application of the CAP 'health check' are a decisive step in the control of agricultural production by monopoly business groups, in the aim of increasing their profits.
in writing. - With regard to the Santos report on the CAP Health Check, I need to clarify that, while I voted for the report, there is one aspect of the CAP, namely subsidies to grow tobacco, that I cannot support, nor have I ever supported.
Unfortunately, none of these amendments were adopted, and I therefore voted against the report.
The Capoulas Santos report contains one positive element in that it calls for the preparation of a report in 2010 to analyse the state of the milk market.
I also welcome the fact that the franchise for the modulation has been raised from EUR 5 000 to EUR 10 000 per year.
in writing. - Conservative MEPs supported amendments allowing for milk quota increases of at least 2% per year before the abolition of the quota regime in 2015 as a means of preparing the ground for a liberalised, market-orientated dairy sector.
I supported Amendment 4 which allows dairy quotas to be increased by 2% for 2008-2009 and by 1% for the marketing years 2009-2010 and 2010-2011.
The payments from the European Agricultural Fund are intended to provide support for farmers, in order to ensure that the countryside remains in a good agricultural and environmental condition.
In addition, the milk quotas have been increased and will come to an end altogether in 2015, which will lead to falling milk prices and will leave small farmers in dire straits.
The ones who suffer the most are small farmers in rural areas who are dependent on milk production, but who do not have the opportunity to produce milk on a large scale.
Consumers have to pay the increased prices for milk and food, but none of this extra money feeds back to the small producers.
Our farmers rely on subsidies and this is why I have voted in favour of the Capoulas Santos report.
I voted in favour of the report on support for rural development given from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD).
I voted in favour of Amendment 24 which specifies the start-up aid for young farmers amounting to EUR 75 000.
This may be granted in the form of a single premium, the amount of which will not exceed EUR 50 000, or of an interest subsidy, the capitalised value of which will not exceed EUR 50 000.
Where the two forms of aid are combined, the total amount will not be able to exceed EUR 75 000.
I also voted in favour of Amendment 12 which, in order to ensure adequate funding for rural development programmes, maintains that greater flexibility should be introduced to enable the use, within the same Member State, of unspent resources from the Structural Funds for this purpose.
I have voted in favour of this report in the hope that it will form the basis for better coordinated strategies in future and will counteract these negative developments.
