Croatia: 2007 progress report - Progress Report on the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (debate) (FR) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Hannes Swoboda, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on Croatia's 2007 progress report, and the report by Erik Meijer, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the 2007 progress report on the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, and the other fellow Members in particular, who have helped in producing a good, very balanced report.
Hence my request to Slovenia - Minister Lenarčič is here as a Council representative rather than as a Slovenian minister; he has to wear two hats - as well as to our Slovenian fellow Members in this House, is to help us overcome the bilateral problems.
Hence, also, the proposal in the report - I am saying this now very informally - that a third person or a third institution help to solve this problem.
rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, if the seven states of the former Yugoslavia all come to form part of the European Union in future, this will have happened on seven different dates as the result of seven different 'road maps'.
Slovenia is now a member, Croatia will follow within the next few years, and the third former Yugoslav republic concerned is Macedonia, which has been awaiting the opening of accession negotiations since back in 2005.
This will be possible if the two problems leading to discord that are attracting the most attention are solved definitively.
Relations between the two major language communities have improved greatly since the major conflict of 2001.
Greece has invested a large amount of capital in its northern neighbour and is the most emphatic supporter of the country's accession to the European Union.
In Macedonia's case, the refusal on 2 April to admit this country to NATO does affect its chances of joining the EU in the near future.
We are glad that the European Parliament has placed the discussion on the progress achieved by both the candidate states on the agenda of this session.
I should like to emphasise that the Slovenian Presidency is committed to continuing the process of expansion of the European Union and achieving further progress in negotiations.
The dynamics of negotiations depend primarily on the candidate state itself, and on its progress as regards the meeting of the benchmarks.
Croatia must continue its efforts to meet the benchmarks and achieve faster progress.
At the same time, we must not forget that the country has already proved its importance for stability in the region.
The country's role must be recognised, and it must be encouraged with positive signals to continue its constructive role in the region, and to continue with its reforms.
In its statement, following the NATO summit, the Slovenian Presidency has called for the negotiations on the name issue to be continued, and to be concluded as soon as possible.
The Slovenian Presidency also called for all the politicians in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to preserve the achieved level of unanimity as regards their country's European and Euro-Atlantic future.
It is a solid report that will reflect realities even better if Amendments 15 and 16 by the rapporteur are adopted, for instance concerning the timetable of the process.
The Commission is ready to present in this autumn's enlargement package an indicative timetable, or a conditional road map, for the technical conclusion of the accession negotiations in the course of 2009, preferably even during the mandate of the present Commission.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation with the Commission services on the report.
Evidently, political stability will be essential for success.
I met President Crvenkovski and Prime Minister Gruevski in Skopje some weeks ago, in March.
I repeat this call today, as it is no less important now, in the aftermath of the NATO summit in Bucharest.
While I congratulate Croatia and Albania on their success in Euro-Atlantic integration with NATO membership, I can understand the disappointment felt in Bucharest last week by the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
We want to prevent both countries becoming hostages to bilateral problems, and I appeal in particular to our Greek fellow Members to show movement on this issue, as the erroneous decision taken in Bucharest is already starting to destabilise Macedonia.
I appeal to the Council to open all the negotiating chapters as quickly as possible.
I should therefore like to say that we should acknowledge Croatia's political achievements and decisively support the country on its way into the European Union.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I should like to make a couple of comments on both reports on behalf of my group and myself.
We hope that this can be done apace, even though, as is always the case at the end of negotiations, the dossiers concerned are difficult ones, for example the dossier on shipbuilding.
Regarding FYROM - Macedonia - it is important, as the Commissioner has already said, that the country endeavour to reach the Commission's benchmarks this year, so that a decision can be taken on the start of negotiations.
It is true of Macedonia, too, that a consensus must be reached in the country itself; I am very concerned in this regard about recent problems with the Albanian minority and the vote being held in Skopje tomorrow or the day after, which may lead to the fall of the government.
I think that it is important to appeal to everyone in that country to ensure that the consensus holds and to prevent us being faced with a situation of new elections in the next few weeks; it is important to invest in this consensus.
Finally, we, too, think it a shame that no consensus could be reached in Bucharest on Macedonia's accession to NATO.
on behalf of the ALDE group. - (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, earlier this year the accession negotiations with Croatia slowed down and the process seemed to have come to a standstill.
The Croatian Parliament's decision to suspend the Ecological and Fishing Protection Zone that had been applied to European Union Member States has certainly helped in this regard.
I believe it is important to strengthen the fight against corruption, and ensure that it extends not only to more minor cases, but also to the 'big players', as Croatia has not made much progress so far in this regard.
If Croatia manages to do all this, then it really ought to be able to conclude the negotiations in time, within the deadline set in the report, and must be given every possible support to do so.
Croatia's accession process has a regional significance reaching far beyond the process itself.
If Croatia's accession is successful, it represents a model and an incentive for the other Western Balkan countries too.
Prompt and successful conclusion of the negotiations is therefore not only the joint responsibility of Croatia and the European Union, but also in their common interests.
Last, I would like to congratulate Hannes Swoboda on the outstanding job he has done in carrying out his duties as rapporteur.
Enlargement of the Union into the Western Balkans is a European contribution to stabilisation of this region - a region in which we failed in the 1990s.
Cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia is another benchmark for the country's readiness.
A great deal still has to be done in the environmental protection sector, however, in order to ensure ecologically sustainable development in line with EU targets.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (EL) Mr President, we, the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece, will not vote for the enlargement of the EU to take in FYROM and Croatia.
This typifies the intensification of rivalries in the region.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (EL) Mr President, the reverberations from the NATO summit in Bucharest have reached this Parliament.
It is high time the Macedonian government put such manifestation of hatred against Bulgarians under restraint because such manifestations of hatred do not belong in the European Union.
Thank you. (SV) Thank you, Mr President.
But, as so often before, the debate is reduced to discussing our various views of the dispute over the country's name rather than working out how we can get Macedonia into the EU as soon as possible.
Foreign policy is about getting solutions which best serve peace and security in one's own country or region and, in our case, Europe.
To prevent a country in southern Europe from becoming a member of NATO when the possibility arose is, to my mind, not a particularly wise move, given the complexity of the situation in the Balkans right now and all the challenges we face: independence in Kosovo, which is a fait accompli, the departure of the government and new elections in Serbia and still-ongoing police reforms in Bosnia.
Only three hours ago I spoke with a colleague here in the European Parliament who said: 'If they don't do as we want, we can block them, not just in NATO, but in the EU.
I urge you to support the report. (SL) In respect of the report on Croatia: both this House and the European Commission have almost enthusiastically received the news that the Croatian Parliament has suspended its decision to declare an Ecological and Fisheries Protection Zone.
Although my wish is that Croatia should, in any event, join the European Union as soon as possible, I would like to warn this House, and especially the rapporteur, my friend Hannes Swoboda, that the unilateral actions of the Republic of Croatia in respect of its borders with neighbouring countries are not an exception but a rule.
Its successful negotiations will help all other neighbouring countries to make additional efforts to gain candidate status.
Peace and stability, and fast and successful Euro-Atlantic integrations are in the interest of both the states and all the nations.
If this adventure has taught us something so be it, but if they have not learnt anything, then all the words and vows about finalising negotiations in 2009 is just dust in the eyes.
However, for any success the principle of pacta sunt servanda (agreements must be kept) is a necessity. (PL) Mr President, in making a constructive assessment of Croatia's progress, the European Union should not only set conditions, but also offer all possible assistance, bearing in mind the experience of other European states, the specifics of the region and the fresh memories of war that remain with the people of this country.
It should also be stressed that the last two years of cooperation have brought unexpectedly good results, and this undoubtedly bodes well for the process of integration with the European Union.
Over the last two years Croatia has made laudable progress in most of the areas covered by Community law.
I would consequently express the conviction and the hope that with mutual engagement and suitable support from other Member States, negotiations will be successfully completed in time for the accession treaty to be finalised before the European Parliament elections in June 2009. (DE) Mr President, a warm welcome to our counterparts from Macedonia who are following this debate.
There is admittedly a naming dispute, but we cannot ignore the fact that, in 1995, Greece made a binding statement, valid under international law, agreeing that the naming dispute would never be an obstacle to Macedonia joining the international community, the EU or NATO.
Greece has broken this internationally binding agreement, and if we want to impose reforms in this regard, I say that Greece is in breach of European criteria and not Macedonia.
Nevertheless, Croatia's rapid admission, which has now come within its grasp, should not in my view lead to automatic entry for any other states.
I also think it was a remarkable and wise attitude that led to our Croatian friends' decision not to enforce the fishing protection zone in the case of European Union Member States in the interests of Croatia's membership of the European Union.
Mr President, the fact that the Croatian Serb minority has been given the post of deputy prime minister in the current cabinet has contributed greatly - as others have already said - to stability in the region and peace among the different ethnic groups.
The report carries a positive message in that it recognises the progress made by Croatia as regards stability in the Western Balkan region, as regards ensuring the country's economy is ready to compete in the European Union context, and as regards institutional reforms and adoption of European Union legislation.
Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate Hannes Swoboda and Erik Meijer on their 2007 progress reports on Croatia and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia respectively.
The report comments on economic performance, the adoption of several crucial laws on prosecutors, and progress in the fight against corruption.
The report calls on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Greece to increase efforts to overcome the dispute on the name of the country.
It only encourages both sides to carry on negotiations, despite what happened at the NATO Summit in Bucharest last week.
Fortunately Javier Solana said yesterday in the European Parliament Foreign Affairs Committee that negotiations on the name will continue.
If the two sides agree, NATO can take a decision to invite the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia immediately, even at ambassador level, so a new summit will be needed.
The European Parliament should give a clear lead for the country towards European integration. (DA) Mr President, when we talk about the Balkans, we have to look at the region as a unified whole.
Intensifying the existing regional political cooperation in the form of a Balkan Council will enable these countries to enter into practical, forward-looking cooperation, which will offer an opportunity to stabilise the region and make those countries that are not yet Member States or official candidate countries more prepared for accession. (PL) Mr President, Croatia, that old European nation with a long history and an interesting culture, should be brought into the European family of nations known as the European Union as soon as possible.
For Greece, however, the name issue is not simply a historical, psychological or emotional problem.
Finally, I should point out that even after the postponement in Bucharest of an invitation to FYROM to join NATO pending the resolution of the name issue, Greece is in favour of continued negotiations.
I am convinced that, with the right administrative capacity to implement the required legislation, Croatia, in both the EU and NATO, will be a solid factor of stability and progress in an area that still needs our full attention.
Croatia plays a key role in the democratic development of the Western Balkans, and it is immensely important that the process should continue.
I welcome the temporary lifting of the restrictions in the Ecological Zone in the Adriatic.
It is a positive signal for relations between Slovenia, Italy and Croatia, but environmental considerations must continue to weigh heavily in our treatment of this unique marine environment.
Finally, I welcome the work done by the EU Committee of the Croatian Parliament, which is headed by my good friend Vesna Pusić.
An international arbitrator should have the opportunity at long last to resolve the border issues between Slovenia and Croatia.
Croatia has a key role to play in the region and should be admitted to the European Union soon.
Bilateral issues must not be an obstacle.
I have been monitoring the situation there since 1992 and would like Macedonia and Greece to find a solution at long last to the dispute regarding the name, particularly for the young generation.
With the independence of Kosovo and the recent failure of NATO accession, the situation is even more complicated.
Many decisions depend on the common accord of the Member States, not only in the European Union but also in NATO, and any Member State may use its veto.
Following the outcome of the NATO summit in Bucharest, it is in the interests of all sides that talks should continue and agreement be reached as swiftly as possible.
In reply to a question I asked the Council regarding border disputes between Slovenia and Croatia, the Council informed me that it had adopted a revised accession partnership with Croatia, the implementation of which is the main precondition for progress in the negotiation process.
Like the rapporteur, I am also convinced that if it continues with the progress it has already made in the integration process, Croatia will satisfy all the conditions for accession to the European Union and will become an important catalyst for all the other countries in the Western Balkans. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate my colleague Mr Swoboda for the work he has done and the quality of his just and balanced report highlighting the progress made particularly with the Constitutional Law on National Minorities, and the work still to be done such as the necessary strengthening of the judicial system.
The drama of Serbia and Kosovo should caution us against taking hasty decisions.
The report by my colleague Mr Swoboda quite unambiguously identifies all the issues that needed to be identified and, in my opinion, the report also clearly reflects Mr Swoboda's political experience and professionalism.
This is not very wise, it is not fair and it is not helping either the cohesion policy of the EU or the situation, because it will not only make the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia more intransigent in its claims about the name in the negotiations and it will also mean that there will not be a proper solution for a long time to come. (SL) I too am glad that our neighbouring country Croatia has suspended the implementation of the Ecological and Fisheries Protection Zone, which has been the main obstacle to the negotiations being able to continue.
This can only encourage it to try and resort to resolving other issues in a similar fashion.
Your comment, however, is really very interesting.
First of all, I should like, in the name of the Council, to express my agreement with the statement made by Commissioner Rehn, that this is a crucial year for Croatia on its path to European Union membership.
Once again I should like to thank the rapporteur, Hannes Swoboda, for the report he prepared, providing a very clear picture of the current situation, the level of development reached, and the future challenges.
The fact is that its progress will primarily depend on Croatia itself, and on the pace and the quality of reforms they must complete.
The Slovenian Presidency supports Croatia's progress primarily because its fastest possible progress towards the European Union membership is important for Croatia, but also because it is important for the European Union, and because it is important for the region as a whole.
And it is on this basis that we hope that Croatia will progress as quickly as possible, and the Slovenian Presidency will work towards this end.
Any political crisis, or possibly early parliamentary elections would slow down the necessary process of reforms for a couple of months.
Also important is that, with the Albanian party DPA rejoining the government coalition, the internal political situation has been consolidated.
It is important that work completed during this period, which at the end of the year gained additional acceleration, is continued, especially as the political dialogue has been rekindled, and as concrete results have been achieved in the sphere of reforms.
The Slovenian Presidency will continue to provide the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia with decisive support on this path.
I would like to conclude with the following thought: the issue of Western Balkans stability and the region's faster integration into the European framework must remain one of the Union's top priorities.
The fact is that any investment in the future of the Western Balkans in Europe is also an investment in the future of the European Union.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, first, let me thank Members for a very substantive debate, which, in my view, underlines the importance of the European perspective for the Western Balkans.
I would also like to use this opportunity to thank the Slovenian Presidency for making the Western Balkans a key priority of its term of office.
I found the Foreign Ministers' informal meeting in Brdo, Slovenia, some weeks ago, to be very important, and it certainly gave a new stimulus and dynamism to our policy in the Western Balkans, like this debate.
It is encouraging that the Macedonian Government has established an action plan to meet benchmarks and a new national plan for the adoption of the acquis.
Now I want to encourage the country to implement its own plans and thus pave the way for a positive recommendation from the Commission in the coming autumn.
The Commission is ready to work on a proposal to establish a fisheries protection area in the Adriatic, as foreseen under the new Mediterranean Regulation.
I believe that the Nordic Council has already played such a role: it has been used as the model for the Regional Cooperation Council for South-Eastern Europe, based in Sarajevo, which is now the forum for regional political cooperation in the Western Balkans.
This is because a broad consensus has been achieved in the country and, despite a slight disagreement with regard to the composition of the Joint EU Committee, this will hopefully be the case in future as well.
It is also because - even if the country has sometimes had to force itself to do so - it has achieved a real consensus with its neighbours, as was the case with the fishing zone, for instance.
Therefore - if I can now establish a link to Macedonia - I should like to make a very clear appeal to our counterparts in Macedonia to learn from this example, to try to reach a consensus at domestic level and also with its neighbours.
As Mrs Pack and many others have said, however, both countries - Greece and Macedonia - have to make a move: and this within the next few days.
Making a Macedonian domestic political crisis out of it at this point in time does not help Macedonia.
Hence my appeal once again to continue to establish this common ground in Croatia, my appeal to attempt something similar in Macedonia as well, and my appeal to the Presidency to continue what it has been doing in recent weeks, namely making progress for the region as a whole.
rapporteur. - (NL) Madam President, I have heard a great deal of agreement here on Macedonia.
Apart from Mr Stoyanov, who is probably harking back to Macedonia's original association with Bulgaria under the Treaty of San Stefano in 1878, everyone, Greece included, wants to see Macedonia take its place as an equal in the European Union.
Greece expects Macedonia to change its constitutional name, and until 2 April Macedonia expected Greece not to block its accession to the EU.
Both parties want this enlargement of the European Union to succeed, but at the same time are helping to delay it further.
Madam President, I should like to conclude my speech in this joint debate on two candidate countries with one remark about Croatia for which my group has not requested separate speaking time.
Croatia wanted to join the EU at the start of 2009, but it will be 2010 or 2011.
It is not without reason that the EP delegation to Croatia is visiting the Rijeka shipyards on 29 April.
In my group's opinion, we should not make any requirements of Croatia that the population could perceive as an insoluble problem and that could make the country's accession to the European Union unnecessarily controversial.
in writing. - (RO) I believe the debate on the 2007 Report on the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia should point out two key conclusions: the need for this country's continuous and firm progress toward integration into the European and transatlantic structures, as well as the importance of promoting the young generation in this republic.
The European and transatlantic perspective of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is unanimously acknowledged and the 2007 Report welcomes the efforts made in this direction.
I also hope that the respect for the rights of ethnic and national minorities will continue to be a priority of the Macedonian Government in order to ensure a solid system of protecting all communities, including the Romanian-speaking people.
in writing. - (IT) Today we approved the report by Mr Swoboda on Croatia, with a view to its accession.
The accession of Croatia should become a driving example for all other candidate and potential candidate countries in the Western Balkans.
in writing. - It is an encouraging report about Macedonia's progress.
Such a consensus greatly helped my country, Estonia, to succeed in the EU accession.
Macedonian citizens' entry into the EU countries has become an urgent problem.
Against the background of the impressive progress Macedonia has achieved I strongly suggest that the Commission could start accession negotiations already in 2008.
in writing. - (RO) I would like to make a remark on the NATO Summit, which recently took place in Romania, and on the implications of the decisions adopted on some Union issues.
More democracy and reforming the institutions in the neighbouring countries, such as Ukraine, means more protection at the external borders, more control over organized crime and a new step in spreading the values on which the European Union relies.
in writing. - (PL) Croatia has made successful efforts to overcome existing divisions and to achieve unity between peoples, which is one of the aims of European Union membership.
It is also worth stressing that Croatia has made considerable progress in most of the areas covered by Community law.
The improvements noted in the Croatian economy and the reforms in the environmental protection sector are further achievements of the Croatian Government that facilitate the accession process.
The report on the progress made by Croatia in 2007 supports the belief that this country, by implementing the goals facing it, is taking an active approach to the accession process.
Although there is still a lot of work to be done, especially in the areas of minority rights, border-related issues and judicial reform, Croatia should continue vigorously with its efforts to obtain membership of the EU as soon as possible in accordance with the accession criteria.
Croatia's future membership is a logical next step, following the accession of Slovenia in 2004, to increase EU involvement in the region and encourage neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina as well as all the other Western Balkan countries to continue with the consolidation of democracy.
The Slovenian Presidency and the upcoming French Presidency should provide Croatia with all the necessary support to overcome the final obstacles on its way to becoming a member of the European Union.
in writing. - (HU) Enlargement and integration of new Member States has been the European Union's most successful foreign policy.
The next phase of this policy must involve the accession of Croatia to the European Union in the near future.
Croatia's accession to the European Union must not be delayed; Member States' support for enlargement must not wane.
in writing. - According to Eurostat data, Croatian GDP per capita stands at 53 per cent of the EU average.
Croatia's GDP growth is at 6 percent.
Let us make sure that we do not hinder its development and ensure that it does not have to wait longer than 2009 to become a Member State.
