Restructuring of the sugar industry - Common organisation of the markets in the sugar sector (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the report by Katerina Batzeli, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the restructuring of the sugar industry - C6-0176/2007 -, and the report by Katerina Batzeli, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the common organisation of the markets in the sugar sector - C6-0177/2007 -.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, let me start by thanking Ms Batzeli and the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for all the work they have carried out on this proposal.
As you know, the restructuring fund did not fulfil our expectations during the second year of the restructuring period, after actually quite a promising first year.
As you might remember, we were expecting about 1.5 million tonnes of quota to be renounced in the first year and more than 3 million tonnes in the second year.
In reality, the total renunciation in the first two years amounted to only 2.2 million tonnes against an expected 4.5 million tonnes.
This proposal aims to make a very attractive offer to those undertakings and to those growers that want to give up quota production in the marketing year 2008/09, while in principle keeping unchanged the conditions for the last year of the restructuring period.
The percentage of the restructuring aid reserved for growers will be fixed at 10% and this payment will be then supplemented by a top-up of EUR 237.5 per tonne of sugar quota and this sums up altogether to EUR 300 per tonne.
And, last but not least, as an additional incentive for undertakings, their individual restructuring effort will be taken into account in case of an obligatory final quota cut.
All these improvements should make the fund a success in the third year, without changing the common market organisation for sugar on the basis of the reform that we agreed in 2005.
However, the final decisions by the Council in 2005 on the review of the sugar sector could not meet these high expectations.
This decision and the way it is implemented at national level mean that the reduction in production to date has been no more than 2.2 million tonnes, whereas the target is approximately 6 million tonnes by 2010.
We did not seek to propose a multi-speed review since in many regions such as Ireland sugar production has already been reduced in part or totally abandoned.
In addition, we have considered the existing budgetary savings amounting to approximately EUR 3 million.
During the second stage the Commission's proposal should be implemented; accordingly, the Member States and those undertakings which have renounced quotas during the restructuring regime would be exempted.
As for the amendment of Regulation No 320/2006 on the restructuring regime, which is in any case the central aspect of the reform, my report proposes: firstly, to increase to EUR 260 per tonne the lump sum of EUR 237 per tonne which the producers will receive.
As rapporteur, I should therefore, like to endorse Amendments 27 to 30, which introduce three fundamental principles: firstly, a retroactive measure, because producers, undertakings and regions which have complied progressively from the start of the new CMO cannot be penalised; secondly, the amount of aid must be reasonable and acceptable to all sides (and not EUR 625 for one year); thirdly, it is important to increase retroactively and until the end of the transitional period the amount of aid given to mills for partial abandonment of production.
It is a major problem, however, that there are cases where countries have already renounced some of their quotas, only to find that the regulations have subsequently changed.
Firstly, it was decided a few years ago, in the wake of the arms initiative, that as from 2009 everything except arms may be supplied to Europe from the poorest countries.
Commissioner, we put forward proposals to Parliament in 2005 and you have just said that the restructuring fund did not fulfil our expectations.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (HU) Mrs Fischer Boel, I think Katerina Batzeli's report and Surján László's opinion are technically sound and politically very correct.
The best sugar manufacturer has ceased operating, but neither the manufacturer nor the growers have come off badly.
Lastly, I think it is very important that undertakings should not have to pay the restructuring levy if they reduce their quota.
The exceptional activity shown by European concerns in buying up sugar factories in Eastern Europe prior to their accession to the EU gives rise to the suspicion that this reform was already being planned back then, with vast sums in compensation for the owners of sugar factories who will be shutting them down.
The restructuring fund and restructuring aid are essentially discontinuations.
Another important point is that you now want to limit restructuring aid going to growers to 10%.
There is to be no let up in the diminishing rate of production, fixed at a shortfall of 2.2 million tonnes and increasing to a planned shortfall of 6 million tonnes.
At the same time, to win allies during the Doha Round, Pascal Lamy, who was at the time European Commissioner for Trade, offered to abolish customs duty for the 49 least developed countries with the 'Everything but arms' programme.
In 2009-2010, Europe will begin to see imports of sugar in theory from poor countries, but which was produced with Kuwaiti, Saudi or other capital, in the Sudan or elsewhere.
So there is some hope at least: in 2011, there will be a new regulation telling us that there is a sugar shortage and that we need to start growing it again! (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of this Parliament for the Czech Republic where the sugar market has already been restructured, I cannot agree with the proposed changes.
First and foremost, I absolutely do not agree with increasing the aid in cases of partial restructuring to the level of full restructuring aid.
Secondly, increasing the amount of restructuring aid to beet growers and contracted suppliers of machinery from 10% to 50% is totally unjustified.
Sugar quotas have been reduced by 2.2 million tonnes but at the same time the Commission has been selling millions of tonnes of new quotas.
At the same time, the big producer countries have only increased their production.
The result of this has been that the small countries and those countries which are poorer off in terms of their natural conditions have had to reduce their sugar production.
The administrative and financial pressure to cut back sugar production from 18 to 12 million tonnes is not convincingly justified.
We always uphold food sovereignty and we therefore think it is unacceptable that a country such as Portugal, with only one sugar factory in Coruche and one small factory in São Miguel, in the Azores, which scarcely managed to supply half the country's consumption needs, should be confronted with the obligation to reduce its quota for sugar produced from sugar beet.
It is therefore essential - as thousands of small and medium-scale farmers asserted on the streets of Porto on 17 September whilst the Agriculture Council was meeting in Portugal - to change policy in order to take account of the specific situation in each Member State and their own production and consumption needs, securing farmers' incomes and the development of rural areas.
In modifying the restructuring scheme, it must be taken into account that some Member States have renounced a substantial portion of their quota.
Meanwhile, the maximum amount of restructuring aid should also be granted in instances where facilities are not dismantled but converted to alternative uses such as biomass or bioethanol production.
This was acknowledged by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development when they proposed, among other things, raising the amount of aid set aside for growers and entities providing services from 10% to 50% of the aid allocated to a sugar factory business, and raising the extra payment for growers for the marketing year 2008-2009 from EUR 237.50 to EUR 260 per tonne of the quota which was being renounced.
I think that biofuels offer new opportunities to sugar beet growers and represent the future. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, the reform of the sugar market which was begun in 2005 is not achieving the anticipated results, despite huge financial outlay.
Despite large financial incentives, amounting to EUR 730 per tonne of reduction in sugar production, in the Community as a whole sugar production has fallen by barely 1.1 million tonnes, instead of the anticipated 6 million.
And finally, thirdly, if these solutions fail to produce a marked improvement in the sugar market, it will be necessary to reduce production, but using a linear factor that is the same for all Member States. (CS) Madam President, I represent a country that invented the sugar cube.
That is why I support the amendment which my colleague, Mr Fajmon, has tabled and which states that this proposal should not apply in any way to Member States whose quotas have already been cut by more than 20% unless they themselves then decide otherwise.
In Finland, while we are now discussing the subject of cuts in aid to the south of the country under Article 141 of the Accession Treaty, the rural population's belief in the European Union is very weak.
Now farmers can say 'I want to leave and I want my EUR 300 per tonne, and I get the compensation for the reduction in prices on top of that'.
Written statements (Article 142) in writing. - (HU) Madam President, in its current review of the sugar reforms, the European Commission is requiring European farmers and the European sugar industry to make yet further unreasonable sacrifices in the name of restoring a balance in the sugar market.
This would be equitable and just towards countries that have already made a serious effort to implement the sugar reforms.
At the same time, however, I think it is important that a review of the sugar reforms should also include measures to make the sugar industry more competitive.
The sugar market is just one more disreputable example of this.
