Third country nationals subject to or exempt from a visa requirement when crossing external borders (debate) The next item is the report by Tanja Fajon, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Council Regulation (EC) No 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement - C7-0112/2009 -.
Naturally, I am talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania.
I would also add that, tomorrow after the vote, I will ask for the floor in order to deliver a special political statement, a common statement of Parliament and the Council, which strongly supports the abolition of the visa requirement for all the countries of the Western Balkans.
In this statement, on which we shall vote separately tomorrow, we will both welcome 19 December, the date when the visa requirement will be abolished for Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro, and call on the European Commission to prepare, as soon as possible, a proposal that the visa requirement for Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania be abolished as soon as they have met the relevant criteria.
I would like us to set a clear date for the abolition of the visa requirement for Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania, although I am aware of the demanding nature of the procedures involved.
I hope that the summer of 2010 will prove to be a realistic date for the abolition of the visa requirement for these two countries.
Madam President, I wish to reply to the question put by Mrs Corazza Bildt and to say that the Swedish Presidency has indeed been very active in this process which, as Mrs Fajon has just ably explained, enables us to offer a number of citizens from the Member States concerned, and young people in particular, the possibility of engaging and interacting more with this Europe, which they are, at times, rather unfamiliar with.
However, as you just said, Mrs Fajon, it is already very encouraging for them to hear that their neighbours already have this option of being exempted from the visa requirement, and I can confirm to you that I personally will do everything in my power to ensure that Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina can obtain this visa exemption as quickly as possible, as you want.
At this stage, we are keeping Albania and Bosnia in Annex I to the regulation, while reaffirming the European Union's commitment to help these two countries meet the criteria in their road map, and thus to be exempted from the visa requirement in accordance with the procedures in force.
In this context the Commission supports the text of the joint political declaration, which confirms this strong commitment by the Union to implement as quickly as possible the second stage of this visa liberalisation process for the citizens of Albania and Bosnia, Mrs Fajon.
on behalf of the PPE Group. - Madam President, the PPE Group is committed to speeding up visa liberalisation for all countries in the Western Balkans by July 2010.
We welcome and support the proposal to grant visa liberalisation for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia by Christmas this year.
We understand the plea of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Albania - a young generation which has been locked in and left out and feels imprisoned.
It is regrettable that the slow start by the authorities in Albania, and Bosnia and Herzegovina left them behind.
The task for our rapporteur was to make a breakthrough on visa liberalisation while taking the House with her.
The declaration looks to visa liberalisation for Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro, to an acceleration of the liberalisation regime for Albania, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and to a sensitive compromise on the question of Kosovo.
I very much hope - and I am addressing Commissioner Barrot in this regard - that you can convince the Council that the goal of visa liberalisation should also apply to Kosovo, so the dialogue will now begin, and so that visa liberalisation will also be achieved for Bosnia and Albania by no later than the middle of next year.
How often since 2000 have we in this House, in declarations and in public debates, wished for the freedom of travel - visa-free travel - for the countries of South-Eastern Europe.
There is still a hint of sadness in that Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo cannot yet join them, but in December, we expect the Commission to acknowledge the huge progress that Albania has made and to see that Bosnia and Herzegovina has also made a certain amount of improvement.
However, we must not forget Kosovo.
Thank you for this opportunity, Mr Barrot. (HU) Europe and the European Union started off as a peace project and are now going through the longest peacetime period in history.
However, it is important that we do not create new divisions in the region, but ensure that every country can participate in the visa-free travel scheme as soon as possible. (NL) Tomorrow, the European Parliament will be voting on the abolition of the short-stay visa requirement for Balkan countries.
Not all the countries for whom a road map was drawn up are eligible to receive the waiver on 1 January.
It is up to the European Parliament to send a signal to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania tomorrow.
We have seen that a great deal has been done to meet the benchmarks, and we call on the Commission to help Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania to meet all the requirements as soon as possible. (SL) For the citizens of the Western Balkans, the abolition of the visa requirement for travel to the European Union does not only have a technical dimension, but an exceptional political charge and significance as well.
What their free travel in the EU amounts to is a step towards fully-fledged membership of the EU. (HU) I would like to welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs.
Political signals should not be placed in a footnote or in an annex to a European directive or regulation; they need to be formulated properly. (PL) Madam President, I am glad that the citizens of Western Balkan countries will be able to move freely around the European Union.
We should also remember that in 2012, the European football championships will be held in Poland and Ukraine, so the possibility of free movement will be especially important. (RO) I, too, wish to stress the importance of freedom of movement as a fundamental right, and I reconfirm that numerous citizens from countries in the Western Balkans will enjoy this right.
rapporteur. - Mr President, once again I thank all those who made contributions, which prove that the European Union strongly supports visa liberalisation for all the countries of the Western Balkans.
Once again, I welcome the abolition of visas for Macedonia, Serbia and Montenegro on 19 December, and I really hope that Bosnia and Herzegovina and Albania can follow as soon as possible.
It also concerns Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania and Kosovo.
