In accordance with Article 151 of the treaty, the Community's actions must help encourage cooperation between Member States in order to contribute to the flourishing of Member States' cultures, while respecting at the same time their diversity at national and regional level and focusing on our common cultural heritage.
Based on these principles, the European Commission, in close cooperation with Member States, is implementing the strategy of promoting multilingualism and linguistic diversity, featuring in the document adopted in September 2008, which is aimed at all the languages spoken in the Community.
All these languages represent an integral part of our common cultural heritage, and every single national, regional, minority and migrants' language spoken in Europe offers an additional facet to this common cultural heritage.
As you are well aware, the European Commission has invited Member States to consider teaching regional and minority languages as part of their national strategies for promoting multilingualism in society.
Respect for linguistic and cultural diversity is enshrined via Article 22 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which stipulates that the Union must respect cultural and linguistic diversity.
The protection of persons belonging to national minorities is an integral part of respecting human rights, which is one of the principles on which the European Union has been created, as indicated in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
By international law I mean, for example, the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages of the Council of Europe, which provides a global framework in this area, as well as the recommendations from the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, which the European Union has resorted to on different occasions.
At the same time, people's right to use their own language is an integral part of their basic rights, as is also stated in Article 22 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Article 9 of the law imposes penalties that are disproportionate on legal entities contravening the appropriate language use, including small businesses.
I am pleased that the European Parliament has put this debate on the agenda and I greatly appreciate the clear stance adopted by the Parliament's President, Jerzy Buzek, as well as the unequivocal message from the Commission that minority rights must be protected, not restricted.
It is absolutely crucial that a signal be sent from this debate today that we are making improvements not because we want to play off one population group against the other but because we want the relations between Slovaks and Hungarians within Slovakia, and of course, also between the two countries, to improve.
My mother, who was born in Miskolc, and I, born just a few kilometres from Bratislava, feel and sense that.
Just as there is a Hungarian minority in Slovakia, so there is also a Slovak minority in many a municipality with a Hungarian majority within Slovakia.
We must therefore bring these elements together.
Mr President, I am pleased that the Commission has taken this issue seriously.
Life for many minority groups in Europe is difficult, and a strong message from the EU in particular may help to counteract the wave of intolerance that has swept over our part of the world in recent years.
Areas where minority languages are spoken are also more successful and competitive from an economic point of view than other areas.
On the other hand, as of 1 December, we shall have a clause in Article 2 of the Treaty on European Union stating that the Union is founded on the values of respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities.
Slovak is one of the most beautiful languages in Europe but it is seldom heard in the European Parliament.
The Slovak language does not wish to develop at the expense of other languages.
In offices in Slovakia, there is still no use of printed forms in Hungarian and there are not even any official translations of the laws and legal standards of the Slovak Republic into Hungarian.
The amendment of the national language law has made the situation even more difficult.
The amendment to the Slovak national language law is in breach of the basic human rights and standards of the European Union.
Our Hungarian friends have recently been lecturing us on how we should find a European-style solution to the question of minority language use in Slovakia.
The Slovak Republic allows Hungarian children to be educated in their native language from primary school to secondary school to university.
Since then, children from ethnic minorities in Hungary have had nowhere to learn the correct usage of their native languages as the Hungarian Government does not afford them the opportunity of being educated in their native languages, in contrast to other EU governments.
In Hungary, Slovak children must therefore study all subjects in Hungarian and their native language is added as something like a punishment, as extra work, with the intention of putting them off.
Using this allegedly European approach to minorities, the Hungarian administration has, over the course of 50 years, reduced the Slovak minority to about a tenth of its original size.
Well, in the Czech Republic, the Beneš Decrees have currently been left in force so that Václav Klaus will sign the Treaty of Lisbon.
At this sitting, we are dealing with individual issues, such as Nicaragua, Vietnam, Laos and human rights violations.
On this issue, the European Union is not even assuming the role of protecting its values; it is simply devaluing them. (HU) Mr President, Commissioner, I consider it a success that in the debate proposed by my colleague, Edit Bauer, and myself, the European Parliament is finally dealing with the issue of national and linguistic minorities using their own language, which also means dealing with Slovakia's discriminatory language law.
I am also particularly pleased that the Commission has adopted an unequivocal stance on this occasion with regard to minority language rights.
After all, all of us who have been dealing with human rights in this Chamber for years feel that it is outrageous that, as the Treaty of Lisbon dawns, citizens belonging to a minority are not allowed to use their own mother tongue in the land of their birth and cannot enjoy the rights guaranteed by democracy.
We are talking, Mr Paška, about 530 000 Hungarians in Slovakia and 20-30 000 Slovaks in Hungary, just to give you a comparison.
However, I would simply like to reply to Mr Swoboda that a minority is fighting in this case for its most basic human right against the majority.
The European Union must intervene without fail and speak out against the Slovak and any other such law which jeopardises the use of minority languages and the protection of minorities' identity as such laws contravene every international document, including the basic principles now reinforced in the Treaty of Lisbon and the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Therefore, 10 years ago, the European Union opposed what it is now extremely reluctant to speak out against. (SK) I am proud to say that Slovakia has made a great contribution to linguistic diversity and to the preservation of the linguistic cultural heritage.
A few facts: the Hungarian minority has about 700 schools with teaching conducted in Hungarian.
All minorities have the right to use their language in court proceedings, in official business, in place names and they have radio and television broadcasts in their mother tongue.
Hungarian Members here are attacking the Slovak language law.
Moreover, Slovakia has signed the Minority Languages Charter and thus maintains the linguistic diversity of all minorities in Slovakia to a high degree. (SK) The Slovak Republic applies a high standard in relation to ethnic minorities and, at the same time, one of the most moderate national language laws in Europe.
This is totally unacceptable.
The implementing regulation for the amendment to the language law confirms the sensitive approach to all of the ethnic groups and nationalities living in Slovakia. (PL) Mr President, I am pleased that, as a Member from Lithuania, I can speak here in Polish, my mother tongue.
I think this privilege should be the norm not only in the European Parliament, but in all countries of the EU, because multiculturality and linguistic diversity are very important in the European hierarchy of values.
Therefore, the Commission has before it the urgent task of resolving conflicts concerning the use of minority languages in all the countries of the EU, without exception.
Secondly, it grossly interferes in people's personal lives, as pointed out by Edit Bauer.
We cannot have double standards. (ES) Mr President, the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, adopted by the Council of Europe and 47 European States, including all the Member States of the European Union, establishes that regional and minority languages must be protected, because in some cases, they are at risk of disappearing.
We are therefore violating the linguistic rights of 40 million Europeans, and protecting those rights is a question of principles, as the Commissioner himself said.
However, diversity should be celebrated. (The speaker spoke in Welsh) (SK) I would like to remain consistently on the topic of our debate.
I will not talk about the law on the use of the national language in Slovakia because I firmly believe that this is a Slovak affair.
The cultural wealth of Europe lies in the nations that have survived through to the present day.
We have to talk about rules on the use of minority languages because rules are necessary, but we must not strip Europe of this wealth.
The issue of minority language use in any state arises where there is an unwillingness to communicate or where there are other issues in the background.
All languages are equal, the same way that all human beings are equal.
This is how Bulgaria currently considers that it complies with the European Union's fundamental principle on the protection of minorities' rights.
However, I wish to draw your attention to the poll conducted on 5 November with the aim of ending the news broadcast in Turkish.
This law states that not only is sign language our mother tongue, but that our cultural minority rights are protected by it.
If a Slovak deaf person can use sign language, let Slovak citizens use their own mother tongue. (SK) I am very disappointed that, despite the mounting social problems in EU Member States affecting every single citizen regardless of nationality, questions relating to the duel between Slovak and Hungarian Members are always being raised in plenary sessions in this institution, as is the case today at 10 minutes to midnight.
Mr President, the rights of ethnic minorities in Slovakia and of all the other minorities are fully protected and are of an exceptionally high standard.
On the one hand, Slovakia defines itself as a nation state, when we know - as was already discussed today - that a Hungarian community amounting to roughly 10% of the country's population lives in Slovakia, as do other minorities as well.
The language law creates an imbalance.
I sincerely hope that this is the direction which Slovakia, too, will move in from this point on. (HU) Békesség Istentől!
In our multilingual Europe I wanted to wish you peace in Hungarian, Romanian, Slovak and English.
I was able to do this in the European Parliament, but under Slovak legislation, this would have been risky without violating the national language law.
I wanted to say that I accept that the Slovak Parliament does not translate all laws into minority languages, of which there are 11 by the way and not just one, and that as far as the size of the Hungarian minority is concerned, with its half a million members, we also have a Roma minority of half a million and they do not complain.
I would like to ask whether the Hungarian Parliament translates all laws into minority languages and whether there are any translations into the Slovak language?
Mr Tőkés, Slovakia is building bridges - and it troubles me greatly that you always mention this - but bridges must also be built from the other side, from Hungary.
Your work is truly excellent and it is excellent that we are able to use 23 European languages, one of which is Slovak. (HU) I read in the Slovak press what Mr Gallagher already said.
For instance, when a mother who is holding her 4-year-old child's hand at the hospital in a Slovak town is told off for comforting her child in Hungarian, who is frightened of the procedure the doctor is going to perform, we cannot say that this does not violate their rights.
The law actually bans those exchanges in hospitals where the Hungarian language is under-represented.
We have another, different language law in Slovakia and we are talking here about two different laws.
I come from Košíce, which is a cosmopolitan city of 250 000 inhabitants, including substantial numbers of Hungarians, Czechs, Ruthenes, Ukrainians, Roma and, of course, Slovaks.
In people's everyday lives, there are no disputes and there is no nationality problem in mixed areas.
This is nothing to be pleased about because Romania, Greece and France, too, can be listed alongside Slovakia in this regard.
On the one hand, we have wanted to be able to guarantee respect for and celebrate every language spoken in the European Union, whether we are talking about national, regional or minority languages, or languages spoken by citizens who have come from other continents.
We must have respect for everyone, but we must also have the wisdom to find the ways to understand each other, communicate and be able to interact with each other.
For example, the ability to speak the language of the area where representatives of national minorities are in the majority, in other words, the ability to speak the language of these minorities, along with the ability of the national minorities to speak the language of the national state, builds bridges and establishes points of understanding which can help us.
I want to make a few comments about the efforts we are making to be able to offer support to all languages spoken in the European Union.
There are countless specific examples where the European Commission has supported, on the one hand, networks of organisations intended to promote regional and minority languages, as well as the less widely spoken languages in the European Union in general.
I would like to end by emphasising once again that we are endeavouring, within the constraints of the relatively limited powers that we have, to support all the languages used in the European Union, whether they be official, regional or minority, such as Welsh, where we have specific examples of the way in which we are supporting this language, or Catalan, where, for example, the European Commission has tried to open up to or draw the attention of people using this language.
I want to show that these efforts are enabling us to demonstrate the specific way in which we want to support this policy, which I consider as being an important European Union policy, one which is actually at the foundation of creating the European Union.
Adequate training for Irish translators is currently only available in National University of Ireland, Galway (NUIG) and the professional bar organisations in Ireland, while this outlines progress I am calling on the Commission to provide further funding to establish other recognised Irish translation courses - so that an adequate number of Irish interpreters will be available in order to enable the European institutions to offer a complete Irish translation service as outlined in Rule 146 in the Parliament's Rules of Procedures.
The fear of punishment and the language law's vague wording result in a situation where citizens do not even dare to use their mother tongue in places where it is permitted.
On the other hand, the use of two languages is made compulsory even when it is entirely unjustified.
The Slovak Government, which is also adopting nationalist ideals, justified the language law by saying that it apparently had to create some balance in the regions of southern Slovakia between the use of Slovak and Hungarian.
All 19 of Romania's minorities are represented in Parliament.
