Security features and biometrics in passports and travel documents (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Coelho, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC) No 2252/2004 on standards for security features and biometrics in passports and travel documents issued by Member States - C6-0359/2007 -.
Mr President, Mr Barrot, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are discussing today is aimed at changing the regulations approved in 2004, which improved and harmonised the security regulations relating to the protection of EU citizens' passports and travel documents against fraudulent use, at the same time as it introduced elements of biometric identification.
Contrary to the procedure in 2004, we are now in codecision.
This solution was necessary, if we bear in mind that this regulation came into force in 2004, and as from June this year at the latest, all the Member States would have to collect the fingerprints of children from birth.
We therefore succeeded in reaching an agreement stipulating a period of four years during which the age limit will be set at 12 years, with an escape clause which should allow those States which have already adopted legislation enshrining a lower limit to apply this, provided that limit is not lower than six years.
I welcome the European Parliament's efforts to achieve an agreement on this proposal at first reading on the inclusion of fingerprints in passports issued by Member States by 28 June 2009 at the latest.
This verification can be made by your optician or your dentist, but also by a professional photographer or a fire service official - no disrespect to members of these professions.
Current experience shows that the existing technology still does not ensure that the fingerprints of children under the age of 12 are reliable enough to allow them to be used as a security feature in passports.
I therefore welcome the compromise found with the Member States to set 12 as the age limit for the collection of biometric data, and which includes a clause for revision in three years.
The compromise found with the Member States will allow the Commission to present a report on the requirements for minors travelling alone across external borders.
This report will thus allow initiatives to be proposed that will guarantee a European approach to the rules protecting minors when they cross external borders of the Member States.
Finally, the biometric data in passports must only be used to verify the authenticity of the document and the use of sensitive personal data such as biometric details is only acceptable in conjunction with strict data protection rules.
We must therefore hope for major progress in the technology, because the ideal for child protection would be to have reliable, comparable biometric data as soon as possible.
Thirdly, the report also envisages that the Commission will submit a report examining the technical feasibility of using fingerprints for the purposes of identifying children under the age of 12.
Although we all have different political opinions, he did his best in order to achieve a compromise.
Therefore, we are satisfied that the compromise with the Commission and the Council is achieved, the age limit of 12 years is established for those Member States where fingerprinting of children does not take place and the age limit of six years is established for other Member States.
I would like to stress once again that our support for age limits does not mean that we support fingerprinting as such.
It is therefore even more important that we expressly establish during the course of the compromise reached that the European legal act on security features and biometric data in passports and travel documents cannot under any circumstances be used as grounds for appeal in order to set up databases containing these data at national level.
The report acknowledges that there should be highly secure storage mediums for keeping such information, but we all know from experience in Britain that there is no such thing as a highly secure medium for storing such data.
This principle should make it possible to offer greater protection against crimes such as child trafficking and child abduction, because every child should receive his or her own passport with a chip containing his or her biometric data.
Commissioner, our children's safety demands our permanent attention.
Situations of this kind may favour child trafficking, because checking the identity of the child is made difficult.
In closing, I would like to emphasise that, in order to ensure security for the holders of passports and other identity documents, a high level of discretion in the process of collection of biometric data should be introduced. (EL) Mr President, it is a fact that the amending regulation which we are being asked to approve will perhaps bring about an improvement in certain Member States in which biometric identifiers are even being taken from infants and will temporarily prevent certain Member States from dragging people under the age of 12, who at present are not obliged in any case in certain countries to travel on a personal passport, through such procedures.
It is therefore our duty to remind the citizens, whom we shall be asking in a few months' time to renew their vote in favour of principles and policies of the European Union, that we are not in favour of such measures. (DE) Mr President, in theory collecting biometric data is certainly one way of making sure that passports and travel documents cannot be forged.
It is true that the first article of the proposal states that the Commission shall present a report on the requirements for children travelling alone or accompanied, crossing the external borders of the Member States, and make proposals, if necessary, regarding the protection of children crossing the external borders of the Member States.
The use of passports by children according to the principle of 'one person-one passport' may be a fundamental means of winning this difficult and important battle.
I think that we ought to include an instruction that benefits the child, or rather, the passenger. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thousands of children a year fall victim to child traffickers and even more are abducted.
However, such protection can only be afforded if every child has its own passport with its biometric data and the names of its guardians.
The introduction of the principle of 'one person-one passport' will provide them with an even higher level of security when travelling outside the territory of the European Union.
It is true that we have different passports, besides the covers, but it is important to find a balance between the security measures of these passports, so that they identify a citizen of the European Union or another person entering the territory of the European Union, and at the same time resist crime, much of which involves passports, such as illegal immigration, terrorism, child trafficking or forgery of documents.
So I think that if there are new identity procedures and methods available, we should be prepared to use them.
If new 21st-century technology is available, then we should be prepared to make use of it and, as Ms Grabowska said a few moments ago, we should be prepared to amend it constantly to make the best possible use of what facilities are around the European Union. (SK) Protecting children from abduction and trafficking requires the introduction of children's passports.
The principle of 'one person-one passport' means that every child travelling outside the Schengen area will be issued a passport.
Subsequently, the introduction of a common European system for comparing fingerprints should be considered. (RO) I would like to congratulate Mr Coelho for this report.
This type of passport contains 50 security elements and includes for the first time in the European Union a feature for identifying both a person's face and their fingerprints.
Romania has therefore taken an important step towards joining the Schengen area, scheduled for 2011.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again for adding significant improvements to the regulation, in particular, the creation of a uniform European system for verifying compatibility between biometric elements and data stored on a chip. (RO) The harmonisation of security standards at European level for biometric passports is an extension of the provisions of the Schengen acquis.
Finally, I wish to confirm that the Commission will undertake a comparative study of the existing rules in the Member States on minors travelling alone.
As a result, by 29 June 2009 there should be a definite connection in the EU between a passport and its owner, which will go a long way towards protecting passports from fraud.
In Estonia it has been in force since 2000.
In addition to secure travel documents, the border guards of the Member States have an important role to play, and they must pay increasing attention to the inspection of underage persons travelling with or without a guardian and crossing external borders of the EU, as they do in the case of adults.
I believe that, in addition to making travel documents more secure, the European Commission should consider adopting a common EU approach, in order to replace the different rules for the protection of children crossing the EU's external borders that are currently in existence in the 27 Member States.
The most important features in the proposal for a regulation are the fight against child trafficking by introducing the 'one person-one passport' principle and the introduction of derogations with regard to taking fingerprints from children under the age of 12.
However, the legislation in some Member States allows for fingerprints to be provided by children under the age of 12, but this will only be possible for a transitional period of four years.
Some pilot studies carried out by Member States have highlighted that fingerprints provided by children under the age of six are not of good quality and can also change while they are growing.
The need to protect travellers has become even more evident in the wake of the events of 11 September 2001.
