Member of the Commission. - Mr President, it is my good fortune to be able to respond happily to two subjects in Parliament this evening.
Second, regarding the considerations that should be used in the Community interest test, which allows us to determine that trade defence action is indeed in the wider economic interest of the European Union - something which, as I say, is becoming increasingly complex and difficult to analyse, where situations are not quite as straightforward and not quite as black and white as they perhaps might appear on the surface, or indeed as was the case in the classic operation of trade defence machinery in the past.
The political environment in which this subject has been discussed is not easy.
I would finish by making this observation.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I would like to start by thanking the Commissioner for his account and also for his honesty in setting out the dilemmas with which he is confronted when he speaks to his colleagues and with the Member States about reforming the trade defence mechanism of the European Union.
I myself come from a trading country, the Netherlands, but I understand very well the concerns that countries like France and Germany, which have a large production base, have about the development of global trade and protection.
It is thus very important to find that bridge and it is also important that the Commissioner wants to make a particular effort on this.
That seems to me an important starting point for a discussion and I am pleased that the Commissioner has been so candid about the problems that he himself faces.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (SV) Thank you, Commissioner.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, to be quite frank, I am glad that the reform of the trade defence instruments proposed by you has failed.
Incidentally, that is not just my opinion; you - the Commission - undertook a study in 2006 which makes this same point.
You say you would like to continue down this road and you would like to continue the consultations.
The Commission has withdrawn its proposal and I am very pleased about that.
Mr President, Commissioner Mandelson expressed delight that he was here for two debates, and I am quite delighted too, because I would request some clarification on his very useful response in relation to the WTO, and I thank him for the detail contained therein.
Mr President, we face a dilemma between the free trade we believe in and the fair trade that is violated.
There is an assumption that some countries have companies based in China, for instance.
It is all too often the case that we talk of mutual solidarity and equality, when in fact we are intent on protecting our national interests to the detriment of those we have in common.
Trade protection instruments must provide for justice and equal opportunities. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner Mandelson, thank you for your candid explanation of why you have not been successful in this.
The problem is knowing not who produces the goods that are arriving in Europe but rather whether they are being exported under fair and equitable conditions.
It would serve Europe well, and be greatly to its credit, if it were to be in the vanguard of this campaign. (PT) Commissioner, further to the question that I asked you previously or the comment that I made previously, I must say that, in terms of Europe, the cases that were pursued in relation to textiles and footwear brought about, particularly in my country, changes that have prevented any unemployment.
Mr Arif has suggested that my motivation is to play off consumers against workers and to play off importers against producers.
I am afraid that we have to operate in the real world and we have to navigate our way through these interests and needs and arrive at a fair and equitable and acceptable outcome in our attempts to steer these policies forward.
