The direct losses for the Bulgarian economy for just a few days amounted to more than EUR 230 million, which is equal to the amount needed to start the Nabucco project.
I consider that Bulgaria and some of the worst affected countries must have the opportunity to gain additional funding from the European Development Plan, and not just a minimal share of the EUR 20 million which has already been allocated for gas projects.
Since 11 December, Sihem Bensedrine, a well-known human rights defender and editor-in-chief of Kalima, has been the subject of press harassment and slanderous remarks that are absolutely intolerable and incompatible with the rule of law.
On 23 January, Mr Amin, who is the coordinator of the Maghreb Coordination of Human Rights Organisations, was refused entry into Tunisia.
On 28 January, Radio Kalima, which has been broadcast via satellite since that date, was completely surrounded.
I have submitted a question to the Council and to the Commission and I hope that measures to harmonise these cards will be adopted as soon as possible. 'Europe without barriers' must mean the removal of all barriers, including physical, social and architectural barriers, and the prevention of any discrimination against handicapped people. (RO) The documents from the meeting on 5 February in Prague mention a debate on the topic of the Barcelona objectives concerning public childcare services, with the emphasis on home childcare.
I wonder whether the Czech Presidency is aware of the European Commission report from October 2008, which indicates that more than six million women aged between 25 and 49 state that they are obliged not to work or can only work part-time because of family responsibilities.
I urge the Czech Presidency to consider what assistance can be provided to Member States enabling them to improve their public childcare services from a quantitative and qualitative perspective, especially during the current crisis. (BG) This week a referendum will be held in Switzerland on the free movement of people.
The Swiss people will decide whether the agreement between their country and the European Union will be extended both in terms of time and scope, and whether it will include the citizens of Bulgaria and Romania.
The policy of freedom of movement of citizens is a contributor to economic development, both in Switzerland and in the European Union, and also to the improvement of our general standard of living.
It is for this reason that I hope that our Swiss friends will support our common future and I invite both Member States of the European Union and the Commission to continue our mutual cooperation with Switzerland in good harmony and with good results for all citizens of the European Union. (PL) Mr President, at the meeting in Davos German Chancellor Angela Merkel called for the building of a gas pipeline from Russia to Germany on the Baltic seabed.
In this referendum carried out using mobile ballot boxes, in spite of an artificially instigated anti-Hungarian propaganda campaign, 99% of the 210 000 voters asked voted in the affirmative.
Although this has so far been a purely French problem, it has now in fact become a European one, and the Commission's refusal to negotiate a specific OR-Cariforum agreement for us is in my view a disgrace. (EL) Mr President, recently we have heard about, we have read about and we have seen civilians being bombed and children being exterminated.
What we have not seen, Mr President, is a willingness on the part of the International Criminal Court in The Hague, a willingness which was so evident when it came to those involved in events in Yugoslavia; the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia is still chasing them.
Consequently, I think that it is a legitimate demand for us to ask Parliament to tell us if there is a list of countries which come within the jurisdiction of The Hague Court or if there are countries which are indifferent to and dismissive of this Court.
I think that our demand to know which countries and citizens are being brought before the Court in The Hague as defendants and which are not is a legitimate demand. (HU) Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
Though Croatia has never produced any mines of this sort, there are life-threatening antipersonnel mines along some 1 000 kilometres of its territory.
Later Russia admitted that the soldier himself had in fact deserted, but the black propaganda had already done its damage.
Let us together send a signal to the communist regime that we do not consent to the violation of basic rights of the people of Tibet. (RO) The European Commission has declared 2009 as the European Year of Creativity and Innovation.
Thank you very much. (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
Thank you very much. (PT) The number of workers affected by unemployment in Portugal is growing exponentially.
Amongst the most serious cases is the threat hanging over around 2 000 workers at Qimonda, in Vila do Conde, following the declaration of bankruptcy of the parent company in Germany.
I was able to ascertain this only days ago at Subercor, a company based in Santa Maria da Feira (part of the Suberus group, in the footwear sector), where workers are struggling because they are not receiving their wages and there are couples who are going hungry and already have no food for their children.
I therefore appeal not only for solidarity but for these serious problems to be solved. (HU) Mr President, popular opinion in Hungary has been following with great interest the developments in the water cannon case in Hungary, and would like to have a clear view of the issue as soon as possible.
This issue concerns the fact that the Hungarian Government continued throughout 2006-2007-2008 to hold to the view that it had purchased new water cannons at the expense of the Schengen Fund, and that these were used in Budapest on 22 October 2007 to disperse the crowds.
A day later, a secretary of state at the same Ministry stated that the Hungarian Government had covered the purchase of the water cannons from the domestic sources of the Schengen Fund, contradicting the European Commission.
We are building a Europe in which there is no room for nationalism. (BG) Last Wednesday the European Commission announced its proposal regarding the programme for reconstruction in the field of energy security.
In line with this proposal Bulgaria is to receive only a share of the EUR 20 million earmarked for the project linking Bulgaria with Greece.
Again last week an influential European journal wrote that, as a result of this crisis, support in Bulgaria for Eurosceptics will rise to 20%.
Two years ago, therefore, I decided - in conjunction with two of our colleagues, Dan Jørgensen and Linda McAvan - to draft a written declaration.
Yet this museum is the Slovenian minority's only centre of cultural life in Hungary and has received only EUR 16 000 in funding.
I and 14 other Bulgarian Members of the European Parliament have sent a written question to the Commission on the measures taken under Regulation (EC) No 2679/98.
I have in mind, in particular, the European Union's Solidarity Fund, but also the Structural Funds and the Rural Development Fund, and I am also thinking about the authorisation of state aid.
Allowing these French regions to receive emergency aid, but also seeing through the reform of the Solidarity Fund, would represent, in the eyes of Europeans, cast-iron guarantees that the European Union's duty and purpose is to be at their side in difficult situations. (EL) Madam President, farmers with small and medium-sized holdings have been on the streets for a fortnight in a fight which has shaken the entire country.
On the contrary, today we have a public confession by a Turk who was a soldier at the time and who, for reasons of conscience, because he cannot take it anymore, has confessed that he killed 10 Greek Cypriots.
In addition to the financial contributions made by Romania and Hungary themselves, the European Commission proposed last week the allocation of EUR 30 million for the completion of the Arad-Szeged gas pipeline project, the financing for which has been suspended for more than five years.
With this in mind, I am calling on your support so that the Commission's proposal is implemented as quickly as possible. (DE) Madam President, the meat scandal in Ireland has made waves throughout Europe, including Austria where, as a bizarre consequence of the scandal, Irish meat was sold as Tyrolean bacon.
So that this can indeed be done, I call on the Council, the Commission and you, ladies and gentlemen, to take steps to ensure that European consumers can no longer be misled in this way. (SL) We have seen and heard reports that the long-standing civil war in Sri Lanka is coming to an end.
This is a very serious and dangerous problem and must be resolved as soon as possible. (RO) The European Union is busily preparing to negotiate a post-Kyoto agreement in order to continue reducing the causes of climate change.
The existence of documents such as the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, as well as the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages, inspires confidence.
Thank you very much. - (FR) Madam President, allow me to express my full support for the citizens and families affected by Storm Klaus, which hit southern Europe, and particularly south-west France, more than a week ago.
Around 30 to 40 million m3 of trees have been brought down.
It was that government which showed us that the right direction for Poland to take was not only freedom and democracy, but also integration with the European Union.
