I welcome the agreement reached on 19 November in Yalta.
However, we know that Ukraine had great trouble in settling its gas bill with Russia last month.
We are also working with the Gas Coordination Group - a group that includes the Member States and industry - on the storage of gas.
Thank you for your question, Mr Schulz.
Mr Schulz, obviously I believe that all democratic parties have a place in democratic countries.
Since Bulgaria is, as we all know, a democratic country, all of its democratic parties have a place in the democratic system.
Mr President, I am going to ask a question about the structure of the Commission, which is normal, given that we are very soon going to have a new Commission.
I believe that it was agreed that there would be a commissioner responsible for this subject.
Firstly, concerning the question of the climate change, or rather the 'action in the field of climate change' portfolio, I see this responsibility as being very important.
However, I am the one who ultimately takes full responsibility for the composition of the Commission and I believe that this Commission will also benefit from fairly strong support within the European Parliament.
Mr Barroso, I would very much like you to give attention to the question of the start of the new market from the beginning of your new term of office.
I would also like to add that we will continue to support you if you continue to maintain this gender balance.
President of the Commission. - In the new European Union 2020 strategy that I announced just now, there is a strong emphasis on the social matters that you have just mentioned, Mr Bisky.
Therefore, Mr President, I think you know that no nuclear fuel repositories have been built and spent fuel rods will be kept in the reactor, reducing nuclear safety in the region.
What we are doing now is looking at not only the economic aspects but also the safety aspects.
It was the third ministerial meeting on Opel organised by the Commission, and the first since General Motors decided not to sell Opel.
Cathy Ashton was the leader in the Upper House in the UK when the Lisbon Treaty was steered through - no mean feat.
I would say to Cathy Ashton that she is not there to stop the traffic, but actually to create the traffic system.
President of the Commission. - I am extremely proud and happy that Catherine Ashton has been designated as the first Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative.
Of course I am extremely happy that she comes from Britain - I think it is essential that Britain remains at the centre of the European Union - and also that she is a woman because, as you know, I have been very committed to the gender balance.
To put it simply, we have the same person performing the task of Javier Solana and Benita Ferrero-Waldner.
I think it is extremely important to have this idea at that level.
President of the Commission. - I can tell you that I have read the letter from the First Minister for Wales, but I have never read the document mentioned.
It makes sense first to have an agreement on the broad outlines of the European Union 2020 strategy, with the budget review then being presented by the new Commission so that the new College will have full ownership of that proposal in order to work with you very closely on the future financial perspectives.
We are talking about the outcome of the last Council meeting, of 19 November 2009.
I know that almost anything could have been said or could have happened during the Council meeting, but this was probably not an issue at the last Council meeting, so please keep to the topic, because it is necessary.
Of course my answer to you is yes, I hope that Cathy Ashton will devote great attention to it, together with the Commissioner for enlargement, because Bosnia, as you know, is in the European Union's area of potential enlargement.
Certainly we have to do everything to be sure that the country establishes itself on its own feet and that it is able to consolidate its existence as a full state, a democratic state, that has aspirations one day to join our Union. (DE) You just spoke of how you have now opened the consultations for the post-Lisbon process.
Anyway, I have only today - and this is another piece of news I want to give you - received the final name of the 27 Commissioners-designate.
I would therefore like to draw your attention, Mr Barroso, to the fact that I believe that we must wait for the Commission itself to be formed, so that we can put our questions to it, but above all, that we should take the time to create a real project.
Let me say that I was very happy also with the nomination of Herman Van Rompuy.
So, when we are in these positions, I am not here representing one country or one region: we are representing the whole of Europe. (PT) Mr President, last week, the Council acknowledged the agreement between the institutions on the budget for 2010.
Mr Portas, thank you for your question.
President of the Commission. - I agree with your general point that the institutions are also the way we shape them in practice.
That is why I was so happy with the designation of Cathy Ashton and Herman Van Rompuy, because I know that both of them are committed to a real European spirit and to Community matters.
With regard to the next college, Catherine Ashton will also have a hearing alongside the other Commissioners-designate and will be subject to your collective vote on the next college. (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, with reference to last week's meeting, I would like to ask if you yourself are happy with the selection process by which two important top posts were filled, or do you also agree that some of the Union's decision-making procedures could still do with a large dose of extra transparency and democracy?
It is not an election like that for the President of France or the President of Portugal.
It is the President of the European Council, and that President is selected by the Heads of State or Government.
In this connection, I have two specific questions: will the climate commissioner be responsible for the area of energy, and will the climate commissioner have his or her own directorate?
I will do everything within my power to improve internal coordination within the Commission, but I must say that I think that coordination has been good.
We do not wish to outsource European jobs to countries that do not have the same level of environmental requirements that we have here. (ES) Mr President, Mr Barroso, I would like you to clearly express your point of view on two matters associated with the composition of the next Commission.
President of the Commission. - Thank you, Mr Böge, for your question.
I think it is very helpful for all of us in the two institutions to understand each other.
