The Council at its meeting of 19 and 20 March focused on overcoming the financial crisis and the problems of the real economy and made it very clear that Europe can confront these problems and stop the current crisis only through unified and coordinated action within the framework of the single market and economic and monetary union.
The Council decided at its meeting on 19 March that a closely coordinated EU response within the framework of the European economic recovery plan should mobilise all available instruments, including Community resources, and that it should fully integrate the strategies of growth, employment, social integration and social security.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Thank you, Madam President.
I would like to emphasise that in the Czech Republic, as far as ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon is concerned, the two-chamber Parliament made up of the House of Representatives and the Senate is working very hard on this Treaty and on 18 February this year it was passed by the House of Representatives.
The Senate of the Czech Parliament will probably vote on the Treaty on 6 May, but the Senate has made its approval conditional on the drafting of an appropriate law under which the transfer of powers from the level of qualified majority voting requires the consent of both chambers of Parliament.
The relevant law has already been drafted and approved, and we expect that on 6 May the Senate will vote on this law and that, once it is passed, the Treaty of Lisbon will receive parliamentary ratification.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the current state of affairs in the Community is concerned, no measures have yet been adopted at a Community level to eliminate double taxation in the area of direct taxation except for Council Directive 90/435/EEC of 23 July 1990 on the common system of taxation applicable in the case of parent companies and subsidiaries of different Member States, the convention of 23 July 1990 on the elimination of double taxation in connection with the adjustment of profits of associated enterprises and Council Directive 2003/48/EC of 3 June 2003 on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments.
The Council confirmed this coordination-based approach of the Commission in its conclusions of 27 March 2007.
It emphasised that the functioning of the internal market can be improved through cooperation in the area of taxation at a Member State level and, where appropriate, at a European level, while respecting Member State powers at the same time.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) First of all I would like to emphasise that the long-term objective is a solution in the form of a directive or a multilateral treaty.
The Commission in its communication 823 on coordination put forward a proposal to create a mechanism for an effective resolution of disputes connected with international double taxation problems in the EU but due to insufficient support from the Member States, as the MEP mentioned here, the Commission abandoned this request in favour of other initiatives.
In 1990 an arbitration treaty was adopted with the aim of eliminating double taxation arising from the setting of transfer prices between related enterprises.
In 2003 Directive 2003/49/EC was adopted, eliminating double taxation for interest and royalty payments between associated enterprises from different Member States, which authorises only the country of the beneficial owner of the payment to tax that payment.
The question of expanding the framework of this directive should form the topic of further negotiations in the Council.
This position arises from the decision of the European Court of Justice in case C-513/04 Kerckhaert Morres.
In this context the Presidency would like to refer to the conclusions of the Council meeting of 18 and 19 December 2008 on the safety of imported agricultural products and food products.
As a result of its obligation to ensure high levels of human health protection when implementing Community policies, the Council in December 2008 rejected a proposal from the Commission for a Council regulation implementing Council Regulation (EC) No 853/2004, regarding the use of antimicrobial substances to remove surface contamination from poultry carcases.
The European Parliament expressed its opposition to the proposal in a resolution of 19 June 2008 and asked the Council to reject the proposal.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, indicating the origin of poultry meat does not form part of Annex 14 of Council Regulation (EC) No 1234/2007, and therefore it is not part of the proposal we are now debating.
Subject: Crisis management and small- and medium-sized undertakings The European crisis management programme includes assistance for small undertakings under the Small Business Act.
At the same time the European Council expressed its support for increased intervention by the European Investment Bank in the years 2008 to 2011, particularly with loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, which represents an increase of EUR 10 billion compared to current lending in this sector.
The European Council also supports full implementation of the Commission action plan on the Small Business Act initiative that was adopted by the Council on 1 December 2008.
On 5 March the Council concluded that the action plan should be fully implemented as quickly as possible at Community and Member State levels while complying with the principles of subsidiarity.
At its meeting on 19 and 20 March the European Council agreed on the following measures: eliminating existing barriers and preventing the emergence of new ones, achieving a fully functioning internal market, further reducing the administrative burden, improving the framework conditions for industry in order to retain a strong industrial base for enterprise with particular emphasis on small and medium-sized firms and innovation, supporting partnerships between the different areas of business, research, education and training and increasing the quality of investments in research, knowledge, and education.
According to estimates, this could lead to savings of about EUR 30 billion, and the greatest benefit would go to small and medium-sized enterprises.
On 10 March this year the Council called on the Commission to propose specific new measures for reducing the burden in respect of each of the 13 key priority areas in the action plan.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the conclusions from the meeting of 19 to 20 March 2009, the Council stated that mitigation and adaptation measures would require considerable domestic and financial resources, both public and private, particularly in the most threatened developing countries, and that the EU would provide a fair share of the funding for these measures in developing countries.
As concerns funding for mitigation measures in developing countries, the Council has adopted a clear position.
Thank you, Mrs Doyle.
