&#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Article 96 of the Rules of Procedure provides that our activities shall be made public, and therefore I believe that it is important to acknowledge the possible consequences of the statements made in this Chamber too.
I refer to the declaration made by Mrs&#160;De Keyser on Monday concerning the eight deaths in Gaza, a declaration in which she claimed – I quote word for word – that the killings were a deliberate act and that, in 1987, the first Intifada was started by a less serious incident.
Since this statement, which met with applause in this House, has been disproved by an Israeli investigation from which it turns out that the incident was probably caused by a bomb, I believe that, in our capacity as Parliament, we should be more circumspect when faced with news of this kind and wait to hear how the events actually unfolded, because, otherwise, our statements are liable to have repercussions that we do not want. &#160;&#160; I am sorry, but that is not a point of order.
We take note of what you say, but it is not a point of order. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0185/2006) by Mr Bösch, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on the protection of the financial interests of the Communities and the fight against fraud – 2004 annual report [2005/2184(INI)]. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this report on fraud for the year 2004, we should keep in mind that the irregularities, and I stress again that these are irregularities and not fraud – since fraud usually only makes up a fraction thereof – remain relatively stable at hardly 1% of the EU budget.
The next point to attract our attention relates to pre-accession aid.
Everything that has to do with enlargement is politically sensitive, but we have to make sure that, in this area too, things are done properly in budgetary terms.
The extent of the suspected irregularities is cause for concern, but far worse is the fact that the Commission, by its own admission, does not really know what kind of irregularities these are, and consequently does not know either what is recoverable or how it may be recovered – and this in as many as 90% of cases.
In other words, the Commission is practically blind in this affair, and so we must take precautionary steps.
In last year’s report on the fight against fraud we dealt with cigarette smuggling as a top priority, and we are – frankly – proud that important work has been done here by the Commission and by OLAF.
As far as OLAF’s work is concerned, priorities have increasingly shifted in recent years away from OLAF’s original primary task, namely that of carrying out investigations, and towards coordination functions and providing a platform.
We have here one of the most positive reports on this area in recent years.
The Commission welcomes this constructive report and supports most of the views expressed in it.
I would like first of all to mention the statistics and trends in respect of discrepancies reported by the Member States in 2004.
The Commission is striving not only to reduce the number of discrepancies and the steps applying to them, but has also undertaken measures in 2005 through which some of the old Member States have improved the way they report discrepancies, through the use of electronic systems.
The Court of Auditors confirmed this fact in its special report on the establishment of the Office.
The Commission believes that this is a well-balanced proposal, the aim of which is to improve the way the Office operates, and the effect of which really will be to bring about such an improvement.
The Commission hopes that Parliament will be able to give some thought to this proposal as soon as possible, as the first discussions have already taken place in the Council within the framework of the relevant work group.
Turning to the fight against cigarette smuggling, I would like to say a few words on this subject, particularly on the agreement against cigarette smuggling that has been concluded with Philip Morris International.
The Commission would like to thank Parliament for its unstinting support in this area.
The Commission is delighted that 24 out of the 25 Member States have already backed the agreement, the only one not to do so being the United Kingdom.
This fact testifies to the success and importance of an agreement which is the first in this area and which establishes cooperation between the authorities and industry.
The figures for seizures of Philip Morris International cigarettes are of particular significance to OLAF and the Member States.
To give you some idea – in 2005 OLAF and the Member States notified Philip Morris of almost 300 individual seizures, amounting to more than 400 million cigarettes.
In practice the agreement has shown itself to be a highly effective instrument in the fight against cigarette smuggling.
The Commission hopes that it will serve as a model for other cigarette producers.
The Commission intends to put forward a proposal in the near future on changes to the Pericles Programme over the years 2007–2013, which will give an important place to the fight against smuggling and counterfeiting as an objective meriting the allocation of financial resources.
The report justifiably took up the particular problem of VAT fraud in the Community and the significant losses accruing to the Member States.
All efforts aimed at intensifying cooperation between Member States and between the Commission and the Member States deserve maximum support.
This initiative falls neatly into the framework of the communication on a European strategy for the fight against tax losses, adopted by the Commission on 31 May.
The aim of the Commission is to improve the mechanisms for practical cooperation between individual Member States and between the Member States and the Office.
The area of protection for financial interests is an area of shared authority, and the Member States have a decisive role to play in making it succeed.
The Commission and OLAF hope that Parliament will continue to be a powerful ally in this project.
The trustworthiness of our official bodies is all the more important now that it has been so difficult to reach agreement on the new financial perspectives.
In the case of Amendment 2, on Eurostat, the Commission submitted a situation report on 12 April 2006 dealing with the Eurostat affair.
Some matters are still under discussion in national courts, and it is therefore not possible to provide more exact information.
In the case of Amendment 6, the Commission believes that the internal system for excluding firms which it currently has in place answers this demand sufficiently.
This system is available and is maintained by all of the Directorates General in the Commission and not just by the Directorate for Research.
The problem with this amendment from the perspective of the Commission is not its abstract internal essence, but the fact that it is only a partial proposal within the framework of a wider system which is under development, which is effective, and whose further development is still an open question, in the opinion of the Commission. &#160;&#160; I would like to begin by congratulating my colleague Mr&#160;Bösch for his report, which, as the Commissioner also said, is a good and positive report and that will receive our support.
The OLAF is a vital office in the struggle against fraud and it is therefore important that we let it work in peace and not under continuous pressure and tension from our part.
Mr President, our group gives great importance to the protection of the European Union's financial interests, for the simple reason that we must show a clear commitment to ensuring that taxpayers' money is not only used properly but is also shown to be used properly.
This year, however, we also have a new aspect which is very worrying and in relation to which we all – but especially the Commission – have to show greater responsibility: is respect for the fundamental rights of the people being investigated guaranteed?
Not only does it draft and simplify laws, but it also monitors certain decisions and the question whether those decisions have been carried out correctly.
Partly thanks to the support of the anti-fraud Commissioner, Mr Kallas, in the past year, we managed to force a number of Member States to publicise the final beneficiaries of the agricultural funds.
More than anything, it taught us once again that the funds do not always end up with the farmers, but with major food giants.
We have struck a deal with Philip Morris, and the money that we generate from this deal should be ploughed back into anti-fraud policy.
As Commissioner Špidla was right in saying, I think that we, along with the Commission, must examine how those funds should be used, for example in the Hercules programme.
In 2004, nearly 10&#160;000 irregularities were reported involving European funds, but those are, of course, only the cases of fraud and incompetence that we know about.
Unfortunately, in many cases, this guard dog has often emerged as nothing but a lap dog.
One characteristic of this situation is the fact that Parliament is still in the dark about the extent and implications of the Eurostat fraud that came to light back in 2004.
However, it would be unfair, where failing fraud control is concerned, to point the finger at Brussels alone, because the Member States are certainly just as guilty.
It is unacceptable that the lion’s share of fraud cases should occur in old, relatively rich Member States, including Germany and Spain, and that, moreover, those countries should submit incorrect and incomplete reports on fraud cases on their territories.
A clear tit-for-tat policy should apply here: if Member States fail to address fraud and the waste of European funds adequately, this should have consequences in terms of the level of funds they receive.
That also applies to my own country, the Netherlands, by the way, when it refuses to name specific perpetrators in fraud cases.
Apart from all other moral objections I have to export subsidies, this seems to be an excellent reason to put an end to this ridiculous and harmful form of support. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the protection of the Community’s financial interests and the fight against fraud require an effective control system, which the European Union does not have.
I have the utmost regard for the European Court of Auditors, but its reports give a very superficial picture, and in reality we do not know very much about how EU money is actually spent.
What is worse, the European model is recommended to Member States and in Poland, for example, I have noticed that the greater the similarity between budget execution reports prepared by the Supreme Chamber of Control and the reports of the European Court of Auditors, the less real information they contain about irregularities and abuses that are occurring.
We should also create the necessary conditions so that the European Parliament can use reports from national control bodies, in which a huge amount of information regarding the spending of EU money is included, which we have not been using at all up to now.
This matter should be resolved systematically.
Mr President, we are talking about abuses, so please permit me a small verbal abuse of my own, namely one sentence on another subject: it is precisely in this House that my country, Poland, has been accused of racism and xenophobia.
Many of us in this House have tried to implement an arrangement whereby, in each country, a cabinet minister or other minister appends his or her name to a guarantee that EU resources have been used correctly in his or her own country.
Only the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe changed sides, which is to their credit, while the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats refused, as usual, to demand accountability.
This is a situation that must be changed. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, if anyone is seriously interested in this whole area – and it is, after all, a matter of protecting the financial interests of the Community – then I would recommend him to read about how this House has already discussed this matter on similar occasions and, above all, to read what amendments have been discussed in the Committee in the run-up to the report and then later not adopted.
Clearly, this report falls short of those proposals.
Amendments have been rejected, demanding that OLAF should work in a proper, reliable and comprehensible manner – at least in the limited areas in which it has been active until now.
When people act as if they are prosecuting fraud, but then fail to do so, these procedures are unconstitutional.
The result can be seen clearly: OLAF is an important and powerfully effective partner for Europe in the fight against fraud.
The European Parliament will watch over the independence of OLAF with Argus eyes, according to the new legal bases.
Now, for everybody’s sake, we must send a reminder to the Council about this and follow it through, otherwise the fight against fraud will remain incomplete and be a toothless tiger. &#160;&#160; – I too should like to congratulate our rapporteur on his outstanding report and to express my support for most of the remarks that have been made on various sides of the Chamber.
I especially welcome the remarks made by my fellow group member Mr Staes, who rightly raised the issue of farming, a major problem area in the context of the Community Funds.
Under no circumstances can a society governed by the rule of law sanction such a Court ruling without action being taken. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in speaking in this debate I would like to turn your attention to what, in my opinion, are the most important issues.
The first of these is the ever-increasing level of activity in the Member States in terms of uncovering irregularities and abuses relating to European Union funding, although there are unfortunately countries among the old Member States which pass on information regarding abuses to the Commission several years late.
In turn, losses resulting from increased smuggling require additional funds for securing customs borders, particularly on the European Union’s eastern borders. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a bit less fraud here, a bit more fraud there.
Let us stop fussing about how we achieve marginal reductions in what we call fraud, and instead think more deeply about the true value that is added by all this misuse of EU taxpayers’ cash. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, instead of constantly looking for new sources of funding, for example in the form of new EU taxes, and instead of constantly increasing the level of expenditure, it is in my view high time to intensify the fight against fraud and waste.
However, all these changes will achieve little if OLAF dossiers are not rapidly processed, because the responsible officials in the Member States are overworked, and if the recovery of erroneously paid funds is not handled rigorously.
In my opinion, we must, finally, act decisively so that the fight against fraud does not just remain a pious wish. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the report addresses the issue of cigarette smuggling comprehensively.
It is very important to fight against cigarette smuggling, because it does not only endanger our financial interests, but consumer health, too.
I wish to mention emphatically that duty free shops are operating on the Romanian side of the Hungarian-Romanian border, where travellers can purchase cigarettes to bring them in duty free, often in order to sell them in Hungary and other European Union Member States.
In this context, I would like to reiterate that the report deals with the year 2004, and hence irregularities in the new Member States accounted for but a fraction of the mismanaged amounts.
If the old Member States with their long-term experience have not been able to ensure adequate transparency in dealing with EU public funds, there is no doubt that similar deficiencies can be anticipated in the new Member States.
Ladies and gentlemen, losses and irregularities affecting Structural Funds have increased dramatically during the period under consideration.
The challenge, on the one hand, is to take effective steps targeting the affected Member States and, on the other, to identify systemic solutions that would safeguard the Community’s financial interests against fraud and other forms of illegal activity. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to thank Mr Bösch for a fine report.
The EU has an image problem when it comes to how it administers taxpayers' money.
This problem is the result of two facts.
The first of these is the simple fact that fraud involving EU funds does take place.
Clearly, this sets a number of challenges for the institutions – the European Parliament, OLAF and the other EU institutions.
We all want transparency, but we do nothing about it.
We would like the same principle also to apply to Structural Fund resources.
We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament acknowledge that the integrated financial control system works well, but we do believe, at the same time, that it is a problem that the system has still not been fully implemented, more than seven years after the date by which it was supposed to have been implemented.
Yet the truth is that these questions are incredibly important in terms of achieving legitimacy in the eyes of the people of Europe.
The report clearly marks a step towards the better and more effective use of resources and towards reducing the risk of misuse of these latter or of financial fraud.
Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to state the common interest of the Commission and Parliament in seeing that we progress further down a route that will ensure that Europe’s financial resources are used in an effective and wholly honest way. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11 a.m. &#160;&#160; It is my great pleasure to inform you that a delegation from the South African Parliament is now seated in the gallery for official visitors.
This is the first time since 1998 that we have had the pleasure of welcoming our South African counterparts here, in Europe.
They also share common social and political values.
I have been informed that your meetings at the European Parliament have been crowned with success.
I hope that you pursue your mission successfully, and I also wish you a safe journey home. &#160;&#160; The next item is voting time. &#160;&#160; – () Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to add the item ‘hydrogen and fuel cells’ to the activities of ‘renewable energies’ and ‘energy efficiency’. &#160;&#160; Is there any opposition to the inclusion of this oral amendment? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members of the European Parliament for their excellent and fruitful cooperation.
We had 1700 amendments, so the interest in the Seventh Framework Programme was huge.
The European Parliament has acted quickly, effectively and responsibly.
This is the sense of the oral amendment that follows paragraph&#160;3 and that I will now read out to you: ‘The European Parliament invites all parties interested in the future of the Tunisian League of Human Rights to renew their dialogue in order to find a solution that is acceptable to everyone.’ If by any chance any fellow Members reject this amendment being put to the vote, I would urge my colleagues to abstain from voting on this resolution, since it would be imbalanced. &#160;&#160; Is there any opposition to the inclusion of this oral amendment? &#160;&#160; Mr President, even though you made some jokey remarks about this MIFID arriving in the European Parliament, I should like to say that it is not just a technical issue that we are adopting today.
This is the first time Parliament has really increased its powers when it comes to delegated legislation in the field of comitology.
I know that every political group backs these extra powers for the European Parliament.
Indeed, this is a historic moment: the completion of the Lamfalussy process for the first time by this House. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to move an oral amendment, which should be indicated in colleagues’ voting lists.
I also propose adding the word ‘hate’ to paragraph 2, which would give, and I shall read out the beginning to you: ‘strongly condemns all racist and hate attacks and urges all national authorities to do everything in their power to punish those responsible and to fight the climate of impunity with respect to such issues’ and so on. &#160;&#160; Is there any opposition to the inclusion of this oral amendment? &#160;&#160; Mr President, between ‘gay pride’ and ‘parade’, we propose to insert ‘equality’, as in the official title of the parade.
So the wording would be ‘the gay pride equality parade’. &#160;&#160; Is there any opposition to the inclusion of this oral amendment? &#160;&#160; Mr President, in recital B we propose to insert the words ‘and anti-gypsyism’ after the word ‘homophobia’. &#160;&#160; Is there any opposition to the inclusion of this oral amendment? &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in fact, in order to be consistent with one of the amendments that we have adopted, the oral amendment consists of adding Spain to the list of countries where there have recently been serious cases of violence, of violations of rights on racist and xenophobic grounds.
This proposal has acknowledged the fact that all the countries that have an active fisheries sector have different structures and consequently different needs.
In particular, I disagree with the funding of research using live human embryos for reproduction purposes – this is prohibited in some Member States and contravenes the protection of human life and dignity from conception to natural death.
Despite these reservations, I have voted for the Buzek report on the Seventh Framework Programme, as I realise how important it is for the future of Europe and Europe’s bid to become the most competitive global economy.
I also believe that it offers support to small- and medium-sized businesses and also hope to everybody who depends on research in the field of health, something on which great emphasis has been placed and for which the budget in this programme has been increased, and furthermore with the support of the all of the political parties.
At the same time, more stringent amendments on this subject, such as, for example, the amendment tabled by Mrs&#160;Niebler on stem cells, which seemed more reasonable to some of us, were rejected by less than 20 votes.
The Italian delegation from the Margherita party supported these amendments.
With this explanation of vote, I intend to highlight the fact that the intense debate stirred up by an issue that, in reality, involves less than 1% of our resources should prompt Parliament and the Commission to adopt the precautionary principle, so as not to underestimate the impact of this matter on public opinion, to which we refer when we seek consensus for Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to state in the clearest possible terms that the members of the Austrian People’s Party support the clear stance adopted by the Federal Government on the Euratom issue, and that their voting is in keeping with the result of the public referendum in Austria.
I regret the fact that Mrs Niebler’s proposal on the ethical issues was rejected.
The Austrian People’s Party delegation declares itself clearly opposed to destructive embryo research. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in my opinion, the nuclear lobby is attempting to worm out further billions for nuclear energy projects by means of untenable promises of a clean, safe and environmentally-friendly energy solution and by withholding the true costs.
I would therefore like to reiterate that I voted against Amendment 24. &#160;&#160; I used my vote to endorse Amendments 354 and 352 as a means of opposing funding of research activities aimed at the cloning of human embryos.
It is a sign of inadequacy that Parliament has not used the opportunity to support ethically straightforward and very promising alternatives.
Moreover, the funding of research into embryonic stem cells could undermine trust in the EU if values such as human dignity and human rights are so obviously subordinated to financial interests.
The Council is now on the ball in terms of correcting this precarious ethical situation.
This approach should also be continued. &#160;&#160; . () The growth and competitiveness of the Union depend in great measure on its ability to develop research and innovation.
In 2000 in Lisbon, the Heads of State or Government promised to promote a knowledge-based Europe and, from 2010, to set aside 3% of GNI for this.
Two chapters stand out in particular in my mind, concerning regional development: the Regions of Knowledge and the support for SMEs.
It is necessary to reinforce the research potential of regions of the Union by encouraging regional research clusters that link universities, research centres, businesses and regional authorities.
This semi-legitimation is dangerous.
It is inappropriate, in the context of a vote on research funding, to make pronouncements on the legislation of Member States.
However, countries that forbid these practices should not be forced to finance them using Community funds, and this type of research should, therefore, not benefit from the resources of the Seventh Framework Programme for RTD.
This is why we have voted against these provisions, reserving our approval for other research programmes mentioned in the report. &#160;&#160; When we adopt positions on various issues, we must always reflect on whether such matters really should be decided on at EU level, rather than do as we have done in this case and ponder how the EU is to carry through the research that a particular establishment wants to see take place.
No more money is made available for research just because the Member States send such money via EU authorities.
The question that should instead have been posed is that of what the EU can do for research in Europe that the Member States themselves cannot successfully do.
In theory, EU involvement may be limited to areas such as research networks, freedom of movement for researchers within the EU and large-scale research in areas such as energy derived from fusion.
Thus, we cannot support stem cell research at Community level since it may mean Member States being forced to help fund research that conflicts with national laws in this area.
Although the EU purports to be a society geared towards ‘knowledge, research and technology’ there has in fact been a reduction of some EUR&#160;21&#160;million in EU budgetary funding for implementing these objectives in relation to the Commission’s original proposal.
In other words, in the context of this Seventh Framework Programme we are facing an attempt to commercialise research, to the detriment of public research.
Although there are positive points raised in the proposal before us today, we feel the priorities of such an important instrument should also include public research in the social, environmental, education and health areas.
I voted against this.
Starting from 2007, the EU will undertake massive investment in these problematic research areas.
Defence companies such as EADS and BAE Systems will be able to have a decisive say in how funds are used.
Of these specific programmes, I should like to highlight the 'Capacities’ component, which will enjoy the highest budget and which plans to involve industry in the research and development of new products and in promoting cooperation with research centres and universities.
The report also attaches due importance to SMEs, whose involvement is facilitated in this new framework programme by the support role given to technology platforms.
Nevertheless, these amendments encourage research on other promising and non-controversial stem cell research such as adult and cord blood.
When the Gargani amendments failed to pass, I voted in favour of Amendments 319 and 358 by Niebler et al as a damage-control exercise.
These amendments allow EU funding for unethical use of existing embryonic stem cell lines created before 31 December 2003.
Scientific research can mean real progress against chronic conditions unreachable by traditional scientific approaches.
In fact, cutting-edge research in this precise sector has already led to great progress in our knowledge of diseases such as diabetes, Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease.
Happily, Amendments 352, 354, 319, 356, 357 and 358 by Mr Gargani, Mrs Niebler and Mrs Záborská have been rejected.
This programme also includes a number of new features, such as joint technology initiatives, which will make it possible to associate businesses, especially the smallest businesses, with research centres in a particular sector.
Our ambition is therefore also to relaunch innovation in Europe and thereby to support our businesses and our jobs. &#160;&#160; . – I respect the national legislation of my country, Slovakia, the will of my constituents and my own personal conscience.
I support the innovative approach taken by the Commission in proposing rules that will cover security measures during flights.
This report is a series of revisions of a 2002 law that was adopted in the aftermath of the attacks of 11&#160;September&#160;2001.
We cannot, however, accept the entry of a new country into the least dynamic economic area in the world, which is saddled with a monetary policy that is destroying our already weak growth and with an exchange-rate policy that is harmful by its absence.
However, I believe we should not have two sets of weights and measures, in the sense that when voting on a number of resolutions over a short period of time that are directed against a particular country, perhaps one should either tone down the rate of resolutions and condemnation or use the same weights and balances as for other countries. &#160;&#160; Regarding this motion for a resolution, our PPE-DE Group abstained, because it believes that the resolution was unnecessary, and that it does not treat Tunisia fairly.
Thus, the effect of this resolution is certainly doubtful. &#160;&#160; We support the joint motion for a resolution from the centre-left groups, in spite of the fact that it really is the Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg that should monitor, both politically and legally, whether all the European states without exception comply with the UN Declaration on Human Rights.
The Council of Europe and the European Court of Human Rights are the institutions that should be involved in these cases, especially, for example, with a view to ensuring that it is possible for Gay Pride’s democratic freedom to be upheld in Russia.
It is difficult to draw up a complete list of violent incidents of various kinds that have taken place in different parts of Europe and that have been motivated by racism or homophobia.
In the 20th century, the most destructive system was communism, which not only killed tens of millions of human beings, but also laid waste to the environment.
The real prerequisites for the genuinely sustainable development of our nations are the reinstatement of our borders and a major policy on the family. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I voted against the motion for a resolution because I felt that the attempt made to compare racism with homophobia was unacceptable.
This defence is laid down precisely by the human rights doctrine.
We must therefore not only stamp out racism and homophobia, but also reject a comparison of the two which, on closer inspection, constitutes an attempt to overturn a crucial aspect of human rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, since I already explained in yesterday’s debate why this motion for a resolution strikes me as silly and undemocratic, I need not labour this point any further, and I already concur in advance with all the bad things Mr Claeys is about to say on this subject.
These people, however, are ignored by the politically correct, left-wing, fashionable opinion mafia, who – it is sad to say – monopolise the debates far too often in these institutions too. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I voted in favour of the joint resolution by the other political groups.
I voted in favour because I feel it is an extremely important motion for a resolution.
Allow me to say a few words on it.
I voted against it also because I do not think that in such a document there should be direct references to individual Member States and their governments or that they should be exhorted to follow different approaches, since everything rests in the hands of the voters who elected these governments.
Paragraph 2 is clearly a list of very shameful acts, but I do not think that they represent a dominant current of opinion in Europe, and this was another reason why I voted against the motion.
There is, for example, recital E, where political parties are criticised for raising the failure of the multicultural model as an issue and for espousing the protection of national identities in Europe.
Paragraph 11 is inspired by the inability of the Left to accept that right-wing parties win democratic elections and form governments.
Paragraph 12, on the other hand, wants to generalise the typically Belgian system whereby parties are robbed of their funding when they denounce failing immigration policy.
They might want to take a look at what the situation is like over there when it comes to discrimination against minorities and homophobia. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I too would like to take this opportunity to explain why I voted against this motion for a resolution against racist and homophobic violence.
However, it seems to me that in this motion for a resolution, individuals who stand up for their own culture and national identity are all too quickly and easily suspected of racism.
I regret though that the resolution on this important subject was misused as a vehicle to attack internal government composition in Member States, which is the product of the democratic process and, frankly, beyond the remit of the European Parliament.
Such drove me to vote against the resolution.
In terms of the standards and ethics expected of democratic parties I very much regret that in Northern Ireland the Ulster Unionist Party has seen fit to invite into its Stormont Assembly Party the political representative of the UVF, an illegal organisation which has been mired in racist, sectarian and other violence.
The Gisberta case, which took place in Oporto, was simply an act of juvenile delinquency, and was judged that way by Portuguese society.
In my speech I warned again that there was a rising tide of racism in Europe.
What is most worrying is the sudden regrowth of racism, homophobia and anti-Semitism in Poland, aided and abetted by fellow-travelling colleagues in the current Polish Government and European Parliament.
The numerous racist, xenophobic, anti-Semitic and homophobic attacks that have taken place in recent times in Europe are therefore unacceptable and intolerable.
In it, I have invited the EU institutions, the Member States and all the democratic political parties in Europe to condemn all acts of intolerance and incitement to hatred.
I therefore voted for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and for the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the other groups. &#160;&#160; .
I therefore voted for the motion for a resolution. &#160;&#160; . – It was a mistake to mix racism and homophobia in the same text.
We call on the EU institution, the Member States and all political parties in the EU to do likewise.
The joint motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe is not a document we can endorse, on the grounds that it arbitrarily pillories individual Member States and puts a motion for a resolution – a parliamentary instrument – in the service of false statements and insinuations.
Yesterday's debate clearly illustrated how far we have still to go in establishing equality of respect within the EU.
It, too, therefore, has endorsed the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gaubert on behalf of the PPE-DE Group.
The ÖVP delegation has also, however, voted against the GUE/NGL, ALDE, Verts/ALE and PSE’s joint motion for a resolution on the grounds that these political groupings made no attempt to join with the PPE-DE group in fashioning a common text; another consideration is that there has been an inflation in this sort of motion for a resolution, and that this example of the genre is a purely political document characterized by many mistakes and generalizations, doing no more than using the themes of racism and intolerance as a pretext for sending out ideological messages. &#160;&#160; – All forms of human violence must be condemned.
The inalienable right to life, freedom and security and respect for people’s dignity apply to every human being.
Safety is particularly important in light of the substantial increase in the speed and capacity of railway lines.
I feel that the adoption of this report is a step in the right direction in protecting the interests of fishing communities, not least in Portugal and the Azores.
Of these I should like to highlight: - to recognise the specific nature of inshore and traditional fishing in the CFP, and to determine how far the existing instruments are suitable for responding to the sector's needs; - the new EFP must continue the financing of fleet renewal measures for inshore fisheries; - to set up education and training programmes aimed at encouraging young people to enter the sector; - the funding of projects and activities by representative organisations in the sector and local authorities; - to encourage fishermen to take part in the trading process and to promote a review of the COM in fisheries products so as to ensure fairer initial sales prices and to promote a better distribution of added value. - to ensure the participation of inshore fishermen and their representative organisations in the decision-making process of the common fisheries policy, the protection of the marine environment and the recovery of fish stocks, promoting the application of the co-management principle and decentralisation of the CFP. &#160;&#160; – The report on inshore fishing is an excellent one, as it succeeds in identifying the problems facing fishermen involved in this kind of fishing and puts forward realistic and effective solutions.
I am therefore voting in favour of Amendments 7 and 9.
Under no circumstances do I want proposed measures to lead to an increase in the budget. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on: - the oral question to the Commission (O-0060/2006 – B6-0308/2006) by Vincenzo Lavarra, Roberta Angelilli, Katerina Batzeli, Jean Marie Beaupuy, Giovanni Berlinguer, Giusto Catania, Thierry Cornillet, Giuseppe Castiglione, Donata Gottardi, Umberto Guidoni, Giovanni Claudio Fava, Janelly Fourtou, Lilli Gruber, Claire Gibault, Nathalie Griesbeck, Anne Laperrouze, Pia Elda Locatelli, Andrea Losco, Mario Mauro, Sebastiano (Nello) Musumeci, Francesco Musotto, Philippe Morillon, Pasqualina Napoletano, Pier Antonio Panzeri, Giovanni Pittella, Umberto Pirilli, Lapo Pistelli, Vittorio Prodi, Guido Sacconi, Matteo Salvini, Francesco Enrico Speroni, Luciana Sbarbati, Gianluca Susta, Marc Tarabella, Riccardo Ventre, Donato Tommaso Veraldi, Marcello Vernola, Armando Veneto, Marta Vincenzi, Sepp Kusstatscher, Mauro Zani and Nicola Zingaretti, on the use of wood chippings to age wine, and - the oral question to the Commission (O-0062/2006 – B6-0309/2006) by Giuseppe Castiglione, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the use of wood chips as oenological practice for European wines. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, an agreement has been reached in a meeting of the Wine Management Committee to amend Regulations (EC) No&#160;1622/2000, No&#160;884/2001 and No&#160;753/2002, with the aim of authorising the use of wood shavings to age wine.
I wanted to table an oral question, with the support of more than 40 fellow Members, whom I should to thank, on the admissibility of this oenological practice, because I believe that Parliament must be able to express its opinion on an issue that is only outwardly technical but which actually raises some important issues relating to the quality and future of European wine.
I should be grateful to the Commission if it would kindly shed some light on these points, not least in view of the next WTO reform of the wine sector. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is an historic moment for our European wine sector.
The opening up of the world's agricultural markets and ever increasing international competition have called into question our wine production and marketing systems and have forced our producers to become more flexible.
The use of ‘modern’ oenological practices in many third countries and the less rigorous application of the 'wholly obtained' rule worldwide are excluding our products from our very own market, a market that, on its own, represents two-thirds of global trade in wine.
If it is therefore truly essential to review the stringency of our rules and if this global challenge really requires us to be more flexible, then it becomes crucial to set limits and conditions for using these new oenological practices.
Not providing for this kind of information on labels means destroying part of Europe's wine sector in the near future, a sector founded on tradition, on diversification and regional character and on a real culture of wine as an expression of our lands.
Sooner or later they will be forced to abandon their traditional practices because their products will, for no apparent reason, prove too expensive in the eyes of a consumer lacking proper, clear information.
The aim of the proposal for a regulation of the Commission, which is being reviewed by the Wine Management Committee, is to set out the conditions for using oak shavings in the production of wine.
The Commission feels that the provisions for wine labelling set out in the proposal would fulfil the requirements for transparency for consumers as well as the product quality requirements.
The Commission cannot interfere with these domestic powers.
Long-term use in other wine-producing countries and numerous experiments carried out under EU control show that the process does not have a negative effect on the health of consumers.
The Commission is of the opinion that greater flexibility in permitting new wine-making processes will enable producers in the Community to increase their market and to reach more consumers, especially through exports, and also to enhance the competitiveness of the wine sector vis-à-vis third countries. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard, current European legislation does not permit European producers to use wood shavings to age wine.
However, the legislation of other wine-producing countries, in particular the United States, Chile and South Africa, does not provide for such a ban.
Moreover, on the basis of a recent agreement with the European Union, these countries can export their own wines into the European Union’s internal market without the labelling on the bottles making any reference to the use of wood shavings.
We are not talking about opposing the entry into the European market of this system of ageing, but we are demanding protection of the right of consumers to know what they are buying and what they are drinking, to know what kind of quality they are getting for a particular price.
Twenty years ago, the scandal caused by the use of methanol in wine production served as a warning to us.
I shall summarise it for you: You said that the International Organisation of Vine and Wine allows these oenological practices.
However, what worries us is that this simple, unopposed use of wood shavings, which you said can purely and simply liberalise or increase the competitiveness of poor quality commercial wine, may cause a fall in the price on the commercial market of good quality wines, of wines with protected names, of wines with geographical indications, of wines which no one in the global trade can undermine and you are opening a back door so that good quality European wines can be undermined cheaply.
However, I would like to ask one thing of you, on behalf of all my honourable friends in this House: fragmentary, dumbing-down practices for the future of wine and the development of the common agricultural policy should be avoided.
We have also seen a considerable increase in the number of consumers and, if you have read the press recently regarding the decisions and wishes of China, you will be aware that, within the next ten years, we will have millions of new wine drinkers in the world.
At the same time, however, European viticulture needs to adapt to the needs of consumers all over the world.
They produce unsubsidised wines that people want to buy, at a price they can afford.
Furthermore, the basic Regulation for this COM allows Member States, in relation to wine-making practices and treatments, to impose stricter national conditions in order to ensure that the characteristics of their quality wines are maintained.
In the case of my country, the Supervisory Councils are the main guardians of the quality of Spanish wines.
We would also like the Commission to explain to us why it is fragmenting the debate on wine-making practices, when they should be dealt with jointly.
Furthermore, in autumn 2005, document COM(2005) 395 was communicated to us with a series of technical amendments to the basic Regulation: replacement of the distillation of sub-products of wine production by its withdrawal in Slovenia and Slovakia, modification of the classification of cultivated areas in Poland or new mentions for labelling.
I signed it because I wonder whether, and hope that, guarantees can be given to ensure that the quality wines we are producing in Europe are and continue to be recognised as quality wines.
I would like to emphasise that the recognition of this practice, which has been imported from countries outside the European Union, does not legitimise other practices that do not seem to provide the necessary quality guarantees both in terms of health and in terms of identity.
In order to ensure that European wines retain their position as world leaders, the European Union must use the new CMO to construct a policy for promotion, marketing, research and development and training, and it also needs to establish an economic observatory.
As we strive to use the best practices in developing wines in line with consumers’ expectations, new knowledge and new possibilities become available to us, and these are being used in countries outside the European Union.
I do not think that the one should exclude the other, but we are losing our certainties.
The labelling issue is a tricky one, one that I think is best dealt with at the national or regional level, as it should be.
It cannot be the European Union’s function to regulate everything right down to the tiniest detail, or we will end up with the sort of thing with which we are familiar in the context of the labelling of allergenic substances, with demands being made for labelling in every conceivable language.
The task of the European authorities, in terms of wine policy, should be based on the need to improve and promote the agricultural quality of traditional production, and on the need to protect that production against the increasing competition from third countries.
Yet others remind us of the responsibility of the Member States, in particular regarding legislation on quality wines produced in a specified region.
I would therefore strongly urge the Commission to avoid adopting the draft regulation amending Regulations No 1622/2000, No 884/2001 and No 753/2002, which, as far as I know, has not been adopted.
It can be used three times at most, so that red wine is at least a euro per litre more expensive if matured in a barrique than if wooden planks – to which there can be no objection on the grounds of consumer or health policy – are used.
It is in any case better to legalise this practice rather than, over a period of decades, to accept that many are doing it illegally, and so I think the approach we have opted for is the right one. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I always have the privilege, when I make my way to Strasbourg, of driving through the wonderful regions of the Palatinate and Alsace, where I buy my wine.
I would, at the same time, regret it if the quality of European wines were to come under pressure as a result.
I do not think that will be the case, because if you have true quality, then you can prove that there is a difference between the use of wood chippings and wooden barrels.
That is the difference between the use of wood chippings and wooden barrels.
I should like to emphasise that, and also call on the European wine producers, those who produce quality wine and are able to sell their wine without any problems, to continue to use wooden barrels in any event.
I would also draw your attention to other developments that have taken place in Europe.
As I already mentioned in my introductory statement, the use of oak shavings in wine production was already approved at a political level by the Council last year.
My fellow Commissioner Mrs Fisher Böl has remarked several times with regard to the future of the wine sector that the sector must increase the competitiveness of EU wine producers, improve the reputation for quality enjoyed by EU wine as the best wine in the world, win back old markets and also win new markets in the EU and throughout the world.
We must create a wine regime which will retain the best traditions of wine-making in the EU, strengthen the social structure of many rural areas and ensure that all production will be environment-friendly.
The first question was on why the Commission was not making it obligatory to identify wine that has been produced with the help of wood shavings.
The Council Regulation sets out a specific number of mandatory details for wine labels, and only the Council can make it obligatory for labels to mention the wood shavings process.
The Commission in any case feels that the existing system of wine labelling is too complicated and too rigid, and that it would consequently be appropriate to simplify existing procedures and make them more flexible.
The use of oak shavings and pieces of oak in contact with wine as it matures has been permitted for 10 years now in most wine producing countries outside Europe, and wine produced in this way satisfies the wishes of consumers.
The International Organisation of Vine and Wine, which is the international reference body in this sector, approved this process in 2001 and considers it to be a good wine-making process.
There is therefore no reason for banning the process, or for banning wine produced in this way from being imported into the EU.
He said that there had been an agreement at political level since last year, but, according to my information, the infamous draft regulation amending Regulations No 1622/2000, No 884/2001 and No 753/2002 has not yet been adopted.
For my part, I simply asked the Commission if it agrees with not adopting this regulation in comitology prior to the debates we will be holding on the reform of the CMO for wine, because that is what we are interested in.
At the same time it has served as an example allowing us to test, improve and correct certain international aid practices.
We must also acknowledge and welcome as very positive the Timorese authorities’ decision to ask for an international committee to carry out an investigation into the violent events of 5 May, when a group of hundreds of soldiers who had resigned from their posts clashed with others who were still in the army.
We cannot therefore now shy away from this situation and we must show our complete solidarity with those who are working to find a solution to the problem.
In particular, we must support the action being taken by President Xanana Gusmão and Minister Ramos Horta on behalf of the government.
One could not ask the Timorese institutions to be any more democratic than they have been in the years since independence, a fact unchanged by recent events.
What is, in our view, required at this complex and difficult time is support for a return to normality, especially from the point of view of security, which is in fact already happening.
The sovereignty of the East Timorese people must also be steadfastly protected, along with their freedom to choose their legitimate representatives.
Furthermore, the legitimacy of the democratic functioning of the institutions in the country should be respected.
Although the motion for a resolution before us addresses some of these concerns, its content is tainted by its biased approach to the political situation, which will only serve to fuel internal and external attempts to make political capital out of the situation and could exacerbate tension.
The recent unrest, violence and the huge numbers of refugees in East Timor have therefore been a disappointment for the international community.
The disappointment has been especially great inasmuch as it showed that the international community’s faith in a situation where there would be permanent improvement in East Timor was well before its time.
The joint proposal by six political groups for a motion for a resolution on East Timor has the backing of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe and deserves wide support from the European Parliament as a whole. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have photographs here of the death and destruction in East Timor.
In 2002 I led the EU mission to monitor the presidential election followed by independence, and we saw clearly what a good job UNTAET had done under the much-lamented Sergio Vieira de Mello.
We saw how Australia and the other international troops had kept the peace.
Then they all left, and for a time, under President Xanana and the Government of East Timor, things looked good.
The latest member of the ACP is East Timor.
The Timorese authorities also demonstrated unity and convergence when two days ago they submitted to the United Nations Security Council requests to strengthen and extend the remit of the United Nations Office in East Timor (UNOTIL) from being a police mission under UN supervision to being a peace-keeping mission under the mandate and leadership of the UN, should the need arise.
This European Parliament motion for a resolution supports these requests and demonstrates the concern of Parliament and the EU about the situation.
The international community has a particular responsibility to guarantee that the State of East Timor and its people, who have fought against oppression for the independence and sovereignty of their country, have the future they deserve.
As Kofi Annan said this week, what is happening in East Timor is especially painful because the country is, and I quote, ‘a child of the international community’.
The situation can be rectified and nobody should question the viability of the independent, sovereign State of East Timor, which also enjoys independence and sovereignty over the country’s significant natural resources.
Ian Martin, head of the United Nations Mission in East Timor (UNAMET), who helped with the split in 1999 and who was recently the UN Secretary-General's envoy in Dili, explained the day before yesterday that the crux of the matter was not whether East Timor was a failed State; for him, the bottom line was that this is a country that had been in existence for four years, that was learning to deal with the weight of responsibility arising from independence and to address the challenges inherent in a democratic system.
Accordingly, Parliament welcomes the unanimous decision taken by the Timorese authorities to seek an international commission of inquiry to look into recent incidents that have led to a high number of casualties and to thousands of Timorese fleeing their homes.
We hope that the efforts of Nobel Peace Prize winners President Xanana Gusmão and government minister Ramos Horta will succeed in overcoming the political crisis, in such a way that the mission can focus on European aid for development in East Timor. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, East Timor formally gained independence in 1975.
Ladies and gentlemen, if one bears in mind that the murderous regime of Gadaffi, the murderous regime of Castro and other murderous regimes joined the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, one can only wonder whether these international organisations wield enough authority.
If we also take into account the fact that our Parliament, which should lead by example, is once again today debating same-sex marriage and that one of the Member States of the European Union has decided to grant civil rights to great apes, then we may surely wonder if we have sufficient authority to assist those people who are most persecuted and who suffer the most.
I conclude that if East Timor needs help, as is in fact the case, this should be provided both by the international community and by the religious and voluntary sectors. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would echo the words of my group colleague, Mr Romeva i Rueda, and emphasise everything that he and others have said on the situation in East Timor.
As I say, I emphasise and reiterate the views of Mr Tannock and Mr Romeva i Rueda about the situation in East Timor.
This motion for a resolution has a number of concrete steps that we ourselves can take to alleviate the situation in that troubled part of the world.
We have a number of ideas in this motion for a resolution to help alleviate that and I hope we will be acting on them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, sometimes it is important to explore the background to a situation.
The Commission is also drawing up a decision on financing, which will meet the additional humanitarian needs of the inhabitants.
At the same time we should try to find ways to assist in the political process.
But East Timor cannot succeed – either now or in the future – merely through the presence of UN peacekeeping forces, but first and foremost through development and democracy.
The next parliamentary elections in 2007 should provide an opportunity to support democracy and will at the same time be a test for the government of East Timor and its citizens, as they decide which path to follow.
The Commission will continue to consult closely over all these matters with Member States, partner countries and UN agencies, and it will of course continue the political dialogue with the authorities in East Timor both on a bilateral level and within the framework of the Cotonou Agreement.
I fear that some of the institutions in East Timor have not met our expectations in this regard.
The country secured its independence precisely because it was able to extend to its citizens the rights denied to them in the past.
The international non-governmental organisation Human Rights Watch has published a detailed report on this topic and I will therefore focus only on selected areas.
There is a need, however, for progress in the functioning of the police force and the justice system as a whole, as well as in the areas of freedom of expression and association.
The report from this Commission was published in 2005.
We are now considering a further contribution to the installation of peace in this country.
Both the Members of this Parliament and the citizens of East Timor should know that the European Union is a determined backer of the peace process in this country. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5 p.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on Syria and human rights violations(1). &#160;&#160; Mr President, Syria has in recent years been set on a course of democratic reform, especially after the accession to power of President Bashar Al-Assad.
Regrettably, in the past few months in particular, numerous violations of human rights against politicians, lawyers, writers and other civilians have been reported and confirmed by independent agencies such as Amnesty International.
The Syrian authorities are notorious for detaining civil society activists and defence lawyers in political cases, as well as participants of foreign conferences on human rights after their return home.
These arrests contravene Article 38 of the Syrian Constitution, which guarantees each citizen ‘the right to freely and openly express opinions in speech and writing and by all other means of expression’.
The Syrian State of Emergency Law, which has been in force since 8 March 1963, also does not justify arresting and holding people in custody without trial for having freely expressed their opinion.
In May this year, the Syrian security service Amn al-Dawla detained 12 signatories of a petition calling on the Syrian authorities to improve relations between Syria and Lebanon by respecting the sovereignty of each of these countries.
On 14 May, the well-known journalist and universally respected representative of the domestic opposition Michel Kilo was detained.
On 16 May, two further human rights activists, Nidal Darwish and Mahmud Mer’i, were arrested; more people were detained the following day, including the well-known defence lawyer Anwar al-Bunni.
The majority of those detained between 14 and 17 May are being held in the central prison in Adra, near Damascus.
The European Parliament calls on the Syrian Government and Parliament for the immediate release of these people, and for the political system in Syria to respect basic political and civil rights. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Syria is on the receiving end of very open threats of war from the outside world.
Within Syria itself, there is increasing repression of the democratic opposition, particularly of those who signed the so-called Damascus-Beirut petition, which emphasises the ‘necessity of a definitive acknowledgement on the part of Syria of the independence of the Lebanon’.
Anwar al-Bunni, Michel Kilo, Khalil Hussein, Safwan Tayfour, Mahmoud Issa, Fateh Jammous, Suleiman Achmar, Nidal Derwiche, Suleiman Shummor, Ghalem Amer, Muhammad Mahfud, Mahmoud Mer’i and Kamal Labwani are only a few of those who were imprisoned in the cruel and inhuman jails of the Syrian intelligence services on 19&#160;May.
They were imprisoned because they want peace, stability and normal life to prevail in the Middle East.
Kamal Labwani came to us a year ago to share here with us the outlook as regards the situation in Syria.
The authoritarian regime in Syria runs an enormous number of abnormally cruel political prisons.
Let Syria free all its political prisoners before we have further dialogue on the Syrian association agreement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we are correct and honour-bound in this Chamber to take note of and highlight human rights abuses in Syria.
This motion does, in truth, little more than that.
The fact is that we in Europe are not seen as the good guys.
Syria refuses to recognise Lebanon or to establish diplomatic relations with the country.
The conditions in which prisoners are held must change.
We cannot consent to the fact that in a civilised world, in order to justify abuses, a state of emergency was introduced, which serves as a cover for groundless arrests, the use of torture or the murder of civilians, journalists, lawyers or activists fighting in defence of human rights.
For these reasons, I am in favour of adopting the motion for a resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the previous speakers have told the House about dramatic cases in which Syrian oppositionists have been detained in recent months, and yet violations of fundamental rights have been taking place in Syria for over 40 years.
For over 40 years a state of emergency has been in place, and the parliament is an institution which is completely subordinate to one party, namely the Baas party, and which is devoid of legislative authority.
Repressive measures are taken not only against journalists and civil society activists, but also, and increasingly, against ethnic and religious minorities.
At the beginning of this year we had some grounds for optimism.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, both you and I know some of these representatives of civil society personally.
We cannot accept the persecution and intimidation of human rights defenders and government critics, or arbitrary imprisonment and the use of solitary confinement.
I feel quite sure that the European Parliament will be our unswerving ally in supporting these efforts. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5 p.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on North Korea and human rights violations(1). &#160;&#160; Mr President, the primary objective of our debate today is to save the life of an innocent man.
Song Jong Nam is a North Korean man aged 48, who was arrested and tortured by North Korean authorities in January 2006, and was subsequently sentenced to death without a court procedure.
Son Jong Nam is an innocent man.
Today, this is punishable by death in North Korea.
His case reflects the direness of the situation of human rights in North Korea.
The European Union has indicated on several occasions that it is ready for a dialogue on human rights, but the North Korean authorities have always rejected it.
We are also ready to provide humanitarian assistance, but only if it can reach those who really need it; we do not want to support the government authorities with our aid.
Finally, the practice of the Chinese authorities is unacceptable.
In their view, those successes were achieved thanks to a superior system and despite the opposition of the hostile outside world since the end of the war in 1953.
My group welcomes this approach. &#160;&#160; Mr President, more and more frequently, alarming information is reaching us from North Korea about widespread infringements of human rights.
The intimidation of citizens, torture and public executions have become part of the miserable everyday existence of the country, not to mention the restrictions on freedom of speech or religious faith.
The death penalty, which is still used in North Korea, is imposed mainly for political reasons.
Besides the political situation, the economic situation is also very difficult in North Korea.
The local population is escaping to China en masse, not only because of political repression, but also because of growing problems relating to hunger.
Against a background of general shortages, the authorities are distributing food in such a way that high-ranking party and military officials are favoured, and ordinary citizens are missed out.
The North Korean Government consistently refuses to allow access to the country for United Nations observers or for non-governmental organisations working in defence of human rights.
Given the lack of any kind of will or cooperation on the part of the North Korean Government, the international community cannot sit back and watch as individual lives and human dignity are disregarded in the country.
There were three MEPs who worked very hard at the time to bring it about: Klaus Hänsch, who is still a Member here; Otto von Habsburg and Jiří Pelikán, who used to sit as an MEP for Italy.
Today, we find ourselves debating human rights under the chairmanship of a Czech president, with a Czech Commissioner, the Iron Curtain – not least thanks to the courage of the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe – having disappeared some 15 or 16 years ago.
Along with Cuba and a few others, it is among the last Communist terror regimes on earth, and we should deploy all peaceful means of exerting pressure – whether political or economic – in working towards the overthrow of this Communist dynasty and its repressive system, towards the release of the campaigners for freedom and resistance fighters in it, of whom there are over 200&#160;000, for these people – who want nothing more than to practice a religion or to express their opinions freely – to be able to enjoy freedom of conscience, and the setting at liberty of those persons from Japan, South Korea and many other countries, who, on the flimsiest of pretexts, have been locked up in North Korea.
It is for that reason that I would like to make it clear that we are right to make the demand contained in the motion for a resolution, namely that we should resume the human rights dialogue with this country that was suspended in 2003 and that we should ask the Commission and the Council to conduct, in that context, in-depth conversations on human rights.
In my view, the Council and the Commission should primarily urge China to apply its growing influence in its neighbouring country North Korea in a positive way, in the sense of an urgent and external restraint of Pyongyang policy.
This may sound very pragmatic, but this message only aims to ease the material and spiritual suffering of North Korean citizens.
One example of this is that government’s repeated decision not to allow access to the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the human rights situation and the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the right to food, as well as several humanitarian and human rights NGOs.
Numerous reports warn of the increasing numbers of people leaving the country as refugees, as well as the existence of practices such as torture, summary executions, arbitrary detentions and imprisonment in inhuman conditions and without any guarantees of legal defence.
The case of Sonj Nam, who has been tortured and sentenced to death, despite repeated calls for the case to be reviewed with greater guarantees, is just one example of this, as previous speakers have mentioned.
For all of these reasons, we must once again take this opportunity to call upon the North Korean Government: firstly, to comply with the human rights principles and commitments laid down in international law and to incorporate them into its own legislation; secondly, to abolish the death penalty; thirdly, to release all prisoners jailed for wishing freely to exercise their fundamental rights; and, finally, to guarantee freedom of expression and freedom of movement.
Finally, bearing in mind that the European Union was the first and only body to establish a dialogue on human rights with the North Korean Government, and bearing in mind also that this practice ceased when in 2003 the Council of Ministers sponsored a declaration on human rights in North Korea within the High Commission on Human Rights, it is also urgent that we re-establish that dialogue as soon as possible in order to restore that forum, as has been said. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is no accident that the motion for a resolution on communist North Korea was tabled by almost all political groups in our Parliament.
Let us hope that the European Commission and the Council share our position. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as various speakers before me have already pointed out, freedom, our first European value, for which many of the new Member States have had to fight for half a century, is the most important human right here on earth.
This applies for two fundamental reasons: first, there is a regime of rigid control in place in North Korea, and therefore the public receive only scraps of information on human rights abuses in the country.
Secondly, North Korea views international intervention on human rights as a covert attempt to destabilise their society or even to overthrow their government.
North Korea has one of the worst human rights records in the world.
For this reason the Commission and the Member States of the EU have been raising the question of human rights in talks with North Korean officials, and they will continue to do so.
They hold fast to that position despite the fact that a recent meeting of three political leaders was postponed in retaliation for the UN General Assembly resolution.
The impending execution of Mr Son Jong Nam and the unusually large volume of information that has come out about this and about his imprisonment is extremely significant.
Ladies and gentlemen, the human rights situation in North Korea is a theme that we must pursue and we will pursue.
Of this I am in no doubt. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 5 p.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is voting time. &#160;&#160; – This oral amendment has obtained cross-group consensus.
The paragraph would therefore read as follows: ‘Stresses that the process of gradual reduction of the UN mission in East Timor over the last four years must be reversed and asks for the urgent deployment of a UN-led police force to help restore stability, and a UN-mandated peacekeeping force as requested by the East Timorese authorities on 13 June 2006;’ &#160;&#160; – Mr President, We agreed in the course of debate that we would call for the release of the prisoners, especially of those who had signed the Damascus-Beirut petition.
