Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting The Minutes of the sitting of Thursday 13 December 2001 have been distributed.
I would just like to say a few words to once again sincerely thank you for the confidence you placed in me when, on 20 July 1999, you elected me President of the European Parliament.
You yourself have carried out the work of a pioneer, both externally and in the EU itself.
Well before the start of the crisis in Afghanistan, you drew our attention to this issue, and you had already embarked upon the fight for the improvement of the situation of women in this country.
Your role in the drafting of the Charter of Fundamental Rights should not be underestimated, and this is an issue of relevance to all European citizens.
In many respects, you have prepared the European Parliament for the new phase that is opening up in inter-institutional relations.
Your speeches, Madam President, have been moderate in tone but clear and incisive in substance, and they have encouraged and sustained all the democratic Europeans in their fight for peaceful coexistence amongst their citizens.
Thank you, Madam President.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, today is the day for saying some very, very warm words of thanks to our President, Nicole Fontaine, who is from our group, for discharging her duties over the last two and a half years - as she herself has just said - with such passion.
Madam President, you are one of a distinguished line which includes Louise Weiss and Simone Veil.
Louise Weiss, Simone Veil and Nicole Fontaine: these are three great Presidents of our European Parliament.
Thirdly - and here you were an example amongst so few - you spoke out against any form of terrorism, obviously in particular against the terrorism in Spain, but also throughout the world.
You were of course always a full Member of our group, even as President, but now, when you stand down as President in January, you will be coming back into the fold of our group and you will then take your seat alongside another former President of the European Parliament - whom we hold in equally high esteem - José María Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado.
We welcome you very warmly back into our group and we thank you most sincerely for your convincing work, our dear President, Nicole Fontaine.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, first and foremost, I would like to say, dear Nicole, that I understand how you must be feeling today.
But today, in the name of this very political group, I would like to thank you for your Presidency... ...
You have been an outstanding representative of this House who has earned the thanks and support of everyone here.
There have been impressive improvements under your Presidency in our work rate with regard to co-legislation and that is due to good management of our agenda.
You have been an impressive defender and promoter of the Charter on Fundamental Rights and we salute you for that.
You strongly promoted the case for a Convention.
You represented that large section of our community in Europe which is so inadequately represented, not just in electoral politics, but in so many spheres of public administration and public life.
Madam President, dear Nicole, I would also like to thank you on behalf of my Group for the work you have done over the last two and a half years.
You also invited Commander Massoud to Parliament last spring, just as if you had foreseen what was coming, and you boldly appeared in public beside him.
But now things are changing, there are going to be new faces, and I want to wish you all the very best for the future.
Perhaps, as someone in my Group has already called out, you would have been a sparkling presence in the newly set up Convention.
The Presidency of the European Parliament has to reflect the views of all its Members and I am more than satisfied that you, Mrs Fontaine, have worked exceptionally hard during your term of office to ensure that all our views were represented on the many occasions on which you had to fulfil this responsibility.
You have represented us all with very great dignity and at all times showed great respect for all the Members of this Parliament.
I should like to thank you for your cooperation in the far more open period that has just gone by.
It is by setting good examples that we can help ensure a Parliament in which the best candidate for each post always has at least a fair chance of being elected or appointed.
Thank you, Mrs Garaud.
The attacks on 11 September turned our plans upside down and changed the order of the priorities we had set ourselves.
At the end of the day, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we had to achieve a great deal.
Therefore, I believe and I hope that the gloomy litany of confrontations - Seattle, Nice, Gothenburg, Genoa - has come to an end.
What struck me yesterday, Madam President, when rereading the summit' s conclusions, is that, in my view, we achieved a great deal during these two days.
The first - and in my view most important - step forward in this respect is the Laeken Declaration.
The Laeken Declaration has established a fresh method for amending treaties.
As agreed in Laeken, the European Union will, in the days and weeks to come, continue its efforts to diffuse the crisis in the Middle East.
These are all key elements of the action plan against terrorism that we set up following the attacks on 11 September.
Perhaps this is one of the issues that has been somewhat buried, especially in the wake of the events of 11 September.
The most important decision is that by 2002 at the latest, the European Commission will submit amended proposals concerning at least three parts: asylum procedures, family reunification and the Dublin II Regulation.
Another important point is that you gave your agreement on the consultation and information of workers in the event of economic restructuring.
The agencies in question are the European Food Safety Agency, which will be based in Brussels, and Eurojust which will be set up in The Hague for the simple and logical reason that this is where Eurojust already has its headquarters. (Applause) Madam President, that is my overview of the conclusions of the Laeken Summit, which also, to a great extent, sum up the achievements of the Belgian Presidency.
Incidentally, concerning the Presidency, we have also included in the Laeken declaration the question of how we will handle it in the future when we have for example thirty or more Member States.
The Belgian Presidency has always enjoyed the full support of the European Parliament and I am grateful to you all for that.
Together, over the last six months, we have done an enormous amount of legislative work.
I have learned a great deal from the many trips I have undertaken since 11 September, mostly accompanied by Romano Prodi and with Javier Solana, and the dialogue with the alternative globalists, especially concerning the Union' s place in the world.
Anyone to whom a connection between all these things starts to become clear will uncover not a dreary, colourless Europe, but the most fascinating project of our age.
The date of 11 September marked the globalisation of terrorism.
The attacks in New York and Washington taught us that we simply cannot afford to leave the poorest countries in the world to their fate, since they will then literally be hijacked by terrorists, drug barons, gangsters, in a word: scum.
A continent with a strong European fighting force, which must yet be created, but also embedded in a panoply of humanitarian, diplomatic and legislative instruments?
At Laeken, we took a great step forwards towards the kind of Europe we want: a more democratic, more open Europe with which our citizens are, at last, starting to identify fully.
Laeken launched a new constitutional phase in European integration, one in which this House and the national parliaments will be able to play a key role.
Indeed, the new process will be open and transparent and will help to give our fellow citizens a better grasp of the key issues being debated in Europe today.
The enlargement of the European Union is an irreversible process that is already well advanced.
Furthermore, we must not underestimate the importance of the candidate countries being involved for the first time in an institutional process that has constitutional implications.
The events of 11 September were a reminder of what those who want to abuse and destroy freedom can do, and the Council' s endorsement of our activities in the field of home affairs will help us to achieve our aim of building an area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union.
Work on defining a common asylum and immigration policy has received fresh impetus.
In this context, as I proposed in my recent speech in Bruges, the European Council has asked the Council and the Commission to explore ways of enabling those that guard the Union' s external borders to cooperate effectively, and to look into the possibility of setting up a common mechanism or border-control service.
One thing must be clear from now on.
They are more interested in whether the much-heralded European Food Safety Authority is actually up and running than in where it is located.
We have improved our procedures and our working methods, but recent weeks have shown that this process of building relationships and establishing procedures has not yet allowed us to achieve the aims we all set ourselves.
The goal we set ourselves at Lisbon in March 2000 was to make the Union the world' s most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy within ten years.
At the same time, we committed ourselves to making Europe a fairer society which is attentive to the needs of all.
It could hardly have done otherwise given that, just a month ago, the member States of the European Space Agency - 13 out of 15 of which are also Member States of the European Union - committed EUR 550 million to this project.
Any other decision would have given a conflicting signal regarding the project, which is vital for our future and our independence.
The European Council has set out clear dates and objectives for the first half of 2002: now it is time to move ahead without further delay.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Convention must deliver what is expected of it and bring about a change that will enable us to face a difficult, complex future with confidence.
In 2004 at the latest, but probably before that date, the Convention' s contributions will be put to the test at an Intergovernmental Conference, after which the citizens of old and new Member States will elect representatives to this House.
We must start to prepare now for these major, important events.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, there is a good atmosphere in today's sitting, which is fitting in this pre-Christmas season.
This is also an example of how the government of a so-called smaller country can sometimes operate far more effectively and move Europe much further forward than so-called larger countries always claim to be capable of doing.
Laeken is a great personal success for you, Prime Minister, and we very much welcome this.
There has been some debate over this tripartite chairmanship which has been created for the Convention.
That is why I think that this appointment, complemented by the appointments of Jean-Luc Dehaene, with whom we as a group have excellent relations, and also Giuliano Amato, who is a proven European, is a very sound one.
There will be nine further members of the praesidium and I would have thought that the two European Parliament representatives would be drawn from the two large groups.
Another crucial factor is how the work of the Convention is structured, and I think that with our 16 representatives we in the European Parliament have a tremendous opportunity to be, as it were, in the vanguard here.
And furthermore, thanks to the efforts we have all made together, I believe that we have managed to make progress with the Convention, despite the significant reservations we had about it.
I believe that the joint efforts of all the European political forces are characterising this process, and this is reflected in the Lehne/Méndez de Vigo report.
In any event, the important thing is that we are all prepared to work together in this process.
You have done something which I believe to be positive, and that is that with regard to the four issues raised in Nice, in Annex IV, Declaration 23, you have posed 64 questions.
We have seen this in the COSAC, and we are doing it as a political family so that there may be increasingly significant coordination between groups in Member States' parliaments, in the parliaments of the candidate countries, which also have the right to express their opinion on what we are doing, and in our Parliament.
We have a great responsibility.
And I take good note of what was said by a liberal President-in-Office of the Council with regard to the Barcelona Summit: social cohesion, the defence of the European social model, the capacity for adaptation and dialogue with social partners; I believe that that defines the route we must take.
Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the Belgian Presidency and the Belgian Prime Minister for the degree of cooperation with the European Parliament.
While I have not checked the record, from my own memory I believe Prime Minister that you may have been here on the floor of this House more often than any of your predecessors in any previous Presidency.
There has also been a very dramatic change in the mood of this House between now and twelve months ago.
The mood now is more upbeat and much of the thanks should go to you, Prime Minister Verhofstadt, and your colleagues in the Presidency.
One cannot of course confuse mood and substance and so we must now exploit that dynamic for the future through the Laeken Declaration and through the Convention.
We have to ensure that this Convention, through its Bureau, works in a single and coherent way.
I want to say to my good friend, Hans-Gert Poettering, that about 10 years ago the former President of the Liberal Group was looking for political asylum in this House and I want to thank my colleagues in the Christian Democrats, even before Tampere and the development of justice and home affairs, for offering asylum to that man.
He is a very capable European and I am sure in his hands that the Convention can make progress.
It is wonderful to feel, as the Prime Minister has already remarked, that there are no taboos.
September 11 was an extraordinary moment in your Presidency, a difficult challenge in terms of our common vulnerability and a recognition that non-Europe, or indeed transatlantic unilateralism, could not work.
It has been a tremendous success for all the institutions, led by the Belgian Presidency and the European Commission and with the willing contribution of this House, that we seized that moment and that we have understood that our common vulnerability can only be answered by common response.
All in all this is a Presidency worthy of the challenge of contemporary Europe and it is a Presidency, Mr Verhofstadt, which you and your colleagues can take great pride in.
I have, however, been a Member of the European Parliament for a number of years now, and I notice that all the presidencies are disappointed when they reach the end of their mandate, particularly in the second half of the year, because it is much shorter than the first due to holidays, and also because the Presidency does not do everything in the European Union - fortunately, that is.
Personally speaking, I am rather disappointed about some aspects, I have to say, but I think that even if the events of 11 September had not happened, you would not have been able to complete all your projects.
There is a positive message stating that 'we re-affirm our solidarity' which is fine.
Perhaps, though, a more political message should have been added, to express our regret at the attitude of the American Government regarding two important aspects related to world peace and terrorism.
For example, I think that the withdrawal from the treaty on antiballistic missiles, announced by President Bush, is a serious political error that threatens world peace.
Lastly, I would like to mention two important meetings, because the day after tomorrow will be better than today, but before the day after tomorrow, we have to deal with tomorrow.
There is a whole range of dossiers on which we have even regressed somewhat.
My group therefore welcomes anything that can help to open up our respective societies to the debate on the future of Europe.
Rest assured that we will urge our counterparts from civil society to work in a constructive and open manner in the new, European political forum.
Anyone who has taken part in citizens' debates within the framework of the pre-Laeken consultation, or has taken the trouble to listen to the messages that came to light recently in the large demonstrations that took place in Brussels, will have in mind those urgent demands which are practically absent from the Convention' s agenda as defined by the Laeken Declaration.
For example, all social issues, in the widest sense of the word, should provoke discussion on the new role that the euro and the European Central Bank will play.
In my view, the question of the effective rights of employees facing the might of large corporations, and that of the effective involvement of citizens in drawing up European policies and the assessment of their effects are also an unavoidable topic from this perspective.
Madam President, the Belgian Presidency assumed the Presidency of the European Union at an extremely crucial time.
The tragic terrorist attacks in America last September highlighted the need for European Union Member States and our international partners to bolster cooperation to defeat the evils of international terrorism.
European Union leaders confronted these new challenges with vigour and determination and we are all collectively intent on tackling the scourge of terrorism.
Without the political support and the goodwill of the people of Europe, the EU as a political and economic entity will be badly weakened.
There will be broad-ranging representation at this Convention which will afford all participants a time for real reflection as to the direction that the European Union must take in the immediate years ahead.
I believe that the European Union has helped to improve living standards within the European Union and it has helped to improve our quality of life.
The European Council decided to participate in international efforts to restore stability and peace to Afghanistan.
We can of course commend the appointment of the three wise men with their splendid careers behind them as a good signal to the Chinese leaders as to how we promote women and young people in the European Union.
The Danish Prime Minister has already offered the Danish critics of the EU a place.
The Convention should draft two texts: a constitution, as desired by the majority, and an agreement between independent nations which cooperate on cross-border matters that we cannot solve ourselves in our own countries' parliaments.
The two proposals can therefore be subject to consultative referenda in all the Member States so that our politicians can see what people want before they call an official Intergovernmental Conference for the purpose of making changes to existing treaties.
There should also be ongoing debates on the two drafts in the national parliaments and at public meetings in the Member States.
The successor to the Treaty of Amsterdam must not come as a surprise but as the result of a democratic process.
This is the reality of these dictatorships which are at the root of the growth of terrorism, and we are doing nothing, we have already forgotten the lessons of 11 September.
Although everyone involved in Europe since Amsterdam, and Ioanina in fact, knows what the questions are, nobody had expected adequate and complete answers yet.
Mr President, one of the conclusions in the Laeken Declaration is that citizens feel that deals are often cut behind closed doors and away from democratic scrutiny.
As Tony Blair might have put it - "Tough on terrorism but also tough on the causes of terrorism".
They are each very worthy in their own right but collectively they fail to represent Europe' s rich diversity of talent and in particular: how does this demonstrate the Union' s so-called commitment to gender mainstreaming? (Applause) But at least we have the Convention, and it is now up to all of us to play our part in making it work and involving the public of the Union in the debate about the future of Europe.
However, any fruits of the Convention will not be ripened until well after 2004.
Laeken must not be seen as an excuse for postponing action on governance but instead create a new impetus for reforms that do not require treaty change.
I believe that we do a good job in terms of our legislative, budgetary and control functions, but no Parliament can work in the dark.
By reforming our working methods to make ourselves a livelier and more relevant debating chamber, we can shed a little light on our role as the voice of the people in EU decision-making.
I note the Presidency' s conclusions which welcome the report of the Mandelkern Group on the quality of regulatory arrangements and the Commission communication on regulatory simplification and their calls for an action plan for the first half of 2002.
Notwithstanding what was agreed at Laeken, I hope the Spanish Presidency will re-visit this issue and set up a working group with a mandate to arrive at draft interinstitutional agreements and an action plan agreed by all three institutions to be presented at the Seville Council next June.
Thank you for the 60 questions or so.
Secondly, there is nothing on revising the formula of a qualified majority in the Council.
Thirdly, there is nothing on strengthening the role of the regions within the political system of the Union and, fourthly and finally, we would have appreciated some critical self-assessment of the functioning and performance of the European Council itself.
But we are blessed with a truly pluralist procedure - an exciting and novel one - and we retain the freedom within the Convention to ask ourselves questions.
Mr Verhofstadt, over the past six months, you, together with your colleagues in the federal government and the federal state governments, have been Europe' s Lieutenant-General.
Unfortunately, however, you have been the Lieutenant-General of an ill-disciplined army, an army in which too often the Member States refuse to bow to your supreme authority, in which all too many Member States act at their own discretion and wish to go their own way and in which the Member States only serve their own interests and too often put narrow state nationalism above the general European interest.
You may have been aware of this over the past six months, Mr Verhofstadt, but we experience this on a daily basis in our files.
You posed the right questions at the Convention.
You rightly stated that the debate should be about the distribution of powers at different policy levels.
However, Mr Verhofstadt, could I also level some form of criticism?
I should like to make three observations with regard to the composition of the Convention.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, in adopting the Laeken Declaration convening the Convention, the summit has made a decision of historical significance for the future of the European Union.
It is particularly noteworthy that none of the numerous open political questions on the future of the European Union have been declared off-limits and that the Convention mandate can also be seen as marking the beginning of the process of developing a European constitution.
In my opinion, it is impossible to overestimate the significance of the fact that a majority of the members of the Convention will be democratically-elected members of the national parliaments and the European Parliament, that it will meet in public and talk to all kinds of organisations from civil society, and that the candidate countries will be involved in drafting proposals for the most far-reaching reform in the European Union's history.
Diversity of opinion must be delivered, because the European Union is actually at a crossroads and the proposals to be drawn up by the Convention must in their final form really reflect a European position on the future of Europe which is supported by all of us.
If the Convention is to be a success and ultimately if the European Union is to be viable in the future, it will, in my view, be crucial for us to succeed in making the European Union more democratic across the board and in strengthening the rights of individual people.
It is my hope - indeed I am counting on this - that, through the commitment of all of its members and as an independent forum, the Convention will gather its own political momentum during the course of its consultations, so that the next Intergovernmental Conference will not be able simply to disregard the Convention's proposals.
Mr President, the past week has been pivotal for the future of the Union.
Firstly, agreement was reached on the European arrest warrant, a major, sensitive agreement which must be seen as an initial step, to be consolidated by a broader, further-reaching political and institutional project bringing further integration.
In particular, at Laeken, we started to define that political and constitutional Europe in which we firmly believe.
The citizens do not want the site of the Food Authority to be purely administrative but to have proven experience and capacity in the field of food safety.
Mr President, some believe that the debate on the future of Europe can be summarised in the development of the Community method, where the Commission has the monopoly on initiative, the Court of Justice has political power and interpretation, and the right to impose European law on one or more Member States is achieved by increasing majority decisions.
The Convention will be nothing more than a sham if it pursues the same objective without acknowledging that the Treaty of Nice is dead and buried.
The key problem is that for this Presidency these last months have been a painful learning curve.
Little progress was made at Laeken, or indeed, throughout the Belgian Presidency, on the competitiveness agenda in Europe.
And in spite of this, the atmosphere that surrounds the Laeken Declaration is, indisputably, a positive atmosphere.
Furthermore, it is obvious that the Socialists attach particular importance to the progress made in social matters: the confirmation of the role of structural indicators in employment, the support for the European social model, particularly through cooperation in the area of pensions, the improved understanding of social exclusion and social involvement are important achievements for the people of Europe.
In my opinion, the Convention should have that flexibility.
Mr President, the Laeken European Council has dragged us from the dreadful quagmire which Nice had led us into.
Not only from the point of view of the concrete results achieved, but also from the psychological and morale points of view.
But in reality the European Union is still vacillating between these two poles: on the one hand, the lack of progress resulting from the thinking and the interests of the national States, and on the other the zeal and enthusiasm arising from the desire to complete the construction of the European Union.
The challenge represented by the Laeken declaration, and which must be taken up by the Convention, is precisely to tip the balance in favour of strengthening democracy, efficiency and cohesion on a European level.
Personally, I see at least two elements of concern during these days following Laeken.
The first concerns the Convention.
I would have preferred a parliamentary way of thinking, and we would have preferred the Convention to have chosen its own President, or - better still - its own woman President.
The second element of concern is represented by the episodes of street violence and expulsions, which, though in a different way to Nice or Genoa, also took place in and around Laeken.
The European Parliament has the task of ensuring, in a coherent and untiring fashion, that the strengthening of cooperation in the fields of terrorism and crime does not lead to a weakening of the rights of citizens.
For the moment, we must thank the Belgian Presidency for its work and hope that subsequent presidencies will show the same commitment and coherence.
I am extremely pleased that the Presidency has stood by enlargement and the whole programme of enlargement, that there is a continued commitment to concrete negotiations' beginning as from 2002 and that we are aiming to admit the first new Member States in 2004.
Mr President, the Laeken Declaration is punctuated by question marks: a sign of the ambiguity which currently exists in relation to the future of the European Union.
Mr President, in defining the agenda for the Convention on the future of the Union, the Laeken Council has deviated from the conclusions of the Nice Council with regard to two points which concern us.
Firstly, whereas Nice declaration No 23 had included in the agenda a point entitled 'The role of national parliaments in the architecture of Europe' , the Laeken Council has watered down that idea under a much vaguer title: 'More democracy, transparency and efficiency in the European Union' .
Under this title, it first of all asks how we can increase the democratic legitimacy of the current institutions and, only in second place, whether the role of the national parliaments needs to be modified.
It is a largely biased approach, since in reality the two questions are just one: recognising a prominent role for national parliaments within the architecture of Europe is the best way to reconcile the Union with its citizens.
It therefore appears, Mr President, that between Nice and Laeken, the federalist pressure groups have taken charge.
My second point is that the events of 11 September and everything which happened in their wake have made it more than clear that Europe will only be taken seriously in the future if it acts as a community and that we need to get back on track and work towards developing as a community.
The outcome of the Convention will only carry political weight if it is supported by as broad a consensus as possible.
We share in this success, and have you to thank for it having been possible.
The reform of the institutions is, for the first time, in our hands too.
That is something new and we will have to get used to it.
The Convention must not turn itself into an expanded Intergovernmental Conference, but likewise it must not reduce itself to the level of being just a forum for discussion.
This has acquired an added dimension since 11 September.
So, in fact, we as Liberals are not too badly represented in the European institutions.
The old method entailed establishing, after each treaty amendment, that agreement had not been reached on two or three points, and these two or three points would then be transferred to the next Intergovernmental Conference, which would add a few fresh points and which would try to change the Treaty in the same way.
Mr Dehaene has helped me draft the questions, and I will now return the favour and help him give the answers in the coming months.
The Laeken group is a group of which Mr Dehaene and Mr Amato form a part.
I completely agree and I propose that three men and nine women now be designated by the national parliaments and the European Parliament.
I also truly hope that the European Parliament, the national parliaments and the various representatives will be able to do this.
I would like to end by saying something about the relationship between the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
I believe that what is very important is that a praesidium has been created, that that praesidium consists of twelve people and that amongst those twelve people, two will be representatives of the European Parliament.
The same number will represent the national parliaments.
I believe that these two people are going to have to play an important role, because it will be this group of twelve which prepares things, which prepares the agendas.
Not all the decisions can be taken by a Convention of 113 people.
The praesidium is going to play a dominating role in this respect and in that praesidium there will naturally be two representatives of the European Parliament.
I have achieved this because I have also been helped by the President of the Committee of the Regions.
The regions and cities, but also the regions with administrative powers.
I have therefore been able to use the authority of the Committee of the Regions to include these regions in the text for the first time.
I wanted to stress this here this afternoon, since I feel that they have an important role to play.
I personally believe that we must do this together, excluding nobody, and allowing every section of our European Union to express its view. (Applause) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, firstly because I do not want Mr Verhofstadt to go without me and I have no desire to swim to Canada, and secondly because I can say with satisfaction that this debate was a debate of great unity, a moment of satisfaction, given that, a few months ago, none of us imagined that a Convention was possible.
Mr Verhofstadt and Mr Prodi, of course we understand why you are obliged to leave the House at this point.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with Laeken we may have found an antidote to some of the poisons present in the Treaty of Nice.
The convening of a constituent Convention - constituent because this Convention will give rise to the Constitution for the new Europe - means restoring a political soul to Europe, in other words thinking about what is to be the future home of us all.
Parliament must therefore welcome the success of the Summit and make sure that the Convention' s work reaches its appropriate conclusion in an Intergovernmental Conference, which will have to draw up the new Constitutional Treaty, to bring about the European federation.
Mr President, let me say first of all that I appreciate the way we can talk to each other here in a fairly intimate atmosphere.
The first is the recognition that the consolidation of the third pillar of the European Union, the fight against terrorism in particular, has at last been developed in the way the citizens have been demanding.
Mr President, I do not believe that the machine has worked properly, but I assume that my speaking time is over.
Mr President, Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, of the huge number of problems dealt with at Laeken, I would also like to focus on the point which brings us most hope, the declaration on the future of the Union.
It is a good and strong declaration, which takes up several of the ideas to which the French Socialist delegation is very committed.
And as a French person, I am delighted to see that in the end an eminent countryman of mine will preside over the group; though an eminent countrywoman would clearly have been better perhaps.
The Presidency has provided strong impetus, very much helped by Parliament as well, which has given it constant encouragement.
The Laeken Council has launched this Convention into orbit, and it can play a decisive role for the future of Europe.
I am not talking about applying Article 42 to bring the third pillar matters into the first pillar, although that would be very desirable.
The regulation referred to two Council texts, neither of which is available to Parliament.
Mr President, the writing on the wall states quite clearly that the Laeken Summit has bolstered a European Union in which big business takes precedence over the interests of the workers and the people in general.
They did not and could not hear their fight and their demand for a different Europe, a Europe of peace and friendship between nations, not a Europe of European armies, intervention and war, a Europe in which social rights and democratic freedoms are respected and strengthened, not a Europe of European arrest warrants, Eurojust and the law on terrorism which use 11 September as a pretext for classifying the social and political fight for a better tomorrow as terrorism.
The Convention will have to pave the way for a Constitution which establishes the respective competences of the institutions and includes the founding values underlying our Union as well, but it will also have to represent an essential stage in terms of the harmonisation of the laws of our countries, not least in judicial matters.
However, we must make haste and decide before the end of 2003 to avoid the elections getting in the way of the process and the Constitution being adopted slap-bang in the middle of the electoral campaign.
All its sittings are in public and comprehensible - I wish the Council's were - and the speed with which we are capable of reaching decisions - on the European arrest warrant for example - leads me to the conclusion that we are more efficient than the Council and, in many ways, even more so than the Commission.
So, when the Council at Laeken welcomes the Commission's White Paper on European governance and the so-called Mandelkern report and expects an action plan on the subject from the Commission in the first half of 2002, I hope that, when doing so, the Council has in mind the intention of strengthening Parliament's role .
I hope we can at least manage, before Barcelona and Seville, to have in-depth discussions with the Council and the Commission on new forms of governance, which will not even be conceivable without Parliament's consent.
It is in this sense that we very much desire dialogue with civil society and with our citizens, and we hope that the Council and the Commission do not see this as over against Parliament, but as an addition to it.
I believe that one of the elements, one of our possible fears in relation to this Laeken declaration, is that it does not commit the members of the Convention to certain closed questions, or in any event does not allow all the issues which are vital to the future of Europe to be dealt with.
The European Parliament, Mr Swoboda, is a representative democratic institution, of course, and I respect it fully.
I believe that the European Union has the right and the duty to express its differences with the United States.
I have total respect for the United States, I believe that we undoubtedly have a special partnership with the United States, but I believe that in the coalition put together after 11 September, it was good that the European Union was there to express a slightly different approach, to express certain guarantees and assurances, and also to play the role that the European Union has played within the Arab countries, within the Islamic world.
And I believe that the European Union must retain its own character.
Many questions have concerned the Convention.
I believe that all three of the personalities involved are very committed to the European project and also have an extremely modern, forward-looking and committed view of the European Union and, something which is perhaps important, enjoy great reputations and a network of relations, academic, political and others, which may ensure that if they defend a point of view, they have a good chance of being heard, even by the European Council.
I would like to say that the Convention, which is perhaps the greatest virtue of the Laeken declaration - and I have already had the opportunity to say this in the European Parliament -, will in reality become what the members of the Convention want to make of it.
You have a praesidium which is not there pro forma, because it is a praesidium which counts.
The number of people in this praesidium will ensure that it is heard.
Of course, the IGC can accept them or refuse them.
But what is certain is that, if these options are well-balanced, if they are specific, if they are well-targeted and if they are strongly supported, there will be little room for the Council to ignore them, otherwise the Council will not be fulfilling its political duty, or in any event it will be taking a risk.
I therefore have great confidence in the way the Convention is going to develop.
I will add another factor, which is that the Laeken declaration offers all of us who believe in a more integrated Europe a fantastic opportunity to engage in a little European pedagogy, in this respect at least.
We must not only talk of perspectives, which is clearly very important, but at the same time we must try to educate young people in relation to Europe, to explain to them how we work, to explain to them that Europe deals much more directly with their concerns than people believe or than the press indicates.
This is another way to use this Convention.
I believe that the conclusions of the summit contain a passage on consular cooperation.
The opening of common consulates will be a first step and I hope that we will go further.
Opinion polls indicate that our citizens are in favour of more resolute European actions in various fields, such as social policy, foreign and defence policy and environmental protection.
Think also of the European social conciliator.
I still want to say a word about governance and the reform of the Council.
The Convention will discuss measures which will lead to a modification of the Treaties in 2004.
In this context, we have welcomed the White Paper on European Governance, as well as the Secretary-General of the Council' s intention to present proposals to the European Council in Barcelona aimed at improving the functioning of the Council.
The European Council in Seville will draw operational conclusions from it.
As a matter of fact, their disappearance would be not only a loss to humanity but the demolition of the best basis for the political future of Europe.
The Laeken Summit has achieved its main ambition: to adopt a declaration on the future of Europe, opening the way to the future great reform of the Union.
But there is still a long way to go.
We must therefore continue with our efforts.
Mr President, we are bringing the Belgian Presidency to a close, and that should surely be in the presence of the Council, normally speaking.
Mr President, after 11 September, we succeeded in cutting back on the leeway which terrorists had, by taking numerous and effective European measures.
There are tendencies towards unilateralism: let us not get drawn into this, let us persuade our allies to adopt a multilateral approach and give Europe a central role in this.
The European Summit has decided on the Convention and not only on the President and two Vice-Presidents, which I am happy about, but also about the tasks given to the Convention.
The Convention will need to better distribute and define the Union' s powers and will need to check how the system of treaties and Union legislation can be simplified and in which ways more democracy and transparency can be created in the Union.
The Convention will also need to examine how the Second and Third Pillars can be accommodated within Community policy.
Migration policy has already more or less been accommodated in this way, and policy on internal security is now the sector which is experiencing rapid growth at Community level since the dramatic events of 11 September.
The role could have been even more solid if the Convention itself had been able to choose its president on the recommendation of the Summit.
Happily, at Lisbon, Europe had defined new ambitions in terms of economic growth and employment.
In terms of fiscal coordination, Laeken takes us to the end of 2002, but it is becoming clear that at Feira, fiscal Europe met with an impasse.
The Feira agreement should lead to the exchange of information between Member States.
Like Austria, Luxembourg and perhaps some others will not implement Feira without an agreement which extends to important financial markets outside the Union.
Such a system would be accepted by the public if it is in full discharge, that is to say that it exempts the citizen from any other additional tax.
Mr President, take this idea on board, and you will really bring progress to Europe.
Mr President, Laeken has opened the door to the development of a draft constitution on the basis of the Community method.
The decision to establish a European Convention paralleled by a forum for civil society is a historic one in its proportions.
I endorse wholeheartedly the decision of the European summit to give its support to Yasser Arafat as the leader of the Palestinian people and I condemn without reservation the misuse of the Security Council veto in blocking the appointment of international observers to the Middle East conflict.
I am also disappointed the Council did not give its explicit support for a legal framework for public services in the context of competition regulations, as the European Parliament urged.
Finally, I also believe it was a serious mistake to back off from a decision to nominate a European Union peace-keeping force for Afghanistan under a UN mandate.
This unfortunately now leaves this area to the dictates of the interests of the more powerful states on the world stage and fails to provide a political presence and role for European values.
I am more interested in the originality or old age of the ideas of these three individuals rather than their chronological age.
The decisions taken in relation to the declaration on the future of Europe, in relation to the Convention method, in relation to making the common security and defence policy operative, the declarations on the Middle East peace process, Afghanistan, etc.
What we have to do now is turn declarations into deeds, so that our actions do not remain merely rhetorical, particularly in relation to the fight against terrorism.
I believe that we are working in the right direction, and I hope that the declarations of the European Council in Laeken, which has been a good finale to a brilliant Presidency, can quickly be turned into concrete actions which, as I said at the beginning, will allow the European Union to make significant progress in its project of political consolidation.
It will of course come up with options when there is a division, but it will work towards reaching a broad consensus as the basis for the work of the IGC.
It shows the limits of the European Council which should be setting the strategic objectives for the European Union.
Let no government now turn around to the Parliament and criticise us for being incapable of taking decisions, accuse us of being too slow in taking decisions, when the European Council offers us a spectacle like that, which indeed discredits the European Union in the eyes of its citizens.
Mr President, if our goal is to establish a federation of States and the constituent process is to involve the Treaties, the Laeken Declaration establishing a Convention that is to propose institutional reform to the Intergovernmental Conference before the European elections and before enlargement, is a success for Parliament and the Belgian Presidency.
This democratic challenge must be supported by a great debate open to all the citizens of the Union.
And I must congratulate you in this respect on the content and the form of the agreement on the European arrest warrant, which affects a large number of offences and which I see as greater justice rather than greater repression.
The analysis of the situation is sincere of course, but I do not believe that it reaches the right conclusions.
Mr President, I believe we have demonstrated that it is possible to work with our Parliament in this field and that we must put an end to the restrictions imposed in Amsterdam.
Such a decision would have sent a strong signal of the will of the Europeans, by showing that we are ready to carry out our responsibilities fully, both in a military sense and in a humanitarian or political sense.
The Laeken Summit has decided to create the Convention.
This Convention opens the way to a new future for Europe.
If you stop to consider that no institutional body in the European Union and no institution in any one Member State has studied or tabled more thoughts on the institutional aspects of the European Union than the European Parliament, then a contingent of 16 delegates is hardly in proportion to its contribution to date.
However, just so that our fellow citizens know where they stand, the Convention will not table a draft Treaty, it will table a draft Constitutional Treaty.
The Laeken Declaration is a successful mixture of questions regarding problems to be solved and, on the other hand, faith in being able to solve them.
Mr President, I would like to continue this internal PPE-DE debate by focussing solely on the Laeken Declaration.
It is also right that a whole series of questions should be asked in terms of simplifying the process of legislation, on clarifying competencies of the Union and indeed restoring perhaps one or two to Member States, as is mentioned.
It had a website - 'Europa' or whatever it was, - but we have not heard much about it under this Presidency.
Even a cursory analysis of the questions, though, shows that some of them are not questions at all, such as the rhetorical question as to whether it would contribute to greater transparency if the sessions of the Council - at any rate in its legislative capacity - were to be in public.
Another question in the catalogue of Laeken declarations makes me similarly pensive.
There has, unfortunately, been a very definite reason for these questions to be asked in recent weeks, and let nobody believe that there will be any less hankering after top-down management in a future Europe of nineteen small and medium-sized States and a small group of large and very large ones.
One last point in the Laeken Declaration prompts me to vehement criticism here and now.
The less than impressive, indeed uncaring, way in which the Council's General Secretariat handled the Convention on Fundamental Rights last time gives little hope for anything good from the Constitutional Convention.
Mr President, at the Laeken Summit, the heads of government agreed to set up a constitutional Convention on the future of Europe which includes the possible incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, with its costly, social and economic rights, and the direct election of a European Commission President, which I oppose.
This Convention is much more reminiscent of the American nation-building exercise in Philadelphia in 1787.
In the European Union there is idealism born out of a desire to see a Europe of peace and prosperity, an objective we can all share.
The Union and its institutions have - with good reason - been criticised for being too distant from the people.
The expected - and positive - decision of the European Council at Laeken, was to set up a Convention.
So, in this respect, I disagree with my good friend, Charles Tannock.
However, this acceleration in political integration is not being matched by similar acceleration in economic integration, that is, in the creation of the markets on which political integration is based.
It is strange, but we are witnessing a veritable inversion of the Community method.
At the European level, we are engaged in turning the internal market into a domestic market, and Europe is home, after all, to 18 million small and medium-sized enterprises.
The third point that concerns me is in fact the Council's secretariat.
Our objective should be for the ideas produced by the best minds to eventually bring us a result at which the citizens of Europe will rejoice.
The first two sentences of the Laeken Declaration about the debilitating effects of the two World Wars confirm my belief that the European Union is a force for good in the world and Britain, like all other Member States, derives great benefit from the existence of the EU.
The remains of my grandfather, like many others, lie somewhere in Flanders on the battlefield of the Somme.
As I read on in the Laeken Declaration I recall the saying we have in English that, like the curate's egg, it is good in parts.
Of course we need European-level institutions but let us also recall the wise words of Jacques Santer: "Europe must do less better".
Almost all those who have spoken have expressed their satisfaction at the end, not only of this Laeken Council, but also of six months of Belgian Presidency, and I have no problem - quite the contrary - in joining in with your thanks, not only to Guy Verhofstadt and Louis Michel, but to all the Belgian Ministers and all their colleagues.
I should also like to thank them, and why not, for the quality of the relations that have been maintained and even strengthened during the Belgian Presidency, whatever the problems or the difficulties between the Council and our colleagues and the members of the European Commission.
That is the first point that I wanted to make.
What I would like to say, echoing Louis Michel, is that of course there will be the President and the two Vice-Presidents, but they will have to work as colleagues alongside the praesidium, and by listening to and leading the debates of the Convention as a whole.
The European Council at Laeken - and the Belgian Presidency did very well to achieve such a result - gave this Convention a dynamic mandate, an open mandate, thereby removing the first risk that I had imagined or feared, namely the risk of a closed mandate, a mandate blocked by the four topics of the Treaty of Nice, which would have given rise to great disappointment here, to me personally and also to public opinion, and which would have restricted our work to the legal and the technical, without any political perspective.
The Laeken mandate is an open mandate, and it even allows us to raise almost any issue.
We must take care not to make this Convention a forum which will cease to be listened to by the European Council.
This is also why the selection of the three people who will be leading this Convention is so important, because the three people in question have the ear and the respect of the European Council.
We have to steer a course between these two dangers.
What I am trying to say is that we shall have to produce work that is responsible and useful, and that can be used by the European Council, which will then have to go on to make the final decisions.
Basically, I believe that this Convention, which is a great opportunity for European debate and for future stages of European integration to be carried out in a more open, more democratic and more transparent way, is itself responsible for proving that the right method has been chosen, so that we can avoid going back to the old method, which was strictly intergovernmental.
For two years now, ever since Joschka Fischer, we have heard all the Heads of State and Government and many Ministers making grandiose declarations and powerful speeches.
Only then, after such verification, will it be time to place in that political perspective the institutional work that has been carried out on all the subjects that have been mentioned, including the constitutional process that was adopted at Laeken.
Mr President, I should like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak at the end of this debate, and I should also like to thank you for the quality of that debate, and at the same time I too would like to wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
