author. - (LT) As it goes about its activities and in its dealings with other countries, the European Union acts in accordance with its fundamental values, the most important of which are democracy and human rights and freedoms.
In the sad days following the loss of the first democratic Russian president, Boris Yeltsin, it is especially important for all those who have been rooting for democracy in Russia and for whom a democratic Russia ought to be an important partner for Europe, to now acknowledge that the Russia of today has not fulfilled all the dreams which we shared when Boris Yeltsin appeared on the political stage in that country.
I would like to point out that, surprisingly, the Russian Human Rights Ombudsman shares this assessment of the brutality of the Russian police.
The freedom of the press and freedom of speech are under immense threat.
The Russian Government committed itself to guaranteeing these freedoms as a condition for being admitted to the Council of Europe in 1996.
I remember that the German radical student leader Rudi Dutschke, who has been dead for a long time now and was nick-named the Bürgerschreck, warned the Left in Western Europe against this position.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Russia is a land of culture.
To act against its own citizens in the manner it did on 14 and 15 April in Moscow and St.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Madam President, I would like to begin by expressing my admiration for the great Russian leader, Boris Yeltsin.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, very sad events are taking place in Russia.
However, we must be aware of the fact that Russia does not have a tradition of democracy and that those, such as Alexander I, who wanted to bring democracy to Russia in the past, have had to give up or have been widely criticised, as was the case with Boris Yeltsin, as he passed away.
Putin is responsible; the Russian leadership is responsible.
Therefore, it is particularly difficult to understand the Russian Government's actions aimed at the opposition in the middle of April.
We all watched the events of 14 and 15 April in Moscow and St.
Quite a few of us wonder whether, in view of these developments, the freedom of assembly in Russia is in jeopardy.
It also needs to be borne in mind that the demonstrations of 14 and 15 April differed from previous marches in that the militia acted in a more hard-line manner and that, on this occasion, accredited journalists were detained temporarily as well as attacked.
Kommersant talked about 'Making mincemeat of those who disagreed' and Moskovskiy Komsomolets about 'All power to OMON', while Novaya Izvestiya talked about 'A besieged fortress and unprecedented toughness'.
A similar picture could be seen in the reaction of the Russian Government.
The Federal German Government also reacted to these events and, on 16 April, publicly expressed its anxiety in a statement given by the EU Council Presidency.
In addition, Germany's Deputy Government spokesperson, Mr Thomas Steg, declared in Berlin on 16 April that the excessive use of force at the weekend was cause for concern.
We will naturally also speak to the Russian authorities with a certain degree of vigour concerning the situation regarding the freedom of speech and the freedom of assembly at the forthcoming human rights consultations between the EU and Russia which are scheduled for 3 May.
As a member of the United Nations, including its role as a member of the new Human Rights Council, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, Russia is obligated to respect fundamental rights.
Respect for these fundamental rights is also of the utmost importance in view of the forthcoming elections in Russia.
We should remind ourselves of this fact and ensure that we continue to tread along this path and not a different one. (Applause) Madam President, the Commission is also concerned at the disproportionate use of force by Russian law enforcement agencies against peaceful demonstrators and journalists, notably in Moscow and St Petersburg on 14 and 15 April.
We will also continue to raise these issues in our bilateral talks with the Russian authorities, for example in the forthcoming regular EU-Russia Human Rights Consultations on 2 and 3 May.
The debate is closed.
