Rising food prices in the European Union and developing countries (debate) The next item is the statements of the Council and the Commission on the rising food prices in the EU and developing countries.
member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic rise in food prices since the start of the year has triggered a worldwide awareness of the global food crisis.
For several years now the world has seen a steady increase in food prices.
We will not see food prices returning to their former levels, and volatility could increase if measures are not taken swiftly.
The current climate of rocketing food prices is a serious threat in terms of political, financial and social destabilisation in many countries around the world, so we must react quickly.
It goes far beyond the capacity of the European Commission, or even of the European Union.
Production must increase globally to keep pace with international demand, although this must not be left to the main exporting countries.
The European Union has already taken concrete measures in this regard.
The Commission as a whole, and I in particular, as Commissioner responsible for Development and Humanitarian Aid, are only too aware of the political importance of the current crisis.
Last March, we decided on a further EUR 160 million in food aid; we have just decided to release an additional EUR 57 million, budgeted for 2008 but which will be made available much earlier in the year.
We will be mobilising EUR 60 million of fresh money, which will either come from a rejigging of Heading 4, or from a request made to Parliament to mobilise the emergency reserve.
The European Union is very concerned about the increase in the prices of agricultural produce, which is becoming a problem not just in the European Union but elsewhere in the world as well.
Increased purchasing power and higher living standards in these countries are leading to changes in dietary habits.
In order to ensure basic food supplies, it is necessary, among other things, to encourage agricultural production in poorer countries.
The European Union is seeking to curb rising food prices in various ways.
The European Union has already adopted the set-aside requirement for 2008 and thereby increased the volume of arable land given over to food production in the European Union.
In any event, the issue of the instability of agricultural markets is becoming one of the main challenges facing European Union agriculture and agricultural policy.
In view of the scale of the possible consequences, the European Union Agriculture and Fisheries Council discussed the issue of high prices at its meeting in April.
International organisations such as the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the World Food Programme, and other agencies, are also making active efforts to curb the rise in food prices.
In conclusion, the rise in food prices is a global problem and therefore needs to be addressed with due consideration and with intensified efforts in all related areas.
The PPE-DE Group is extremely concerned by the food shortage which affects numerous poor countries around the world, but also by the significant increase in the cost of the consumer's shopping basket in Europe.
However, these measures, as positive as they are, will only bring temporary relief to the problem.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group requested this debate because we believe that action is urgently required.
Commissioner Michel made some pertinent and good remarks about what the Commission can do straight away.
However, we also requested this debate because we want to discuss the basic principles behind the way food prices are developing, and the consequences of this.
The increase in energy prices and political goals - including our political goals in relation to climate, for example the fact that production of biofuels is becoming more attractive - all bring the results that Mr Daul has just described.
However, there is one point I would like to deal with that I feel is not mentioned frequently enough.
My fellow Members will go into the various points that I have just described in more detail in their remarks, but I want to introduce one point into our deliberations that we do not talk about at all and which I believe is essential in the crisis, and that is that the major mutual funds that have taken possession of all levels of economic life and move hundreds of billions of dollars around the world every day - these mutual funds, the hedge funds, have taken control of the food sector.
We must consider all these questions, but they must not distract us from one thing, and that is that we cannot allow a financial system that is coming apart at the seams to exacerbate hunger in this world, just so that a few capitalists can make even greater profits. (Applause) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Michel spoke for the Commission but in the place of the Council.
We must give more money to the World Food Programme now, so that it can feed the destitute, and my group welcomes the Commissioner's commitments in this regard.
World population growth, poor growing conditions linked to climate change, loss of agricultural land to industrial use, immoral commodities speculation and changing eating habits have all contributed to the current crisis.
Meat consumption in China, for example, has risen from 20 kg per capita in 1980 to 50 kg per capita in 2007, and if every kilogram of beef requires 2 000 square feet of land and 13 000 litres of water, while the same nutritional content can be found from soya at 1% of the land and water use, we begin to see the complexity of the problem.
So, rather than using biofuels as a scapegoat, we must move to end agricultural protectionism and export restrictions; we must move to enhance agricultural development in the poorest countries and to ensure the success of the Doha Development Round to encourage free, fair and sustainable farm trade at global level.
The truth is we can afford to feed the world and, as Dominique Strauss-Kahn has said, 'global cooperation can deliver the macroeconomic framework and the incentives needed to address the problem'.
My group believes that with the right political will and the right international cooperation, globalisation can be the solution, not the problem.
This is a global problem and it is going to need a global response.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the years and decades that now lie behind us, we had a disastrously low price for agricultural products and it was essential, and urgent, for it to increase worldwide.
This is a very good development because the price level was below the production costs for organic/rural agriculture, and that has destroyed the livelihoods of hundreds of millions of farmers, not only in the third world but also here in the European Union.
The European Union is the world's largest importer of food and feedstuff, which means that we have no surpluses and that the mechanism by which we convert the imports - which amount to 50 million tonnes of grain units, bought almost below the poverty threshold from third world countries - into food, which is then dumped and exported at a cost of billions and undersold on regional markets in third world countries, has ultimately destroyed rural agriculture and regional subsistence farming.
This does not mean that I believe that agrifuels are the panacea, because the energy balance is negative and because that gives rise to speculation, but we must try to convert material which is actually available, as waste, into energy.
It might be possible in Europe, because we are rich enough to purchase these products and these crop harvests for ourselves, but the rest of the world would go hungry.
In closing I would like to add one further thought: We have 850 million people who are starving, and these 850 million people were already starving when the price level was disastrously low.
What has now happened is that the purchasing power of the middle classes in third world countries has decreased so that these people are finding it difficult to buy other consumer goods.
Now people are calling for more money, but the 850 million starving people were already in need of that money.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, food is a right and should not therefore be subject solely to market rules or financial speculation.
The multinationals are responsible for structural violence; they have built a world of inequality and horror.
However, on this occasion, I am happy to vote against it because the dash to biofuels, an essential part of the Commission's strategy, is a key factor in the surge in food prices around the world.
Across the world, and in Europe in particular, food prices have been rising far more quickly than inflation.
Please listen to common sense and reverse your policy on biofuels immediately. (SK) Rising food prices are caused by the present volatility of the agricultural markets, which are naturally unstable in any case.
However, the current struggles we are witnessing in the WTO, focusing on military and control policies or on national commercial and economic interests, unfortunately confirm that the today's agricultural policies have entirely different priorities.
Mr President, I think this is one of the most important debates we have had in this Parliament in my time here.
That is how Europe developed its food production base - that is how we fed ourselves - and we need to acknowledge, as has been done in this House today, that we have underinvested in agricultural research, in development and in the advisory service.
We must do more in our own region therefore - in the Balkans, Ukraine and in other countries - to promote the development of sustainable agriculture.
We know that the poorer people are, the greater the proportion of their income they have to spend on food, and that they are more seriously affected.
Therefore we must give clear signals on distribution and social welfare awareness so that when there are wage increases, and especially pension increases, these support in particular lower income groups here in Europe.
The development of democracy, in all our countries but particularly in the third world, is an important aspect of counteracting these privations.
As for the change in eating habits, I believe that the fact that some of the world's population are eating better is rather good news.
Let us examine the external causes, population density, natural disasters, the loss of human life through HIV and AIDS and, more importantly, the links between poor governance and the humanitarian consequences. (PL) Mr President, it is not so long ago that the European Union's main concern was the overproduction of food, and our debates were mainly concentrated on how to produce less.
This is perpetuating a myth, which is that, in a world in which millions of Chinese and Indian young people also dream of having a car, we are suggesting that you can continue to build huge limousines and fuel them with agrofuels.
By the way, that is cheaper than using agrofuels which are inefficient. (EL) Mr President, according to the UN a veritable tidal wave of high prices is threatening more than 40 countries and over 100 million people with famine.
Members of the Commission and the Council, it is also bumping up inflation for the poor in the EU much more quickly than overall inflation.
You should change your policy on biofuels as well as help to ensure that food prices cease to be subject to the uncontrolled market and the pursuit of profit. (NL) Mr President, today the headline of the French newspaper Le Monde read: 'You cannot buy much more for 1 euro'.
Increasing food prices, inflation and increasing oil prices are eating away at the family budget.
Some speakers have already pointed out in this debate that, it is all too often forgotten that the purchasing power problem also constitutes a problem for Europe.
Ultimately, this is producing truly dramatic consequences for consumers throughout the world because food prices among others have also shot up as a result.
The rise in food prices is substantial, of course, at the moment - our fellow Member has pointed this out - and it is even of considerable significance for consumers in Europe and is creating dramatic cuts in budgets.
When the price of rice increases from USD 400 to USD 1 000 in seven weeks no amount of biofuels can justify this massive price rise.
This does not have anything to do with a rational structural problem that can be justified in terms of an increase in demand from the Chinese, or which can be justified in terms of a decrease in supply due to drought.
This world needs a little less market and a little more regulation.
However, consumers are now facing very large price increases for bread and milk owing to rising demand, particularly because there have been several years with very poor harvests around the world.
I would like to emphasise the fact that we should make a distinction between the supply shortages and high prices.
The World Bank has concluded that demand for food will increase by 60% during the period up until 2030, primarily as a result of increased demand from countries such as China and India, where the demand for food is increasing in line with the growth in prosperity.
It should also be noted that our grain stocks are the lowest they have been in the last 60 years - stocks are now at a critically low level.
The GMO scare so prevalent around Europe has consequences that are completely absurd.
Following interventions by numerous representatives, including some from Poland, the European Union released 2 900 000 hectares of fallow land for cereal production and increased the milk quota by 2%.
I think that we still need to review the policies that have been adopted in the north and south over the last 20 years: structural adjustment plans implemented by leading international financial institutions, which have undermined the ability of States to organise and regulate their own economies, the withdrawal from and lack of interest in agriculture in the context of public development aid, deregulation, the sudden liberalisation of global trade and financial flows that has led to a form of ecological social dumping and speculation.
Therefore, rather than talking about food security, we should allow the countries concerned, particularly in Africa, to develop their own agriculture, to organise their own regional markets and to protect these, yes, protect them in some way, just as the European Union did when it developed its common agricultural policy.
Your measures are fragmentary.
I agree: less market, less competition and less globalisation to help productivity and consumption.
But at the moment they are at great risk of being part of the problem. (PT) We all know that Europe and the world were unexpectedly caught off guard by a problem that due to its size and economic and humanitarian consequences requires a multifaceted approach and response at European and international level.
Firstly, there have been violent protests against high food prices in Haiti, Bangladesh, Egypt and other countries.
Secondly, European farmers are demonstrating against the fall in prices in the dairy sector.
The fact is that demand for foodstuffs has increased, particularly in China and India.
We should be cultivating food in these areas. (FR) Mr President, in view of the current food crisis, the European Commission has just announced that it will be significantly increasing its emergency food aid.
I should like to finish by informing my fellow Member Mr Cornillet that the fish proverb is Mao Tse-tung, and not René Dumont. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that around 850 million people suffer from hunger or are undernourished each day.
The curious thing is that the majority of these people live in the countryside and, would you believe, produce food themselves.
The World Food Programme needs USD 7 million more this year in order to help the same number of people as last year.
The consequences for the poorest people are immense.
Now only about 2% of grain is used in the production of biofuel, but that figure is rising.
That means hydroelectric power, the use of reserves of water and forest mass on a large scale - in fact, the world's largest. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, I am very much of the opinion that we have a serious problem to deal with here.
The world's population has been continually expanding over the last 20 years.
Assets on the stock markets are huge and speculators are now climbing aboard instead of investing in raw materials.
This naturally leads to rising prices and human suffering, which, incidentally, also affects livestock farmers in Europe.
I could envisage the need for a European foreign agricultural policy.
The European Union has to throw all its weight into the equation in order to pick up on these shortcomings. (FR) Mr President, Council representative, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to underline the severity of the food crisis and its dramatic consequences in terms of exacerbating poverty and famine for people in developing countries.
The most disadvantaged people in our western countries are also affected by the rise in food prices and have been struggling for months with the daily price increases.
An urgent response is needed for this situation, as well as tailored solutions in the longer term, with the common agricultural policy recast as a development aid policy and a WTO-style trade policy preventing abuse of the dominant position by supermarkets in Europe, as well as food speculation, since agriculture is no ordinary economic sector.
In developing countries, we must also prioritise food production and food crops over non-food production, particularly agrofuels. (SV) Mr President, the food crisis we are now facing risks setting mankind back a decade when it comes to poverty, and risks creating instability and human misery in a large part of the world.
However, the answer to these problems does not lie in more regulation and more subsidies.
If we manage to achieve this, we will also be able to make more progress in the international Doha negotiations, the free trade negotiations, while simultaneously doing something towards a better climate and a better world. (HU) Mr President, social tensions in Europe, human catastrophe on other continents - and the effect of price increases in food in Europe, mostly in poor urban areas, has now reached the middle classes too.
On the continent of Europe there are about one hundred million poor people in the Union, and in Hungary there are about three million people living below the poverty threshold whose difficult situation is exacerbated by the effect both of price increases for food containing fruit and of meat shortages.
The EU programmes already in place, such as the school milk and school fruit programmes, are therefore extremely important.
The current crisis shows that we need a new agricultural policy for 2013.
The EU must produce the majority of its food, and food of good quality, and must also assist countries not in the EU with know-how, knowledge transfer and developments in agricultural production, so that this global problem of ever-increasing severity can be solved.
We must not forget that the richest countries are those that used to exploit, often without due consideration, the wealth of poor countries without any compensation.
We have witnessed a massive rise in the price of food and this will remain the position for a considerable time to come.
There is no need any more for set-aside, and we now have a moral duty to encourage our farmers to produce more to ensure that prices do not spiral out of total control and that many regions of the world do not suffer starvation.
The World Bank and the WTO need to be aware of this.
With regard to farm prices in Europe, in 1961 I received 26 cents for 1 kilo of grain.
Europe can produce food: farmers in Europe have been dying for the opportunity to produce food, but for 20 years they have been told that there was too much food in the world and, therefore, food production had to be reduced.
This debate concerns not only the rise in food prices, but also deaths caused by hunger.
The price of wheat has risen by 130% in the last year alone, that of soya by 87% and that of rice by 74% - these are facts.
The facts are as follows: there is a worldwide shortage of food; there is hunger - 850 million people are going hungry.
Mr Mandelson put that legislation in place and it is causing a huge problem, because you need three things to produce food: sun, water and also nitrogen, phosphate and potash.
If you do something about that, then you will be helping the rest of the world. (PL) Mr President, for several years now we have been talking in the European Union and at the WTO about liberalisation of trade, which was meant to be understood as facilitation of trade, but in reality we are implementing a restriction on agricultural production.
In Europe, and not only in Europe, we have been restricting production systematically for quite some time.
The global rise in food prices is the result of a rise in production costs, energy and fuel costs and fertiliser and labour costs.
We need a stable agricultural policy, but we must seek stabilisation not only in agriculture, but also in financial markets.
Stabilisation in financial markets.
However, what are the reasons that caused the situation on the world food market and the dramatic rise in food prices?
As I have already mentioned in my introductory speech, by temporarily abolishing the fallow land obligation we ensure that European farmers can productively use an additional 10% of agricultural land.
The significance of this is also evident from the statement made by Joseph Daul on the amount of land in Europe currently dedicated to biofuel.
Apart from increasing supply in the European Union itself, it is, of course, necessary to act in order to increase food production in other parts of the world, in particular in developing countries.
However, these are just a few words about the Council's activities and its approach to this serious problem.
A combination of high food prices and poverty is the worst possible combination.
We would like to provide the European Union with fresh impetus to achieve these objectives, and, as I mentioned earlier, in our view this is one of the significant topics for the June European Union Council.
I have heard people talking today about capitalist barbarianism.
We will pull out all the stops, and have already done so, in order to increase production in developing countries; this seems to me to be the only real solution to tackling this phenomenon, which admittedly I was critical of at first.
The vote will take place during the May 2008 session in Strasbourg.
Written declarations (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) My country, Poland, which I represent here in the forum of the European Parliament, could be a major producer of agricultural products, and much healthier products than the food currently produced in the West.
In the new Member States, including Poland, there are many land areas that have so far never been managed.
Through their use, industry could begin producing biofuels, for example, which are having a significant impact on the current rise in food prices.
in writing. - (PT) The causes of rising food prices in the European Union and developing countries vary, but we cannot ignore the contribution of the CAP and of agriculture being diverted towards biofuel production.
Jean Ziegler, the UN Special Rapporteur on the right to food, said that mass production of biofuels was a crime against humanity because of its impact on global food prices.
It is therefore all the more baffling that the European Commission has confirmed that it will stand by the target of 10% of the fuel used in road transport being generated by biomass or plant oils.
in writing. - (RO) According to Eurostat, in 2007, the real prices of agricultural products increased 5% in the Union as compared to 2006, and the biggest increase, of 15.8%, was recorded in Romania.
Last year in Europe the producer price of agricultural products increased by 4.6%, while producer costs increased by 5.3%, and the level of subsidies decreased by 3.1%.
In the new Member States, the costs of agricultural producers increased dramatically, and the subsidies are very low.
The competition for using agricultural land also contributes to the increase in the prices of food products and, in 2007, the area designed for biofuel cultures increased by 13.6% as compared to 2006, and by 31.5% as compared to 2002-2006.
in writing. - (RO) The latest developments on the global markets of agricultural products have generated a situation that few governments are prepared to deal with.
This new level of agricultural prices presents new opportunities for producers, including for those of the EU Member States.
In Romania, 40% of the population live in a rural environment, many of them being agricultural producers.
The EU should support small agricultural producers in order for them to benefit from higher income from their work.
