Sanctions against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals (debate) The next item is the report by Claudio Fava on sanctions against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals.
The compromise text agreed with the Council also provides some protection for those immigrants forced to work illegally, who are often held hostage by criminal organisations.
We should have liked this possibility to be extended to all illegal immigrants, but that is prevented by the Return Directive adopted last year.
Article 10 is, in my view, the key article.
For the first time, it provides for criminal sanctions to be imposed in the worst cases, including those where the regular workers are minors.
I think the additional sanctions laid down in Article 8 are important.
In certain countries - such as my own - in particular, these are the organisations that most readily recruit illegal workers under the very worst kinds of exploitative conditions.
We have successfully asked for the trade unions to be able to represent immigrants in administrative and civil cases.
We need a running-in period to see how it works, and we have therefore asked the Commission to report to Parliament and the Council after the directive has been in force for three years, specifically about the rules on inspections, residence permits, sanctions and subcontracting.
That is why tomorrow, for my part and on behalf of the other shadow rapporteurs, whom I thank for the collaboration they have given me during these two years, I shall ask the Council to add a statement to the compromise text on which we are going to vote, to the effect that the provisions of this Article 9 shall not prejudice any future legislative action on subcontracting.
The Commission can, however, support this compromise without hesitation.
This directive lets us introduce an effective instrument, a common framework to discourage the employment of workers from third countries who are residing illegally.
The Commission will be vigilant about the inspections.
This is what we want, in order to fight against the employment of people from third countries residing illegally and, above all, to impose sanctions on the employers who profit from these people.
Examination of the implementation of the provisions relating to the inspections will, therefore, be a priority for the Commission in its future reports on the application of this directive.
The Commission is pleased that the directive recommends criminal sanctions for particularly serious cases, for which these sanctions are both necessary and appropriate.
They are appropriate in an instrument intended to match the ambitious European policy to combat illegal immigration.
However, on the other hand, one can also see its possible effect on improving conditions for competition and I also believe that it will help to combat human trafficking.
It is, after all, thanks to their efforts that the compromise reached ultimately does what it is supposed to do, namely take away the prospect of work as an incentive for illegal immigration by actually penalising workers who are staying in the European Union illegally.
Estimates of how many people from third countries are staying in the European Union illegally are not precise and vary between 4.5 and 8 million.
I would draw your attention to the fact that female illegal immigrants are very vulnerable and that they are often at the receiving end of forced labour, human trafficking and violence.
I am pleased that the arbitrary 10% monitoring level that was suggested initially has now been dismissed and that a risk approach has been incorporated in the compromise text.
Secondly, we have helped to ensure that provision is made for strict and binding criminal sanctions for employers of immigrants under unacceptable living conditions.
In other words, we are at last treating illegal immigrants as human beings, without at the same time legalising illegal immigration, which is why we support this compromise.
Finally, the absolutely necessary fight against the black labour market obviously does not only concern illegal immigrants; it mainly concerns legal immigrants, it concerns millions of European citizens whose employment rights are trampled underfoot by their employers on a daily basis, it concerns the fact that employment laws are being trampled underfoot, without any material control or material sanctions.
Today's directive should therefore have as its legal basis, in my opinion, the general fight against undeclared work in Europe, not immigration in particular.
Obviously, illegal immigration also needs to be combated, but we cannot demonise people who are fleeing miserable conditions in their own country in the hope of a better life.
It should be clear that neither the European Commission nor the European Parliament have magic wands at their disposal when it comes to decisiveness or enforcement.
The proposal is again a step in the right direction when it comes to achieving comprehensive migration policy.
Today, millions of Poles and citizens of other countries are moving within the EU to the old Member States.
These citizens are subjected to the same ills and are in the same situation as migrants from third countries.
For illegal employment means the exploitation of workers while denying them the benefit of health insurance or pension rights, the exploitation of juveniles and even human trafficking.
That is why the issue of subcontractor liability was extremely important to many of us in this House.
So, for my political group, the balance of this proposal is no longer clear either on inspections or remuneration, and other areas have been watered down.
These are workers who are useful to our economy, but they are exploited workers - exploited to reduce labour costs and to enrich unscrupulous employers.
The same thing happened to the great majority of citizens whose situation is now legal but who entered the European Union illegally.
We in the European Union need immigrants - the Commission says so itself: 50 million by 2060 - because we are in the middle of a demographic crisis, but we are doing nothing to help them enter.
For 20 years, British trade unions, having being seduced by Jacques Delors, thought the European Union was in their interests.
The prospect of British taxpayers funding foreign workers is, frankly, unacceptable.
In particular, in difficult economic times, the black economy starts to grow which, of course, results in many people risking their lives in the search for the land of plenty.
However, the recent report on fundamental human rights presents a few problems in this respect.
However, we must not forget that migrants without residence permits will ultimately have to be deported.
Also, the FRONTEX border security organisation must finally be expanded so that it can be deployed efficiently. (RO) The current directive helps consolidate the common policy on illegal immigration and is a first step towards combating illegal employment by imposing financial penalties on employers.
I welcome the provisions in the final text on sanctions which are proportional to the number of illegal employees, as well as on imposing smaller fines where the employer is a natural person and the employee provides personal services or domestic help, and the working conditions are not regarded as exploitative.
I also feel that the application of this directive should be an additional reason for Member States to remove the labour market restrictions imposed on European citizens, in view of the fact that restricting the chance of employing illegal immigrants will create new opportunities for the EU to recruit its own citizens. (SV) I would like to begin by thanking Claudio and everyone else who made this report possible.
The same rules must apply to all employers, such as shared responsibility in connection with works contracts, otherwise we will be incorporating loopholes and encouraging cheating. (ES) Madam President, the best way to safeguard a controlled form of immigration that is manageable for our society - manageable in both economic and social terms - is to combat illegal employment as well.
The fight against illegal immigration cannot only be waged in the underground stations in London or Madrid but must also be carried out in the human resources departments of the many companies that employ illegal workers in order to exploit them and deprive them of their rights.
I am thinking first and foremost about safe working conditions and social protection in the case of an accident at work.
The number of illegal immigrants in the EU is estimated at 4.5 - 8 million people, and they are most often found working in the construction, agriculture, tourism, hotel and services sectors.
It is the employer who decides to take on a person who is staying illegally, and so it is the employer who should be subject to a penalty for breaking the law.
While Member States need to take steps to regulate immigration, I regret very much that the legal base for this proposal is the fight against illegal immigration.
It is estimated that there are between 5 and 8 million illegally staying immigrants in the European Union; a significant number are doing low-skilled, fairly low-paid jobs and, in some cases, being severely exploited.
I therefore agree with combating illegal work across the European Union.
The intention of this directive is to ensure that all Member States are able to introduce similar sanctions for employing illegal immigrants and enforce them effectively.
However, the fact that it has at last been recognised within the European Union that illegal immigrants who are caught must also be granted rights and must be protected against exploitation represents an important step forward.
While the Greens - Jean Lambert is no longer here - or those on the left from the so-called communist side, such as Giusto Catania, maintain that this does not work, that it has once again come to nothing, that nothing can help, I would like to say that it does not help to promise the people living in these difficult situations a four-course meal and then to fail to give them their daily bread.
Illegal employment must be penalised and prohibited in all Member States.
The most important issue is to protect the people in these employment relationships from exploitation.
The report is a compromise between the Council and the European Parliament and specifies minimum standards.
It deprives employees of access to social and other insurance, to pensions and even to bodies responsible for protecting the conditions that prevail at their place of work.
This is the first time that the European Union has turned its attention in the right direction towards people who exploit illegal immigrants, towards employers who break the law.
Multiple, balanced and realistic sanctions are provided for in the directive.
Despite the fact that illegal immigrants are treated as victims and protected by the directive, they too are being given a dissuasive message that it will no longer be easy for them to find employment and, consequently, that there will be no attraction in obtaining work even on unfavourable terms.
However, special care must be taken for all those illegal immigrants who are already in the European Union.
Apart from financial penalties, penal sanctions are recommended for repeat offenders, for trafficking in human beings or exploitation of minors.
In this context, it is therefore essential to state that the model we want is one in which immigrant workers are viewed as fully-fledged workers enjoying the same rights as workers from Member States.
We must therefore mobilise to defend these rights and this is why I think we should give our support to this report, because it is a decisive step in the introduction of minimum standards and in the fight against illegal working and the exploitation of migrant workers. (SV) We know that more and more people are hiding within the EU's borders.
We know that many people without documents are exploited and live in miserable conditions.
The fact that the EU is to have a common asylum and migration policy is reasonable, but it must not mean that those countries that want to take a harder line and hunt down people in various ways should be the ones making the decisions.
With this directive, once again we are showing our commitment to developing a common migration policy based on a global approach.
For this reason, we want to move forward with a global approach and, Commissioner, Mr Barrot, we call on the Commission to introduce the new 'blue cards' for all other employment categories as soon as possible. (PL) The result of easy access to illegal work is that there are several million illegal immigrants in the European Union.
Illegal employment, very often in conditions of exploitation, leads to reductions in pay levels in the sector concerned and also imperils competition between businesses.
I will also draw your attention to the fact that the directive should also include in its scope workers who are legally resident in the EU, in particular, citizens of the Member States which acceded to the EU in 2004 and 2007, and who are still subject to transitional provisions which restrict their access to legal work. (EL) Madam President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, today's proposal forms part of an overall attempt to find a solution to immigration policy in the European Union which, of course, we must all accept smacks of dishonesty.
Dishonesty because we are trying to correct certain aspects of this policy with the blue card, with the decision to remove illegal workers, with the decision today to punish employers of illegal immigrants, but these are only some aspects of the problem that we are trying to correct.
The problem is therefore a complicated one and the compromise achieved does, of course, have a lot of gaps.
The question is not entirely hazy but, since this directive is tightly bound to the Return Directive, its hands are tied with regard to the situation of illegal workers and employers who have not been able to find legal employment routes.
We must not hide the fact that this phenomenon also involves individuals, be they European citizens or people from third countries, who are working and residing normally, but who fall outside the scope of this directive, as it forms part of the framework of the fight against illegal immigration.
The aim of this text must be precisely to protect these vulnerable people and ensure that their most basic, most fundamental rights are respected; this is precisely the declared objective and ambition of the compromise achieved.
My thanks to all the shadow rapporteurs and to the rapporteur and, like many, I hope this text will soon be put in place to fight against illegal immigration and, therefore, the promotion of immigration... (The President cut off the speaker) (PL) Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur.
I warmly welcome this directive because it will at last put labour relations on a civilised footing.
I should now like to address the British Members of this House, and ask them to tell their employers that illegal employment of immigrants is a crime.
It is my belief that this directive represents a step in the right direction.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his outstanding work.
We must also ensure that this kind of behaviour is appropriately punished.
We also want access to be given to the European labour market in a controlled manner and for immigrants' rights to be respected.
It is essential that we design a more rigorous legal arsenal as soon as possible so that those placing orders are declared wholly responsible in case of fault on the part of subcontractors.
We should not close our eyes to known practices in certain economic sectors that are complicit in the activities of organised illegal immigration networks. (CS) Madam President, in the context of this report, I would like to draw your attention to an urgent problem that has emerged as regards the present crisis.
At the same time, I would like to reiterate the very inadequate human resources that labour inspectorates have at their disposal in many of our Member States.
The document we have before us today marks a step towards reducing the incidence of illegal employment, which has so many adverse repercussions from a fiscal and social perspective.
It is a good idea for us to punish the illegal employment of third-country nationals, but we must not forget that the same scourge is afflicting our fellow citizens from the European Union's less developed Member States.
Even Romanians are facing numerous abuses by employers within the European Union.
The international economic crisis has led, or is leading, the countries that are in the worst crisis to use illegal labour, which almost always involves illegal immigrants, especially in certain sectors, among which construction, agriculture and others have been mentioned.
I believe, therefore, that the sanctions laid down for employers will certainly act as a further deterrent, because there are already sanctions for illegal work, especially involving illegal immigrants.
I think this is a problem that we must start to recognise, because otherwise those who survive illegally, but survive none the less, will be officially reported as illegal by their employers, who will no longer be able to house them, and we will have an enormous problem of 8 million people in Europe that we will have to expel and help.
We must look carefully at the problem of the temporary hiring of workers, particularly in agriculture, and we must cut out red tape to facilitate their inclusion and acceptance. (CS) Madam President, illegal employment not only affects five to ten million people but, in particular, those who employ them.
Unlike the author of this report, I believe that the problem affects not just illegal migrants from third countries, but also millions of citizens of the European Union who do occasional work for wages which are not taxed and from which the employers do not deduct insurance contributions.
However, I also support this proposal of the Commission to harmonise sanctions for employers, as I believe that consistent sanctions aimed mainly at employers who are repeat offenders will restrict the availability of illegal work and, hence, also the number of illegal migrants.
However, I see problems in placing the onus of checking the residential entitlement of workers on employers. (PL) Madam President, I should like to return to the issue of sanctions against employers whose subcontractors employ illegal workers.
In conclusion, if we are to strive to stamp out this illegal practice in our Member States, we have to get across that this is not only a workers' rights issue but also a competition issue. (PL) Madam President, I should like to conclude the comment made in my main intervention, and explain what I wished to convey to the United Kingdom MEPs who are complaining that this directive is interventionist and amounts to interference in the internal affairs of Member States.
It is very important to encourage citizens of third countries to enter the territory of the Union in order to take up employment.
We are, however, only interested in legal residence and legal employment.
Not only are these people poorly paid, but they are also working without any social protection or health insurance and are under constant threat of expulsion from the country where they are staying.
The directive has improved this situation by obliging Member States to introduce equivalent penalties and ensure their effective application.
At the start of this sitting, I also stressed that the Commission will monitor the inspections that Member States have to carry out.
I would also point out that this directive is part of the framework of the European Union's common immigration policy.
I would add that the Commission, in accordance with its commitment to the European Parliament and within the framework of the preparation and implementation of the Stockholm programme, will consider if there is a need for legislation for other categories of migrant workers.
Thank you as well for the quality of this debate.
The legal basis that now constrains us to talking only about legislation to combat immigration is something that I too find frustrating, but it is the legal basis that we have to abide by.
I am thinking of the temporary residence permit for minors who have been exploited.
The debate is closed.
Its second merit is that it intensifies the fight against undeclared work, particularly with the option of financial and penal sanctions for employers of illegal workers.
The country which I represent is less prone to these particular concerns because it is still more of a transit country for illegal immigration.
We all know that between 4.5 and 8 million illegal immigrants work in the European Union in sectors such as construction, agriculture and tourism.
I welcome the fact that the directive provides for criminal sanctions against employers guilty of repeat offences, of employing a large number of people whose status is unlawful, if the employee is a victim of human trafficking and the employer is aware of this fact, or if the employee is a minor.
Member States must also establish a mechanism which offers illegal immigrants the opportunity to lodge a complaint when they are, for example, victims of exploitation.
Whenever these children accompany their parents, we need to offer them the chance to have access to the education system and social protection within the European Union, even if they are staying illegally.
For this reason, it is of paramount importance to encourage Member States to impose criminal sanctions in serious cases, such as when the employer knows that the employee is a victim of human trafficking.
The Member States should cooperate more closely to combat illegal immigration by strengthening action against illegal employment at the level of Member States of the European Union.
One of the main factors encouraging illegal immigrants to travel to the EU is the possibility of taking a job without the need to regularise their legal status.
Action against illegal immigration and illegal residence should serve as a deterrent.
Nonetheless, the directive on combating illegal immigration should apply without detriment to national legislation banning illegal employment of third country citizens who are legally resident on the territory of Member States, but who are working in violation of their status as authorised residents.
Reducing the financial penalties for employers of third country nationals should also be considered in cases where the employer is a natural person.
Common definitions, methods and standards in the area of combating illegal immigration are a sine qua non in the process of creating a common European policy on migration.
The statistics on the number of illegal workers in the Union are alarming.
It could be wider in scope and cover citizens legally resident on the territory of the EU, but employed in very unfavourable conditions.
It would also be beneficial to broaden the definition of employer to include temporary work agencies and also employment agents.
The directive imposes additional administrative obligations on employers and provides for a range of different sanctions for failing to meet these obligations.
