First, I wish to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, Mrs Morgan, for her impressive work on the energy Green Paper.
However, the internal market can achieve its goal only on the basis of decisions taken by European citizens.
The role of citizens is particularly important with respect to our energy efficiency agenda.
We all want to see Europe lead the way in global research, which means spending existing research budgets better, getting them to work as a catalyst leading to increased industry research funding in the European Union.
Longer-term, more ambitious objectives up to 2020 will need binding obligations on the part of Member States to guarantee burden-sharing and the development of an internal renewable energy market.
The existing provision in this area may need to be strengthened.
In transport, it is necessary to take into account the fact that the extra cost for biofuels is greater than that of renewable energies in other sectors, but we need biofuels in the energy mix because they are a tool not only for combating climate change, but also in terms of security of supply.
Finally, I would like to endorse the view that there is a need to do more to inform society in general, and farmers in particular, about the use of biomass and biofuels.
Improvement of nuclear safety has been an important part of our work in central and eastern European countries, as well as in the Community of Independent States, notably in Ukraine and Russia.
Amendment 7 states that 'priority should be given to assisting nuclear installations and activities which are likely to have significant effects on the Member States'.
Finally, Amendments 27 and 28, limiting the scope of application of the instrument 'only to nuclear facilities that are or were in operation in third countries on the date of [the instrument's] entry into force'.
While it is clear that we will not provide assistance to the design and construction of new plants in third countries, there should be a possibility to provide assistance vis-à-vis all existing plants.
To conclude, I once again pay tribute to the work of Parliament and all the committees involved on the Green Paper, the strategy for biomass and biofuels and the nuclear safety instrument.
A harsh shiver went down the spine of many politicians as we realised that in future, if we were to continue on our current trajectory, over 80% of our gas was likely to come from outside the EU.
Energy efficiency is surely the most cost-effective way of meeting some of the energy challenges we face, and the Commission has come up with a very comprehensive action plan on energy consumption and energy efficiency.
When you arrive in the UK on the Eurostar, the first sign you see is a huge sign which says that Électricité de France is giving power to millions of Londoners.
rapporteur. - (DE) Madam President, I am grateful for the opportunity to debate the biomass action plan and biofuels together with the Green Paper, because all the measures for the promotion of biomass and biofuels at least meet the Green Paper's objectives - competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply - even if not completely.
I think it is phenomenal that in a space of only two years the US has managed to go from virtually zero to 19 million tonnes of biofuels.
The Commission's action plan describes the support measures and the priority areas correctly.
The European motor industry believes it is feasible to reach 15% within 10 years if the investment is secure.
rapporteur. - (FI) Madam President, Commissioner, I drafted the report for the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy on assistance to third countries in nuclear safety and security.
Finally, I wish to table an oral amendment to the report and correct the sum budgeted in the Committee's Amendment 25 and in the multiannual financial framework to EUR 524 million.
First, biofuels are indeed very important, but they have to be produced in the most efficient way.
If we can import oil and gas from Saudi Arabia without levies, why are there levies on biofuels?
Amendment 5 suggests replacing 'financial' with 'technical'.
We must be more ambitious than that, otherwise emissions from these countries will overwhelm us in the future.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on International Trade. - (FR) Madam President, I shall start by thanking Mr Langen for his willingness to listen and for the wisdom and courage he has shown in his report.
The Committee on International Trade, having observed how far behind the European Union is in both the consumption and production of biofuels, has proposed that we increase imports, which is quite natural, but also that we focus more closely on European industrial production, with the dual aim of achieving energy independence for the EU and of providing outlets for agricultural crops such as sugar-producing plants.
Under these circumstances, we must as a matter of urgency accelerate investment in research in all fields, including nuclear technology, so that we can meet the challenges of the post-oil era and combat greenhouse gases.
Seventhly, we do not want to encumber our energy policy with unnecessary bureaucracy.
The Union therefore needs to take all the measures needed in order to implement the demand for a common European energy policy.
I am also delighted, on a personal level, that the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy accepted my amendment to recital 13, pointing out that the Member States have sovereignty to make their own choices in the field of nuclear power.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. - Madam President, I welcome the two Commission communications on the biomass action plan and on the EU strategy for biofuels.
Clearly, there is an urgent need to increase the demand for bioenergy in order to combat climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, to reduce oil dependency and to enhance technology and economic development within the European Union.
It is also necessary to be clear on the many previous directives which have accompanied the policy of support for biofuels, since there are some inconsistencies which should be put right; in particular, the existing directive on the quality of fuels for mixing with petrol should be reviewed.
Taxation is also a way to steer us in the direction of more sustainable development, but the Member States have not been willing to set off along that path.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Development. - (CS) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to commend Mrs Morgan on her work, including the negotiated compromise, which reflects the views of the various political groupings among the Committee membership as well as experience gained in the field.
As draftsman of the opinion of Committee on Regional Development, I firmly believe that when it comes to drawing up Europe's energy policy we must work, above all, on the basis of the subsidiarity principle, because concrete decisions on the energy mix and preferences in the area of renewable energy sources or nuclear energy must always be taken at Member State level, so that the geographical, climatic and economic conditions of a particular region can be taken into account.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture on this report, I am pleased to be able to highlight a few points briefly.
In the year 2000, Europe's energy dependency was 50%, in 2030 it will be around 70%.
It also means that foreign policy needs to be refocused and new conclusions drawn in the matter of securing and using our own energy resources.
Constantly new proposals and constantly new institutions will not get us any further.
If we want to reduce CO2, we must also invest more in nuclear power.
Europe has always played a leading role globally in the field of nuclear safety, and this programme will continue to assist us in this area over the next seven years.
The safety of nuclear energy depends for the most part on human factors.
The key element in European energy strategy is to ensure that Europe's residents enjoy appropriate living conditions and to guarantee a supply of secure, affordable energy that is indispensable if we are to remain competitive.
I offer my congratulations to the rapporteurs on this day and I hope, Commissioner, that you will have the opportunity to implement all this in the coming year.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I should like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues for their cooperation.
A prosperous, competitive and sustainable future for Europe will require a major shift in energy policy.
The challenge and urgent development of a new European energy policy is an opportunity for European citizens, European industry and the environment.
I therefore ask my colleagues to support the outcome of the vote in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, where we succeeded in combining an enforced market solution, enhancing market entry for new players, more transparency and consumers' rights to information, with a clear political signal on long-term international and binding targets on renewable energy and CO2 reduction.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - I wish to begin by thanking Mrs Morgan and Mrs Ek for a political line that combines environment with competition.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Morgan for drawing up this report.
Trading in greenhouse gas emissions is a worldwide problem and requires global solutions.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Madam President, it is well known that if someone's only tool is a hammer, he gradually begins to see every problem as a nail.
In actual fact, such problems are rare, the exceptions including nuclear safety, radiation protection and the problems associated with nuclear material in the EU and its vicinity.
The Commission relies for information on the good will of the Member States' authorities.
We do not just have a problem with imports of energy, creating uncertainty, but also one with our own actions here in the Union.
China, as has been mentioned several times in the debate, is building a large number of strategic alliances in the world in this very matter.
We therefore very much welcome the fact that you are getting more action plans off the ground, Commissioner, that the German Council Presidency will be concentrating on energy and that countries such as Finland, for example, are taking a very non-ideological and nevertheless very successful approach to energy policy by investing very heavily in biomass and also in atomic power at the same time, because they have obviously recognised the signs of the times.
The Swedish supervisory authorities confront us with the fact that this reactor was only 18 minutes from runaway.
This shows that the EU has global political ambitions, at other people's expense.
However, it also demonstrates the importance of the Constitutional Treaty for establishing energy jurisdiction so that we are actually able to implement what we are talking about here today. (ES) Mr President, I shall begin with Mr Seppänen's report.
The conclusion is that we must increase our energy independence.
The Morgan report also calls for binding sectoral targets.
Both we here in Parliament and industry and commerce in this area, which has truly supported your words, are expecting presentation of a Directive, as stated in both the Langen and Morgan reports.
In the report on nuclear safety and security assistance, the European Union gives itself the task of improving nuclear safety and security worldwide by proposing an instrument for cooperation with third countries.
The European Union's responsibility is not to prevent the construction of new power stations or to demand that existing plants be shut down, decisions that fall within the sovereignty of the States, but to promote a culture of nuclear safety.
This morning, Parliament is also proposing an ambitious report on biomass and biofuels, which are important elements in energy independence for the EU and in the fight against climate change.
The European Union and the governments of the Member States, even those which demonstrate national protectionism, are privatising this strategic sector by sacrificing grassroots needs at the altar of private profit, of the profit of the large business groups and multinationals.
Not only do I welcome both the Commission's Green Paper and the report by Mrs Morgan on a sustainable European energy policy, but I also hope that this strategy will, as early as 2007, become one of our Union's priorities.
As I have, in fact, mentioned before, both yesterday in this Chamber and on other occasions, the EU's capacity to implement an energy strategy - and one that is not just sustainable but also autonomous - and thus its independence from the power games and economic interests that are often at work behind the scenes in this sector is a decisive factor in meeting so many of the global challenges that await us in the near future, not only in terms of competitiveness, but also with regard to the political and strategic weight that the European Union wishes to have and could obtain.
Over a period of two and a half years, the European Union has clearly acknowledged that energy savings and renewable sources of energy are a priority.
This is set out in all the documents, including those dealing with research and development of new technologies.
Fourthly, after years of neglect, Europe has finally remembered that almost all countries have their own energy resources in the form of coal.
Europe faces problems in this sphere, and we will only be able to resolve them if we act with a common purpose.
The European single market requires powerful national regulators, but we are also in need of a European regulator that will deal with cross-border problems.
The difficult energy situation and environmental problems are forcing us to assess the comparative advantages and drawbacks of individual energy sources, together with their impact on other sectors, such as the timber industry and agriculture.
It is for this very reason that Europe is earmarking some financial resources for the improvement of the safety of nuclear power stations in third countries.
It is time that we internationalised some of them.
And it is also time that we ourselves began to work towards our set strategic objectives and implemented the legal requirements already adopted. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow draftsman for the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety with regard to the strategy for biomass and biofuels, I would like to comment on two points in relation to this report.
Firstly, it is very important that priority be given to the principle of sustainability in all phases when producing biofuels.
I congratulate her on her excellent work, and I am delighted that a broad consensus within the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy should have been reached on such an important and sensitive issue as this and, above all, that the powerful idea that the three objectives of security of supply, competitiveness and environmental sustainability are absolutely paramount objectives, should have been highlighted.
Although it is the first point in the opinion by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but it has not received adequate emphasis in the report. (ES) Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Morgan and the other rapporteurs.
I would like to emphasise the need to support research and development in new cleaner energy technologies that can meet our needs and to support what that requires in terms of investment in R+D.
It is true that the Seventh Framework Programme provides for an investment of EUR 2 350 million, that, furthermore, the Seventh Euratom Framework Programme funds research into fusion energy, nuclear fission and protection against radiation and that the Competitiveness and Innovation Programme also provides for resources to fund innovation in energy.
Firstly, it is very important that Parliament state clearly that there is a challenge to act now.
At a time of increasing reliance on fuel and energy supplies from third countries and increasingly stringent standards for environmental emissions, renewable sources of energy are among the most important aspects of ensuring secure energy supplies.
The further development of support mechanisms, including a system of excise benefits and concessions which take the real costs of creating biofuel components and biofuels into account, is an important element in creating conditions that will favour the development of the biofuels market. - (HU) We are rapidly approaching the first anniversary of the gas price war between Russia and the Ukraine, which, along with minor distribution problems caused by a shortage of Russian natural gas reserves, awakened Europe to its energy dependence and the vulnerability of the security of its energy supply.
We need a common European energy policy in order that we might speak with one voice at the international level to our suppliers, including Russia, which is openly using its position in the area of energy as a political tool. 2.
Alternative sources of energy must in future play a more significant part in the energy mix, and the role of nuclear energy also needs to be reassessed.
The energy dependence of European consumers is constantly growing.
The entry of new companies into the energy sector has frequently been blocked by protectionist efforts and excessive government regulation, with a negative impact on energy prices and spending on research and development.
