North-Kivu (Democratic Republic of Congo) The next item is the debate on six motions for a resolution concerning North Kivu (Democratic Republic of the Congo).
The question is whether the armistice of 23 January for North and South Kivu, which takes for granted the disarmament of the warring factions and the return of refugees to their places of residence, is feasible, and whether the United Nations can contribute on the ground to this end.
author. - (FR) Mr President, I do not intend to discuss the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo in its entirety, but rather the north-east of the country, and the Kivu region, where a vile war has been raging for years, and even more intensely in recent months.
author, (PL) Mr President, since the end of the Second World War, no other conflict has been as cruel and barbaric as that in the Congo.
There are 800 000 internally displaced persons in North Kivu alone.
Sadly, it is still ongoing, claiming the lives of almost 50 000 human beings every month.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, according to the aid agencies, the situation in North Kivu is in some respects even worse than in Darfur.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (PL) Mr President, despite the agreement reached in Goma on improving security and development in Congo, human rights are still being violated in Kivu province.
According to the UN, since the start of the conflict 800 000 people have fled their homes.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, the Commission remains very concerned about the dire humanitarian situation in the Kivus, and North Kivu in particular, where the number of internally displaced people - currently exceeding 800 000 in North Kivu alone - has as much as doubled in the course of 2007, thus alarmingly increasing the vulnerability of the population already suffering hardship.
Moreover, along the lines of the commitments made by the Democratic Republic of Congo and Rwanda in their Nairobi Joint Communiqué in November 2007, the Goma Conference also re-emphasised the need to tackle the problem of the ex-FAR as a priority.
