Mr Söderman, the European Ombudsman, has the floor.
Madam President, on 1 September 1995 the Ombudsman's office started work.
From then until 15 September 2002, the office received 10 535 complaints, of which 10 437 have been examined.
Looking at the results, 345 cases were settled by the institution concerned, after the Ombudsman had informed it of the complaint.
We advised the complainant to go to the national or regional Ombudsman, or petition a national or regional Parliament in 2 293 cases, to petition the European Parliament in 884 cases and to address the Commission in 913 cases.
Our information campaign is in 12 languages and addresses 350 million citizens and residents of 15 Member States.
The results of the Ombudsman's work for European citizens are also impressive.
First we persuaded the institutions and some bodies, including the European Central Bank and Europol, to improve public access to their documents.
The third achievement concerns the Charter of Fundamental Rights, proclaimed in Nice in December 2000.
The Ombudsman proposed the idea that the Charter should include the right to good administration.
This was included as Article 41 of the Charter.
The Ombudsman therefore regards the institutions' failure to respect those rights in their own activities as maladministration.
Furthermore, the Ombudsman's proposals to the European Convention include the idea that the Charter should be legally binding wherever Community law applies.
Problems have arisen in only a small number of cases.
In one case concerning access to information, the Commission rejected the Ombudsman's draft recommendation and has failed to act on a resolution of the European Parliament supporting the Ombudsman.
Most of the institutions and bodies have also adopted a code of good administrative behaviour.
I acknowledge that the European Ombudsman's mandate is limited.
I have consistently maintained the view that a network of ombudsmen and petitions committees is needed to supervise the application of Community law by the Member States.
Further development of the network could help the Commission, as the Guardian of the Treaties, to focus its resources on the most important issues of principle.
The citizens can never fully believe in the European Union unless Community law is respected at all levels of the Union.
In future Community law, the Member States could include the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The network of ombudsmen in the Member States could also play an essential role in supervising the application of the Charter.
I would also like to thank the European Parliament and its Committee on Petitions for their good advice and support.
After seven years, the role of the European Ombudsman - to enhance openness and democratic accountability in the decision-making and administration of the European Union - is well established.
The fact that the number of direct complaints is still on the increase again in 2001 clearly demonstrates that the Ombudsman is reaching more and more people in the course of his activities.
The present Ombudsman, Mr Söderman, from whom we have already heard, has become a well recognised and respected figure in the European Union and his receipt of awards such as the Alexis de Tocqueville prize further demonstrates this.
This has been done in no less than 15 Member States and through the medium of 12 Community languages.
This is a matter that the Committee on Petitions is continually aware of.
The work of the Ombudsman, however, has not been without obstacles during this period.
In the field of good administration the European Parliament adopted unanimously last September the European Union Code on Good Administrative Behaviour and called on the Commission to propose a regulation on the subject.
The report calls for Parliament to consider drawing up a legislative initiative report on the basis of this model code under Article 192 and Rule 59.
In relation to openness and good administrative behaviour this report notes attempts by certain institutions to use recently adopted data protection rules to impose confidentiality on their activities.
It must be made clear that data protection rules are mainly concerned with the protection of private and family life and certainly should not in any way restrict the information available to citizens on the activities of the European Union institutions.
With regard to the infringement procedure, the Article 226 procedure, in which the Commission investigates complaints about infringements of Community law by Member States, which continues to be the subject of complaints to the Ombudsman - and this is something with which we in the Committee on Petitions are all too familiar - the report finds that, despite recent improvements, this procedure is secretive, and that the complainant is still not recognised as a participant.
Whilst we appreciate the hard work carried out by the Commission, the Ombudsman and our Committee on Petitions depend on their investigations being effective, and we must be confident that such cases are being handled correctly.
Closer cooperation between the European Ombudsman's office and the Committee on Petitions is vital.
These rights are inextricably linked to their nationality and are the main means of consolidating political control by the European Parliament of where and how Community law is being applied by the Community institutions and the Member States.
Many of these proposals can be implemented within the framework of the current Treaties.
The first is the report by the Committee on Petitions, examining the petitions filed by European citizens on shortcomings in the application of Community law by the Member States.
The second, the Ombudsman's report, examines complaints about the failure of Community institutions to comply with Community law.
At the same time, in view of the fact that, one way or another, all three reports involve national authorities, such as national parliaments, national courts and national administrative departments, and many of the issues touched on in them depend on their degree of involvement and control, I think that the possibility of these reports being debated in the European Parliament in the presence of representatives of the national authorities should be addressed.
To be precise, we shall need to examine the possibility of decentralising services with the help of national ombudsmen or committees on petitions and, possibly, the offices of the European Parliament in the capitals of the various Member States.
Social issues were again the most sensitive area in the year under review.
This relationship is fundamental, and forms the basis for all our policies since ultimately they are addressed to the citizens.
It is therefore important that once a year Parliament, the Ombudsman and the Commission take stock of how this dimension is taken into account in their regular and day-to-day activities.
However, this year the debate is different for two reasons.
Firstly, the Code of Good Administrative Conduct which, it should be stressed, was the result of an initiative by Parliament when adopting the Perry report on the activities of the Committee on Petitions in 1996.
Lastly, his efforts have prompted us to organise more structured relations between complainants and the Commission in infringement procedures.
This important work led the Commission to amend its own Rules of Procedure in October 2000.
It entered into force in November 2000, and a first evaluation report has now been finalised.
The Commission is well aware that, despite all its efforts, the European Ombudsman would like to go further.
Lastly, while it is true that an interinstitutional approach aimed at the adoption of a single code and a single law is no doubt useful, the fact remains that the situation in each institution is specific, and a degree of flexibility is called for.
While the Commission pays tribute to the work accomplished by the Ombudsman, the fact remains that there are still differences of opinion on certain points.
The Commission shares the rapporteur's main concern of organising more efficient working and cooperation conditions between the Commission and the Committee on Petitions.
Incidentally, as the President and some Members will know, I have personal experience of very well-organised cooperation with the committee in a specific case.
The Commission also agrees with the rapporteur about cooperation with the national parliaments and with the national administrations as part of the efforts to find solutions to problems raised by petitions.
Moreover, by adopting a constructive dialogue approach, the Commission, the Ombudsman and the European Parliament will make the best possible contribution to defending the interests of European citizens.
Madam President, we are debating the last annual report which will be presented to the Parliament by Jacob Söderman.
Today is not the time when we say farewell, but it is a moment to appreciate the work that Jacob Söderman has carried out and his efforts on our behalf and very much in the interests of Europe.
The citizens of Europe do not distinguish between the institutions of the European Union.
The Commission's code says staff shall not be guided by personal interest.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Socialist Group, I join with Roy Perry in saying that we should not let this occasion pass without expressing our gratitude for the work of Jacob Söderman, the first Ombudsman of the European Union, and for the success with which it has been rewarded.
I would also like to say that we can congratulate ourselves on having had the courage, in 1995, to entrust this great task to - if I may say so - a rather unknown representative of a new Member State.
Emphasis has been laid on the good cooperation between the Ombudsman and the Committee on Petitions.
Now, perhaps, it is our responsibility, and that of the Committee on Petitions and of Parliament as a whole, to bring our activities up to a comparable standard.
I want MEPs to be aware of the fact that the Ombudsman is pointing in this case not only to the Commission but also to Parliament.
Like many Member States, we noted that the discussion on good governance had opened up possibilities.
Even though there is now better cooperation, I personally am extremely disappointed at the Commission's response to our initiative regarding the Ombudsman's statute.
The Ombudsman needs to be able to carry out his work in full.
Citizens Direct is being launched, but without any real success.
Madam President, I believe that nobody doubts today, and nor should they, that the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman contribute to two fundamental principles of European construction: the application of Community law and also the institutions' knowledge of the citizens.
Nevertheless, I believe we must make improvements in certain areas in order to prevent the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman from confronting problems while carrying out their everyday work.
Firstly, on a very practical level, I believe we should strengthen the services of the Ombudsman, the services of our own secretariat and the services of the European Commission which work closely with us, Commissioner, because sometimes they have difficulties providing us with information on the petitions we send them.
Secondly, the presence of the Council in our Committee on Petitions should sometimes be essential, but it never appears.
Madam President, I believe that the method of a joint report by the Committee on Petitions and the European Ombudsman should also be used for the joint annual report on respect for and application of Community law, because that would show us how essential the work of the Ombudsman and the work of the Committee on Petitions is in assessing the application of Community law.
I would like to end, Madam President, by thanking the European Ombudsman for his work promoting the transparency and efficiency of the European institutions and furthermore for his independence, which has been clear to us throughout this time.
Madam President, I would like to thank both rapporteurs for their conscientious work and also the Ombudsman and his team for their hard work in ensuring that the rights of citizens and residents are upheld and good practice is pursued, if not always attained.
This case raises serious issues of what happens when Parliament upholds the Ombudsman's view on a case, this one relating to data protection and access to information, and the Commission does not agree.
It raises questions of institutional balance, as well as issues surrounding the application of data protection itself.
Madam President, the twin bodies of the Petitions Committee and the European Ombudsman form a key plank in bringing the European Union closer to its people.
Much has been written about the democratic deficit and voter alienation in the European Union.
As a directly elected representative of the people, I believe that we could go a long way to giving a more human face to the institutions of the European Union if we successfully promoted the work of these bodies to our constituents.
He came to Strasbourg with already considerable experience in defending citizens' rights in his own country.
Mr Söderman indicated to us some time ago that he would be stepping down early next year.
He has done an outstanding job in establishing the role and function of the Ombudsman as the first person to hold this important post.
Informing citizens about this important office naturally requires time and resources, and it is true that work remains to be done in increasing the profile of the European Ombudsman.
The Committee on Petitions must be a real point of contact for citizens, but the Council should also take even more account of it.
The Nice Treaty states that the European Union must be brought closer to its citizens.
In particular, more attention needs to be paid to Articles 41 and 42 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Madam President, I am going to comment on the Koukiadis report.
Hardly a year has passed since we debated the report on the deliberations of the Committee on Petitions for 2001 - for which I was rapporteur - and I am pleased to note that the right of petition is increasingly strengthening the political control that the European Parliament can exercise in relation to excessive violations of Community law.
Furthermore, we are delighted at the intention to introduce preventive measures to prevent abuses of cultural and environmental heritage - which, by the way, are issues which are at the forefront of the European citizens' concerns.
As the rapporteur suggests and as has been proposed in corresponding reports in previous years, we should even go as far as to renounce, in press conferences, the obstructive and reticent attitudes of the governments to the resolutions of Parliament's Committee on Petitions.
And I would also like to wish Jacob Söderman all the best for his Iberian retirement.
Mr President, the report submitted by the Ombudsman demonstrates that this is an important and necessary post.
The present system does not provide legal protection.
It is regrettable that the Ombudsman in his annual report should have to state that the EU institutions have failed both to put the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights into practice and implement the decision on the European Parliament's good administrative behaviour.
The remarks about administrative discrimination on the grounds of age or gender are particularly regrettable.
In the annual report there are 21 photographs of the Ombudsman, and in most of them he has a gentle expression on his face.
Our Ombudsman acts fearlessly, like Jaakko Ilkka in the Finnish Cudgel War, against the tyranny of the administrative nobility.
The Ombudsman has appealed to the Convention proposing that he should in some cases be able to refer violations of fundamental rights to the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
I ardently support this view and believe that, as we are discussing opportunities for citizens to have an influence, we should at long last include citizens as participants in the decision-making process and not just as the subjects of that process.
We might take an example from a country like Switzerland, where the people can indeed initiate the legislative process.
The more the citizens become aware - and they are becoming aware - of their European citizenship, the more they enter into dialogue with the European institutions.
While many Members have focused on the way that petitions can contribute to the supervision of the European institutions, I would like to emphasise precisely the relationship of trust created between the citizens and the European institutions through the right of petition, and, therefore, the recognition of these European institutions, whose competence is wider than that of district, provincial, regional or State bodies.
We, the Committee on Petitions, are continuing this process to make the right of petition efficient and effective, and we associate the initiative with the Perry-Kessler report, which for us was fundamental and in which we established points which we are gradually endeavouring to implement. .
We are currently attempting to create a relationship between the Parliamentary committees, for they have to be aware of what the citizens are saying in their petitions so as to be able to decide whether to fill a legislative gap or whether to amend or reinterpret a directive.
Mr Söderman has carried out his task with infinite patience, particularly in regard to the Commission which has shown no understanding of elementary administrative culture.
Absolute power does not only result in passivity; it is revealed in the active opposition to the Ombudsman's efforts to introduce the Nordic countries' administrative culture into the institutions of the EU.
It was here too that we had our first joint session with the European Council's Parliamentary Assembly, which might well have been rather tricky in technical terms, but I must say that those responsible overcame the difficulties brilliantly.
This was also a long-awaited opportunity to build stronger links between these two institutions, the European Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly of the European Council.
Strasbourg is also the seat of the European Ombudsman, who expresses our vision of a citizens' Europe, a Europe of human rights.
We must have institutions that fight for citizens' rights in the EU.
It is therefore also our task in the European Parliament to ensure that the Ombudsman is given the opportunities and the tools that make for the right working conditions, including access to documents and the opportunity of talking with employees and obtaining clear answers.
The first concerns point 17, calling for ways to be considered of persuading the national authorities to respond to petitions by citizens and questions asked by the Committee on Petitions and the Commission.
This publicity could be achieved by issuing press releases in the language of the country in question and by organising press conferences in which national MEPs, especially the members of the Committee on Petitions, could participate.
Secondly, I should like to point out that the Committee on Petitions receives huge numbers of petitions complaining about works planned or under way or conduct on the part of national authorities which violate mandatory Community rules, often resulting in irreparable damage to the environment or European cultural heritage.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by pointing out that the protection of the citizens and their rights is one of the fundamental principles of our democracies.
I believe that if we safeguard the rights of the citizens and provide them with sufficient protection, we can also call upon them to discharge their responsibilities.
In my opinion, this should be the main consideration.
Improvement has been possible thanks to the use of new technologies, but I believe that access is facilitated when information on accessibility is distributed as widely as possible.
Therefore, we still need to do much more in terms of disseminating information.
Mr President, I thought I would conclude by speaking my own language.
In the debate in Parliament today, almost everyone stood by the same values.
I should also like to thank my staff for the sound work they have done and for the high level of motivation they have shown in their desire to help all European citizens.
Finally, I only hope that my successor - and, as you know, there are a lot of very good candidates - will be given the same stimulating and business-like reception as I have been given.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Mr President, the main objective of any agreement between the ACP countries and the European Union should consist of promoting sustainable forms of development which help to reduce poverty and constitute a basis for the integration of the ACP countries into the world economy.
The negotiations for economic partnership agreements will therefore take place tomorrow in Brussels.
With the Cotonou Agreement promising a new participative approach, the time has come to innovate.
The purpose of these negotiations coincides directly with the current debate on the correlation between trade and development.
The development dimension is increasingly important in our commercial policy, as stated by Commissioner Lamy and duly noted.
We are still concerned, however, that development is thus being progressively reduced to a mere dimension, an accessory to the liberalisation of trade, whereas it is specific policies that are needed here.
The proposal for new trade relations could therefore turn out to be counterproductive were it to consist of proposing benefits which are in themselves obstacles that must be overcome.
The European Union and the ACP countries together form a considerable proportion of WTO members, in other words a majority, a force which can and must influence negotiations until 2005, ensuring that the rights of developing countries are recognised.
That is why I am prepared to accept Amendment No 2 tabled by the PPE-DE, but as a supplement.
The European Parliament has also shown an impeccable sense of timing by tabling this report just before the launch of the EU-ACP negotiations on the economic partnership agreements tomorrow.
From the Commission's point of view, the main strength of the report is that it puts ACP development at the centre of the EPA negotiations.
The EPAs shall also be WTO-compatible and build on ACP regional integration initiatives as key instruments for ACP integration into the world economy.
In short, our common objective is to use trade for development.
The Commission agrees with the need, highlighted in the report, for analysis and assessment of the impact of the EPAs on sustainable development.
By means of regional cooperation on their part, the ACP States are to be put in a position to develop their own functioning markets, which are necessary if there is to be greater trade with us in both goods and services.
The mutual market opening, especially the opening of the great European internal market, is intended to enable them to achieve better sales in this market of their existing products, and perhaps also of those of higher quality yet to be developed, and thereby lay the foundations for the development of their national economies.
The negotiations that are now getting underway should therefore focus on turning the ACP States into more effective economic partners, enabling social and cultural development, too, to be further accelerated.
We in the PSE Group strongly align ourselves with her sentiments in relation to trade being a means to an end, not an end in itself.
The end is development of the ACP economies and poverty reduction for the poorest people in those countries.
The Commissioner will agree that the Cape Town Declaration agreed by the Joint Parliamentary Assembly earlier this year gives us a strong opportunity for parliamentarians and civil society more generally to play a far greater role in the discussions that these crucial negotiations entail.
Lastly, in relation to ACP-wide issues, the ACP want to establish some principles as a complete block.
Mr President, I should like, first of all, to congratulate the rapporteur, Yasmine Boudjenah, on her thorough and timely work, which provides us today, on the eve of the opening of negotiations on the Economic Partnership Agreements, with a high-quality report on a particularly important and topical issue.
First, I wish to state the need not to play down, in order to fall in line with the WTO, a partnership that has already been around for decades and which I believe must be continued and focused particularly on one key objective: the development of our more than 70 partner countries and meeting the fundamental needs of their populations.
This highlights another issue: the Economic Partnership Agreements laid down in the Cotonou Agreement and the trade dimension of this agreement as a whole cannot prevail and even less replace a form of cooperation that must encompass various other fields and which, as I understand it, must be extended and seek to achieve better results than in the past.
Mr President, today's vote is important and fits in very well with our work timetable, as tomorrow negotiations will begin on partnership agreements with the ACP countries.
We fully share her point of view on the matter and we support her.
From a political perspective, there is no real point in presenting a weak or sugared position to the Commission.
Mr President, I am pleased to participate in this debate on the economic partnership agreements with the African, Caribbean and Pacific nations.
It is important that these economic partnership agreements contribute towards placing the ACP countries in a position where they can be progressively integrated into the world economy.
On the key question of market access, we must move towards improved access to EU markets for exports from developing countries, so as to ensure that negotiating proposals take account of the economic interests of all parties.
There was a major reform of the CAP with Agenda 2000, and we are now faced with review proposals that will profoundly disrupt our production and our markets if carried through.
To give just one simple example, it costs Europe slightly less than EUR 700 to produce a tonne of sugar, but it costs only a little under EUR 300 to do so in many African countries.
Simple economic theory therefore tells us that African countries would have a superior position in the sugar market and that opening up the markets would be the route to growth.
Instead of noting an increase in their exports to the European Union, the ACP countries have seen them fall almost by half since the signing of the agreement.
Instead of improving, trade terms between the European Union and the ACP countries have deteriorated.
They masquerade as a system of preferences, but these agreements encourage the pillaging of poor countries by large investors of rich European countries.
It would, however, be futile to attempt to improve a system that is fundamentally flawed.
The only salvation for poor countries is to be found in a radical transformation of the global economic system.
Mr President, I warmly welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work, particularly in expressing so clearly Parliament's understanding that trade is only a means to an end, and that end is sustainable development.
All too often, in these institutions, there is a massive incoherence between European trade policy on one hand, and European development policy on the other, with trade concerns all too often undermining development objectives.
With this report Parliament sends a very clear message that development concerns must come first.
It simply beggars belief that some of the poorest ACP countries can possibly have the financial and technical resources to pursue the WTO's Doha agenda, the GATT's agenda, the NEPAD or FTAA agenda, at the same time as the EU economic partnerships agenda; and still at the same time still somehow pursue their own regional integration processes.
Mr President, this report is on the face of it well-intentioned and recognises the need for ACP countries to export their goods.
I have raised this point here before, and I am met with aggression from the Spanish and with indifference from Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
The time is right, since we are currently examining the draft association agreement between Algeria and the European Union.
I would, by the way, like to congratulate Mr van Orden, by dint of whose initiative Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union is to be incorporated into the constitution in its entirety, without any derogation!
We are very disappointed that Amendments 10 and 13 were passed by Parliament.
Next, the lowering of sulphur levels for non-road mobile machinery will lead to an increase of 8 to 10% in the price per litre.
Lastly, the requirement to use a new category of fuel in agriculture means that storage vats will need to be changed, costing an average of EUR 5 000 per holding.
Member States would also be able to ban or limit recreational traffic on certain lakes.
On behalf of my honourable friends in the CSU, with whom I voted for more stringent limit values, I must say quite emphatically that an opportunity to limit water pollution from recreational craft has been missed for many years to come.
On this basis, the European Union and its Member States can take action and in the future become, let us hope, the leading players in terms of respect for the environment at world level.
Although the real results of Johannesburg are not sufficient to meet the needs (since the enormity of the world's environmental problems can only be described as horrific), the Union was able to play the role of a catalyst there, for example in the launching of partnerships on water, decontamination and energy.
There is no point in repeating the list of shortcomings in the action plan adopted.
This includes implementing the development work of the 15 EU Member States, as formulated on more than one occasion.
The only way to deal with these issues is through common action at a global level.
The Bush administration is largely responsible for the deadlock in negotiations.
But the European Union did not display any more will by confining itself strictly to the unacceptable decisions of Doha and Monterrey.
The resolution presented to Parliament does not take sufficient account of these issues and I have therefore abstained.
The EU may make grandiose statements, but the pitiful outcome confirms that Johannesburg was nothing more than a meeting steeped in hypocrisy and crocodile tears between the countries of the so-called developed world on the misery which their capitalist interests have imposed on the third world.
Not a word on the foreign debt which brings developing countries to their knees or the responsibilities of the multinationals; just disgracefully hypocritical self-satisfaction when the same multinationals are called on to demonstrate "sensitivity"!
Today's resolution is typical of the texts submitted to us on this subject.
The ICC is based on a treaty which only binds its contracting parties.
The judge is nothing without the power of the sword.
If the ICC is to be more than a mere gimmick, then we must establish an international public power, and therefore a world government!
I am also profoundly disappointed at the position adopted by this Parliament of implicitly threatening the countries that are candidates for accession, and others that benefit from financial aid under agreements and partnerships established with the EU, so that they abstain from adopting positions, in the context of their legitimate external policies, that are not in line with the EP's unilateral interpretation of Article 98 of the Statute establishing the ICC.
The resolution urges the European Union to give Mercosur financial support.
For example, French companies such as EDF, Suez Lyonnaise or France Telecom have taken advantage of the wave of privatisations of public services in order to enter into these 'markets' with the sole aim of making profits.
For our part, we reaffirm our complete solidarity with popular movements developing in these countries, Argentina in particular.
The first minimal measure Europe could take would be the complete cancellation of the debt of the Mercosur countries.
Mr President, my group has voted, with good reason, for the whole of Amendment No 3 to the Brok report, including the section in which Parliament urges Iraq to implement all relevant Security Council resolutions to avoid the implementation of these resolutions having to be enforced.
The resolution links this to a statement by the Security Council about the result of the inspections.
However, it is also the expression of a constant in geopolitics, which is that international relations are primarily determined by States whose behaviour is a result of a free appreciation of their vital interests.
The communitarisation of a virtual CFSP would therefore be a serious historic mistake: it would further restrain the Member States, while the freedom of our nations, in the field of foreign policy as well as other policies, is what makes Europe independent; this excludes neither cooperation between countries nor freely discussed and agreed coordination of their policies.
I believe that international law must be upheld and any military intervention securely based upon a decision by the UN Security Council.
Nor can I support the proposal in paragraph 23 about funding the joint costs of military operations within the framework of the ESDP from the Community budget, or paragraph 19 on a joint European armaments agency.
Nor can I support paragraph 20 on strengthening the Member States's defence budgets, the proposal in paragraph 14 to allow decision-making in the Council by qualified majority, or the rule on enhanced cooperation to allow those Member States which desire, and are able, to do so to take action without a joint decision's having been made.
I support neither the proposal in paragraph 26 concerning closer institutional relations between NATO and the EU, nor paragraph 12 concerning a European diplomatic corps.
And it is very difficult to distinguish between these three categories of dealing considering the number of arms deals taking place involving ministers, whether still in office or not, or supposedly 'official' persons!
And it is truly criminal to plunge poverty-stricken countries further into debt by selling, even legally, arms to their leaders so that those leaders can then go on to use them against their own people.
The European Union code of conduct is the most complete international system for the control of arms exports.
The European Union has a positive involvement in the restriction and control of arms exports and attempts to add an ethical dimension to the arms trade.
Meanwhile, the Dutch Schiphol airport remains the link and focal point of the arms trade between the USA and Israel.
Hence, cancelling Question Time to the Council and Commission this week was, in my eyes, both an infringement of our fundamental parliamentary rights and an infringement of the Rules of Procedure, despite the fact that there was time enough.
The Commissioner is scheduled to speak immediately after your speech, Mr Whitehead.
Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the reason for this question and for its urgency.
The reason for the urgency is that this subject also relates very much to the ongoing debate about media concentration and to development in the field of broadband communications, particularly in the light of what is happening in television and broadcasting at the moment.
In my own Member State we have had ambitious plans, aiming to have the most competitive broadband system in the developed world by 2005.
We do not want to make that mistake again, and I believe that in this situation we want to know how we are proceeding.
I do apologise again for the fact that I have to leave before the conclusion of this debate, which I am taking part in, as you can see, at very short notice.
Mr President, the honourable Member's question relates to the interoperability of interactive television services and the role of the MHP standard.
Firstly, on the first point, I can acknowledge that the adoption of the framework directive in the field of communications represents a powerful signal both for operators in the digital television market and for consumers.
If we consider the legal position established in Article 18 of the framework directive for electronic communication services and networks, the Member States must encourage openness in relation to the provision of an application programming interface (API).
No particular API technology or single API will be laid down.
The second point relates the date of publication of the standards applicable in the field of MHP.
My reply is that the list of standards will be published after the meeting of the committee responsible for communications on 2 October.
However, the sector also wishes to hold a dialogue on interoperability, particularly on migration.
With regard to the fifth point, in its declaration to the plenum on 12 December 2001, the Commission committed itself to publishing the relevant MHP standards in a list of standards to be published in the Official Journal, in accordance with Article 17 of the framework directive.
In accordance with our commitments, we will provide a list of standards after the meeting of the competent committee on 2 October, as I have just said.
Article 18 of the framework directive demands that Member States encourage the use of an open API.
The Commission will therefore hold a dialogue with the Member States and national regulation bodies, by means of the committee.
The MHP will certainly be amongst the subjects discussed within the framework of this dialogue.
Businesses must take the initiative in terms of creating migration strategies since migration itself raises many technical and commercial problems.
We trust that we have the agreement and support of the Commission and the Member States, in the interest of our citizens.
The summer of 2004 will be here before we know it.
We need more clear political signals here.
Mr President, I am very pleased to be participating in this debate, not as a member of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport but as one of the rapporteurs on the electronic communications package and a member both of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
In my own country nine million people already have systems operating under other standards than MHP.
This resolution contains a rather unnecessary attack on vertical organisation and my group, and I hope Parliament, will reject that element.
On the question of application interfaces and the technology, the key word is 'interoperability'.
We have three mediums in the United Kingdom already - cable, terrestrial digital - a powerful access for people to get onto the digital system - and satellite.
It certainly needs to monitor how MHP is developing and to see whether that needs further encouragement.
I must make one thing quite clear: the European Parliament has a very long tradition in media policy, especially on television issues in Europe.
And secondly, we have constantly reiterated that this is a question of competition, and not just competition within Europe, but the competitiveness of Europe per se.
We know from the Member States - of which there are presently fifteen but of which there will soon be twenty-five or thirty - that they are not exactly quick off the mark when it comes to action plans.
Commissioner, thank you for your clear and detailed reply, but may I say quite unequivocally that, if the Member States fail to submit their action plans by the end of the year, we shall have to meet again in January in order to discuss how the European Union is to proceed.
The average person, so Karin Junker tells me, watches 206 minutes' television a day and listens to the radio for 3.5 hours.
If we want a competitive market, then we need a single system.
In particular I would like to mention the eEurope 2005 action plan.
This fully recognises the role of digital television in helping to achieve the Lisbon agenda for instance, as an alternative platform for citizens to receive on-line public services.
In conclusion, the Commission welcomes the resolution and calls for the development of digital television and the availability of digital television to the public at large to become a top priority on the political agenda.
Mr President, on a point of order, I wanted to say that I was going to vote against.
Mr President, I know this does nothing to change the outcome but a great many Members entered the Chamber after the vote.
I do not know where your office is and whether or not you can hear the bell from there.
Otherwise we might as well spare ourselves the effort. (Applause) Mr President, I think there are more fundamental questions to be asked following on from what our colleague said.
If you look at the total amount of debating time that we had at September I and II and the fact that we are finishing now, the question is why did we need to have two sittings in September at all?
Posselt, and I will show you the agenda for my committee.
I would have thought it more important to use the time available this afternoon to deal with other urgent topics, which normally go by the board because we never have time for them.
We would have had time today for anyone with any inclination to notice what we should have.
Today we were told this would be discussed on 9 October.
In other words, the Conference of Presidents decided that this urgent matter should be debated on 9 October, i.e.
in a fortnight's time, instead of this afternoon, when it could have been slotted in without further ado.
But to save time and then not use it for parliamentary business is wrong. (Applause) I therefore think - and we shall be doing as much in the Group of the Party of European Socialists - that both you, Mr Vice-President, in the Bureau, and the groups at the Conference of Presidents should retable the question of the agenda, because if today is anything to go by, we cannot go on like this. (Applause) My response is addressed to you, Mr Schultz, and to Mr Harbour and the other Members who mentioned the Bureau.
