Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 17 January 2002.
Yes, indeed, Mr Pronk. (The Minutes of the previous sitting were approved) Announcement by the President I should like to inform the House that I received, shortly after my arrival in office, advice from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, inviting the President to submit to the European Court of Justice for review the question of the legal base with regard to the European Company Statute.
It is important - this side of the Barcelona Summit, with an issue that has been with us for three decades and perhaps has no parallel in the issues before us - to appreciate that it was not an easy decision to arrive at.
Mr President, on a point of order: it will hardly surprise the House if, on behalf of my Group, I support the position you have taken.
We, of course, have confidence in the Spanish Prime Minister; not only in that role do we trust that he will keep his word and that words will be matched by deeds, but also in his role as President-in-Office of the Council.
Again, let me extend my express thanks to you for the way you have handled this matter politically. (Applause) Mr President, as former Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and as it was under my chairmanship that this very issue was debated, I asked if I could be the last to speak on this subject.
Having said this, from the very beginning, the Committee on Legal Affairs was extremely aware that the priority in this case was not to hinder the entry into force of this directive, which had been under discussion for thirty years and, in fact, the decision made by this Committee specifically requests that, in the event of a decision being taken to refer the matter to the European Court of Justice, the outcome of this would be upheld, even if our decision were overruled.
For as long as I have the privilege to lead the House I will always do my very best as regards my own judgment - and with consultation - to represent our interests and the interests of our citizens.
Procedural remarks Mr President, on a point of order: I would like to request the assistance of my colleagues in Parliament, and indeed of the Commission, following the disaster that struck Dublin in particular last week when it was inundated with serious floods, rendering homeless many frightened people, some elderly.
I would like to express my admiration for those who responded to the tragedy but also, if possible, to request some help with re-housing many of those who lost their homes in this tragedy.
Mr President, I should like to ask the European Parliament to oppose this policy and to put a stop, at long last, to situations which put us in danger of another world war.
On Thursday there will be a joint debate which will include a reference to this matter.
Mr President, I am speaking in my capacity as MEP for northern France, following Mr Van Orden, whose comments regarding the Sangatte Centre rather surprised me.
Rather than criticising a decision of a court or a country, I would hope that we will all do what is necessary so that common rules can, at long last, be established in the European Union.
Mr President, the nineteenth Winter Olympics start in Salt Lake City in the USA on Friday 8 February.
We shall communicate that as you request.
Mr President, I should like to know whether you share my concern at the mawkish exhibition held in Parliament's building in Brussels last week entitled "We on death row".
Mr Helmer, I should like to point out to you that the Treaty of Amsterdam includes among its terms a prohibition on the use of the death penalty.
Mr President, I should like to ask you to consider writing a letter to the President of Nigeria offering the condolences of the Members of this House on the horrendous explosions that took place in Lagos.
Drug trafficking The next item is the report (A5-0460/2002) by Arie M.
The present report deals with a Commission proposal with a view to the adoption of a Council framework decision.
We have therefore not held an explicit debate on drugs policy.
The proposal is a necessary step, and we know that it is intended to respond to the needs identified both in the Vienna action plan and in the Tampere conclusions, as well as in the European Union 2000-2004 Drugs Strategy.
This is, indeed, a necessary step, but an inadequate one: it is limited to establishing the lowest common denominator of the national provisions in force in each Member State for offences in the field of drug trafficking.
Mr President, drugs policy has often led to heated debates in the European Parliament.
We reject Amendments Nos 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35 and 37.
For reasons of public health, this policy is also being replicated in other countries at local, regional and sometimes even national level.
Mr President, with acute drug-related deaths standing at 7,000 to 8,000 a year, my Group will be supporting very strongly the report by Mr Oostlander and the fight against illicit drug trafficking.
We seem to be able to pursue the terrorists responsible for the horrific events of 11 September, but it seems to be beyond us to tackle international drug terrorists.
Those who tabled the amendments seem to be wrestling with the lowest common denominator itself.
I support the proposal which makes a responsible start on combating illegal drug trafficking, a cross-border problem which directly affects the security of European citizens.
This is the way in which the police forces of various European Union Member States are interpreting the policy that you are proposing to us to combat serious crime and this is the way that the harmonisation that you are proposing is interpreted.
I think that, in addition to the many friendly pats on the back that I get from numerous fellow Members, even from the centre right, Mr Oostlander, these Members realise that this prohibitionist policy is a criminal policy that encourages crime; they realise that we must adopt a very different approach.
I think that it is high time that Parliament had the courage to be slightly less hypocritical, and for it to do what our fellow Members Chris Davies and Marco Cappato recently did in Great Britain; as MEPs, we must finally demonstrate the absurdity of these laws.
Mr President, as one of the previous speakers said, the Commission proposal laying down minimum provisions on the constituent elements of criminal acts and penalties in the field of illicit drug trafficking is a tiny, timid step towards resolving the massive problem of the illicit trade in psychotropic substances.
However, this is where our paths diverge.
This proposal is not the entire European policy on drugs: this proposal deals with only one specific component, which is the fight against drug trafficking.
In Laeken, the Heads of State and Government asked us to approve the framework decision on the harmonisation of penalties at European level for drug trafficking by the end of May of this year.
The instrument that is envisaged is only intended to cover the penal aspects of the drugs phenomenon.
This study, which was made public, consequently enabled us to make a comparative analysis of the legislation of all the Member States in the field of drug trafficking.
The States cannot have two penal codes, one to be applied to drug trafficking that takes place exclusively within their borders and another for drug trafficking that has a cross-border dimension.
I must say that in other countries, the penalty is lighter, and we feel that this sentence of five years represents a minimum standard for harmonisation, giving, of course, each Member State the option of establishing other, harsher standards in its legislation for the minimum maximum penalty than can be applied.
In this context, I hope that Parliament will support the report and will enable the Council to adopt this framework decision by the end of May this year.
Nor does it apply to persons who are temporarily resident, such as students or those granted temporary protection.
I draw attention to Amendments Nos 33 to 35, which I authored, on equal access to legal proceedings, participation in local life and voting rights, but I should immediately state that the new ELDR Amendment No 56 is intended to replace Amendment No 34, in order to clarify that it means participation in local community life, for instance in neighbourhood forums, and that Amendment No 35 is only aspirational in encouraging Member States to give local and European voting rights.
I should like to appeal to the Right to accept that a reasonable outcome would consist in taking some of their points, but not all of them.
In practical terms Amendment No 82 is acceptable, but not Amendment No 9.
I urge Parliament to rally to a consensus on this balanced and reasonable proposal.
We have 20 million residents who, by definition, are mobile.
Mr President, common regulation of the conditions under which third-country nationals shall have the freedom to travel in the territory of the Member States, is much to be welcomed.
Let me say at the outset that I do not understand why a directive was chosen in preference to a regulation as the legal instrument in this instance.
There is, though, a new regulation for those holders of the national visa issued by the Member States for longer-term residence who are not yet in possession of the residence permit.
Contrary to the Commission's proposal, such third-country nationals should, in my judgment, continue to be permitted to travel on Member States' territory even before they apply for the residence permit.
In the debate that took place in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on this issue, several amendments were tabled: some were serious, others less so.
What is important to me is the amendments to this directive making it possible for the Member States to carry out security checks.
Checks of this kind take account of the security needs of the host population, and also the needs of the third-country nationals living in our Member States.
Mr President, at the Tampere Summit, the European Council declared that the legal status of third-country nationals should be approximated to that of Member State nationals so that they have a uniform set of rights as close as possible to those enjoyed by EU citizens.
The Commission' s proposal set out, in a very clear and balanced fashion, the conditions that must be fulfilled in order to acquire long-term resident status.
Furthermore, the individual must not constitute a threat to public order or domestic security.
Article 7 of the Commission' s proposal on the threat to public order is clear and I think it is worrying and counter-productive to draw a parallel between immigration and terrorism.
Mr President, I should like to thank both rapporteurs, and I welcome these initiatives.
I also echo Baroness Ludford's comments on the British government's lack of enthusiasm.
It is a pity that her more progressive ideas narrowly missed endorsement in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and we now have before us a more begrudging approach to long-term residents from third countries, with an overemphasis on terrorism, language acquisition and sufficient resources, especially in the area of pensions.
The Commission's proposals were certainly better than what is now proposed in those areas.
This says to me that the image of third-country nationals in the minds of some in this House represents only a very narrow part of the reality - in terms of a specific geography perhaps, a social class or political views.
Let us then be honest enough to say that we are interested only in those who have the great good fortune to be able to enter the EU at all - under very degrading conditions and often illegally - who then play the joker and get asylum from whatever EU country it happens to be, or who simply happen to be people the capitalist system can make use of.
The rules now being negotiated are significantly less xenophobic than Mr Haarder' s proposals.
These conditions arise from a state of mind that we thought had become obsolete following the attacks of 11 September and which sought, in particular, to put unrestricted openness and movement before the security of our fellow citizens.
As far as the conditions of movement of third-country nationals are concerned, for example, the draft directive abolishes the current obligation to declare themselves, under Article 22 of the Schengen Convention, when they move between EU countries.
Everyone here is aware that following 11 September, Europe has been accused of being too easy for terrorists to use as a base, because its internal borders are too porous.
Lastly, with regard to the second draft directive relating to third-country nationals who are long-term residents, we believe that the Community has no jurisdiction to introduce, even by unanimity, a common status comprising uniform principles.
Article 63 of the TEU specifies only that the Council can take 'measures' relating to immigration policy in the area of entry and residence conditions, but that it cannot and must not be a question of a full status which would impose a centralised, uniform and rigid solution for all Member States.
Like Mrs Kessler, we also believe that the regulation is, as it stands, a more adequate legal instrument than the directive.
The truth, Mrs Kessler, is that we are in line with the Council' s position that Parliament rejected whilst approving the report that I have just mentioned.
Before we deal with other aspects of immigration policy, a common status is needed for third-country nationals who are long-term residents in strict compliance with the Tampere Agreements, the aim of which was to give these third-country nationals a set of uniform rights comparable with those enjoyed by EU citizens.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in actual fact, we are discussing two subjects which are quite distinct although closely connected.
Indeed, a joint debate on immigration is taking place on two fronts: the first concerns the recognition of the status of long-term legally resident third-country nationals; the second concerns the regulation of the stay in a Member State and the freedom to travel for fixed periods and for specific reasons.
Certainly, the first proposal would appear to be more important in that it seeks to establish the conditions under which citizens of third countries who are long-term residents in a Member State, within the meaning of the directive, can also travel to a different Member State of the Union from that in which they have been granted residence.
This is what we are doing in Italy: striving, as I said, to move ahead with this proposal.
Mr President, I should like to say a few words on the Ludford report on the rights of long-term residents.
It was due, in part, to the lack of numbers on my own side that these amendments went through in committee, so I apologise for that.
In our view, the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents in the territory of a Member State is a fundamental aspect of drawing up a common immigration policy.
The status of long-term residents puts admission policies in a long-term perspective, providing third-country nationals who wish to do so the guarantee of being able to reside for a long time in their State of reception.
The objective that was declared in Tampere and reiterated in Laeken is to guarantee legal immigrants equal treatment and ensure that they have comparable rights and obligations to those of the European Union' s own citizens.
The legislation of most Member States already grants this status automatically, without checking whether the condition of old age pensions has been fulfilled.
This matter must be seen as part of a broader and more complex issue that involves the relationship between migrant workers and social security systems in general.
With regard to some of the proposals for amendments that have been tabled, the Commission takes the view that only when the status of long-term resident is granted will the beneficiary be able to enjoy equal treatment in comparison with the nationals of Member States in practically all areas of socio-economic life.
The aim of this work was to ensure that the Member States were in a position to effectively protect public order in the face of the threat posed by terrorism.
In this case, integration works already not only at national level, but also at European level.
And those individuals who have resided in a Member State for a certain amount of time will be in an advantageous position in comparison with those who come directly from their country of origin, should they wish to move to another Member State.
I think that this is a very important aspect, and should, therefore, not be ignored.
The fact is that the Schengen acquis already contains rules on the movement of third-country nationals.
Furthermore, this proposal is also intended to regulate the travel of various categories of people that have a legitimate interest in remaining for a period of between three and six months within the border-free area without their situation being equated with immigration in the true sense of the word.
A long-stay visa is a national visa, which will be issued in accordance with national rules and not in accordance with the rules of Chapter 3, Section 1 of the Schengen Implementing Convention.
Thank you, Commissioner Vitorino.
The debate is closed.
In addition, in my capacity as rapporteur, I would refer to the enormous importance of coordination and cooperation, not only between the Commission services but also with the Member States, international donors, local partners and NGOs.
Projects in the field of security and good governance, for example, fall outside the scope of the Regulation, and resources are limited.
Moreover, it would seem appropriate to distinguish between internal and external coordination action in order to establish who does what at both European and international level and also at the level of the individual Member States; this would make it easier to plan and therefore make us more effective in implementing rehabilitation and development initiatives.
The whole of this debate demonstrates that there is a dialectical relationship between humanitarian aid, which the European Union mobilises in order to deal with emergency situations resulting from all types of disaster, and the aid which is regularly granted with a view to promoting the development of a particular region or country.
The transition from relief to reconstruction and development requires flexibility in the decision-making process.
The report by Mr Van den Berg makes excellent suggestions.
There is no doubt at all that there is an increase in disasters worldwide, both man-made, as in Afghanistan, and natural, such as in Goma, DRC.
The Commission communication, the Council' s conclusions and the parliamentary report contribute to establishing this consensus.
The European Community and its Member States together account for half of the international aid programmes funded by the developed countries.
The figures speak for themselves.
The Commission has set up a series of actions for implementing policy in directions that reflect the link between relief, rehabilitation and development.
For that reason, the debate which we held with the Council last year, together with your report of today, are welcomed by the Commission as contributions towards a more effective response to crises and the achievement of greater coherence between relief and development.
The debate is closed.
The outcome of the conciliation on road transport is very much to be welcomed.
On specifics, first we have secured the inclusion of self-employed drivers as a matter of principle.
Even then the Council would have been determined to block such a move from the Commission.
It would have been impossible to get that through Council.
My final point is that certain aspects of the text before us are highly relevant to the state of affairs being brought to light by the Kralowetz case.
But Kralowetz makes two things glaringly obvious.
We must insist on full and proper application of controls across the European Union.
With conciliation, which was concluded satisfactorily on 17 December last, the European Union defined minimum information and consultation standards to be applied throughout Union territory.
Almost all the Member States have a legal framework in place - either statutory or contractual in origin - which seeks to ensure that workers are informed and consulted: almost all, I said, but not all, and this directive extends the right so that it exists throughout the Union.
Basically, this directive recognises the rights of workers and their representatives in all undertakings with less than 50 employees to be informed and consulted about all aspects of the life of the undertaking, particularly the implications of company choices on employment, the organisation of work, training and skill development.
I would point out that we were three women, the three of us, in particular, working on this directive.
This company has been active in Luxembourg since 1986 and was an international one established in eight different European countries.
For several months the judicial authorities and rogatory committees of several Member States have been conducting investigations and enquiries and drawing up reports.
Although monitoring is a national competence, a two-yearly report on the results of the monitoring procedure, which is to be submitted to the Commission, must still be drawn up.
The speed limit is 90 km/hour in one Member State, 100 km/hour in another and 80 km/hour in the next.
This directive elaborates upon this as a right for all companies in the Union.
I welcome Commissioner Bolkestein' s presence this evening, for it is particularly important in my view for this discussion also to be held concerning other areas and for the matter of employee participation to be raised in other areas too, for example in the case of take-overs and mergers of companies, and also in Commissioner Monti' s competition policy.
Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party welcomes the agreement reached in conciliation between Parliament and the Council on the directive on the organisation of the working time in the road transport sector and on the directive on information and consultation of employees.
The directive on working time in the road transport sector aims to do away with situations where unfair competition and social dumping exist in the single market.
Rules are also needed in order to guarantee suitable working conditions for drivers and thus prevent a decline in safety.
Parliament asked for self-employed drivers to be included within the scope of the directive and demonstrated the need to treat all drivers equally, whether or not they are salaried employees.
The inclusion of self-employed drivers is now provided for, seven years after the directive enters into force.
The case of the lorry drivers stuck in Luxembourg - and I would also add, Mr Bolkestein, that they returned home last Friday with their earnings of EUR 1 000 - illustrates the kind of situation that can arise due to a lack of adequate Community legislation.
As we have seen, there are unscrupulous and fearless transport entrepreneurs who have no hesitation in exploiting the gaps between, on the one hand, national laws and, on the other hand, national and Community legislation, who even go as far as breaking these laws and, most probably, rely on the lack of effective checks.
This was a case comparable to Kralowetz, but on a smaller scale.
We must not, however, forget that - by means, for example, of Paragraphs 25 and 26 of the proposal for a directive, which offer scope for a more or less broad interpretation - it also provides legal opportunities to reject workers' demands in certain cases.
We have had quite vigorous discussions in our group on information and consultation, but we agreed that the common position is a really good starting point for a sensible solution.
The majority in my group were opposed to European sanctions but in favour of national ones.
Mr President, the Kralowetz case is to some extent a problem specific to Luxembourg, since governments over the past 20 years have used all sorts of benefits to entice a large number of transport enterprises to Luxembourg, without, though, building up a system to monitor the wages these firms pay and the working conditions they provide.
Kralowetz is, though, also in essence a European problem.
Mr President, European regulation on work times of professional drivers is necessary for three reasons; firstly for the social protection of the workers, secondly to improve the safety of road traffic and thirdly for reasons of competitiveness.
The Commission has presented a new regulation on the harmonisation of certain social security regulations relating to road transport, which will, in consequence, soon be on Parliament's agenda.
Mr President, I do not share the enthusiasm of my colleagues for the results of this conciliation but I am equally warm in my congratulations to both rapporteurs.
As the Spanish representative said, when joining other countries in registering his country's dissent from the final text, it is the first time that the entrepreneurial sector has been included in any directive.
Mr President, Commissioner Bolkestein, the situation of the stranded lorry drivers in Luxembourg shows us once again where there is a need for European regulation and monitoring.
Looked at from this angle, this work time regulation is long overdue - in the interests of our safety on the roads and of the safety of the workers, that is, the drivers themselves.
I might add that, as has already been mentioned, this case is not only an issue for Luxembourg or about a few Austrian businessmen, we now know that we are dealing with a large number of Austrian businessmen.
In relation to the general framework for information and consultation, the Chapter IV of the European Union' s Charter of Fundamental Rights, entitled 'Solidarity' , begins with Article 27, which establishes, under the title 'Workers' right to information and consultation within the undertaking' , that 'Workers or their representatives must, at the appropriate levels, be guaranteed information and consultation in good time in the cases and under the conditions provided for by Community law and national laws and practices' .
Article 136 of the European Union Treaty already indicated that social dialogue was an objective of the Community and the Member States.
It therefore seems logical and necessary that, outside other specific directives, such as Directive 94/45/EC, a single directive should establish a general framework which lays down minimum requirements for the exercise of the right to information and consultation in undertakings and workplaces within the Community.
I therefore feel that the content of Article 4 is particularly worth highlighting... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, we have over the last few weeks dealt with a number of matters - including social security measures - with a direct bearing on the transport sector, and those of us in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism were also of the opinion that all these measures - and I do believe that work time, which is now at last regulated, is an important chapter in the course of completion - only make sense if the Member States have the will, on the one hand, to tighten controls and, on the other, to adjust sanctions accordingly.
The lobby that is active here is neither a lobby for the workers nor a lobby against them - I do not think it has anything to do with Luxembourg's legislation either - nor is it a lobby for or against the employers.
Our concern is not with adding more and more directives and piling up ever more detail; what matters to us is that those countries should be ready to tackle this together, so that employers can charge proper prices without suffering from this dumping that is being organised there and the workers can of course work under proper conditions.
What has to be emphasised first in this deplorable business is that it is not Luxembourg's legislation and practices that deserve to be pilloried here, but the way the Kralowetz affair has highlighted social deficits in the European area and the European Union, a sphere in which such things are inexcusable.
In adopting this directive, we are making essential progress towards eliminating the competition distortions in the road sector but, above all, towards improving road safety.
This directive will not only allow the elimination of abuses in that sector but also facilitate a better balance between modes.
Thanks to this Parliament, it will ultimately be possible for this directive to cover all drivers of all categories, whether self-employed or not.
That is a great achievement for road safety because tiredness obviously affects all drivers in the same way, whether they work for a firm or are self-employed.
Also, on the report by Mrs Ghilardotti, I should like to express my congratulations to her and to all Members of this Parliament on the agreement reached between Parliament and the Council on this very important directive.
This agreement was only possible due to the spirit of compromise shown by Parliament and the Council.
Fourthly, it reflects the views of the two legislators as at least 15 of Parliament's amendments in its two readings have been incorporated into the text.
Therefore, the draft before us deserves acceptance, certainly from the Commission but also from Parliament and the Council.
Once adopted, the directive will complete the Community framework in the field of worker information and consultation, a framework which provides European companies and their workers with an essential tool to facilitate change and to ensure that it is carried on in a socially acceptable way.
Mr President, this framework directive marks the end of the era of expressions of will or recommendations.
The first is the obligation for all buildings in the Union to hold a certificate testifying to their energy efficiency.
The second is the obligation for all new buildings to incorporate an energy-efficiency study as an essential requirement for planning permission.
There are other actions laid down in the directive, but I wanted to highlight these three because they are clearly the ones with the greatest potential.
It will not escape you that if - as some studies suggest - it is possible to achieve a saving over the next few years of 20% in the energy bill for buildings, 20% of 40% brings us close to 10% and this, in terms of the oil bill and CO2 emissions, has an importance which is clear to all of us.
The important thing is that the directive should go ahead, Mr Vidal-Quadras.
I know that Mrs Zrihen, our socialist shadow, who unfortunately cannot be here this evening, appreciated the way in which he worked.
This directive, part of a package of measures aimed at making our use of energy more intelligent, should disseminate the existing good practice of some Member States right across the EU, and will also be very important in improving the situation in applicant countries where energy-efficient buildings could do much to help their economies as well as protecting the environment.
Many provisions of this directive have already been envisioned in the SAVE directive in 1993.
This proposal may lead to a significant improvement in the energy performance of buildings by promoting better minimum standards in Member States and in their building codes and by requiring more frequent updating and wider application of these codes.
Amendments Nos 3 and 6 encourage the use of subsidy schemes and incentives to promote the implementation of the proposal, taking into account socio-economic implications, and are thus also acceptable.
The Commission feels that the most effective way to improve energy performance requirements in Member States is to provide methods to encourage them to improve their own building codes, set their own performance levels and ensure full application and regular revision of those.
Upgrading existing buildings is an important part of this proposal.
For many Member States it represents a new area of endeavour which will require new performance standards, new resources and substantial investment.
