There are 31 Members on the list, although many or, at least, some of them are not present.
This is not a catch-the-eye procedure, but instead we have a list of speakers who have asked to make one-minute speeches. (RO) In November the European Commission presented its 2008 report on the Republic of Macedonia.
It should also draw up an action plan for lifting the visa requirements for citizens from the Republic of Macedonia ... (The President cut off the speaker) (BG) I would like to draw attention to the sanctioning of Bulgaria by the Directorate General for Enlargement on the withdrawal of accreditation for two agencies that have been entitled to resources from the pre-accession funds of the EU.
Specifically, this must cover the expiry of the common monitoring system between the European Union and China, which terminates on 31 December 2008, as well as assess how well the recommendations that the EP adopted nearly a year ago have been followed. (PL) Mr President, may I use the platform offered by the European Parliament to appeal for support for the initiative of Polish patriotic circles calling for 25 May, the day on which Captain Pilecki was shot, to be named European Day of Heroes in the struggle against totalitarianism.
Having escaped from the Nazi camp, he fought in the Warsaw Uprising and in the Second Polish Corps in Italy, and, on his return to Communist Poland, was arrested by the Communist Security Services and put in prison, where he was tortured, condemned to death and shot on 25 May 1948.
Hence the folly of the EU falling into the trap of funding such an obscenity and the foolishness of the President ... (The President cut off the speaker) (RO) On Sunday, 30 November, an historic event took place in Romania as the left was defeated in the general elections, which used the single-member system for the first time.
A few days ago, the simple announcement was made that President Sarkozy was boldly intending to meet the Dalai Lama in Poland.
In the spirit of Gyulafehérvár, I recommend that the millennium of the archdiocese ... (The President cut off the speaker) (PL) On 27 December, we will celebrate the 90th anniversary of the Wielkopolska Uprising.
We honour their memory. (PT) Increasing numbers of incidences of blackmail of workers - in which conditions are imposed on them that lead them to lose rights they have acquired - are beginning to arise under the pretext of the crisis of capitalism.
Significant examples are those involving the Peugeot/Citroen Production Centre in Mangualde and the Renault Industrial Unit in Cacia, Aveiro; both of these are part of the Portuguese automobile industry.
At the Renault Industrial Unit in Cacia, the management decided to reduce production this year and prepare itself for not renewing fixed-term contracts, despite having committed itself to expansion ... (The President cut off the speaker) (BG) This 27 November marked 89 years since Bulgaria was degraded with the signing of the Treaty of Neuilly, which dismembered territories from our motherland that to this day are populated with people with a Bulgarian self-conscience.
I also appeal to Parliament and EU institutions ... (The President cut off the speaker) (SK) On 10 December, the 60th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights will be commemorated all over the world.
His Holiness the Dalai Lama will pay a visit to our Parliament tomorrow.
More than 500 people have joined the silent demonstration on behalf of the freedom of Tibetans to use their mother tongue, practise their religion and enjoy true autonomy.
