Community ecolabel scheme - Voluntary participation by organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS) (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: the report by Salvatore Tatarella, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on a Community Ecolabel scheme - C6-0279/2008 -, and the report by Linda McAvan, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the voluntary participation by organisations in a Community eco-management and audit scheme - C6-0278/2008 -.
I am grateful to them all for their excellent work.
They therefore recognise its selective and driving value - this certification is greatly appreciated by consumers who are more aware of the social responsibilities of companies.
We have earmarked a marketing budget of EUR 9.5 million, and EUR 15 000 have been allocated for a new internet site.
The principle that most interested the shadow rapporteurs and found the other institutions in agreement was the fact that the Ecolabel must not simply certify an achieved result but instead must be a dynamic tool that is continually developing, a driving force that continually pushes manufacturers and products towards higher standards of environmental quality by continuously evaluating market benchmarks and establishing new criteria on their basis.
I would like to thank the shadows, who are here today, the Commission, who have been very helpful in getting agreement, and to the Czech Presidency, who are not here to hear my thanks.
I do hope these will encourage people to take part in EMAS, not because I want to play a numbers game and see EMAS competing with ISO, but because I think the scheme is a good one and could help us to meet our sustainability criteria.
We need to invest in energy and renewables, and we need to be cutting our environmental footprint.
These are two important environmental policy measures which form an integral part of the action plan on sustainable consumption and production.
The Ecolabel is one of the few channels for real and direct communication between citizens and the European Union on environmental issues.
I consider the text agreed between Parliament and the Council to be a very balanced text, which reinforces our arsenal in the fight against climate change.
The fact that the compliance procedure has been made more flexible rather than being abandoned is also a positive development.
I am also delighted with the frequent references to small and medium-sized enterprises which, as we all know, are the backbone of the European economy, especially today, when we face the biggest economic crisis in recent years.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, we have been waiting quite a long time for the Commission's plan on sustainable production and consumption.
I also hope that the Commission will be more proactive in its support for the scheme.
I think this Ecolabel scheme is one of many instruments that can help us to do that.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, there are different tools to sanction environment-conscious behaviour in our societies.
But in a market economy there are other tools as well.
It is very important to involve small and medium-sized enterprises in the Ecolabel process and, therefore, the cost of the authorisation cannot be too high.
It was a very difficult question during our debates, but finally we were able to reach a very good compromise about dangerous substances.
That is why the report allows for setting the ambition level of Ecolabel criteria on a case-by-case basis between 10% and 20% of the best performing products on the market, thus ensuring that the scheme rewards only the most environmentally friendly products but offers sufficient choice to consumers.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for their constructive cooperation.
This is also one of the problems we have tried to rectify with our new ideas.
Finally, I would like to point out that the label now also benefits goods produced to last a long time and goods that can be re-used.
In other words, we need to change the way we produce and consume goods if we want our economies to be sustainable.
It requires us to look at the whole of a product's lifecycle, so that we can improve the way raw materials are treated during the production of a product and, in particular, the way we dispose of a product after use.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur.
Today we are voting on a voluntary scheme which certifies companies to label their products as environmentally friendly.
The scheme categorises products and services that range from tissue paper to footwear to campsites.
I emphasise child labour because I was recently involved in a report in that area and I am very conscious of that.
I am very pleased that we are to have a final decision regarding legislation on both of these issues before the elections.
An exception may only be granted, applying strict criteria, if there is no alternative in a given product group and if a substance of the sort that is harmful to health is necessary for a product whose overall environmental impact is significantly less than other products in the same group.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to thank the rapporteurs.
It means applying innovative production criteria throughout the production cycle: from reducing emissions in production methods to reducing the energy consumption of primary assets such as water and locating production centres near end consumers.
In order to develop these criteria, the Commission and the new Community body are called upon to ensure the active involvement of leading operators and best practices, so that they can make use of innovations tried and tested by these operators during their manufacturing cycles and thus make them accessible and transparent.
It seems that there is a consensus in principle over the two proposals we are expecting in the first reading and I am delighted about that.
These proposals form part of the Community's sixth action programme and the attached package as published by the Commission in July 2008.
We are making it possible to extend the system to other products and we have also succeeded in solving a problem relating to the potential labelling of food products, thanks to which consumers will have the possibility to consider and take into account the impact of products or services on the environment when making purchasing choices and this is very important.
In my opinion it is very important to reduce the administrative burden for large, small and medium-sized companies.
In my opinion it is important to emphasise that the revised EMAS system is also open to organisations outside the European Union.
I would like once again to thank the European Parliament, the rapporteurs and MEPs for their productive cooperation on the compromise and I look forward to continuing this debate. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this morning's discussion has highlighted up to now the fact that a great deal of work has been done and that there is broad agreement on this topic.
As the European Union we must make businesses understand why they should choose the European system over the international system.
As Parliament's rapporteur on corporate social responsibility I wanted to make a contribution to this debate by putting the debate on Ecolabelling and EMAS, in terms of reporting by companies, into the wider context of what we are trying to do on corporate responsibility and accountability, and in particular to address the issue of whether voluntary schemes, as against statutory schemes, are the right way forward and whether we should have Europe-focused schemes or a global approach.
There is, of course, a temptation for some companies to use the least onerous and least costly - but also least effective - tool.
There are 4 000 companies in EMAS and 35 000 in ISO 14001.
Now, the problem is how modern technologies can be used for environmental protection, and how industry or services should be helped in promoting the environmental value of the production.
First revision of the EMAS scheme was not encouraging.
It was initially expected that EMAS-registered companies would have performed better, since the EMAS environmental requirements are tougher as compared with older and better-known certificates such as ISO 14001.
Yet EMAS-registered companies were not performing better, and the system of environmental excellence was weaker as compared with the ISO 14001.
I am confident that our amendments have made the Commission proposal for the regulation better and that we have brought it closer to users.
I hope that this will help organisations to choose the most rational systemic approach in order to interconnect different fields of environmental protection. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent job he has done.
At a time when the environment is the burning issue and the demand for green products is rising, even in non-European countries such as the United States and China, the Ecolabel will be one of the tools that makes European products increasingly competitive on the international market.
To conclude, my country, Italy, is ranked among the leading countries in Europe for the number of licences granted, and a large number of these were taken out by the tourism sector, which can derive benefit from this European environmental quality certification label that is both appreciated and guaranteed by the European public. (SV) Mr President, EMAS, the voluntary Eco-Management and Audit Scheme, means, in principle, that a company or an organisation carries out an environmental review, examines its own impact on the environment, draws up an environment policy, sets targets and comes up with an action plan.
Unfortunately, EMAS has not been much of a success to date, in that only 4 200 organisations have registered with it since its establishment in 1993, which is a poor result compared with the 35 000 organisations within the EU which have achieved certification to ISO 14001.
One would think that EU institutions would have an obligation to set a good example, but the response was that the Commission does not operate any internal emission targets and that only five of the Commission's Directorates-General have registered with EMAS.
In my opinion, that is beyond contemptible and I would like to use this opportunity to put this question to the Commission again: when does the Commission intend to ensure that all of its Directorates-General join EMAS? (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I perfectly understand the rapporteur's good intentions, but I believe that this Ecolabel goes against the major problems that are currently afflicting farming and production, particularly during this time of crisis.
I am thinking of countries like China, where some goods are actually produced under conditions of slavery; I am thinking of the laogai, the concentration camps where agricultural and manufacturing production takes place; and I am also thinking of certain well-known beverages that are widely consumed around the world despite the fact that we do not know what they contain.
In other words, protect production against unfair competition and then take steps to ensure that production meets national needs.
In fact, since the introduction of the Community eco-management and audit scheme in 1993, roughly 4 200 organisations have been registered in this programme.
Romania's Parliament Palace consumes as much power as a town with 20 000 inhabitants.
I have already suggested to the institution's management to join this scheme as soon as possible.
I would encourage the Commission and Member States to make efforts to promote EMAS, especially by awarding incentives in return for participation.
One symbol, one conclusion - that is what we should all be working towards together. (HU) The voluntary Ecolabel scheme is of crucial importance, since it is intended to foster the spread throughout Europe of environmentally friendly products both in terms of production and of consumption.
This obligation on our part also means that we must have the opportunity to choose from among various products in the same price category those that have been produced by an environmentally friendly process.
I thank him for preparing the report, and I thank you for listening to me. (LT) I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs for their splendid work.
I think that fellow Members Linda McAvan and Salvatore Tatarella have drafted reports which will help the European Union to remain one of the world's most environmentally-friendly regions.
I am certain that in future more attention will be paid to the protection of the environment and the restriction of limitless consumption.
The environmentally-aware consumer can choose between different ecolabels, many of which relate to organic products.
The European Ecolabel relates to all products and is a very valuable addition.
Only in this way will we be able to compete with other markets that produce with less discrimination, and only in this way will we be able to satisfy consumer demands which, fortunately, are increasingly rigorous. (PL) Madam President, the current need of EU legislation is for it to be simplified so that the law is clear and comprehensible to every citizen.
We should also ensure that we do not have a myriad of labels on every product and it is time - and not only now, right before the European elections - to show the people at home and out and about that the European Union does work on worthwhile things that affect the citizens themselves and that very many of the nonsensical things that you can hear and read on a daily basis are not true.
The Commission and Member States must ensure that the necessary funds are earmarked for Ecolabel awareness and promotion campaigns.
I call on the European Commission to create an official European Union webpage, which includes all the information and practical aspects concerning ecolabelling in the European Union.
However, there is a great deal of bureaucracy involved in the process for reviewing Ecolabel criteria for different products in 18 months.
I would like to thank you for an exceptionally positive and interesting debate on this topic.
I had the opportunity to experience a society that lived under totalitarianism for 40 years and that had a lack of goods and an enormous consumer potential.
It is very important for Europe to succeed in providing these consumers with information about what impact the consumption of a given product will have on the environment, health, the climate and sustainable development in other regions, including regions outside the EU.
I also believe that people will soon manage to categorise the products and foods that attracted so much discussion in the debate and in my opinion this will enable EU citizens to contribute actively towards protecting the environment through their consumer choices.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Mr President, I should like to start by thanking all the speakers in today's debate for their very constructive and positive speeches.
With this revised ΕΜΑS, participating companies will have a net benefit, given that they will be able to use their environmental reports to promote their environmental performance to consumers, to the public and to other companies and inspectors and auditors.
Thanks to the amendments proposed by Parliament, the text of the regulation on the Ecolabel has been improved still further from an environmental point of view and is now more accessible to companies.
In the meantime, however, this Ecolabel first needs to be recognised by consumers and companies throughout the European Union.
To be specific, international ISO standards have already been included and incorporated into the ΕΜΑS.
Numerous useful changes have been made to the texts and the results are very balanced.
rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I also welcome the opportunity to thank all those who took part in the debate, which revealed broad agreement over the work carried out in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
The debate also offered more insights, additional stimuli and further suggestions that I hope will be valuable to the Commission and Member States as they fulfil their duties.
We expect the Commission to perform its study on food very specifically so that any possibility of misunderstandings between this label and organic products can be ruled out.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I just want to pick up on what Avril Doyle spoke about when she said we have a plethora of initiatives and labels which are ethical and sustainability labels, to say that I think the Commission needs to look at this to make sure that people are not being misled.
So I hope that the Commission will make sure that all these systems of labelling and ethical labelling do continue to have some integrity and are not undermined to simply become marketing tools of organisations who want to make the public think they are being green and ethical when in fact they are nothing but fig leaves.
I believe that the report being discussed will make a significant contribution to the monitoring of the transposition of the regulations stipulated by this directive if Member States and the Commission can successfully cooperate in this respect.
The experience which has been acquired as a result of this certification scheme's implementation for almost 10 years, covering 26 categories of products, 622 licences and more than 3 000 products and services (detergents, paper, clothing, footwear, textiles, tourism and camping products), suggests the need for more robust intervention to deal with certain key aspects of the scheme.
Given that many economic agents are unhappy with the lengthy duration of the procedure for approving the criteria and the speed with which they become obsolete once they have been approved, amendments have been introduced to the way in which they are approved (a maximum period of 180 days between completing the evaluation and approval, with a simplified, abridged review procedure for non-essential changes to the criteria), along with a new system for awarding labels.
Maintaining the Ecolabel certification scheme's credibility requires: the application of the general principle of protecting the health of consumers and the environment, even in the case of labelled products promotional activities: improving the way in which consumers are informed, initiating awareness campaigns in order to maintain confidence in ecolabelling, using European funds special attention to be focused on SMEs.
