Green Paper on territorial cohesion and debate on the future reform of the cohesion policy - Regional policy best practice and obstacles to use of Structural Funds - Urban dimension of cohesion policy - Complementarities and coordination of cohesion policy with rural development measures - Implementation of the Structural Funds Regulation 2007-2013: results of negotiations on national cohesion strategies and operational programmes - A European initiative for the development of micro-credit in support of growth and employment (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: by Mr van Nistelrooij, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the Green Paper on territorial cohesion and debate on the future reform of the cohesion policy; by Mrs Krehl, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on regional policy best practice and obstacles to use of Structural Funds; by Mr Vlasák, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the urban dimension of cohesion policy in the new programming period; by Mr Roszkowski, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on complementarities and coordination of cohesion policy with rural development measures; by Mr Mikolášik, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the implementation of the Structural Funds Regulation 2007-2013: results of negotiations on national cohesion strategies and operational programmes; and by Mr Becsey, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on a European initiative for the development of micro-credit in support of growth and employment.
The financial crisis, tougher competition as a result of globalisation, the climate crisis and the failure, as yet, to achieve the Lisbon objectives demand a more integrated approach, together with a strengthening of, and an improvement drive in, regional policy.
The new territorial dimension is now set as a permanent objective under Articles 13 and 174 of the new Treaty of Lisbon.
Some of these obstacles are home-made.
However, I am convinced that something could also be done in this respect at national and regional level.
Therefore, we need to find a system for making good examples of projects available for use by others.
The key areas include research and innovation, creating high-quality jobs, support for SMEs, climate projects, integrated urban development and the development of private-public partnership projects, to name but a few.
For example, the criteria for selecting best-practice projects could be the quality and sustainability of the projects, the driving force for the regions and for the European Union, the effective use of resources and, of course, transferability to other regions.
I would also like to thank the Commission, the Committee on Regional Development and all the relevant employees for their cooperation.
I hope that we can continue to work together in this way in future. (Applause) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present briefly the report on the urban dimension of cohesion policy.
It is a report which examines options and the involvement of cities in the management and use of European money in the current programming period.
It is a report which at the same time provides guidance and offers inspiration on how to adapt the Structural Funds rules so that they better suit the needs of European cities and metropolises.
It is logical that our attention is focused on cities.
I would like to emphasise two main ideas from the text of the report.
Although European legislation already permits the sub-delegation of resources to cities so that they can allocate them when creating integrated development plans, Member States have made only marginal use of this option.
Just as regions and national civil service bodies hold their own budgets, cities must gain greater responsibility in the area of structural assistance for programming and distributing Structural Funds.
The urban dimension must become mandatory.
The organisations and individuals submitting projects are therefore used to a situation where they receive European money and national budget resources earmarked for cofinancing 'free of charge'.
The priority is often drawdown itself rather than an effective investment or an evaluation of available resources.
This must change in the next programming period.
I would like to thank everyone who assisted me in drafting this report.
As a consequence of these changes, however, the question arises as to whether this separation has actually led to more effective use of the available funding.
In this situation, spending on support for non-agricultural activities and the development of SMEs in rural areas would be at the interface between the two funds and not be covered by either of them.
In this context it is becoming particularly important to come up with a transparent, long-term development strategy for rural areas at Member State and at regional level, in order to identify clearly rural development priorities and objectives and adapt to them the various sources of funding available.
Level of income and access to public goods, however, remain the biggest challenge to territorial cohesion, and these objectives can be most effectively met by supporting non-agricultural activities in rural areas.
The aim of coordination should, however, be to create synergies in the use of funds.
rapporteur. - Madam President, before we open the debate on the report on the implementation of the Structural Funds Regulation 2007-2013, allow me to seize this opportunity to thank the Commission for the concrete communication paper and the country fiches as a solid base on which to work.
As you may already know, the aim of this report is to show the way in which the Member States understood and follow the 2006 Community strategic guidelines on cohesion when drawing up their 27 national strategic reference frameworks and 429 operational programmes adapted to meet their specific constraints and requirements.
I have therefore decided to base this report on three main documents: firstly, the communication from the Commission; secondly, the 27 country fiches provided by the Commission and, thirdly, the Council decision of 2006 on Community strategic guidelines on cohesion, which represents an indicative framework for the Member States for the preparation of the national strategic reference frameworks and the operational programmes for the period 2007-2013.
Before I share what I have observed while working on this report, it is important to underline that its scope is partly limited by the fact that the operational programmes were only approved in June 2008 and it will take at least a year before any real advances in their implementation can be assessed.
Nevertheless, I can already assess that the general priorities have been adhered to by all Member States, with specific particularities imposed by their level of economic and territorial development.
It is also important to note that they might suffer certain changes in the sense of the increasing focus on investments in areas with immediate growth potential and urgency in the context of the European economic recovery plan, the Community response to the global financial crisis, and the current economic slowdown.
In other words, it is important to remember that each Member State, and even more so the regions, have diverse needs arising from their geographical location and economic and institutional development.
However, I am pleased to see that the efforts made by the national authorities have ensured that the average allocation of expenditure for achievement of the Lisbon Agenda constitutes 65% - more than the available funds in the convergence regions - and 82% in the regional competitiveness and employment regions, which is also more than initially requested.
rapporteur. - (HU) After several postponements, we have finally reached a big day.
I wish to express my gratitude that the Commission addressed the topic of micro-credit in a separate report back in November 2007, although it is also true that Parliament had already requested that summer that we work on this subject.
On the one hand, we would like to include in the national Lisbon action programmes the obligation of Member States to report regularly on their progress in this area.
On the other hand, and this is the greatest merit of the Commissioner's approach, we wish to include new social segments in the sphere of economic activities.
We need to define disadvantaged groups more precisely: these include migrants in western countries, Roma in eastern areas, people living in rural areas or encampments and, generally speaking, women.
Yet these people cannot be reached in the tried and true manner, directly through the traditional networks of commercial banks, because these target groups are suspicious of the above instruments, and as already mentioned, they are not able to enter the free market.
The intermediary organisation plays an important role in this system, of course, and this organisation must be able to carry on these activities even if it does not have a banking licence.
We are in the middle of that debate, as you know, and there are many very specific recommendations in your reports, which I will take as important inputs into this debate on the future cohesion policy, while there are also several major messages that cut across all the reports.
The first is that cohesion policy is, and should remain, a central pillar for achieving the European Union's sustainable development goals.
The crisis makes that message even more relevant.
I am very pleased to see that you understand territorial cohesion in a way that is close to my heart, which is that territorial cohesion is first of all about mobilising the development potential of all the different territories.
Faced with the present fragmentation of funds, it also means that we need to understand better how to streamline the rules and procedures for all the funds with respect to eligible expenditure, management, monitoring, reporting and financial management obligations.
All European regions will be affected by those new challenges, but their impact will vary significantly across Europe, often resulting in losses of competitiveness, employment and social cohesion.
This might consolidate existing disparities and create new ones, but these challenges can also be turned into opportunities.
Good governance practice must be disseminated rapidly across Europe.
This may help also to overcome difficulties in implementing cohesion programmes.
Your support for our micro-credit initiative is good news, and I thank you very much for this.
I am convinced that developing micro-credit schemes is crucial for the sustainable development and competitiveness of European regions and cities.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. - Madam President, I would just like to focus on the microcredit issue, which the Committee on Budgets completely supports as it will help people without access to normal sources of funds - the very sort of people who need help in the current environment.
We also welcome the Commission's JASMINE initiative.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. - (FR) Madam President, Mrs Hübner, today we are looking at five very important documents on cohesion policy, which, I would remind you, has for some months now been the main item in our budget.
I especially welcome the work that has been done on the plan for housing assistance, since housing is the second priority for citizens, after jobs.
In fact, it is not always a question of money, as the funds are there, but of what I might call a 'structural' slow pace - sometimes in State management, sometimes in administrative inertia and sometimes, unfortunately, in both - which gets in the way of that impact we are always talking about, which is essential for our regions and our citizens.
This is not at all sufficient to resolve the problems in all the Member States which are interested in securing resources by 2012 for implementing such projects.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. - Madam President, small enterprises play an essential part in creating cohesion in the EU, and the extension of microcredit will underpin SMEs' economic recovery.
I would like to begin by thanking my colleague Mr Mikolášik, who has incorporated into points 12, 16, 17, 18 and 23 of his report the points from my opinion, which I drew up on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
I firmly believe that the 2007-2013 programming period will not be a success if the Member States do not eliminate the excessive administrative hurdles which put voluntary organisations off requesting funding for projects, especially those that are focused on supporting women in difficult financial circumstances, refugee women, women from ethnic minorities, physically disabled women and women who have been victims of rape or torture.
I would once again like to call on the Member States and especially those that joined the European Union after 1 May 2004, to avoid excessive delays in the reimbursement of costs for completed projects because the insolvency caused by such behaviour often prevents recipients, especially local authorities and voluntary organisations, from continuing with other activities in their areas of operation.
The economic crisis is having an impact even on drawdowns of money from EU funds.
The current method of financing projects is particularly unsuitable for small local authorities who have no chance of obtaining project funding.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all six reports which we are debating are important in that they reflect the present situation in terms of regional policy and describe the model and priorities for the period after 2013.
Two words on the report by Mr van Nistelrooij on the Green Paper, to highlight the good work he has done and to point out that the rapporteur rightly stresses the need for public consultation, so that we can find a commonly acceptable definition of territorial cohesion, and the need to approach areas with special characteristics in such a way that territorial cohesion also covers these areas in the best possible way.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (PL) Madam President, I would like to comment on two reports in particular: the report on territorial cohesion and that on the exchange of good practice.
We all agree that the debate started on the future cohesion policy should be supplemented by the territorial dimension.
As stated in the report, the aim of territorial cohesion should be above all to even out the disparities in the level of development of individual regions and Member States, and in particular to eliminate the growing disparities within regions and countries.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, our debate concerns regional development and cohesion policy, which are important issues for the entire Community.
It is therefore in the interests of the European Union's citizens that all opportunities should be used to show the actual solidarity of Europeans.
It should apply to the residents of urban agglomerations as well as those living in rural areas, people living in the centre of Europe as well as those on the peripheries, the younger generation as well as elderly people.
The 'Regions 2020' document produced by the Commission shows that climate change has had a massive impact on many of Europe's regions.
The second question concerns the implementation of the partnership principle.
You completely fail to mention in your report, which forms the basis for the Mikolášik report, that many Member States have not followed the partnership principle.
As a result, cohesion policy and its associated financial resources must not be subordinated to the competition and liberalisation advocated by the Lisbon Strategy.
Thirdly, so-called territorial cohesion must contribute to economic and social cohesion.
Fourthly, new objectives and priorities must be matched by new Community financial resources.
Fifthly, the current Community financial resources for cohesion policy are insufficient to meet the needs of real convergence and to respond to the regional disparities, high levels of unemployment, income differences and poverty in the European Union.
The main cause is a fundamental reduction in the budget for rural development which makes it impossible to achieve the original aims of rural policy.
The greatest price for this, however, will be paid by rural areas in the most backward regions of the new Member States.
Rural development cannot be implemented through sudden ad hoc decisions, but must be based on a long-term plan.
Proper business projects in rural areas should be focusing on improving infrastructure and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises.
The central focus of this report is about ensuring that rural development projects, whether funded by the structural funds or the ERDF, do not overlap or, at worst, miss out on opportunities.
If farmers are being asked to pay into the CAP then they must ensure that their monies come back into the rural communities.
I believe this must be active through the second pillar of the CAP.
I agree with him on the main focuses of this report, but this will be a problem for the next Parliament to decide. (PL) Madam President, the two most recent accessions to the European Union have resulted in a significant exacerbation of regional disproportions within the Community.
Environmentally friendly sustainable economic development and reducing regional disparities are the overriding aim of European regional policy.
In October 2006, the Council adopted strategic guidelines on cohesion to act as reference points for the Member States in drafting their national strategic reference frameworks and operational programmes for 2007-2013.
Implementing these priorities in operational programmes should allow the regions to tackle the challenges of globalisation, structural, demographic and climate change, and boost the harmonious, long-term sustainable development of the regions.
We should acknowledge the fact that all Member States have already made efforts to include priorities conforming with the aims of the Lisbon Strategy in their operational programmes.
However, the excessively slow absorption of funds from the new programming period which we have observed in many Member States may threaten their effective utilisation.
There is consequently a need for improved spatial analysis and the development of indicators against which policies can be designed and their impact assessed.
Third, an integrated approach demands proper multilevel governance, involving all stakeholders in the design and implementation of strategies.
A higher degree of consistency requires transparency in relation to data and payments.
Knowing how resources are distributed is an essential tool for highlighting and correcting distortions.
If we do not resolve this problem, then we will be even more detached from the real problems that the Structural Funds should be resolving. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I very much welcome the fact that we are having a timely political debate on the basis of initiative reports which will allow us to use our instrument of solidarity in a more targeted and efficient way by 2014 at the latest.
We have come to a fork in the road where we must decide whether or not territorial cohesion and true sustainable development are the symbols of European policy.
In order to make this decision we need a large number of partners, in particular cities.
For this reason, we also want to see global grants going directly to these partners, not only on paper, but also in practice.
If the comprehensive analysis of the best practice projects really forms part of the political discussion, there should be no further obstacles to Europe playing a pioneering role in the development of a truly sustainable policy.
I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their hard work. (EL) Madam President, the myth of convergence and cohesion between the countries and regions of the European Union is being demolished by reality itself: economic and social inequalities are constantly increasing; artificial statistical convergences caused by the accession of the new Member States cannot deceive the workers, farmers, young people and women, who see their standard of living constantly deteriorating; regional development within capitalist frameworks cannot remove class conflicts in the system; unequal development is inherent in the capitalist method of production, because the incentive for any development process is the maximisation of capital; national cohesion tactics and the operational programmes of the NSRF 2007-2013, like previous programmes, have a specific class orientation: they obey the anti-grassroots approach of the Lisbon Strategy and are adapted to national reform programmes; in other words, they promote capitalist restructurings and more flexible contracts of employment.
The reactionary character of the guidelines in the Commission proposal goes beyond the framework of the positions and competences of the European Union included in the Treaty of Lisbon, as the Euro-Constitution is now called, and this is an insult to the peoples in the Member States.
However, cohesion policy should be considered in the light of a long-term assessment of its overall effect.
In such an assessment, the question is simple: are communities and the people who live in them better off because of EU cohesion policies and the structural funds that support them?
The increase in regional expenditure is in fact made at the expense of the common agricultural policy, and therefore at the expense of France.
The vast majority of the EUR 347 billion in Structural Funds is to be given to Eastern Europe, destroyed by more than 40 years of communism.
Now more than ever, we need to build a new Europe that will at last provide economic protection for our regions and our nations through an active policy of reassuming control of our internal market. (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to take this opportunity to consider the Roszkowski report in more detail.
In the areas of demographics, energy and telecommunications, we find projects funded both by the Structural Funds and by the rural development policy, which are working towards the same goals, but are the responsibility of different ministries.
For this reason, agricultural policy must in future be a policy for farmers with clear financial commitments and no transfer of funds elsewhere.
This is why I believe that it is important for us to abide by one fundamental requirement: the cohesion policy must be accessible to those whom it is intended for and who need it, specifically, the regions and territories which are lagging behind and encountering difficulties in their socio-economic development.
The issue posed by these six reports before us this morning, what we want to achieve as MEPs, is to improve the effectiveness of these funds and regulations that we are making available to our fellow citizens.
Mrs Hübner, these reports provide extremely detailed solutions, whether in terms of the urban environment, rural areas, best practices or future cohesion policy; as you know, they contain very specific examples that will facilitate the Commission's work.
We are counting on you, Mrs Hübner, both at European and national level, to make a success of the six reports we are presenting. (PL) Madam President, an important counterbalance to the growing trend towards national protectionism in Europe today is a rational cohesion and rural development policy.
The result is a huge disparity in agricultural subsidies between the new and the old Member States, and these disparities will persist after 2013.
All farmers have similar production costs, and agricultural services in the new Member States are increasing, and are rapidly approaching the price levels of the old Member States.
In the present economic climate, the prospect of JESSICA producing the anticipated leverage effect is diminishing, leaving an unfilled gap in many cities where urban redevelopment and investment are still needed.
Thus the absence of specific funding for urban spend in the 2007-2015 programme is increasingly being felt. (The President cut off the speaker) (PL) Madam President, it needs to be pointed out that the reason this debate has turned out the way it has, and the fact that we are discussing several reports at once, is no accident.
Therefore, if we are going to talk about all the reports, rather than get bogged down in detail, it is important that cohesion policy becomes both an opportunity and a basis for real progress towards integrating different types of European policy, towards the complementarity of these policies, towards launching an integrated approach.
I would also like to make the link between this report and the crisis that we are currently going through.
The EU budget must include a budget for these micro-credits.
We therefore insist that people who receive social benefits do not lose their entitlements by receiving micro-credits. (PL) Madam President, setting up a European Agricultural Fund for the Development of Rural Areas is very important in terms of structural policy.
However, in order to make proper use of the existing opportunities, we need to draw up a transparent, long-term development strategy for rural areas and the regions, and establish a system enabling activities to be coordinated permanently at national level.
I would say that it is never too late to do the right thing, but nonetheless, a great deal of time has been lost in making territorial cohesion a key political objective for the European Union.
Here, in cohesion policy, we must strive for this harmony.
We agree with the fundamental concept of the Green Paper, which states that the purpose of territorial cohesion is to ensure the polycentric development of the EU as a whole, the sustainable development of the territories with their different features and characteristics and, at the same time, the preservation of their diversity.
A more comprehensive system offering gradual help for transition regions which exceed the threshold of 75% of gross domestic product must be established in the next programming period, so that these regions have a clear status and can develop in greater security.
I would like to single out two of these measures and reinforce them.
It is essential that a different process is used in this case. - (SK) Regional development policy makes a clear contribution to the general wellbeing of EU citizens.
In addition to this I also mentioned what an important role the European Parliament plays in the process for approving both cohesion policy and budgetary resources and that this will increase enormously if the Lisbon Treaty comes into force.
I emphasised that, based on this Treaty, regional policy will also have a far greater direct effect on citizens and that there will be a greater role for local authorities and for all potential recipients in terms of managing regional policies, supporting their synergies and strengthening the development of territorial cohesion, including rural areas.
We will have to build much on this pillar in the future and increase its effectiveness, since it forms an important link between European citizens and European institutions. (BG) What are the basic objectives of the micro-credit initiative?
To stimulate the development of this instrument and the creation of a positive institutional and business environment, to help non-bank, financial institutions to increase their capacity, to achieve growth and sustainable development, as well as ensure the confidence of the private capital market.
By coordinating various measures and initiatives in this context, the European Commission should put forward a general European framework with specific parameters, including for non-bank, financial micro-credit institutions as well.
I hope, on the basis of Mr van Nistelrooij's excellent report, that territorial cohesion will become the legal basis underpinning harmonious development in all regions of the Union, allowing the best characteristics to be drawn from each European region.
I hope that the overseas consultation, or États généraux de l'Outre-Mer, that is soon to be launched in France, will do the same thing and largely integrate the major territorial impact of European policies for the outermost regions, whose added value is undeniable and undisputed.
At the same time, we also need to face the poverty that is concentrated in certain areas.
If we want to promote true change, we need to concentrate on the level at which the problem presents itself; in other words, what is needed is targeted, complex measures at the level below that of the regions as well.
It is not enough to finance projects; we need an integrated approach that involves all the funds, offering true assistance to the most vulnerable citizens of the European Union. (BG) Ladies and gentlemen, the cohesion policy is one of the fundamental components of the European Union.
We Bulgarians waited a long time for full membership of the European Union and rightly pin our hopes on the opportunities provided by the Structural and Cohesion Funds.
I think that I am speaking on behalf of all of us when I thank Commissioner Hübner for her huge efforts in the area of regional development and her decisive support for the cohesion policy.
The five reports from the Committee on Regional Development underscore the European Parliament's long-term commitment as well to a strong, effective cohesion policy.
Ladies and gentlemen, apart from facing the financial crisis, we also need nowadays to deal with the problems resulting from climate change, demographic changes, energy efficiency, excessive urbanisation, migration and other issues.
All these issues require a strong, consolidated response from the European Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, the cohesion policy and Structural Funds have always been something more than a simple gesture of European solidarity.
They are actually part of a mutually beneficial system which can be used to create new markets and new commercial relations.
This obviously applies to citizens in my country too, who deserve a higher quality of working and living conditions. (PT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should firstly like to thank everyone for their work.
The three key concepts defined in the Green Paper - concentration, connection and cooperation - may offer solutions to certain obstacles to the harmonious development of the Community, particularly the negative effects associated with the concentration of economic activity, the inequalities in terms of access to markets and services that result from distance, and the divisions that are imposed not only by boundaries between Member States - particularly the least favoured - but also between regions.
It must be borne in mind that these regions need a clearer status, with more security and stability in their development. (RO) I would like to thank all the rapporteurs for producing the regional development package.
Territorial cohesion is a key element in the process of European integration and achieving convergence between regions.
Balanced, sustainable regional development must take place in conditions where the specific resources are used effectively for each area separately.
In my opinion there is no need to convince any of the States represented here that in the face of an economic and financial crisis, Structural Funds are a key tool for stimulating the economy at a regional level.
European projects are a way of creating new and sustainable jobs and an opportunity for those in the greatest need, for the poorest regions of the European Union.
Cohesion policy should also be an instrument for facing new challenges, such as a common energy policy and climate change. (PL) Madam President, cohesion policy has often been regarded as the best example of solidarity within the European Union.
Levelling out the differences in development between individual countries and regions of the Community is in the interests of the entire EU.
If we compare rural and urban areas, these disproportions are even greater.
I would like to remind everyone that rural development policy and funding for this policy help to keep these areas alive and make the lives of their inhabitants easier.
I agree with the assessment of the Green Paper and with the analysis of the concept of territorial cohesion, and I endorse the recommendations for the future of territorial cohesion that are contained in these reports, particularly the following: definition of territorial cohesion; publication of a White Paper on territorial cohesion; reinforcement of the European Territorial Cooperation Objective; integration of territorial cohesion in the future development of all Community policies; elaboration of additional qualitative indicators; measurement of the territorial impact of Community policies and proposal of ways to create synergies between territorial and sectoral policies; development of a comprehensive strategy for regions with specific geographical features, particularly the outermost regions; establishment of a more comprehensive system of gradual transitional assistance to the so-called transition regions; and development of multi-level (European, national, regional and local) territorial governance.
For this reason I urge my fellow Members to support these reports and the Member States - and the Commission as well - to duly follow them up. (RO) I would first of all like to welcome the idea of a substantial debate on the subject of cohesion.
I would like to congratulate each of our fellow Members for their efforts and for the proposals which they have made.
I am going to make a few comments about some of the topics, starting with territorial cohesion.
The basic problem is how to guarantee the harmonious development of all the territories in the European Union and the partnership between urban and rural areas in order to stop losing territory and respond to the depopulation of rural areas.
Without a definition of territorial cohesion, which Parliament is waiting for, the integrated concept of economic, social and territorial cohesion provides the future basis for EU regional policy and for the Structural Funds' format after 2009.
We also know that we have roughly 5 000 towns in Europe with fewer than 50 000 inhabitants.
Romania has a considerable number of such populated settlements.
I support the idea of a mandatory minimum allocation of funds per inhabitant of EUR 1 000, as opposed to the previous figure of EUR 500. (ES) Madam President, with regard to the report on micro-credits, I want to congratulate all the rapporteurs, because they have done some great work.
We must increase the funds available for these micro-credit support structures.
As rapporteur for energy efficiency in buildings, I called for an increase in the ERDF rate which Member States can use to build social housing and boost energy efficiency in buildings from 3% to 15%.
I think the economic crisis has forced us to take a long, hard look at our past economic behaviour.
Addressing and improving access to microcredit offers us the opportunity to address these past mistakes.
In my own constituency of Dublin there are four enterprise boards that have been set up since 1993 and they have been supplying local-level support to microenterprises all over Dublin City and County.
The Association of County and City Boards in Ireland announced its own financial stimulus package earlier this year, aimed at supporting 3 000 enterprises around Ireland and creating 15 000 new jobs.
A commitment has also been made in this House by the President of the European Parliament and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, and here among us in this Chamber there are some of these young people who, I believe, are a credit to Europe since, together with ourselves, they are trying to ensure that Europe is a Europe free from racism, but also free from organised crime.
These reports are a goldmine for new policies.
We always have great difficulty in funding trans-cultural projects because there is no trans-cultural society, no social security that could give artists the mobility needed to work outside the borders of their region.
I earnestly call on all those who are working to implement this policy not to lose sight of this aspect; it is important in every European policy. (PL) Mr President, territorial and social cohesion prevents conflicts by eliminating their causes.
Widespread use of micro-credits is a good instrument for cohesion policy.
I can speak for North-West England and say how very much these funds have benefited the city of Liverpool, in particular, over the last 10 years.
This is a very interesting development and essential at this time in the economic situation. - (SK) Ladies and gentlemen, I consider today's coordinated debate on regional policy to be the most important debate not only in this plenary session, but also one of the most important debates in our election period.
The absence of effective, simple and straightforward support for smaller authorities, particularly in the area of accessing investment resources, is alarming.
I would like to end by stating my conviction that the recommendations of the European Parliament in these five reports will bring added value and will fulfil the expectations of citizens both in Europe's cities and rural areas, who believe that cohesion policy will ensure the development of their regions, the gradual levelling out of regional differences, new employment opportunities, energy security, improved energy efficiency in their homes, better transport and technical infrastructure and a higher standard of living. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this important debate on territorial cohesion and the future of economic and social cohesion policy, I have to mention the very specific problem faced by the outermost regions.
An assessment of these effects in each of the outermost regions, particularly on tourism, construction and the rise in unemployment, would be very helpful to ensure a specific European response for these regions.
The past history of consumer credit shows that the EU must act in a unified and effective way, particularly with regard to control instruments.
Additionally, I think that micro-credit should be targeted mainly at projects in the less-developed European regions in the same way as cohesion policy, and also towards disadvantaged groups of citizens or highly innovative projects, in accordance with Lisbon strategy objectives.
I realised that there was a need to advise the accession candidates about the benefits and the necessity of regional development.
The proposals to amend regulations include, particularly during the current economic crisis, such provisions for simplifying the regulations for using these funds.
This is a first step and I would like to think that many of our proposals will be adopted by the Commission as well.
At any rate, I think that we need to simplify such hurdles, in order to address the pressing needs of both local authorities and regions.
Rural development is central to the development of the rural economy, but when the second pillar was designed and brought about to support rural society some years ago, they did not provide sufficient funds to support that second pillar.
Extra funding must be spent under agriculture and in the rural economy to support small farmers and people active in rural areas. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
Linking the new Agricultural Fund for Rural Development to the CAP may have positive or negative aspects, depending on how such a fund is used.
They also need investment in the information technology sector, to make young people more familiar with new technologies.
That is why I remain convinced that common sense must prevail if we are to prevent the misappropriation of funds, because the rural economy could have a very heavy impact in Europe. (PL) Mr President, the cohesion policy is all the more important from the perspective of the current economic crisis, as the Structural Funds it offers it can serve as effective instruments stimulating the economy at regional level.
Concentrating on growth-stimulating activities, such as spending on research and development, innovation or active job-creating instruments, should give the European economy a stimulus and ensure a return to growth.
Whilst I regret that I cannot respond to all the questions, I very much appreciate all the bilateral exchanges we have had over the last years in Brussels or during my visits on the ground in your constituencies.
We need to fully and wisely exploit the potential of all European and national policies to ensure that the European Union as an economy and a society comes out of the crisis stronger economically, socially and politically, with solid foundations for long-term sustainable development.
It is our common task today to ensure that the potential of cohesion policy - its capacity to deliver sustainable development and jobs - will be used fully and wisely in this new global context.
I am not only thinking of the crisis, but also of all those well-known challenges that we identified years ago as important challenges for European development.
As some of you have stressed, over the last years it has become common sense that addressing the new challenges clearly requires an integrated and place-based approach - an approach that optimises the use of resources and also mobilises all partners at regional and local level, as well as national and European level, so that we are active at all levels of European governance.
Concerning the partnership principle, I would like to stress that this has been a very important objective from day one of my term in office, and the Commission has invested a lot in making the partnership principle and the cohesion policy a real one - one which is really used on the ground.
Soon after the negotiations, we conducted a full assessment of how the partnership principle and the process of designing policy programmes were implemented by the Member States and the regions.
I also fully agree with all of you who say that cohesion policy does not, and must not, work in isolation; that we need to reinforce the synergies and coordination between the cohesion policy and all other sectoral, national or European policies.
Certainly, the rural development and regional policies are an extreme example of the need to have very good coordination and the use of synergies between policies.
Another example could be competitiveness and the need to take into account the constraints coming from a low-carbon economy and climate change regarding infrastructure investment.
We established the objectives relating to climate change, energy efficiency and renewable energy before the major debate exploded on climate change in the European Union.
Recently added to the policy is the additional 4% to be used in the area of housing for energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy that allows us to put more emphasis on this challenge.
But there is also this need for change to strike a better balance between the demands of financial management and control and the tasks of achieving good results and good implementation of the policy.
Some of you mentioned the question of transparency.
Culture also plays an important economic role in the development of regional development.
We have many regional and local urban strategies that have successfully integrated culture into our policy.
The final official assessment of the consultation on the green paper on territorial cohesion will be presented in our sixth interim cohesion report which will be adopted by the Commission towards the end of June.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to make two comments as this debate comes to a close.
Complex processes often result in errors being made, but they do not give rise to fraud.
Faced with challenges such as climate change, the economic crisis and globalisation, together with demographic changes and developments on the labour market, we need this policy urgently.
The European Parliament must redefine the cohesion policy for the future to meet the needs of the European regions.
This will allow European added value to be created for the European Union.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to summarise the challenges and polite requests that the European Parliament will address to its partners, the European Commission and the Member States, if this report is adopted.
Integrated planning and the transfer of responsibility or so-called sub-delegation of resources or financial engineering instruments are clearly areas where a more active approach is needed from the Commission, at least through the presentation of recommendations or examples of proven approaches.
At the same time the report also calls for the position of urban areas in the Regions for Economic Change initiative to be strengthened and for the Urban Audit project to be further developed and regularly updated.
rapporteur. - (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the issue covered by my report was quite specific, but very important for optimising the utilisation of EU funds from the viewpoint of cohesion, whether it is understood in its traditional meaning, or in terms of territorial cohesion.
I am pleased that the Commissioner pointed out the need to reduce the disparities in development levels and the importance of synergies in implementing EU policies.
Different regions have quite different problems in terms of income levels, geographical location, migration, etc.
The Committee on Agriculture has not commented on my report, so I take their silence to mean agreement.
On the other hand, it is a fact that rural development funds can help rural areas out of economic trouble by supporting non-agricultural activities.
Finally, I would like to express my thanks to the advisers from the Committee on Regional Development and my own political group for their help in drafting this report, and to all who participated in today's debate.
I am very pleased to see that over EUR 100 billion is to be invested in protecting the environment.
At the same time, I would seriously welcome a much higher allocation for energy efficiency and renewable energies - currently EUR 9 million - as well as a higher allocation for measures to combat climate change, which, at EUR 48 billion, is less than required at the moment.
I strongly believe that deciding on how we use these funds to protect our regions and combat the consequences of climate change, such as floods and droughts, will determine the future of our regions and their economic positioning.
I also greatly appreciate the fact that all Member States have already devoted a significant amount of their total financial allocations to investments in research, development and innovation, but I have also noticed that, for most of the EU convergence regions, ensuring accessibility remains a significant problem as they face a lack of transport infrastructure.
On the other hand, I am glad to witness Member States' efforts to prioritise investments aimed at increasing labour participation and improving skills, as well as fighting against poverty and social exclusion in their programmes financed by the European social funds.
I believe that the new Member States could truly benefit from further exchanges of best practices and knowledge about developments in technologies, for example, and from other common actions to speed up their potential as regards implementation.
I would like to reiterate that this, too, is an important fundamental principle of cohesion, in addition to those of partnership and an integrated approach.
Thus, in order to be able to provide something extra, we need to ensure that people without a permanent address are able to take part in the micro-credit programme by means of the mentorship programme.
We concentrate all programmes explicitly dealing with micro-credit in one place, making them transparent - as several of my fellow Members have also noted.
Mr President, this morning I was the first speaker in this joint debate and, looking back, I think that we have given our citizens, those who are engaged in implementing integrated policy in a decentralised way, a very strong signal that the European Parliament is choosing to go through with the cohesion policy and values the work that they perform on all the numerous projects, whether they relate to research and development trends, research infrastructure or projects relating to energy modernisation.
I would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for my report for their cooperation, as well, in particular, as the staff, who were terrific.
Written statements (Rule 142) People from rural communities are in a particularly disadvantaged position when competing in the labour market.
In the European Union, and especially in Poland, there are significant differences in the standard of living between urban and rural areas.
My proposal involves the use of commercial banks as simple intermediaries, agents for granting credit and micro-credits from public funds to economic agents and entrepreneurs who, without funding, are also vulnerable to the risk of bankruptcy.
In conclusion, credit and micro-credits should be given to those who need it via the banks, but without passing through the balance sheet of the latter, only using their expertise and network to facilitate the borrowing of such finances.
Micro-enterprises account for 91% of Europe's commercial companies.
The Green Paper on territorial cohesion entitled 'Turning territorial diversity into strength' launches a broad consultation with regional and local authorities, associations, NGOs and civil society with the aim of promoting a common understanding of this new concept, along with its implications for the EU's future regional policy, without however offering a definition of 'territorial cohesion'.
The objective of territorial cohesion is to ensure the harmonious development of all the EU's territories and to offer all citizens the opportunity to gain the most out of the inherent characteristics of these territories.
The main challenge involves helping territories to use this asset and exchange good practices.
As a result, the Green Paper on territorial cohesion remains open to new challenges, but is being transformed into an effective instrument for partnerships and exchanges of good practice.
in writing. - The Cohesion Policy and rural development measures come under the same principle of solidarity promoted by the European project and contribute to achieving the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy.
Our analyses and the decisions which we are going to make must take into account the different levels of agricultural development across the European Union, this sector's weighting in Member States' economies, as well as different situations in terms of regional cohesion and development.
I welcome that the final version of this report will also include my proposal to facilitate greater flexibility in the use of Structural Funds, so that they supplement rural development measures.
At the same time, the European Union must use the instruments at its disposal to monitor better the use of European funds at regional level to ensure that there is no prejudice against rural areas.
This report is a first analysis of this subject, and it must be continued so that the future financial outlook ensures greater harmonisation between the EU's measures offering financial support.
Offering people without access to credit the opportunity to fund their initiatives is a major step towards implementing the principle 'think small first'.
Micro-credits have a very positive effect - which is particularly important in my country - on the level of unemployment.
Micro-financing has proven highly successful in numerous countries in promoting social and economic integration by supporting self-employment.
At a time of financial crisis, simple financial instruments that are able to fund business, especially in underdeveloped regions or the above-mentioned social groups, are of particular value.
The creation, or restoration, of social cohesion must take precedence over profit-making, since support for self-employment is far less costly than unemployment benefits, and thus from the perspective of the national economy it is worth providing micro-credit even if from a strictly financial point of view it might not be profitable.
As a result of this development, particularly in view of the slender budget funds available, cohesion policy, particularly that of the European Regional Development Fund, has focused on economic competitiveness concentrated in the larger urban centres or the most active regions, while the EAFRD is concentrating its resources on improving agricultural competitiveness.
That is why we attach such importance to the debate on the future of cohesion.
The crisis, and the potential value of the Structural Funds as anti-crisis packages, is a special aspect.
I would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur for all his efforts.
As is well known, the implementation of the strategies and operational programmes for the 2007-2013 period is still in its initial stages, which is why the scope of application of the report being debated is still restricted.
However, I would like to mention the efforts made by all Member States to integrate, as part of the process of drafting and negotiating the operational programmes, the general priorities of the cohesion policy.
In order to ensure better financial management of Community expenditure, along with the relevant transparency with regard to the management of the funds, I believe that it is particularly important for Member States to have efficient monitoring systems.
At European level, in the EU's future regional and cohesion policy, disparities are considered to be due to structural deficiencies in the regions in terms of key factors for competitiveness and especially due to a lack of innovative ability and enterprising spirit.
Similarly, trouble-free implementation of programmes and projects with EU support requires high-quality management and control systems.
in writing. - (ET) Territorial cohesion strengthens economic and social cohesion and is one of the essential components for the achievement of the objectives of the EU cohesion policy, as it helps effectively balance development differences both between and within Member States and regions.
Territorial cohesion also plays an important role in future developments in EU regional policy, as demonstrated by the addition of the principle of territorial cohesion to economic and social cohesion in the Lisbon Treaty.
I wholeheartedly support the rapporteur's idea that the EU should, under the banner of territorial cohesion, stimulate greater interoperability and the transfer of knowledge between research and innovation centres and their surrounding regions, in order to achieve the maximum impact for European citizens from the investments made.
We must launch today a broader discussion of the possible future of the regional and cohesion policy in the EU after 2013, and the possible form of Structural Funds in the coming programming period, in order thereby to help consciously improve the competitive advantages of the EU economy in the world.
in writing. - (DE) In line with the European Union's motto of 'united in diversity', we must do more to make our continent a 'Europe of the regions'.
Territorial cohesion plays an important role in this respect.
During the process of strengthening the regions, we must pay particular attention to sensitive areas, as has been mentioned in the current cohesion debate.
Milk production in the mountains makes an important contribution to the preservation of rural areas and should therefore be given sufficient support.
In the years 2007-2013 Poland will receive over EUR 67 billion from the European Union budget.
Unfortunately, fundamental restrictions have arisen which prevent effective realisation of Structural Funds in Poland.
From the beginning of the programmes for 2007-2013 to the beginning of March 2009, nearly 8 400 agreements on financial support were signed, concerning total expenditure of PLN 15.4 billion.
Structural Funds are public funds which are subject to national public procurement legislation.
This legislation must create a simple and effective procedure for selecting contactors.
Acceleration of expenditure will allow strengthening of the economy in 2009 by making investments in infrastructure, human capital and businesses to a value equivalent to at least around 1.3% of GDP.
