President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) The rules regarding the protection and provision of assistance to persons with disability and those with reduced mobility in air transport are laid down by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility when travelling by air.
Nevertheless I would emphasise that the European Union is aware of the importance of the area of protection and ensuring assistance to disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility.
This is very important legislation to support disabled people and passengers of reduced mobility so I urge the Minister to go back to the Council and say to all his 26 colleagues on the Transport Council and the members that they should enforce this legislation. (PT) Following on from the question by my colleague Robert Evans, I should like to ask the Council about its readiness to strengthen the rights of passengers with reduced mobility in the maritime sector.
I ask this because the Commission has previously defended this possibility, for example in the 2005 communication on passenger rights, and Parliament has been working towards this, in particular within the competences and discussions on the Erika III package. (DE) I have a question for the Minister.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) Regarding immigration policy and illegal work during this term of office , that is during the Slovenian Presidency, the Presidency continued negotiations in the Council and with the European Parliament on a draft directive providing sanctions against employers of third country citizens residing illegally in the European Union.
Work is not yet finished, but I can say that the Presidency is satisfied with the progress made thus far. (EL) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, I thank you for your answer.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) May I thank Mrs Harkin very much for her question.
The Working Group also recommended that one way of achieving patient safety is to use a single united umbrella network, known as the EUNetPass, which will support Member States and will enable cooperation in the area of patient safety on the European Union level.
Patient safety was also on the agenda of the June Council of Ministers.
This month, on 10 June, the Council adopted decisions in the area of antimicrobial resistance.
This is the 'Patient Safety Package' and in this relation the Commission reported that it intends by the end of 2008 to submit a special report on patient safety and a proposal for a recommendation on patient safety and the prevention and control of infection.
The Community may merely adopt provisions governing cooperation between the judicial authorities of the Member States, for example provisions on court judgments which are recognised or enforced by one State but were adopted in another.
Among the efforts of the Slovenian Presidency for greater road safety I would also like to mention the work done in connection with the proposed regulation on the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users.
The Slovenian Presidency began a reading of this proposal in the working bodies of the Council and held successful meetings with the European Parliament rapporteur.
I would like to ask the Council, can we do anything else - and take further steps - to improve road safety? (DE) Mr President-in-Office, I would like to pick up on this question.
Question No 7 is inadmissible.
Subject: New road charging system in Slovenia Slovenia has introduced a new road charging system with effect from 1 July 2008.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) At present it has not been established that this case involves discrimination.
Please take this as a gesture of goodwill that I have nevertheless entered into this discussion and I am trying to provide you with clarifications in good faith.
I wish to thank Minister Janez Lenar훾i훾 and the Slovenian Presidency for their cooperation with the European Parliament, particularly during Question Time to the Council over which I presided.
I am also aware that, in July, Minister Janez Lenar훾i훾 will take up a senior position within an international human rights organisation based in Warsaw.
