This year again, floods have raged in central and eastern Europe with four countries – Slovakia, Hungary, Romania and Bulgaria – requesting assistance through the Community mechanism for civil protection.
The reports rightly consider a whole range of measures aimed at improving risk prevention and the response to crises.
In fact, the reports reinforce the Commission’s integrated approach to its policy on disasters, which includes instruments regarding prevention, immediate response and more longer-term, solidarity-based action.
Some of the proposals contained in the reports have already been endorsed through the Commission’s action.
Our recast of the Council Decision establishing the Community mechanism for civil protection is the legal embodiment of a number of proposals put forward in these reports.
The recent Barnier report also explores certain forward-looking suggestions for our response to disasters.
The Commission also welcomes the progress on the negotiations for the proposed floods directive on the assessment and management of floods and the positive vote in the recent ENVI Committee meeting.
The Commission would equally welcome strong support from this House for a directive that gives all citizens a right to the same approach and level of ambition for flood risk protection, prevention and preparedness, regardless of where they live in the Community: in transboundary or national river basins, or in the coastal areas of the Community.
Another relevant instrument for the future could be Life+, the new financial instrument for the environment.
It aims, , to support the efforts of Member States in the field of forest fire prevention, mainly through the implementation of knowledge-related measures such as training and awareness-raising campaigns.
Equally, the Commission is prepared to cofinance prevention measures under the cohesion and rural development policies.
The Solidarity Fund created in 2002 has generally worked quite successfully, if judged against the objectives and conditions set out in its legal basis.
Aid has been granted in 21 cases, concerning 15 Member States and candidate countries.
However, experience since 2002 has also led the Commission to the view that the existing fund has a number of shortcomings and that modifications to the current regulation are necessary.
The new proposal is based on the current Solidarity Fund, while introducing a number of modifications aimed at widening its scope, making the fund more transparent, and introducing a number of operational improvements, in particular the possibility of making advance payments so that the fund reacts more quickly and effectively.
The EU should intervene only when a state is considered to be no longer in a position to tackle a disaster alone.
That would help the national authorities to have a clearer idea of when the fund is likely to be able to support them in recovering from a disaster.
Solely in the case of truly unexpected and exceptional situations, such as those where physical damage is limited, for instance terrorist attacks or major public health crises, the new fund could be mobilised by a political decision of the Commission, to be confirmed by the European Parliament and the Council. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by expressing my gratitude for the positive contributions of many Members from the various political groups, and the helpful support of members of the Committee on Agriculture who worked with me on this report.
I have worked on this report for some six or seven months and, having spent that time listening to many MEPs, specialists, economic agents, local, regional and national authorities and the communities affected, I found the experience highly rewarding.
The report before us is based on three main ideas.
The main thrust of my proposal is therefore to optimise the existing political instruments, for example the Solidarity Fund, the European Agriculture and Rural Development Funds, the Veterinary Fund, regional policy instruments, the future Life+ Regulation, by improving them and adapting them within the context of genuine disaster and risk management systems.
The Solidarity Fund will need to be broader in scope and more flexible, to cover disasters that unfold over time, such as drought, which is currently not included.
I am delighted that we have been able to vote on these reports at the same time as the reform of the European Union’s Solidarity Fund, because we have noted general dissatisfaction with the application of this Community instrument in each and every place we have visited, Mr&#160;Piebalgs.
I believe it to be essential that the Council accept Parliament’s amendments, in particular those that demand, on the one hand, that the Fund assist all of the victims and their families, and on the other, that the Fund’s limits of applicability be reduced and that this Fund can be applied when certain areas are completely destroyed, as in the case of Riba de Saelices, which we have visited.
Ladies and gentlemen, on these visits we have seen the deficiencies in the information campaigns aimed at prevention and the lack of coordination amongst the competent public administrations in the Member States, including, as we have seen, in Pampillosa da Serra, for example.
I therefore hope that the proposals contained in the reports being submitted for Parliament’s consideration today receive wide support and send a clear signal to the governments of the Member States.
First: a European strategy to combat natural disasters; secondly: the involvement of regions and local bodies; thirdly: flexibility in the redistribution of the funds available; fourthly: a Community forest-fire protection programme; fifthly: a specific proposal, Mr&#160;Piebalgs, for a directive for fire prevention and management in the European Union; sixthly: that the Seventh Framework Research Programme, the Global Monitoring for Environment and Security and the Galileo system be applied in order to assist in prevention and early warning; seventhly: information and educational programmes and campaigns agreed with the Member States; eighthly: a Community civil protection mechanism; ninthly: that additional financial instruments also be applied, such as EIB loans or State aid for regional purposes; and tenthly: that the European Parliament continue to carry out its duty of control with regard to the shortcomings in the fight against fire and all of the problems relating to it.
For all of these reasons, I would call upon everybody to put aside the party-political differences that may have divided us so that we can create a broad parliamentary consensus, which is what the European citizens are demanding of us and which we owe in particular to those who have suffered the consequences of these natural disasters: their victims. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, previous speakers have mentioned the methodology used to draw up these three reports.
In our own countries too – at least this was the case in Portugal – we held public hearings to gather suggestions, information and proposals put forward by the various stakeholders.
The climate is changing.
In the summer of that year, a series of fires destroyed hundreds of thousands of hectares of forest in Portugal, France and Spain, and violent floods spread devastation and death in countries such as Germany and Austria.
Water-related diseases kill a child every 15 seconds and are linked to many other diseases and malnutrition.
Although each region has its own characteristics and each case is different, there are common needs to be addressed, such as defining risk assessment mechanisms and drawing up maps of areas of drought, forest fires and floods.
My report contains a number of other proposals, which I naturally hope will be endorsed, first and foremost, by Parliament, the Commission and the Council, examples of which include the definition of prevention systems to facilitate the fight against the causes of natural disasters; improved urban planning, especially in coastal areas and high-risk areas; the preservation of natural ecosystems; increased cooperation on civil protection between the Member States and at EU level in order to ensure the availability of additional resources for rapid action to address emergency situations; and the simplification of the rules on implementing the instruments, such as the Solidarity Fund and the Forest Focus Programme. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, faced with the ever more frequent occurrence of natural disasters – for example the many forest fires and floods, not least in the summer of 2005 – there is an ever-growing demand for European solidarity.
The solidarity fund set up in the aftermath of the devastating floods in 2002 and designed to run until 2006 is intended to give the European Union greater freedom to act in the event of major disasters or crisis situations, thereby playing a substantial part in enabling the EU to do more and target its efforts better in those areas in which the public expect the European Union to act.
The new solidarity fund regulation now rightly makes provision for the extension of its scope, in other words, no longer limiting major crisis situations to natural disasters, but extending the category to include industrial and technological calamities, except where the ‘polluter pays’ principle is applicable or where the damage can be covered by insurance.
One is talking here about damage in the public sphere rather than to private property or damage covered by insurance.
As has been said, the threshold was formerly fixed at EUR&#160;3 billion or 0.6% of gross national income, which threshold values had been proposed by the Commission and by this House, but not accepted by the Council.
That, for example, excludes the possibility of the fund being used to provide protection in advance of pandemics or to facilitate other preventive action.
I would like to conclude by extending warm thanks to all who have worked with me on this report – to the Bureau, to my colleagues, and to the Members of this House, irrespective of whatever groups they belong to, with hearty thanks to the Commission, too, for its good cooperation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the boulevards of Szeged, a city in Southern Hungary, were named after the large cities of Europe.
The Solidarity Fund represents a significant opportunity for the European Union to make its citizens aware of its existence in a manner that can be understood by all.
The European Union can show, in a tangible form, that Brussels is not just a bureaucratic hydrocephalus, but also a helping hand.
I thank the rapporteur for his thorough work, and hope that we will only need to use this Fund rarely or perhaps never, but not due to bad regulations inspired by selfishness, but to the absence of disasters causing damages.
Founded upon the principles of solidarity and aid in a crisis, it has proved its worth in dealing with the after-effects of natural disasters, but it has also become apparent over recent years that its scope cannot be limited to dealing with these.
It has become more and more plain that industrial and technological disasters and the potential crises resulting from terrorist acts or – something that is of particular importance to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety – a public health crisis, make it necessary that we should be in a position to respond and help by means of solidarity and financial resources.
Parliament must address the natural disasters that have lain waste to Europe in recent years – drought, forest fires and floods – in terms of their impact on agricultural activity.
I therefore feel that following recent experiences, there needs to be a fresh approach to European farming in terms of preventing and responding to natural disasters.
Current national mechanisms are often inadequate and one-off supranational response mechanisms are often inefficient.
This Community programme could be funded by a specific regulation, by its own funding or by its own budget heading under EAFRD or LEADER+, in accordance with an oral amendment that is to be tabled.
Parliament must therefore provide a clear response for the communities it represents, who have suffered as a direct result of the natural disasters and who are naturally expecting our support. &#160;&#160; . – Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years Europe has been affected by natural disasters, which have caused hundred of deaths and terrible economic and environmental damage.
This was particularly serious in the Algarve region, where the climatic conditions were exceptional – a combination of high temperatures and the dryness of the air.
In the Algarve region, the natural disaster of the drought of 2005 and the devastation caused by the 2003 forest fires had a terrible impact on local infrastructure, on the natural and cultural heritage and on farming and tourism.
It is therefore crucial that the fragility of these regions be reduced.
European cooperation on civil protection must be stepped up, in order to ensure rapid response for the affected areas.
This is what these own-initiative reports seek to do and to coordinate.
It should therefore be acknowledged that almost all the affected areas are classified by the EU and that following the devastation we cannot simply say that we have fulfilled our civil responsibility.
It is also crucial to enhance information and awareness raising among the communities and regions that are vulnerable to natural disasters, so as to reduce the risks and the impact of those disasters and so that the people know what they can do to preserve the natural resources in the region.
Yet, what are these powers, before, during and after these natural disasters?
As regards the retrospective measures, which draw on our Solidarity Fund, our fellow Member, Mr&#160;Berend, has done a very fine job, but much remains to be done because it will always be very difficult to find ideal solutions, given the variety of situations and funding.
Our fellow citizens need a European Union that is very clear in terms of the measures it takes. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time now, we have been subsidising a development in the agricultural, industrial and transport fields that has damaged the environment and brought about the alarming situation that we are currently experiencing, and we are paying the price for it: natural disasters are the witnesses to those mistakes.
Even though we broadly support the analyses of the proposals drafted in various resolutions tabled, in particular, by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and by the Committee on Regional Development, I am disappointed by the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which is refusing, as it were, to assume its share of the responsibility for the speed with which these phenomena are occurring.
As rapporteur for Life&#160;+, I will be unable to agree to this programme – which is already well and truly dwindling away – serving as an insurance policy for disasters that are less and less the result of nature.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is in reality our cultivation methods that we must change.
I am in favour of a Solidarity Fund and of giving aid to the victims, but let us genuinely seek out the causes, otherwise we are just going to make changes to a never-ending problem. &#160;&#160; . – We have tabled amendments to the report on the Solidarity Fund, because we feel that in its current form it does not address areas that we believe to be highly important, including maintaining the criterion of regional-level disasters.
The new proposal for the Solidarity Fund needs to respond to the difficulties that have been experienced in relation to its application since it was created in 2002.
We feel that the Fund should be adapted to the specific characteristics and the actual needs of the different countries faced with a very wide range of different disasters, as in the Mediterranean area.
I also wish to point out that the report by the Committee on Regional Development before us today takes the view that the Fund should be applied when the majority of the population in a region has suffered from a disaster with serious and lasting impact on their living conditions.
Similarly, the Portuguese Parliament adopted a resolution aimed at maintaining the possibility of providing support in the event of regional disasters with a significant socio-economic and environmental impact in the least favoured regions of the EU.
We also tabled proposals intended to ensure that both the promotion of support for reinstating production activity in areas affected by disasters and making land and air equipment immediately available to fight against forest fires should figure among the eligible actions.
Lastly, we proposed that, as laid down in the regulations of the Structural and Cohesion Funds, a level of economic and social development in a region or Member State should be taken into account when financial assistance is granted under the Solidarity Fund.
Among other aspects that form part of the new proposal for a regulation, I should merely like to underline our concern at the broadening of the scope of application of the Fund without the financial ceiling being increased.
In Central and Northern European countries, frost causes very serious financial losses in the agricultural sector, especially in orchards and in the field of soft fruit production.
When working on this draft, we should create a systemic solution that could apply to all regions of the European Union and all types of natural disasters.
I am referring here to state-owned forests, including those in Poland, where fires and hurricanes also cause significant damage. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, that 2005 was a year of disasters is something that many scientists attribute to global warming and the greenhouse effect, while others see the cause as lying in the natural cycle of disasters; in any case, the fact is that we are not completely blameless when such calamities occur.
It has to be said, though, that the development and extension of early warning systems is essential in this respect; it is in this area that much remains to be done, and I regard this as an area in which the European Union, in particular, must act. &#160;&#160; What we want to achieve with these reports is a greater proximity to citizens and a greater sense of Community Europe, which is something that the public both understands and welcomes.
However, in the case of large–scale natural disasters, according to the principles of solidarity and subsidiarity, we need higher–level arrangements for financial and technical operational help. ‘He who gives promptly, gives twice over,’ as they said in ancient Rome. .
Take, for example, intensive animal husbandry, which is subsidised by the European Union, but which also leads to greater desertification in certain areas.
With regard to monitoring climate change and its consequences, I advocate closer cooperation between existing research and scientific institutions and the financing of new community programmes.
It is therefore reasonable for this Parliament to ask the Commission for a European strategy for combating natural disasters, and furthermore one that acknowledges the specific characteristics of those of a Mediterranean nature, such as droughts and forest fires.
Furthermore, the creation of a European Monitoring Centre for Drought and Desertification are important initiatives that we must promote.
We are talking about the Solidarity Fund and we must not lose sight of this notion, because the European citizens expect us to respond to their demands.
We are talking about a Fund that is a political instrument and, as such, it must resolve the difficulties faced by the areas affected and the people living in them. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteurs and also Commissioner Piebalgs for his presence in the House, while at the same time highlighting the importance of a joint debate on these issues, precisely so that we recognise that they are all closely related problems.
The reason why we now find ourselves having this debate is because of a new development that constitutes an even more serious challenge to our territory: climate change due to global warming.
There is therefore a need to identify long-term prevention measures, which can be summed up using the concept of integrated land conservation.
As Mr&#160;Beaupuy has already pointed out, this is what we must do at EU level: draw far more attention to the matter, because that is the only way in which we will actually be able to address these risks. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak on the solidarity fund.
As the rapporteur has already said, it was the devastation wrought by the floods in 2002 that prompted this House, the Commission and the Council to set the Fund up.
At the same time, I would like to point out that some Member States have a tendency to simply pocket the European funding and tell the public that it is they themselves that are putting the aid measures in place.
That is something I regard as unacceptable; we know that the European Union has a credibility deficit, and it is by this instrument that the EU shows that it stands by ordinary people in a credible way.
We need a stricter policy against European and any other industry that has contributed to them, inside or outside the Community borders, so that not only do they have to pay for the damage they have caused, but also – and much more importantly – they have to take measures of limitation and prevention in their future activities and bear the cost of such measures themselves.
The European Union should also exercise its influence directly on the United States, which is completely ignoring and infringing the Kyoto Protocol and continuing its destructive action, which affects both European citizens and the citizens of the rest of the world.
In this way, other neighbouring countries will be entitled to solidarity from Europe, either through the fund or through the other mechanisms which apply to international cooperation.
We expect far more, not only as the European left, but also as European citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Solidarity Fund was introduced after devastating floods in the summer of 2002.
Communities that have suffered disasters – natural or manmade – have their national governments to step in and assist.
Forest fires frequently occur in southern Europe and floods are a regular occurrence in the central part of our continent.
The draft under discussion is an important step on the road to building true European solidarity. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr&#160;Capoulas&#160;Santos’ report seems comprehensive, and I regard the link between the recitals and the articles calling on the Community institutions to pay the utmost attention to the agroforestry sector as systematic.
The report adequately summarises the way in which agroforestry production is closely connected with nature and, therefore, with its extremes and accidents.
Articles 2, 3, 9 and 12 outline the measures needed to restore the balance.
The common goal – as Mr&#160;Prodi also highlighted – is to design the Community strategy to cope with disasters, both by means of prevention measures and by planning the mechanisms for using the Solidarity Fund and the various State aid regimes.
Lastly, I agree with the proposals for directives in Article 25 and subsequent articles, which are aimed at making better use of the relevant Community instruments. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, at a time when Euroscepticism is intensifying in certain Member States, I believe that the European Union cannot remain indifferent towards the problem of natural disasters and indifferent towards the citizens affected by them.
I think that its presence has added value in three sectors: prevention, immediate suppression and restoration.
Thirdly, the Berend report deals with the problem of restoring damage through the Solidarity Fund which has existed – and rightly so – since 2002.
They are important to the citizens, they are matters which concern their daily lives and we need to fight to the end and put pressure on the Commission and the Council to proceed in the direction that we are calling for. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the citizens affected by natural disasters, by nature itself, should not find themselves up against the indifference of national and Community governments or the absence of integrated support programmes.
However, I should like to highlight certain points: firstly, the question of paragraph 16, on the basis of which the creation of a public cofinanced insurance scheme and a reinsurance scheme within the framework of the CAP are proposed, and on paragraphs 17 and 19, on the basis of which the establishment of a new risk management instrument and a system to stabilise the prices and incomes of farmers affected by natural disasters are proposed.
I should like to emphasise that the state needs national and cofinanced projects to protect citizens' property and must be denounced by all of us when it is unable to protect citizens' lives. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in September&#160;2003, following the unprecedented forest fires of the summer that, as you will recall, affected Portugal and a whole host of regions in southern Europe, we took the floor in order to urge the European Union to equip itself with a permanent rapid reaction force.
The European Union will never, of course, succeed in preventing all natural disasters, but our duty is to help the Europeans who are hit by these tragedies and to coordinate our efforts more effectively in such cases.
That is why, despite the reluctance of some Member States, we must also support the creation of a permanent European civil protection force, the famous ‘Green Helmets’.
As you can see, Commissioner - and, in saying this, I am responding to a fear expressed by Mrs&#160;Haug, which I share - we are not calling here for more Europe, but for a better Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate all of the rapporteurs and, in particular, Mr&#160;Galeote and Mr&#160;Berend, on the precision of their reports and the quality of their listening skills.
I am delighted to observe that an agreement has been concluded between our Parliament and the Commission so as to ensure that the scope of the next Solidarity Fund will from now on cover not only natural disasters, but also industrial accidents, terrorist attacks and major public health crises.
This specification guarantees that, as from 2007, this Fund can potentially be used in the French Overseas Departments - even if they do not fully meet the general eligibility criteria - so that they can take advantage of emergency aid when a major crisis occurs.
The own-initiative report by the Committee on Regional Development highlights the devastating effect of these disasters on the economy, employment, national and cultural heritage, the environment and tourism and rightly emphasises the need for effective measures regarding warnings, civil protection and aid for the regions and populations affected.
We should not forget that environmental pollution is a very dangerous consequence of natural disasters in general. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, given the limited amount of time available to me, I would like to focus in particular on fires.
Finally, I am very much in favour of the reform of the Solidarity Fund and I hope that the Commission, following the mandate from this Parliament, will present a proposal for a directive for the prevention and management of fires within the European Union. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the resolutions that we will approve this morning reflect the truth about the important work that Parliament has been doing on the natural disasters affecting the people and territories of the European Union.
Nevertheless, the texts that we will approve also highlight the lies and agitation that, in my country specifically, have been demonstrated with regard to this action by the European Parliament, in certain cases and from certain political forces and sectors, even misleading people with regard to its very nature.
Here today in this very debate we have heard untrue statements – half truths are always untrue – which are entirely contrary to Parliament’s opinion, which is expressed by means of the texts we are to approve and nothing more.
There is an insistence on a partisan and self-interested approach to dealing with disasters and the pain they cause for so many people, in my region, Castilla-La Mancha, for example.
The Union should of course address this situation, but how do we go about this?
I do not feel that the right response would be to create a single European policy to combat natural disasters, as proposed in one of the reports before us.
The formulation of a European strategy should be restricted to those types of natural disaster for which there can be added value attached to joint action at Union level.
The Solidarity Fund will be able to help to repair any damage caused, which may for example help to improve the Union’s image in the eyes of Europe’s citizens.
The Solidarity Fund should therefore have a broader scope than it does at present.
Furthermore, it is also necessary to formulate a European strategy for dealing with the impact of natural disasters, in addition to appropriate Community prevention measures, the tailoring of Structural Funds spending to disaster prevention and closer coordination with other Community instruments.
In addition to this, both individual Member States and the European Union institutions have to focus in particular on making the existing early warning systems more effective in order to minimise the impact of disasters.
Even the largest Solidarity Fund imaginable, let alone the actual level of funding available over the next seven years, would not be able to cover all the costs incurred by European Union citizens each year as a result of the damage caused by unforeseen disasters and catastrophes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am from Ireland.
The Solidarity Fund is crucial.
I congratulate Mr Galeote Quecedo and Mr Berend once again on a job well done. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Parliament sometimes deals with matters that really only concern an elite group, but it mainly handles issues that concern everyone.
A good example is the situation in Poland in 1997, before enlargement, when my country was affected by major flooding and these funds were reallocated.
We all wish for a better response to emergency situations.
The resolutions passed by Parliament last year, these commendable reports and the Commission’s proposals all aim to achieve the same purpose.
It is clear that, at this stage, solutions or assistance for the agricultural or forestry sector in the event of natural disasters will have to come via existing instruments under the rural development and forest policies, state aid and the possibilities that exist under the first pillar of the common agricultural policy.
The Commission is also examining whether risk and crisis management instruments to support the agricultural sector could be a way forward.
An act of European solidarity can be counted on, no matter whether in response to a natural or another kind of serious disaster.
This will be good not only for the European Union’s image but also, more importantly, for the Union, the Member States and acceding countries and their regions and, in particular, for the people affected by such disastrous events.
The rapporteur and other honourable Members have spoken in favour of all major elements of the Commission proposal.
I note that you have proposed to grant Solidarity Fund assistance to candidate countries only if the same disaster also affects a Member State, even if this issue has not been discussed today.
In addition, rural development measures under the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund can finance the restoration of agricultural production potential damaged by natural disasters and the introduction of appropriate prevention instruments, including risk prevention for forest fires.
We need to strengthen all of the European Union’s existing instruments for the benefit of our environment and, more importantly, for the safety and wellbeing of our citizens.
I agree with those Members who said that actions of solidarity and actions taken to prevent disasters and deal with their consequences will bring Europe closer to its citizens.
These issues are extremely important in order to get the European citizens’ full support for our work.
That is why I should like to thank again all the rapporteurs, Mr Capoulas Santos, Mr Galeote Quecedo, Mrs Estrela and Mr Berend, for their excellent reports that will strengthen European identity. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Paragraph 1 would therefore become the following: ‘is concerned at the high number of journalists being convicted worldwide, in particular in China, Belarus, Cuba, North Korea, Colombia, Turkey and Tunisia'. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I should like to request a roll-call vote on the motion for a resolution. &#160;&#160; . – This proposal was the result of a consensus and a combination of various contributions, and I should like to make an addendum, which has emerged from the consensus between the main political families in Parliament, in order to make this point more precise.
As substitute for the Committee on Regional Development and permanent Member and shadow rapporteur on this report for the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I have made firm calls for European economic growth and competitiveness to be decentralised and shifted away from the centre of the Community area to cover all regions, in particular those less wealthy.
In other words, I believe that a better and more effective Union requires better policies and more resources, with a view to sustainable development, which will in turn contribute towards economic and territorial cohesion, the primary objective of cohesion policy, as enshrined in the Treaties.
Between 2007 and 2013, European regional expenditure will increase by 31% but, as a result of the unprepared-for enlargement, the proportion allocated to French regions will decrease further.
Above all, European regional aid does not call into question the policy of the Europe of Brussels without borders, a policy which, while shackling our businesses and our farmers with increasingly binding directives, abandons them to unfettered competition from countries such as China, which practise a genuine form of social dumping.
What is thus being promoted is a development policy in which the EU’s economic and geo-strategic interests take precedence over the interests of the countries with which it establishes relations.
I firmly believe that, as the legislative authority, the European Parliament must continue to have a role both in the setting of priorities and through a call-back arrangement.
It is therefore important for us to deal with what we believe to be the final outcome of this debate.
Rather than the issue of whether there are one or two instruments, depending on whether the countries involved are industrialised or not, the important thing is that the EU ought to be aware of its financial limitations – all too evident in the next financial framework – and must therefore set out clear priorities and criteria for action.
Furthermore, international cooperation is not an exercise in competition between possible world powers.
I voted against it because, while we have extended the scope of the Solidarity Fund – which now includes everything from industrial disasters to terrorist attacks – we have narrowed down its regional scope, and in particular, we did not extend it to areas situated in potential Member States, in regions adjacent to the territory of current Member States.
We have excluded from it the entire Western Balkan region, which I find very regrettable, because if the Danube floods, the Solidarity Fund will assist Romania and Hungary, but it will not assist Serbia and Vojvodina.
We should like to emphasise the fact that, in spite of everything, some progress was made in relation to the doctrine, and that, accordingly, its particular character was acknowledged. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, Mr&#160;Berend, on the proposal for a regulation, at first reading, of the European Parliament and of the Council on establishing the European Union Solidarity Fund.
I should like to say that the same European Parliament adopted on the same day, in the Quecedo report, the recital stating that ‘the EUSF should continue to enable action to be taken in the case of disasters which although significant do not achieve the minimum level required and that assistance may also be provided in special circumstances in cases where most of the population in a specific region has been affected by a disaster which will have a serious, long-term effect on their living conditions’.
For too long the European Union has not paid sufficient attention to the need for a common energy policy.
This must become a key element of our foreign policy in cooperation with the world’s other major consumers whether the United States or Japan, China or India.
Secondly, the ultimate aim of the ECT is to create an internal energy market between the European Union and nine other countries, even though, within the EU, this policy has already shown its limits: the gradual replacement of public monopolies by monopolies or quasi-monopolies, with an attack on public services; the rise in electricity prices even in those countries in which electricity generation depends very little on the price of oil; the risk of shortages in the short term because of a policy that gives priority to deregulation faced with the issue of security of supply; and so on.
I would like us to have had the courage to say that there was a risk and draw the necessary conclusions. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the report by my fellow Member, Mr&#160;Howitt, on Human Rights in the World 2005 and the EU’s policy on the matter.
At a time when the major victories in the field of human rights are being continually and insidiously undermined, the role of the European Union, as an emerging humanist civilisation, is vital.
I fully support the conclusions by my colleague Richard Howitt and his call for a unified EU human rights report identifying an annual list of countries of particular concern, a sliding scale of sanctions against abuser countries, removing the national veto for their agreement, implementing the human rights and democracy clause in the EU's international agreements and introducing human rights impact assessments for EU actions abroad. &#160;&#160; The promotion of human rights is an extremely important issue of which account should be taken in all policy areas.
We believe that human rights are universal and that we should fight to ensure that they are respected in all countries.
However, the European Parliament is using this report to promote the EU’s positions.
We are opposed to quite a few features of the report, for example those wordings designed to increase the power of the European Parliament, and we have therefore voted against the report.
Yet in common with previous years, this report has been little more than an exercise in hypocrisy, a weapon of pressure and political interference, in which so-called ‘friendly’ countries are protected and the ‘others’, those that the USA and EU have designated as a target, are criticised.
Consequently, the majority in Parliament once again refuses to condemn the serious violations of human rights committed in Iraq, fails to note that the war in Iraq is illegal and runs counter to international law and the United Nations Charter, and omits to call on the UN to open up a detailed inquiry into the use of banned weapons, such as white phosphorous during the capture of Fallujah, and of ‘collective punishment’ against the Iraqi people.
On the other hand, Article&#160;97, which requires European governments to be even more tolerant than at present with regard to non-European immigration, jeopardises the human rights situation in our very own countries.
In particular, I voted in favour of Amendment 12 on the violation of human rights in the Western Sahara, which was a free vote. &#160;&#160; . – It is unfortunate that, when it voted today, this House rejected a motion from my Group which condemns the grave human rights abuses in Iraq and recalls ‘that the war in Iraq is illegal and violates both international law and the Charter of the United Nations’.
A majority in this House, voting by roll-call, was also found to reject the demand that the UN should mount an investigation ‘into the human rights violations committed by the international coalition, particularly as regards the use of prohibited weapons such as white phosphorus in the attack on Fallujah and the collective punishments inflicted on the Iraqi population, which are banned by international agreements’.
Indeed, without prejudice to constant concern with human rights violations, Parliament’s main obligation is to assess the usefulness of our endeavours in combating these violations.
Accordingly, I welcome this new approach and believe that it will only be truly effective when it is accompanied by a genuine assessment of the impact of EU human rights actions at international level, in the short, medium and long term.
However, the issue of an absolute ban on the death sentence remains a conscience based issue for individual MEPs.
Nevertheless, we all condemn the inappropriate and excessive use of the death penalty in countries such as China and Iran.
Moreover, we reject the report’s proposal that, in the long run, the EU should have its own resources rather than rely on contributions by the Member States.
Unfortunately, and unsurprisingly, the guidelines for 2007 give tangible form, in budgetary terms, to the EU’s policies of capitalist competition, liberalisation, interference, militarisation and securitarianism.
Unsurprisingly, therefore, the majority in Parliament rejected the observation that ‘the Lisbon Strategy has proved itself to be a failure as regards the implementation of its stated objectives of 3% average economic growth and full employment via the creation of 20&#160;million jobs’.
Establishing clear priorities has become increasingly important in the case of the external actions budget heading given the cuts amounting to around 20% in funds committed.
First and foremost, the glaring discrepancy between the Union’s budget and its increasing responsibilities can only have detrimental consequences for the EU's capacity to take action, and in turn for its image among the citizens.
Consequently, what remains is for us to draw the necessary lessons from this situation for the future, the main one being that we must first agree on the major objectives and the Union’s designs, and which policies we should be pursuing whereby we shall be able, in good time, to obtain an agreement as to the funds that they need. &#160;&#160; The report proposes an insurance scheme for farmers, jointly financed by farmers, the Member States and the EU within the framework of the common agricultural policy.
Moreover, there is no scope in the budget for increased appropriations.
We therefore voted against the report. &#160;&#160; In an EU with 25 Member States, the report focuses too much on the problems in the Mediterranean area of Europe.
In insurance theory, this is called ‘moral hazard’.
The vulnerability of farming to the climate has been shown in stark relief in recent years by cases of extreme drought in Portugal, Spain, Italy and France.
Although it does not introduce any technical innovations in terms of natural disaster management and prevention, it does offer an important survey of the possibilities and the knowledge currently available.
I warmly welcome the proposals to create directives on the prevention and management of fires and drought, which I believe to be an extremely important factor in forward planning and a more efficient response to natural disasters.
Disasters of this nature that my country and other EU Member States have suffered lead me to join the rapporteur in calling for effective prevention measures, such as technological research and development and the establishment of a European Monitoring Centre for Drought and Desertification.
This kind of phenomenon has a serious impact on the lives of the communities affected for an indefinite period.
Furthermore, the Member States must show mutual solidarity in order to act and to combat these events and the serious repercussions that they engender in the living conditions of the people affected, if necessary with joint resources.
I therefore voted in favour of the Estrela report. &#160;&#160; .The relentless quest for all forms of prevention and, to that end, the carrying out of technological research and development activities, public awareness raising, the coordination of emergency assistance and the deployment of a civilian force in the event of a natural disaster are crucial elements that we must provide for and put in place as soon as possible.
These proposals do, nevertheless and very rightly, remind us of the importance of preventative action.
After all, prevention is always better than cure. &#160;&#160; The reports propose that a number of funds be established and that more use be made of Structural Funds and the Solidarity Fund to finance EU measures designed to prevent natural disasters and to tackle their consequences.
It is also proposed that the scope of the European Solidarity Fund be extended to cover the consequences of public health crises, terrorist attacks and technological disasters.
The June List welcomes international solidarity when a country is hit by disasters.
The EU must not, however, use these disasters as an argument for extending its power and developing a common policy in this area or for establishing further institutions.
If the Member States are relieved of responsibility for taking measures and for putting systems in place to prevent disasters of this type, the risks will increase.
In insurance theory, this is called ‘moral hazard’.
We have therefore voted against both reports. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we are discussing the coordination of solutions to natural disasters and cooperation on such matters.
Consequently, I did not support the adoption of point 31 and I abstained from the vote on this report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, that we in Europe must stand together in contending against the adverse consequences of natural disasters is not a matter of doubt, and for that the regions affected rely on the solidarity of neighbouring Member States; European programmes are also needed to help in crisis situations.
New European powers, though, would do more harm than good, and these reports do not alter the fact that this is still something we need to talk about. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, would you be willing to take note of the fact that I missed a number of roll-call votes yesterday as a result of the malfunctioning of the bell on my floor? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I had the same problem yesterday as Mrs&#160;De&#160;Vits and I wanted to highlight it.
The bell does not work properly on our floor, and, when I arrived at the Chamber to take part in the vote, ten minutes late, the bulk of the roll-call votes had taken place. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Nepal(1). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, following weeks of massive demonstrations, with hundreds injured and even killed, King Gynanendra, at the beginning of May, at last caved in and surrendered the power of which he had taken possession in February 2005.
His imposition of a state of emergency had been justified on the basis that the authorities had failed to defeat the Maoists in battle.
A new multi-party coalition under a very experienced prime minister, Girija Prasad Koirala, commenced face-to-face negotiations with the rebels.
It is also a problem of the Maoist guerrillas in Nepal.
It strikes me as particularly important that every group, whether currently outside Nepal or present within it, should be able to regard the electoral system as representative and inclusive, for, in Nepal too, representative democracy must prevail.
The great question is: what can Europe do about it at this stage?
If it is thought to be of value in terms of the development of democracy, and if the parties and the prime minister think it useful, that a delegation from this House should go to Nepal in order to give support at this time of change, then that – it goes without saying – is what we must do.
It may well be that we can make some contribution, and I am in agreement with the wording of the resolution according to which we should do this together with the other major powers, not least the United States and India.
The new government faces many challenges, including limiting the King’s power and bringing the military under democratic control.
King Gyanendra’s decision in February 2005 to dissolve the government and declare a state of emergency has been the straw that broke the camel’s back in terms of Nepalese patience.
For example, the new government has decided to freeze the purchase by the previous government of military aircraft and weapons; the Council and the Member States must respect this decision and must maintain the freeze on military aid.
Furthermore, as has been said, the European Union must contribute to the peace process, providing assistance for demobilisation and economic aid for development and humanitarian programmes and also sending electoral and human rights observers. &#160;&#160; . – Ladies and gentlemen, southern Asia has long suffered from instability in a number of countries in the region.
The resolution that we have proposed and supported will contribute in the search for a democratic path out of the current crisis, and I believe that the Commission has already earmarked appropriate funds to support the entire process. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, in Nepal, a king has managed to destroy not only a new democracy, but also an ancient monarchy with deep roots among the people.
I would not like to see the democrats who are now at the helm in Nepal suffering the same fate as Kerensky after the first Russian revolution, when, the rule of the tsars having been overthrown, it was replaced shortly afterwards by a totalitarian one-party dictatorship.
We in the European Parliament and the EU as a whole must do all we can to support the moves towards democracy.
As the resolution says, we must continue to highlight minority rights, and, as we did this morning, we should vote so as to support the ideas in the Howitt report.
We should support the government to make certain there is democratic control of the military, and reinforce the call made by my colleague, Mrs Gill, for lasting peace.
If this is to be successful, we in the European Parliament must do everything we can to address the root causes of the conflict in Nepal and ensure that there is much greater economic prosperity and much better redistribution of wealth throughout Nepal.
In the absence of a collective will to find a solution in Nepal, we cannot impose one.
But now we have the opportunity to guide, to assist and to advise all the democratic forces in Nepal as they continue their long, tortuous journey towards a multi-party democracy and respect for human rights.
We cannot criticise and we must have a clean pair of hands in our negotiations with all parties in that country.
The impact of the people’s democratic movement is impressive: Parliament has been restored, the government is committed to electing a Constituent Assembly to rewrite the Constitution and, most importantly, talks will soon be under way between the new interim government and the Maoists, under a mutually agreed ceasefire.
The victory of the pro-democracy movement marks only the first step in Nepal’s long road to peace and stability.
The primary goal must now be to agree a formal ceasefire and bring an end to hostilities between the Royal Nepalese Army and the Maoists.
The second is to take forward a peace process based on constitutional redress.
The Commission is ready to contribute to a possible peace package.
Working closely with the European Union Member States and successive European Union Council presidencies, the Commission remains committed to pursuing all efforts that may contribute towards a stable, democratic and peaceful Nepal. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at the end of the debates. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on five motions for resolutions on Sri Lanka(1). &#160;&#160; The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance took the initiative of calling a debate on this issue because the Tamil Tigers had left the negotiating table.
The fact that the Tamil Tigers have now left the negotiating table is destructive for all the parties.
If both parties get their act together and assume their responsibilities, we too can accept responsibility for helping with the peace process. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the situation in Sri Lanka is getting worse.
It has been proposed that the LTTE be, officially, put on the EU list of terrorist organisations; to do so would be extremely counter-productive, particularly in the present situation, as it has not been possible to hold the negotiations on EU territory and the fact that there is any kind of negotiating process at all is thanks to the Norwegian Government in particular.
Unlike Mr Pflüger, I therefore urge the EU to add the LTTE to its list of proscribed terrorist organisations.
At the same time, this ban must be backed by effective action by Member States to prevent funds and other support reaching the LTTE.
Human Rights Watch, a highly respected international NGO, has testified to the intimidation, extortion and physical violence that has been inflicted on Tamils living in Britain and other countries in order to suppress criticism and ensure a steady flow of income.
We all, of course, urged them to return to the negotiating table – I say all of us, but if we ban them they will not be able to do that – because a political solution is the only hope.
The Government must also play its part and it is certainly not blameless in this.
It shows a fundamental misunderstanding not just of the process in this House but also of the severity of the situation and of the way forward.
Paragraph 17 on prescription will have a serious and negative impact on the process. &#160;&#160; .
I think it was Winston Churchill who said that ‘jaw-jaw is always better than war-war’.
What we have to do is continue talking.
There is no final military solution to this conflict, which has now raged in the country of my birth for over 25 years.
But we must continue to talk and the EU and the Co-Chairs, including Norway, in consultation with India, now have the role of peacemakers.
I would appeal to all parties to renounce the vicious cycle of violence and to approach this dispute constructively.
After an encouraging return to the negotiating table in February, the LTTE’s refusal to participate in the second round in April was very disappointing.
The LTTE needs to resume peace negotiations with the Government of Sri Lanka, and the government too must be careful not to jeopardise the very delicate peace process.
In my view the Commission needs to play a more proactive role to enable this process to move forward.
The European Union, as we have heard, is a Co-Chair, but we appear to be playing a rather passive role, rather than seeing ourselves as dynamic players.
The European Union is pouring enormous resources into Sri Lanka.
We need to get some real results to ensure that the lives of the people there are remarkably improved. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, as has already been said, there can be no easy solution to a conflict that has been going on for nearly 25 years.
I agree with all those speakers who have said that it is no solution at all to have recourse to force of arms in order to win a particular dispute.
This clearly brutal operation by the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) was swiftly followed by a disproportionate response, namely the bombing of land under their control.
Sadly the motion for a resolution fails to answer this question.
Conflict in this region has already claimed 64&#160;000 victims and a further 300 lives have been lost in a series of terrorist attacks during the last six months.
International institutions must categorically condemn the terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka to date.
The Commission shares your concerns about the worrying situation in the country.
It is clear that the situation in Sri Lanka is now at a critical juncture.
The Commission is very concerned at the recent deterioration in the situation, in particular the suicide attack directed against the army chief, Lieutenant General Fonseka, and the recent rebel attack in northern Sri&#160;Lanka against a troop carrier and accompanying vessel, which killed 17&#160;soldiers.
The European Union has repeatedly condemned violent acts that have caused death and suffering among all the communities.
A new meeting of the Co-Chairs is scheduled to take place in Tokyo on 30 May.
The indications are that neither side seems keen to continue the peace negotiations and go to the planned second round of peace talks in Geneva.
We thus continue to monitor the situation very closely and will explore any opportunity that could help stabilise the situation in Sri Lanka and lead to a peaceful, negotiated resolution of the conflict. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It is my view that, with all due respect to the Government of the People’s Republic of China and without violating any relevant United Nations resolutions, the 23 million Taiwanese people should, for the sake of world health, be allowed to be represented by their own observers in the WHO.
Let us not forget that Taiwan is the only one of the four large Chinese societies in Asia to have both democracy and respect for human rights.
In the People’s Republic of China, there is neither democracy nor respect for human rights; in Hong Kong, there is respect for human rights but no democracy; and, in Singapore, there is democracy but no respect for human rights.
I would have welcomed more firmness on this matter from our fellow Members in the PSE.
From a legal perspective, however, it is not possible for Taiwan to obtain observer status at the World Health Organisation.
At the time of our previous resolutions on that same issue, which were adopted in 2002 and 2003, the Commission told us that it would examine the issue of Taiwan’s participating in the work of the WHO, in particular through non-State channels, via an NGO for example.
These two NGOs are themselves members of the WHO Global Outbreak and Alert Network.
Nevertheless, we can call on China to examine the issue of Taiwan’s contributing to an appropriate field of international cooperation regarding public health. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, who would want to endanger their own health or someone else’s?
Nobody, surely, would wish to do so, but the situation in Taiwan appears to be an exception.
The health of its 23 million citizens, and also that of the many foreigners who live on the island, is in serious danger.
Their primary aim was ‘meaningful participation’, in other words technical involvement in all WHO activities, precisely as described in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the joint motion for a resolution.
What I expect of the European institutions is the greatest possible effort towards protecting and promoting public health throughout the world.
It is obvious that Taiwan must participate in joint efforts to prevent the spread of this disease.
At the very least, Taiwan must be granted observer status within the World Health Organisation.
Taiwan deserves better.
Taiwan, like Hong Kong, is already a full member of the WTO, as the People’s Republic of China saw commercial advantage in having it in the organisation.
Its current opposition to Taiwan’s WHO bid – and of course Taiwan would be a key player in preventing any future bird flu pandemic, should that arise – is frankly inconsistent and makes China look like a big bully. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I need no lessons in politics from MEPs who have been reported as singing a Horst Wessel song in the past.
Thirdly, given the quarter to half a million Taiwanese immigrants in Shanghai alone who regularly travel between China and Taiwan, it is hard to imagine that the Chinese would take any risks of them bringing in diseases from Taiwan. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Taiwan is a sovereign nation and its people have worked hard to become a major economic player in Asia.
It is pathetic that the World Health Organisation and other countries cooperate with this embargo on Taiwan.
Hopefully, the EU will get the nerve to say to China, ‘we love you, we will trade with you, but we will not cooperate with you or say you are right when you are wrong’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that everyone agrees that it is unacceptable that the island of Taiwan should be excluded from the World Health Organisation and from its Global Outbreak Alert and Response Network.
Nevertheless, since 1971, since the Chinese seat at the United Nations was granted to the People’s Republic of China, the problem has been there.
We are not concerned in this House with settling diplomatic problems, we are talking about health problems.
One solution would be to go through a non-governmental organisation and, more specifically, a foundation, which would enable the Taiwanese authorities to have a separate delegation from the Chinese one, and thus access to the World Health Assembly.
I will nonetheless vote in favour of the resolution proposed, but I believe that we should not mix up the various problems. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the threat of a flu pandemic or of other infectious diseases is one of the most serious problems facing modern civilisation.
The European Commission and the Member States should support Taiwan’s application for observer status in the World Health Assembly.
It is vital to ensure that Taiwan is brought completely into the world protection network, because it is not just the 20&#160;million people who are at higher risk – we all face greater risks if the island remains outside our system.
That means that Taiwan has decided that, in this area, substance and pragmatism are more important than legal form.
In May 2004, the Irish Presidency, explaining why the EU did not support a vote on the issue of Taiwan’s observer status in the WHO, asked the WHO Secretariat for Taiwanese officials to be involved in technical work and meetings of the WHO where appropriate.
In fact, over the last year, representatives from Taiwan have participated in a number of technical meetings taking place under WHO auspices.
We can only welcome this and will follow the matter with great interest. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We shall now proceed to the vote. &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, given that yesterday the Government of Sri Lanka announced the formation of a Human Rights Commission, could we make an oral correction to our joint resolution?
