Belarus The next item on the agenda is the debate on six motions for a resolution concerning Belarus.
author. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the strongly critical tone of the contributions I am happy to say that we have at least two positive aspects here.
The recent developments on the agreements to establish the European Commission's delegation in Minsk are a positive step toward renewing dialogue with the European Union and Belarus.
author (PL) Thank you, Mr President.
author. - Mr President, in January of this year, 10 young activists of the Belarusian Popular Front Youth and Malady Front ('Young Front') were arrested after they met a delegation of the Democrat Youth Community of Europe (DEMYC) in Minsk, and then faced expulsion from their universities.
There is consensus on this point in Parliament, across all the parliamentary groups: we want the release of all political prisoners, a moratorium on the death penalty, media freedom and respect for all the basic principles of democracy.
This prize commits the European Parliament to detailed monitoring of the situation in Belarus. (PL) Mr President, I would like to refer to a particular case.
It is shameful for Belarus that it is the only European country excluded from the Council of Europe, because of its failure to respect any fundamental human rights.
There are some specific names: Zmitser Zhaleznichenka, Anton Kalinouski and Franak Viachorka.
But we have equally been clear that we want to see all political prisoners freed, and that we want to see an end to the systematic harassment of Belarusian civil society, before we can give a new dimension to our relationship with Belarus.
The European Union has carried this message to the Belarusian authorities.
As regards to the Commission actions to support civil society in Belarus, the Commission remains committed more than ever to supporting Belarusian civil society, and our 2008 assistance plan is aimed in particular at cementing Belarusian civil society and independent media.
The opening of the negotiations on visa facilitation and on readmission is amongst the elements that would be considered in the event of a real breakthrough in our relationship.
According to EU policy, visa facilitation can only be considered in the context of the European Commission readmission policy as part of a real partnership in external relations.
This was explained to Belarus in the verbal notes sent by the Commission on 8 May.
The European Union's willingness to enter into such negotiations with neighbouring countries with an action plan in force has also been reaffirmed, by the Commission communication on this matter of December 2006.
In the case of Belarus these conditions are not met.
The debate is closed.
Written Statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (PL) As joint author of the European Parliament's resolution on Belarus, I would like to draw attention to the state of democracy, respect for human rights and in general to the situation of the people of Belarus.
