For their part, the EU Member States have already set out to do this and on 26 May expressed their determination to work together to combat piracy off the coast of Somalia.
More recently, at the General Affairs and External Relations Council on 15 September, the Council adopted a strategic military option with a view to a possible naval operation under the European Security and Defence Policy.
It is due to deliver its conclusions on 29 September.
With regard to the repression of acts of piracy on the seas and of armed robbery against ships, the Commission is delighted at the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution 1816 on the repression of acts of piracy and armed robbery off the coast of Somalia, as well, of course, at the important step taken by the European Council, which adopted a detailed action plan at its meeting of 15 September 2008.
This is a question that we must ask ourselves, and that we must seek to answer, even if today there is no proof that terrorism is funded through the payment of ransoms; there is nothing that would allow us to establish a priori that this is not a possibility.
We must never lower our guard in the fight against terrorism and therefore every suspicion, even if we cannot make a priori judgments, must be carefully assessed and we must take all appropriate steps to prevent terrorism from benefiting from the assistance and organisational and economic support of criminal organisations.
We have to appeal to the Member States who do not yet have any ships there to take part in a joint marine operation.
We also need to provide protection and escorts for the World Food Programme vessels, because on 27 September Canada will be finishing its mandate and we still do not have a country to take over.
The case of the Playa de Bakio is perhaps one of the best known, at least in Spain, but it is obviously not the only one.
Personally I am also concerned by something else, which I would like to mention: the reports that we sometimes receive of foreign boats, some of which are perhaps European, that are taking advantage of this situation of lack of control in order to fish unlawfully in one of the richest fishing grounds in the area, or even to use it as a dumping ground for hazardous substances, which the Federal Government is also not in a position to control.
I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we need to act initially at national level, as France has done in an exemplary manner, with the protection of international law and in an effective way, which was exemplary.
Obviously we demand that certain Member States do not have a deficit, but these are the same Member States who are always asked to provide protection because they have the means to do so.
For several years I have been saying here in the European Parliament that the situation in the Indian Ocean, the situation off the coast of Somalia for European fishermen and for vessels that operate and work there is unsustainable, and there has not been a great deal of response.
I have the impression that we are trying to react in an ad hoc frantic manner in order to legitimise something that will have very, very long-term international ramifications.
We shall be analysing this keenly, and in the second week in October we shall hopefully reach a rather more businesslike conclusion more helpful to people in the region. (ES) I have just attended a meeting of the Long Distance Fleet Regional Advisory Council, and I could see the enormous concern for the fate of 51 vessels and around 1 500 crew of the Community tuna fleet that fishes in the Indian Ocean.
In addition to what has been said about the Strait of Malacca, in addition to Somalia, we are now receiving reports from the fishing fleet about piracy in the Mozambique Channel and in areas of India and the Caribbean.
The meeting of European Foreign Affairs Ministers on 15 September produced results that I felt were quite significant.
We ought to be informed directly.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like thank you for this debate of a very high standard.
We should be able to make a decision on whether to continue planning a naval operation under the European Security and Defence Policy in early October.
Of course, we must then also work to understand - and here again the Commission can play a very important role - what lies behind piracy, what the links are with fundamentalism and with terrorism; what the points of strength are, what the reasons are.
