Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 18 January 2001.
Announcements by the President Ladies and gentlemen, on 26 January, ETA claimed another victim in a bomb attack in San Sebastian, which cost the life of Ramon Díez García, an army cook, and injured two other people.
Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to observe a minute' s silence. (The House rose and observed a minute' s silence) Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to make.
The order states that Mr Le Pen should rejoin Parliament and, of course, it is my responsibility to apply this court decision immediately.
Furthermore, I have asked the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market for an opinion on what action the European Parliament should take in respect of this matter.
Indeed, the House must be aware that, on the pretext of a trivial incident occurring during the election campaign, the Socialist-Communist Government elected several days later has, for three years, flouting all legal principles, conducted a veritable witch hunt against me with a view to ridding themselves of a political adversary in Parliament, even though I had the mandate of millions of voters.
It is, I believe, this fumus persecutionis, in combination with the violations of the law and of parliamentary immunity, primarily, which led the Court to make its ruling.
Thank you, Mr Dupuis.
You will no doubt know that the system of proportional representation was used for the first time in the UK in the last European elections and the people who voted in these elections voted for a party whose views they agreed with, not for an individual.
Madam President, Rule 2 of our Rules of Procedure says that we all sit here as individuals, not as agents of political parties and we do not take orders from outside. (Applause from the centre and left) The essence of democracy is that individuals have guaranteed rights against the state.
I call on Mr Newton Dunn to resign.
Although this British debate is very diverting, Mr Helmer, we do have an extremely important Commission communication on economic and social cohesion.
Madam President, it is the case that, although the United Kingdom electoral system is a list system, the names of those on the list appear in the order in which electors are invited to vote for them.
Thank you, Mrs Frahm.
We therefore need to make a much greater effort than might be considered necessary, because the situation has been truly exceptional.
Madam President, I too would like to express an opinion on the issue raised by Mrs Frahm.
Madam President, as a Basque MEP, I would like to express my rejection and condemnation of the terrorism and violence of ETA.
I would also like to express my condolences to the family of Ramón García and to all the families of victims of terrorism and violence.
You have presented us with the anti-terrorist agreement drafted by Spain' s Popular Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party.
It does not offer any valid proposal to resolve the political conflict in the Basque Country.
Madam President, two days ago, after the announcement concerning the pardons for 14 torturers and the medal awarded to the former head of the political police of San Sebastian, Amnesty International concluded and I quote: "The award of pardons and honours for torturers sends out a clear message.
In its June 1999 report, Amnesty International stated its belief that there is a climate of impunity in Spain.
I am sure he is not, because, as he knows, the Basque region has the highest degree of self-government of any European region.
However, I would like to ask him whether that document also talks about the statements by the leader of his party when he said to ETA: "Do not kill the cooks, kill the powers that be" .
The whole of this Parliament is therefore in a position to consider itself a victim of ETA.
Madam President, Parliament knows, because we have said it many times and today we have explained it to some of you, that in presenting and defending an agreement in favour of freedoms and against terrorism in the Basque Country, we are defending and presenting an agreement which goes beyond the merely political field, since it is an agreement in defence of freedoms, in defence of life, in defence of pluralism.
We will always continue to defend the right of any citizen of the Basque Country, whether they are in favour of autonomy or of independence, to be able to move around our country without escorts.
Madam President, I wish to speak briefly, following the latest speeches by the representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party and Euskal Herritarrok, to express my solidarity and agreement with the statement you have made, Madam President, on behalf of the European Parliament, in defence of democracy and peace in Spain.
Our main problem in Spain is terrorism, and fascist positions such as those of Euskal Herritarrok are a threat to peace in Spain and in Europe.
Economic and social cohesion The next item is the Commission communication on economic and social cohesion.
I presented this report pursuant to Article 159 of the Treaty, with which you are familiar, just as Monica Wulf-Mathies did in 1996.
The complete report, ladies and gentlemen, will be available as of this evening on the Internet, along with all the appended maps and statistics pertaining thereto.
That is why in this report we identified a third group of countries, which will include the eight poorest candidate countries, which will comprise 16% of the population of the enlarged Union, where the per capita income is approximately only 40% of the Community average.
Of the 105 million inhabitants of the candidate countries, 98 million will be living in regions where the level of GDP per inhabitant is less than 75% of the average in the enlarged Union.
The regions currently covered by Objective 1 are still in difficulty, even if there has been some progress.
Per capita income in these regions has moved closer to the Community average.
Unemployment stands at more than 20% in some regions, regions which have for a considerable length of time been left out in terms of progress due to their remote nature and depopulation, and the employment rate for women is 19 percentage points below that of men.
Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, cohesion policy must continue to be the key element in the European Union' s societal model.
One of these thoughts is based on the experience gained over more than ten years of cohesion policy, and leads me to think that there are matters that are more crucial and more serious than others for the development of our territories.
The first is that we must continue to prioritise support for the regions lagging the furthest behind in development terms, for future Member States but also for current EU Member States.
My second conviction is that the regions lagging behind in development are not the only ones facing problems to which we must find solutions.
Whatever the level of structural expenditure, the key thing is that the content of other Community policies should also promote cohesion, as the Treaty recommends.
We shall be much more precise in the third report in 2004, which will be issued very shortly before the time when decisions are taken on the new agenda.
I merely consider that this debate on cohesion policy and this report testify to the fact that cohesion policy has been effective and useful, in accordance with the goals of the Treaty.
This debate on cohesion forms part of the broader debate on the future of the European Union which was initiated in Nice and in which we are going to take part.
You may count on us in the next three years leading up to the new intergovernmental conference in 2004 in the matter of this broader debate and of the specific debate on our concept of the European Union, the concept of the level of solidarity between nations and territories.
Commissioner, as Chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I have to say that the report on cohesion is indeed an excellent basis for discussion and I trust that we shall be holding this discussion in the Committee on Regional Policy very soon and that it will be a very global discussion.
I therefore think that we need to concentrate resources, we need to make better use of resources, we need to call for better administration both on the part of the Commission and of the Member States and regions; however, that must not cause us to forget one basic fact: that more people will want a slice of the cake after enlargement and as far as I am concerned, Commissioner, it is vital that we increase the size of the cake, that we increase the resources of the Structural Funds after 2006.
I should point out to the House that if the twelve candidate countries were to actually join the European Union right now, then the mean GDP for the Community would drop by 18 points.
We are going to have to find some solution for these regions which would thereby be placed automatically above the Community mean.
Madam President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for the open manner in which he chose to present his report in plenary.
Quite simply, Mrs McCarthy, let me share my personal conviction that we shall not achieve solidarity and cohesion in Europe simply by counting on the laws of the market, on supply and demand or on a simple tax transfer policy.
That is why I shall fight to ensure that we continue to have public intervention in Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like, on behalf of my group, to thank you warmly for your excellent report.
The current system will actually remain in force until the year 2006.
The first option is to continue to apply the strict threshold of 75% of Community GDP which is the current threshold below which regions are eligible for Objective 1 status, and therefore a greater concentration of appropriations.
The second option is to link this 75% threshold with a phasing-out policy over a set period, supported by a substantial amount of money, in order to facilitate the transition for regions which, post-enlargement, would suddenly find themselves above that threshold.
The fourth option is to have two thresholds, one for regions currently within the Union and one for the regions of countries joining the Union.
In the report I even mentioned the fact that for the countries which are currently in the greatest difficulty within the European Union, the regions lagging furthest behind in development, it would take another generation to reduce this gap.
I pointed out that it would take roughly, and I can only make a rough prediction, two generations for the countries scheduled to join us in approximately 2004-2005.
My specific question is therefore: is enlargement possible without an additional effort on the part of the European Union - from the moment of the first accessions - above and beyond this budgetary reserve?
Secondly, Commissioner, I must say that there is disquiet in certain European regions and some of your replies do not provide any comfort, although it is true that we are in a context of a very rapid dialogue.
However, for this very reason I believe it is necessary to specify something else.
We are only launching the debate.
All these EU regions have received guarantees until 2006.
I have endeavoured to tell the truth, because we cannot make speeches on enlargement and the enlarged European Union, integrating the closely related peoples of Eastern Europe, without looking at the figures as they stand.
Yet I did not want to wait until 2005 before telling the truth and asking the questions which have to be asked of the Commission proposals, when the time comes, by the Heads of State and Government and by Parliament.
Mr President, this debate is our opportunity for a proper discussion on the issues facing us.
My question is quite simple.
Now, in all honesty, I am a little concerned about this reasoning on averages, for it may be that the problem of income distribution will highlight regions which we could induce - although I do not know how - to contribute a little more to the overall financing of the system in view of the enlargement process.
I want us to discuss solidarity and to reach agreement on our political objectives.
So, discussing the money involved at this stage would be a poor way of opening the discussion.
I therefore feel that this form of redistribution is quite fair and quite efficient.
Poverty, of the kind we have right next door to us, as in the countries of Eastern Europe or Albania or the Balkan states, always leads to the same outcome.
It is therefore in our own interest, quite apart from moral or political concerns, to undertake this enlargement and to pay the price for sharing progress.
I must also thank you for giving me this opportunity to say that this debate must also prove that in the great challenge of enlargement there are more opportunities than risks.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have not yet had the opportunity to read the report, but the first report on cohesion clearly showed that the common agricultural policy was not contributing to cohesion in the European Union.
The Agenda 2000 reform was limited to maintaining the status quo in the CAP.
And finally, my last question: surely the current situation forces us to contemplate redefining the Financial Perspective before 2006?
Together with other MEPs, I have just attended the World Social Forum in Porto Alegre, where it was clearly shown that with the problem of globalisation we are entering a new era, in which the European Union must play a fundamental role in the world.
This problem of world social balance must form part of our economic policy and, since you referred to it, I would like to ask you what the European Union is going to do in this respect, because this is clearly going to have an influence on our internal economic problems and also on our budgetary problems.
Secondly, Commissioner, I would like to ask you: to what extent do you consider it fair that States, such as Spain, which still receive cohesion funds, are considering zero deficit as an economic policy, at the risk of... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, thank you very much Commissioner, you mentioned that we will also require new rules for enlargement, and probably more money too.
Mr President, I want to thank the Commissioner for using the word solidarity in connection with this report.
We might continue to discuss possibilities, Mrs Darras, but I should like to point out that we are not too far off the real situation when we work on the basis of the standard of living, of per capita GDP, because it can be observed that where there is the lowest standard of living there is also the highest rate of unemployment, the worst environmental conditions, and the lowest levels of Internet access.
Mr Nogueira, I do not have sufficient time to take part in a debate on globalisation.
I even, as you identified earlier, mentioned the new context of cohesion policy associated with globalisation, which constitutes the risk which Jacques Delors and others clearly identified fifteen years ago, and which impelled them to propose this cohesion policy.
In the same single market, there is a risk that wealth, trade and people will continue to be concentrated in the same locations and that the poorest regions are impoverished and marginalised further.
That is why I think we do indeed need a cohesion policy and support for cohesion in future.
I wonder, for example, about the sense and usefulness of the Brussels-driven zoning for Objective 2, in which I am required to officially specify, in agreement with the Member States, whether every individual district, community or village is or is not to receive Objective 2 status.
I do not think that all this bureaucracy is particularly useful, and that is why Objective 2 policy, concerning regions other than the most underdeveloped, could be simpler and more decentralised, with instruments subordinated to Community policies or to regional development, the urban areas, mountainous regions, island regions, border regions or cross-sector objectives such as social cohesion and the fight against poverty.
Mrs Hedkvist-Petersen, thank you for pointing out the importance of the term 'solidarity' .
The title that we wanted to give this report, ladies and gentlemen, is "European Unity, solidarity between nations, regional diversity" , and, as you will see when you read it in detail, I was careful to stress - since this was a concern of mine - the need to coordinate Community policies with regional development and cohesion, particularly in terms of research or the social agenda while noting that Member States and national governments will, of course, retain their jurisdiction on social policy.
In other words, we have put forward proposals which will give all the countries of the Mediterranean the same dignity and the same opportunity for development in a new multi-faceted relationship with an increasingly large and more complex Europe, a relationship that will have to fight for its international credibility in the tough competition with the whole of the rest of the industrialised world.
This is why Europe as a whole, not just Mediterranean Europe, to which, as an Italian, I have the honour to belong, must now recognise its strategy on the East and on the South and its commitment to these regions as absolutely essential, and confirm that if healthy, lasting progress is to be achieved, the requirements of the economy must go hand in hand with human dignity.
Mr President, last November, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy appointed me as rapporteur on the Commission communication entitled 'Reinvigorating the Barcelona Process' .
In its text, the Commission once again sets out the three main goals of EU-Mediterranean policy, namely: the creation of an area of peace and stability, the creation of an area of shared prosperity through the progressive establishment of free trade and, finally, the improvement of mutual understanding amongst the peoples of the region and the development of an active civil society.
As regards the creation of an area of peace and stability, the European Union does not carry much political clout, despite the fact that in the countries of the South there is a genuine demand for Europe.
As to the development of an active civil society, it may be said that the people who actually benefit from the MEDA programmes are mainly those who had previous contact with Europe or who have close links with governments.
Finally, the programmes for decentralised cooperation, which are supposed to enable representatives of civil society from both sides of the Mediterranean to meet for the purpose of devising joint projects, have been frozen since 1995.
In my view, the grand vision of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership which was inaugurated in Barcelona in November 1995 has now given way to a negotiating process which lacks any genuine political will.
This is why I feel that, in coming years, migration is going to represent a crucial aspect of our relations with these countries.
Immigrants contribute to the development of the country of origin.
In this vein, I would also suggest setting up a monitoring centre on migration to study migration flows with a view to presenting proposals to the European Union.
My fourth point is that we also have to reform the management of the MEDA programme.
The deadlock in the Middle East peace process is an obstacle to any sub-regional dynamic, be it economic, social and/or cultural.
I think the Commission should take this situation into account.
Mr President, as draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport on the Barcelona Process, I would like to communicate some of the concerns and suggestions which have been unanimously approved in committee.
Culture, therefore, is one of the factors which is most easily accessible, closest to hand, most developed and which has accumulated the most experience in the field of Mediterranean development, which means that it can be closely linked to communication between people and can continue to open doors.
Furthermore, the only way in which we can spread our ideas about human rights is by creating a better trained and better educated population.
We are therefore not talking about clichés, but about reality.
Another point that also concerns us is the way in which the Commission adapts to the philosophy and circumstances of the countries towards which the aid is directed.
We played a major part in the discussion on the MEDA activity report that I presented on 5 September 2000, which was adopted almost unanimously by Parliament, as was, moreover, the amendment of the MEDA Regulation (MEDA II).
In political terms, the presidency wishes to promote democracy and human rights, social and economic progress and progress on environmental matters and, in addition, equality and the struggle against various forms of discrimination.
The presidency is therefore going to arrange a meeting involving the 27 countries' trade ministers.
To some extent, the way matters stand in the peace process has restricted the potential for progress, but other factors too have had a part to play.
The cutback in the MEDA programme, for reasons which I see as excuses, and delays in the partnership processes are alarming.
We call for decisive reversal of the trend; we also call for resolute commitment to the Mediterranean peace process between Israelis and Palestinians, and not just between these two peoples but in the entire area, to tackle the problems of the Lebanon, Syria, Iraq and Iran, so that all this can bring peace and tranquillity to that region of the world.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteurs and point out that this debate has brought progress in Parliament's position on the issue of the Mediterranean policy, progress which is extremely important because, apart from anything else, over and above the differences between political groups, I can see that we have common ground on this matter which adds to our strength and the strength of the European institutions.
The Union's Euro-Mediterranean strategy is just as important as its strategy on enlargement to include the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, but we have outlined a path to follow for enlargement whereas we are still searching for a strategy for the Mediterranean policy, even though we have the partnership established by Barcelona behind us and despite the region's numerous problems, starting with the continual conflict.
We must therefore always bear in mind that the agreement must be based, first and foremost, on understanding and dialogue between the Palestinians and Israelis.
We must never forget that the United Nations exists but that, within that framework, there is room for a European initiative, and my opinion is that, at the moment, there is room for a European initiative in the Western Sahara issue and that we could put an end to this last colonial battle.
This places us in a position where we can have dialogue with these countries, tackling the question of a Euro-Mediterranean citizenship where human rights issues are not a question of us interfering in their affairs but of the common need to establish values which are at the basis of the kind of peaceful coexistence we want.
Our Moroccan friends remind us that agriculture means keeping people in the countryside, maintaining employment and protecting the environment.
Let us therefore avoid superficiality and undue haste in developing strategies on sectors where we need to progress in a partnership which does not harm these countries.
More specifically, I would like to highlight some positive aspects which have been introduced, particularly in the field of human rights, and more especially an amendment from our group which asks for condemnation of the death penalty and a moratorium on pending executions.
On a different issue, I would also like to express our confidence in the impetus that the amendments provide in the regional and local field and to civil society, especially to private investment as a genuine driving force for development, over and above state aid and European aid at the highest level.
However, I would like to make two observations in relation to the debates which we have held in committee and in our group.
The foreseeable change in income, bearing in mind current demography and economic growth, indicates that our average per capita income will rise and the average per capita income in North Africa will decrease and, unless this is prevented, the problems we all envisage, and which there is no need to mention, will increase.
Clearly, we need will and we need resources, but, in fact, resources are not being used; and this means that there is insufficient capacity for management on our part, and there is insufficient capacity for absorption on the part of the receiving countries.
I hope that these reports will help us to find the correct method, but quite honestly I am not convinced they will.
Mr President, I am going to focus on an aspect of the common strategy for the Mediterranean region which is not being taken into account in all respects: the South-South dialogue, which is an important driving force within the strategy for relations between the European Union and the Maghreb countries.
The creation of centralised authorities and mechanisms which thoroughly monitor the most pressing problems is essential.
The management of projects on specific points and on common aspects is a need which has become a real one in relation to cases in which, on a private level, citizens and cities from both sides of the Straits of Gibraltar have been cooperating with wonderful results and without Community patronage.
Immigration, its causes and consequences - which are sometimes terrible and irreparable - business, agricultural and fishing exchanges, social, technical, educational and university exchanges, aspects of common development, such as those in the energy sector, and the essential democratising political aspects which the European Union must promote in those countries all require the creation of new mechanisms and instruments which, in a decentralised fashion, would respond to these needs, which are local but which have widespread repercussions.
The future of the very concept of a partnership lies not in adjusting the needs of these populations to the market forces at work in the North and to our personal ambitions, but instead in ensuring their own development and resolving their urgent issues.
Enabling cooperation agreements, particularly through public services, seeking other financial resources, by introducing a Tobin-style tax, for example, and reducing or even writing off debt would give real substance to a fair and useful partnership.
The same applies to human rights.
To sum up, in order to create an area of peace in the Middle East, the European Union needs to take much more direct and resolute action.
From now on, the United Nations resolutions must be applied in full, Israel must respect its commitments and we must recognise the Palestinians' legitimate right to their own state.
The same problem - I am about to finish - can be seen in the Western Sahara, where there is a risk that armed conflict will be resumed.
So this report puts foreign policy back into context.
Therefore, the rapporteur and my good friend, Mr Naïr, are both justified in denouncing Europe' s lack of commitment to the Mediterranean region and Middle Eastern affairs.
According to the rapporteurs, our relationship with candidate countries, in particular, has led to the neglect of the southern countries, and that must now be put right.
Indeed, the European Union could very well be of significance, especially in the economic sense, but also when it comes to the problem of refugees.
Mr President, as the representative of a country that once had direct access to the Mediterranean, I would like to convey my express support for fostering better relations between the EU and the Mediterranean region, and accordingly, for this report.
It is not just a political, but also a historical commitment we must make.
Needless to say, the EU' s activities with regard to securing peace in the Mediterranean, especially in relation to the centre of conflict in the Middle East, constitute a special responsibility, which, sadly, the representatives and members of the European Union, and particularly their foreign policy representatives, have been unequal to in the past.
That said, there are also other reasons besides the security aspects, as to why it is important for the EU to play a more active role in the Mediterranean region.
The EU cannot, nor should it, spare any expense in the social and cultural spheres, in supporting democratic developments, in intervening in the event of human rights violations, in promoting economic development, and in improving dialogue and cooperation in as many areas as possible, if it wants to see discernible progress.
Mr President, as we can deduce from the speeches by the rapporteurs, and at this stage it is hardly necessary to repeat it, the Mediterranean region must be one of the European Union' s highest priorities, because the problems of the southern Mediterranean - the political upheavals, the economic stagnation, the population growth - affect us, directly or indirectly, as Europeans.
In summary, balance on our southern border is essential to our stability.
It is therefore important that we share the view that the Union' s natural desire for enlargement towards Central and Eastern Europe must not lead to a deterioration of its policy towards the Mediterranean.
Therefore, while in 1995 my group supported and strongly promoted the open process in Barcelona which, at last, after almost 40 years, drew up a global strategy for the Community countries in relation to the Mediterranean countries, it now supports the objective contained in the reports which we are debating today to strengthen the Barcelona Process.
We have insisted on the importance of strengthening interparliamentary dialogue, which must be consolidated as one of the key elements in boosting the Barcelona Process.
We would like to point out that we should promote the liberalisation of the economic systems of our Mediterranean partners and carry out the structural changes necessary to compete in more open markets.
In summary, my group is in favour of the European Union playing a broader role in the Mediterranean and we hope that human and material resources are provided that are a match for the challenges facing us.
Mr President, the idea that the Mediterranean is the number one priority of European Union external policy stems from the conviction that, although the Mediterranean is no longer the centre of the world, each and every one of the great contradictions and challenges of the twenty-first century are concentrated there.
The Mediterranean provides a dramatic example of the issue of war and peace.
The issue of North-South relations is spectacularly alive in the Mediterranean.
The very fashionable issue of the clash of cultures or dialogue between cultures is symbolised by the Mediterranean.
The emergence of xenophobia and racism, or tolerance and multiculturalism, is most intensely illustrated in the Mediterranean.
The question of democracy and human rights or authoritarianism is alive in the Mediterranean and will continue to be so in the coming years.
The issue of regional responses to the challenges of globalisation is being raised in the Mediterranean.
The issue of women' s emancipation or repression is also at its most intense in the Mediterranean region.
There is no need to insist therefore that this is our fundamental priority, because the prospects for its future remain completely open, while enlargement will take time, it will have its costs and its problems, but the only reasonable outcome that anyone can imagine is that it will eventually take place.
In the Mediterranean, a 'sandbelt' or a 'slumbelt' may be created in the twenty-first century, and both issues are dramatically highlighted.
Nevertheless, if anything is lacking today, it is symbolic specific action, a strong signal that the Union, the Council, the Commission and Parliament, are truly interested in this relaunch, which goes beyond words and speeches.
In this regard, I would like to draw attention to an aspect of Sami Naïr' s report: the need to create strong initiatives in the fields of South-South trade and for subregional integration or integration in the southern Mediterranean region.
This message must make a genuine contribution to this renewal of the will for integration which, above all in the Maghreb, is a cause for hope at the moment and which must count on an ambitious and also generous contribution from the Union.
And it is towards this integrated, well-structured system that we must endeavour to direct our funds, a system which is already equipped with transport intermodality in the form of aircraft, railways and motorways.
We have not created an area of shared prosperity either, only the very beginnings of a free-trade area involving some of the countries, established on European terms, because the main beneficiaries of these are the industrial products in which we have a competitive advantage.
The new common strategy goes even further in the same direction; it even tries to involve the Mediterranean countries in the aggressive CFSP.
The Communist Party of Greece defends collaboration between people on equal terms and without one country's interfering in the internal affairs of another.
Poorly managed programmes, maladministration, even a certain lack of clear thinking and political timeliness have prevented us from making what is - I am sure - the will of our institutions a practical reality, that is from achieving the three objectives focused on at Barcelona: an area of peace and stability, an area of shared prosperity through free trade and greater understanding between peoples.
Mr President, the Barcelona Process is a splendid idea, only strictly speaking it is 2000 years overdue.
Seen from a historical perspective, the ruling structures were always constructed in such a way as to produce a North-South divide, and now it is only right that Europe, whose countries - or rather, certain European States from within this system - were almost always the beneficiaries, should also take responsibility for rapprochement and parity, and should promote these aspects too.
They have already been mentioned in the debate: from illegal immigration to droughts, from external debt to the failure to respect human rights, and terrorism, which ruthlessly destroys the lives of innocent human beings and families, as we are seeing in Spain, in Algeria and in the Middle East itself.
Neither the European Union nor the Maghreb or Mashreq countries can afford not to take advantage of the human and cultural resources that enrich the region.
The financial instruments are not being used as they should and the political, economic and social development of those countries is not keeping up with the pace of horizontal cooperation, which is very necessary, nor with the modernity required today by a world which, technologically speaking, is taking giant steps forward.
It is time to move from contemplation to action, to demand performance and effectiveness in the efforts to implement the strategy which has been drawn up and, in this respect, I would like to emphasise the demand for human resources to be strengthened, as indicated by Mr Galeote.
We must realise that the starting point for today's debate, based on the two reports, based on the decisions taken in Barcelona, is to see the other side of the Mediterranean as part of Europe.
Mr President, the Barcelona Process was not lacking in good intentions or financial resources.
Instead of a reduction in the means, this will now lead to an increase, which is a little bizarre, to say the least.
We have a very long way to go before a free-trade area is established.
The economies of the partner countries are still very vulnerable.
The Barcelona Process can only succeed if the Mediterranean partners continue to work on democratisation.
The question is whether the report' s many sound wishes can all be realised at the same time.
Mr President, the Mediterranean is the cradle of European civilisation.
The legacy of ancient Egypt, Greece and Rome shaped our culture, our literature, our very understanding of the common European heritage.
Our debt to the Mediterranean is not only historical and cultural, it informs our common interest today in enlargement.
I very much hope that the Mediterranean programme and the enlargement process may be seen as complementary and not conflicting.
An example of North-South solidarity was when Prime Minister Aznar attended the Gdansk commemoration celebrating the foundation of the Solidarnosc movement.
Finally, concerning paragraph 54 of the Naïr report, could the Commissioner also confirm that the two Mediterranean candidate countries might be able to participate in the Euromed Heritage programme.
The Barcelona Process should not be held hostage to the Middle East peace process.
Quite the opposite; the continuing tensions and the state of war between the Israeli and Palestinian people serve only to highlight the current need to improve dialogue between the countries bordering the Mediterranean.
Furthermore, we cannot continue investing just one euro in the South for every 10 we invest in the East.
In my opinion, if this is true the performance of the MEDA programme cannot be taken as the benchmark, although I am convinced that careful evaluation of its results would shed a different light on things, but there are three lines to be explored: firstly, increasing mutual understanding through decentralised cooperation, which can be strongly encouraged; secondly, a training programme for the ruling classes of the Mediterranean, which Europe must involve in order to guarantee itself a better future; thirdly, defining sustainable sea transport policies in the Mediterranean, which will become a central point either of danger or of major development for both northern and southern sides of the Basin.
Mr President, we all stressed, both today and yesterday, the importance that we attach to Mediterranean policy and to the need to urgently reinvigorate the Barcelona Process, which is all too often disregarded.
As the rapporteur on Egypt, I sincerely hope that we can take this opportunity to encourage the other partners who have not yet signed up to an agreement to do so as soon as possible.
We could also, perhaps, improve the organisation of Parliament' s regular participation in ministerial meetings between the Barcelona Process members.
We are all convinced that the future of the Union's Mediterranean strategy depends largely on the success of the Middle East peace policy, which we must be more zealous in supporting even though it is the United States which is at the forefront of this political initiative.
The success of the Euro-Mediterranean project and the concrete results of economic cooperation between the European Union and the countries of the area should benefit the peace policy.
I would also like to start my speech by informing Parliament - I believe this is good news - about the MEDA programme, with which perhaps some of you are already familiar.
On 12 December the Council approved a budgetary contribution in this regard, which represents an increase of 10% on the annual investment for the MEDA programme.
This means that, compared to the EUR 684 million used during the previous period, that annual contribution will now total EUR 764 million per year.
I believe that this demonstrates the goodwill that dominates relations between Parliament, the Commission and the Council in this field.
On the other hand - and unfortunately - we must note, however, that sufficient means are not being made available to find an appropriate destination for this aid, since, in the period 1995-1999, almost 30% of the budgeted aid was not implemented.
Neither must we forget dialogue, as well as the promotion of fundamental rights.
Finally, I would like to say one thing: we have an obligation to do this well, because if we do not do it out of love, we will have to do it out of fear, because what is at stake is the security of southern Europe.
Mr President, it is very appropriate that we are debating these two very good reports only a few days before the Euro-Med Forum, which is due to sit next week.
Various speakers have mentioned the importance of that forum, which must be raised over the coming years if we are to get the Barcelona Process back on track and expanding.
The report mentions that is due to poor administration and procedures within the Commission.
I expect to see a better relationship between Parliament and the Commission in the interest of all the countries in the southern Mediterranean area.
Allow me to comment briefly on some of the interesting contributions to this debate.
We believe, then, that these association agreements are not only of great importance to trade and economic integration but are also an important political platform.
Mention might be made, for example, of the so-called Euro-Islam project and the so-called Stockholm Conclusions from 1998, which provide guidelines for continued work in a long list of areas within this dialogue.
The Mediterranean is our near abroad, on our southern flank, so it should enjoy a very special place in our external relations.
The objectives agreed at Barcelona remain fundamentally valid and they are increasingly relevant: working together for peace and stability, creating shared prosperity through establishing free trade, providing the economic and financial assistance to meet the challenges which that implies, and helping to improve mutual understanding and tolerance among peoples of different cultures and different traditions.
We therefore worked very hard on a Commission communication on reinvigorating the Barcelona Process, which in turn provided the main input for the Euro-Mediterranean Foreign Ministers' meeting in Marseilles last November where our ideas were overwhelmingly endorsed.
With the permission of the House, I will address points arising from both reports in this context rather than dealing with each report separately.
First, let me look at the political situation in the region, which we are going to debate in a few moments' time.
Both reports note the considerable significance of the Middle East peace process for European Union policy in the Mediterranean.
I note the calls in both reports for the European Union to play a more active role in the peace process.
I would like, without reservation, to thank the House - to thank this part of the budgetary authority - and also to thank the Council for their assistance in ensuring that we could make that cash facility available before Christmas.
In the meantime - and here I also echo comments made in both the reports that we are considering - we should not wait for the charter to be in force to make more efforts to promote respect for human rights and democratic freedoms in the region.
Our communication is unequivocal on this subject.
The European Union should use all appropriate fora to press for progress on these issues.
I very much welcome Parliament' s backing on this and I hope that the Council will also react positively.
In due course we also need to tackle the issue of agricultural trade.
We want all countries signing an association agreement with us to conclude free-trade agreements among themselves within five years.
The development of subregional trade needs to be accompanied by greater subregional cooperation.
We must introduce accumulation of origin for all partners establishing free trade between themselves and adopting the harmonised protocol on rules of origin.
All this, together with the support we give to our partners under MEDA, will increase the attractiveness of the region to investors.
Both reports rightly pay much attention to the need to improve MEDA, which one or two of the speakers who are still present in the Chamber mentioned during their remarks.
The important thing now is to see that this money is used effectively in terms both of the quality of our actions in relation to the policy objectives and of actual payments on the ground.
This will promote education and training, the enhancement of the role of women and social security systems as well as actions on health.
Decentralised cooperation is to be welcomed, but not in the sense of relaunching the old Mediterranean decentralised cooperation programmes.
Rather we need to explain more clearly to civil society - whether NGOs, local authorities or other groups - that our programmes are open to their participation and they only need to organise themselves to respond to our calls for proposals.
Good examples of this already exist in our sectoral regional cooperation programmes, for example on the environment, the cultural heritage and MEDA democracy.
I warmly welcome Parliament' s activities in this respect through international contacts at all levels.
I am only sorry that I will not be able to attend the forum on 8 and 9 February, but I am on a troika visit on those two days.
I hope Parliament will understand.
So, as far as we are concerned in the Commission, we do not want to make the same old speeches, we do not want to go on the same old roundabouts of meetings and summits and conferences and bilateral agreements.
We want to complete all the association agreements and get them ratified and we have a good chance of completing at least another two association agreements this year; I would hope for the lot.
I hope that in future debates in Parliament - as well attended from beginning to end as this one has been, at least in part - we will be able to chart our progress in what must be one of the priorities for the external actions of the European Union.
Situation in the Middle East The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in the Middle East.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the Israeli election for prime minister on 6 February, the peace process in the Middle East is at an uncertain stage.
During the negotiations in Taba, the parties came closer than ever before to a negotiated solution.
The Israeli election for prime minister and the forthcoming formation of a government will be important factors in determining the future direction of the peace process.
The EU has an important role to play in as much as we are the most important trading partner of practically all the countries in the area, as well as the largest donor of public aid to the Palestinian areas.
Throughout, these contacts have taken place in close collaboration with the High Representative and the General Secretary of the UN.
In a statement of 22 January, the General Affairs Council called upon Israel to resume these transfers.
Madam President, I would like very briefly to try to add some more specific elements, from a political point of view, to the speech which the presidency has just made.
The first is what will the political scene in Israel be like after the elections on 6 February?
The second, which the presidency also mentioned, is how can this cycle of violence that we have witnessed over recent months be brought to an end?
And the third, and perhaps most important, is what direction must we give to the peace process in 2001?
The year 2000 was a year of hope.
Certain significant measures were adopted in relation to Syria.
Unfortunately, however, 2000 ended without us being able to achieve peace.
Let us do everything possible so that 2001 might truly be the year in which we do achieve it.
The current situation is, of course, still very fluid.
I must tell you that I spent this very morning in Stockholm holding a meeting with the Swedish prime minister and President-in-Office of the Council and the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Many initiatives are taking place at the moment; initiatives which we hope will bring success, with the possibility of a final and definitive summit before the elections of 6 February.
I believe that there is still the possibility that this summit will take place, and also the possibility that it may take place in Europe.
I believe that the meetings which took place in Taba, as the presidency has said, have been without doubt - according to all the participants - the most substantial negotiations we have ever had.
From the security point of view, I believe that a good agreement can be reached, accepting that there can be three early warning stations and that, along the Jordan Valley, international forces can be deployed to guarantee stability.
However, there is still a desire to make progress and to reach a definitive solution on Jerusalem.
They have postponed that issue in order to find specific and practical solutions to specific and practical problems, such as international committees, how to find resources in the different countries to help in that direction, etc.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is still reason to be hopeful that we may either reach a definitive agreement - a faint hope, to be honest, since there is little chance of reaching a definitive agreement by Sunday - or that we may gain an explicit commitment from both sides on a range of parameters so that, whatever the situation in Israel and the territories after 6 February, there will always be a range of commitments that have been agreed on, accepted by both sides, which means that we will not have to start the next negotiations practically from scratch.
I can tell you that, on the part of the European Union, all the successive Presidencies, with no doubt whatsoever, are going to maintain a commitment which is not only political but also personal.
It is also important to highlight the constructive behaviour of the countries in the region.
There are going to be difficult moments, without doubt, after the elections; there will be uncertainties and we will need to continue to have - as we Europeans have always had - the determination to continue supporting this peace process.
From other points of view - from the economic point of view - the presidency has already explained what we are doing.
I am sure the Commission will also do so.
I would like to say a few words also about the committee of enquiry, the committee which arose from the Sharm el-Sheikh meeting.
The committee has worked well for some time but, as of a week ago, the Israeli Government decided to break contact with it until after the elections.
Therefore, although there is still a team from the committee still deployed on the ground, we members of the committee as such will not go to the territories until 16 February.
Naturally, we all hope for progress in the peace talks.
Naturally, we all believe it would be foolish to speculate on the post-election scenario in Israel.
There have already been a high number of victims because of an excessive use of force and we are deeply worried about the extra-judicial killings perpetrated by Israeli security forces.
The situation has deteriorated further, and staff and patients are prevented from even reaching the hospital.
The security of staff engaged in humanitarian assistance has been severely compromised.
We have asked Israel to end immediately the withholding of revenue payments due to the Palestinian Authority and we have reacted promptly to the crisis by addressing both the humanitarian situation and the precarious budgetary situation of the Palestinian Authority.
In December the Commission provided EUR 15 million in emergency aid, EUR 14.5 million alone to UNWRA in response to its emergency appeal.
In the same spirit, the Commission set up the new cash facility of EUR 90 million which the presidency referred to.
I am very grateful to Parliament and the Council for making that prudential transfer possible before Christmas.
The Palestinian Authority is now facing an ongoing fall in revenue and a rising deficit.
Indeed the European Union and the wider international community have an interest in preserving the economic and institutional framework of the Palestinian Authority, which we have helped to create and which we have helped to fund more generously than any one else.
If the Palestinian Authority collapsed, it would be a very severe blow to prospects for peace in the region, Israeli security would be threatened and our efforts to promote cooperation and stability in the Middle East would be undermined.
That is why both the Palestinian Authority and the international community at large must look beyond the immediate crisis and consider how to deal with the steadily widening gap in Palestinian finances.
There is one other point I should make and I make it with all due delicacy, but I do not think that it is contrary to the experience of honourable Members of this House who have recently been in the region.
Whatever the appalling problems faced by the Palestinian Authority, with which I strongly sympathise, nothing would justify practices that fall below the level of probity that we have the right to expect from any recipient of our funds and that citizens in any community have every right to expect from their governing agencies.
I repeat what I said just now, that we want to do what we can to assist the Palestinian Authority.
I hope very much that the authorities in Israel will end the economic and financial blockade of Palestinian areas because, in the short, the medium and the long term, this will increase instability and sustain the violence.
Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking both the Council and the Commission for their information and comments and by saying that my group is also moderately optimistic - let us hope furthermore that the data indicated by the High Representative proves to be right - at this very sensitive time just a few days before the elections in Israel, and in the midst of a transfer of government in the United States, which will have to rebuild its policy in the region.
However, we must not forget that, up until today, there have been more than 400 deaths as a result of the Intifada, which has taken us back to a situation which we thought we would never see again.
I think it is highly appropriate to link the debates on the Middle East peace process to the new impetus which the European Union is endeavouring to give to the Barcelona Process, as we are doing this afternoon and as Commissioner Patten has done, because surely the greatest contribution Europe can make at the moment to the peace process is to keep alive the spirit of Euro-Mediterranean cooperation, strengthening its vitality and maintaining its development in the face of political pressures.
The European Union has the particular responsibility of consolidating these foundations despite the internal political changes of recent days.
Firstly, the Oslo fundamental agreements still exist and continue to be in force.
Commissioner Patten stated it a moment ago: sick people cannot even get to the European hospital in Gaza because even ambulances cannot get through the barricades.
I returned from the Palestinian territories last Sunday together with a delegation from Parliament.
It is only managing to play a valuable role in the peace process in very small steps.
By maintaining a certain degree of neutrality, Europe could, in fact, make a valuable contribution.
Mr President, if nothing else, last week' s visit of the parliamentary delegation to the Palestinian territories illustrated that over the past four months, the situation has taken a bad turn for the worse.
But this standstill could be a blessing in disguise if the European Union were to use that time to its own advantage.
Local elections are required in order to enhance the legitimacy of the Palestinian Authority.
If the European Union uses this economic position to its advantage, it could well play a political role in future, a political role which does justice to the demands of the region and the interests of the Union itself.
Mr President, in Davos, President Arafat reiterated the need for peace and gave an honest account of the shameful, tragic living conditions of the Palestinian people, who are subjected to violations of human rights by the Israeli army.
This is just one example: Sabrine was born on 24 January at a check point.
Meanwhile, the number of settlers and settlements is increasing every day in what ought to be the State of Palestine, the territories which have been occupied since 1967.
Imports and exports are blocked, and the European Union is witness to that: every day, the Commission in Jerusalem receives notification of the various violations; even civil structures and schools provided by the European Union have been bombed.
Mr Solana is right: Europe is now playing a larger role but it must do much more.
In the face of the Palestinian, Arab or Middle Eastern citizens, who die every day, assassinated by their Saudi or fundamentalist right- or left-wing regimes, assassinated by the firm, historic alliance of Sheikhs and Middle Eastern rulers, who are allied with the great oil multinationals and with you, the more or less communist left; in the face of the situation of the Kurds, which is not just a Turkish problem but also an Iraqi problem and the problem of others as well; in the face of the everyday lives of the Saudi and Palestinian men and women, you are only concerned with them if Israel is involved, and it may have done them some serious damage.
You only acknowledge the existence of the Palestinian people when they further your condemnation of your current permanent enemy, be it the United States of America, Israel or the European Union, which is acting to protect certain values, as it did in the case of Belgrade and Milosevic, as it did throughout the crisis in Yugoslavia.
Israel must become part of the European Union, one of our borders.
Israel does not realise either that it cannot continue to defend itself as a national State, a small bridgehead of democracy but forced for 50 years, more so with each passing day, to risk its own life and peace and the peace of others.
The intention to work in close cooperation with the new American Bush administration within this diplomatic minefield deserves the support of the European Parliament.
This view bears witness to an understanding of the political constraints of the European Union in the Middle East.
The only country which can provide credible security guarantees for both sides is the United States." In its conclusions, the General Council also particularly urges Israelis and Palestinians to make every effort to bring the current negotiations in Taba to a successful end.
Mr President, I would therefore like to hear the view of the Council and Commission on Mr Arafat' s international stance, which was anything but constructive.
At the end of its conclusions, the General Council lectures Israel on its economic and financial policy vis-à-vis the Palestinian Authority.
I take it that the Council and Commission are not applying their own standards of democratic rule of law on a case-by-case basis.
Mr President, the clear stance taken by the Swedish Presidency and Commissioner Patten in this debate have not betrayed my confidence.
Mr President, the European Union can no longer confine itself to observing from afar what is happening on the other side of the Mediterranean and clear its conscience by making mainly generous donations of funds, the use of which it has not always been able to regulate, as Commissioner Patten has just reminded us in so timely a fashion.
This is what you are striving to achieve, Mr Solana, in close collaboration with Mr Moratinos and many of us welcome the work that you have undertaken to this end.
The view of the Group of the European People' s Party, one I am sure is shared by many of the Members in other political groups, is that, through your work, the European Union should be involved, perfectly impartially, in the current Conciliation Procedure in order to enable the expected appeasement that comes before the hoped-for reconciliation to be reached.
Yet, unfortunately, this is not the impression that was recently given by the European Union, when it showed that it was divided in its opinion in the vote within the United Nations General Assembly of 20 October 2000.
Mr President, this debate is one more lesson that teaches us that the word peace means nothing if it is not accompanied by a political gesture, if it is not accompanied by the willingness to take the risk of making a decision.
The action called for is political action, the full, direct assumption of political responsibility in the Middle East peace process.
The European Union, Mr President, must be fully involved in the peace process as more than merely a trading partner or a major contributing country, or it will not be involved at all.
I would remind you of the context which a number of other Members have already illustrated clearly: on the one hand, three United Nations resolutions on territories and displaced persons, disregarded by Israel even in terms of the affirmation of the principles they contain; and, on the other hand, a permanent state of emergency in the Palestinian territories: 120 thousand workers prevented from working, three billion dollars worth of damage already done, salaries only paid to government officials and administrators thanks to the intervention of European Union ready cash, half the civilian population under 18 years old killed.
Today our political duty is to achieve a peace agreement; tomorrow it will be to ensure that the agreement and international law are respected: the Middle East is relying on Europe, Mr President, because it has confidence in Europe.
If we do not believe in Europe ourselves, then their confidence will be of no avail.
Mr President, as some speakers have already said, the timing of this debate is critical, not just for the parties involved but for the European Union too.
Bill Clinton is no longer in office.
President Clinton had made the peace process one of the priorities on his agenda.
Only time will tell how George Bush and Colin Powell now see their role in the Middle East.
This may be Europe' s opportunity to make progress and to play a more prominent political role in this matter, to gain recognition for its voice and its know-how, since we are keen to do more than just bankroll the region.
We know that our aid is vitally necessary for the Palestinians whose economic situation is desperate, but we would like to export much more than just euros.
We have an election for a prime minister which will be crucial in relation to the future of the peace process so we must take care not to be seen as interventionist or interfering.
I ask the House and I ask the Commission and the Council to proceed with caution.
It should be asking Chairman Arafat, for example, why the Palestinians permit in their textbooks the sort of anti-semitism which I hoped we had long put to one side in this world.
So, in small measures and not in large - because the United States must take the lead in these matters - the European Union can play a role, but it should not exaggerate its importance.
Nevertheless, it is now that we have to recharge the batteries of our confidence and increase our efforts.
We are, unfortunately, still in the old situation of 'paying but not playing' .
The actions of Ambassador Moratinos have been magnificent but, in order to be more effective, he needs political support which, unfortunately, he is not being given.
Mr President, we have reached yet another crossroads in the peace process.
A great deal will depend on the forthcoming elections in Israel.
It is a unique moment for the European Union to gain influence and importance during these talks, given the current situation in the United States, where the new administration has probably not been fully established.
It is our duty as the European Union to reinforce our position in the peace talks, in view of the exceptional interests - mainly humanitarian - which are at stake, in view of our geo-strategic position vis-à-vis that region and in view of our important mutual trade relations.
The situation was explosive to an unimaginable degree.
Neither human rights nor fundamental values such as dignity, freedom or democracy, not even the rights to freedom from bodily harm and hygiene are guaranteed and observed.
Mr President, we often use the word 'tragedy' as if we were talking about a natural disaster, such as an earthquake.
To use the word 'tragedy' for situations such as the spread of mad cow disease - which is certainly heading towards disastrous proportions - or for the situation in Palestine is, in my view, inappropriate because, in both cases, specific people are responsible.
The horrific earthquakes that have struck El Salvador or India cannot be compared with the situation of frustration and humiliation suffered by the Palestinians at the moment.
This situation was absurdly aggravated by specific and identifiable people on 29 September on the terraces of the mosques in Jerusalem.
I believe that the provocation by Ariel Sharon in September, which was permitted by the people who could have prevented it, and the hundreds of Palestinian deaths since then, have created a climate in Palestinian society which makes it difficult for President Arafat to accept late - although maybe reasonable - peace proposals which, had they been presented earlier, would, in my view, have lead to an agreement.
Hence, a thorny issue, such as the right to return of the Palestinian refugees, could have been presented by the Palestinian Authority to its own constituents as an issue involving sensitive details which had to be dealt with in conjunction with the Israeli Government on the proviso, of course, that that government agreed, in time, to Palestinian demands that were easier to accept.
Finally, I would like to make a couple of points.
Secondly, I have just returned from a visit by the European Parliament delegation for relations with the Palestinian Legislative Council and I would like to encourage all of those who are able to do so to go to Palestine, to go to Gaza and the West Bank, to go there, to have meetings, to look people in the eye and listen.
Mr President, Members who have been elected to this House have been elected by people of Europe to speak for Europe, to determine what role Europe can play on the international scene.
Therefore, I believe that we in the European Union should take a more active role: supportive - not to replace the Americans in the peace process - but to support and give confidence to both sides that we are a fair, just, impartial broker.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, High Representative, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one honourable Member - he is no longer present in the Chamber - said today that he felt the "role is with the parties themselves" .
Mr President, the situation in the Middle East currently presents us with a paradox.
On the other hand, one of the candidates in the Israeli elections declared the Oslo peace process to be dead in the water.
The requirements that Israel must evacuate the occupied territories, including East Jerusalem, Palestinian refugees must have the right of return, Israel must have the right to live in peace within secure and recognised borders and Palestinians must have the right to their own sovereign, viable and undivided state, whose international borders are open and which is not under military control, are inextricably linked and all these rights must be fulfilled at the same time.
The world community, particularly the European Union, would not allow the fair balance to be upset, putting either party at an advantage or at a disadvantage.
The recurrent theme of the contributions from the majority of the honourable Members is that the European Union must play a greater political role.
The major role we already play in terms of economic cooperation with this conflict-stricken region must be supplemented by a greater political role.
In all humility, I should like to state that, right now, the European Union is playing a greater political role than it has ever done before.
Nonetheless, there is a very strong common desire, noted by the presidency in its contacts with all the other Member States, to work together for a peaceful solution.
I should like to say that, during the first 30 days of the Swedish Presidency of the European Union' s Council, no issue has occupied the Swedish prime minister, as President of the Council, more than that of the situation in the Middle East.
Nor has there been any issue that has occupied the Swedish Foreign Minister, as President of the General Affairs Council, more than the situation in the Middle East.
I believe the same applies to the High Representative, who can certainly answer that question for himself.
The European Union is, then, also engaged in the political process in the most intimate way possible, but we are still awaiting the practical results.
We all know that, in order to find a solution to this immensely serious problem, we must define the territory and be prepared to talk about it, we must define the security conditions and be prepared to talk about them, we must define the future of Jerusalem and be prepared to negotiate it, and we must negotiate the issue of refugees and be prepared to do so.
For the first time the four or five most important parameters have now been defined, and both sides have accepted them as the important parameters to be defined and accepted, and they have begun to negotiate them seriously and in depth.
But now I am not so optimistic because time unfortunately depends on the electoral and political calendar and there is little we can do about it.
But anybody who wants to negotiate, in this case with the European Union, must accept the challenge of reaching agreements on the basis that there will be two states in the region, which are capable of defining the four parameters which I have mentioned: territories, security, the capital and the refugees.
The European Union has proposed possible solutions to these four issues.
Please do not imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the people involved in the various presidencies, in this case the Swedish Presidency, have not put forward suggestions and ideas for making progress.
However, Mr Morillon, with regard to Jerusalem, you must believe me when I say that many suggestions have been put forward.
These suggestions cannot perform miracles, they cannot fall outside a particular framework with which we are all familiar, and you have clearly indicated what this must be.
There will be no definitive solution without a solution also to this issue of the settlements.
We know this and anybody who has been involved in this horrific conflict knows this.
The concern which I do have and the cause of the deep sadness which I also feel is that, as some of you have said, the Oslo Process is beginning to lose the political support of both sides, which it had a few years ago.
It is true that the Oslo Process - not peace - is not accepted as intensely and in the same way by all the parties as it was a few years ago.
I would like to say that, on the part of the European Union, we will do everything possible, with your support, and with the support of the governments and parliaments, to continue making progress, but it is true that there is a limit to what all of us can do to promote the process.
My own experience over recent months has shown me that the parties have never before spoken in such a devoted and generous way and have never come so close to solving the problems.
I want to make it clear that the Commission rejects any attempt to use the educational system to promote intolerance or hatred.
I want to make this point absolutely clear.
I hope that has made clear the Commission' s position on this issue.
The Commission has had nothing to do with textbooks and we deplore any promotion of intolerance particularly among young people and particularly through the education system.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Patten.
The debate is closed.
B5­0003/2001 by Mr Miranda, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, to the Commission, on the plan to build peace and prosperity and strengthen the State, known as 'Plan Colombia' .
Mr President, I wish, first of all, to thank the Council and the Commission for the willingness they have shown today to address an issue of such importance, current relevance and seriousness as the situation in Columbia, which the Committee on Development and Cooperation is monitoring and will continue to monitor with the greatest attention and concern.
In this regard, I would emphasise the concerns expressed by representatives at the highest level of various Latin American countries at the meeting held on this issue in Rio de Janeiro, in the middle of last year.
The crucial factor in the current situation is undoubtedly 'Plan Columbia' , which was agreed in September 1999 between Presidents Clinton and Pastrana, and it is essential that the Council and the Commission stick to their positions and distance themselves even more vigorously from this agreement.
We are familiar with the statement by the General Affairs Council of 9 October last year.
In fact, we believe this to be the position of the vast majority of Member State governments.
As a matter of fact, I believe that the European Union, and the European Parliament itself, must not support an initiative that clearly stems from a bilateral agreement between the Colombian Government and the US administration.
Basically, as we stated in the motion for a resolution adopted by the Committee on Development and Cooperation, and as we have stated in a previous resolution by this Parliament, our understanding is that any action by the European Union must be accompanied by a strategy of its own which does not have a military dimension.
This is the attitude that I hope will prevail on the approach of European governments towards the Colombian Government on 30 April in Brussels.
It actually predates that problem by a long way and is fundamentally rooted in deep-seated, pernicious political, economic and social phenomena in the country.
In fact, we also feel that the problem of drug production and trafficking requires a global approach on the basis of shared responsibility and international cooperation between the producer countries and the consumer countries, which, in the first instance, involves combating the laundering of money generated by trafficking.
Let me also begin by saying that the specific situation in Colombia and what the European Union may be able to do in that connection were matters which the Swedish Presidency had the opportunity to discuss face to face with President Pastrana during his visit to Stockholm last week.
We believe that an integrated strategy is absolutely essential if it is to be possible to solve these problems.
On several occasions, the European Union has confirmed its intention, as far as possible and in the most appropriate way, to support the efforts to get a peace process under way in Colombia, founded upon respect for human rights and basic freedoms.
The Union is convinced that the conflict can only be solved by means of a negotiated agreement and therefore calls for the peace negotiations to be resumed.
Since October 1999 when President Pastrana, here in the European Parliament, asked for the EU' s help for his plan for peace, prosperity and a strengthening of state power, the Council has had the opportunity, in response to a number of questions from honourable Members, to repeat the main features of the European Union' s position on Colombia and to inform the European Parliament of the way in which the work on this important matter has developed.
At its meeting on 9 October of last year, the Council confirmed its political support for the efforts to achieve peace that have been made by the democratically elected bodies in Colombia, as well as its desire to join the international community in actively monitoring the negotiation process - a process which, within the framework of consultation with civil society and with the agreement of all parties involved, should lead to a peace founded upon human rights, humanitarian law and basic freedoms.
Within the context of a continuation of the current peace efforts, the Council also gave notice of its intention to introduce a practical and independent European programme for socio-economic and institutional aid to the peace process in Colombia - a programme aimed at promoting and safeguarding respect for human rights, humanitarian law and basic freedoms, at improving living conditions for the local population, at encouraging the replacement of crops and the protection of bio-diversity and at supporting the programme of structural reforms in all areas which give succour to the armed conflict.
At the second meeting with the support group for the peace process in Colombia, held in Bogotá on 24 October last year, the Commission stated that the Community' s support for President Pastrana' s peace efforts would amount to EUR 105 million during the period 2000-2006.
Approximately EUR 40 million of these funds would be allocated to economic and social development and the fight against poverty, approximately EUR 30 million to so-called alternative development and EUR 25 million to support for reforms of the judicial system and for the promotion of human rights.
The Commission has also stated that it is going to increase the additional support granted to disaster aid projects through ECHO.
The Member States are still studying how much is to be set aside for a European aid package for Colombia, but the majority have already communicated their intentions on this matter.
The Commission has undertaken to coordinate the efforts to set up an aid package of this kind.
When it comes to the fight against drugs - discussed under paragraph 8 of Parliament' s resolution of 7 September of last year, to which the honourable Member refers - the European Union has also emphasised the crucial importance of combating this scourge which directly affects all European states and their citizens.
The EU has set up a mechanism for cooperating with Latin American and Caribbean countries on drug issues, a mechanism whose action plan was approved in April 1999 and received considerable political support from Heads of State and Government at the 1999 Rio de Janeiro Summit between the European Union and Latin American and Caribbean countries.
The Council has not expressed an opinion on the United States' s contribution to Plan Colombia, a significant part of which is intended to be used in the fight against the drugs trade, because this is an issue affecting bilateral relations between Colombia and the United States.
In conclusion, I should like to remind the honourable Member of the guidelines - adopted as part of the orientation debate at the meeting of the General Affairs Council on 22 and 23 January of this year - for reinforced operational coordination between the Community, represented by the Commission, and the Member States in the area of external aid.
The EU reservations about some aspects of Plan Colombia are well known to President Pastrana and to his government.
The Commission does not intend to take part in any initiative with a military dimension.
Thus in Bogota last October the EU stressed the need not to put alternative development projects at risk by non-selective operation of illicit crop eradication.
Within this context we continue to focus on positive measures such as demand reduction, promoting new crops, offering market opportunities in Europe and strengthening the rule of law.
This package of European support covers contributions both from EU Member States and the EU itself.
All EU Member States indicated their willingness to provide financial contributions to this package and the majority of them have already put forward their pledges.
As the Swedish Presidency just announced, EUR 105 million of programmable aid will be made available by the Commission over the period 2000-2006.
The Commission will also continue to provide humanitarian aid to assist the all too many displaced people in Colombia.
This non-programmable aid has amounted to EUR 24 million since 1997.
This year it is envisaged that about EUR 10 million will be made available for these kinds of interventions.
These areas of cooperation are also priority areas for the government.
For this reason a mission including experts supplied by the Commission and the Member States is at this moment in Colombia in order to identify a project in an area called the Magdalena Medio, for which the Commission could earmark around EUR 20 million.
In this region, violence is at its highest level and the EU initiative will target the promotion of dialogue between the parties in conflict.
Apart from our financial commitment, Europe is also increasing its political role in the conflict.
I shall mention the presence of several Member States in the Group of Friends which secured the meeting area with the National Liberation Army agreed on 26 January as well as the meeting promoted by the presidency with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia in Paris on 15 December.
One last word about the risk of an extension of the Colombian conflict to neighbouring countries.
We agree, Commissioner, that violence can only create more violence.
In fact, unless the violence is not brought to an end through dialogue, unless rural workers are offered alternatives which will enable them to lead dignified lives, unless the serious problem of displaced people is resolved, unless human rights are respected, unless the foundations on which the rule of law is based are strengthened and impunity is brought to an end, unless drug trafficking is brought to an end, peace in Colombia will be nothing more than a fantasy.
It therefore seems to us to be essential - and we are delighted about it - that the European Union should support President Pastrana' s peace efforts in the way that the President-in-Office of the Council has just announced and also in the way that the Commission, through Commissioners Patten and Nielson, had announced previously and which it has just reiterated.
Thanks to this aid, we are making a contribution to resolving the situations of social justice and to improving the living conditions of the local population, as well as strengthening the democratic institutions.
It also seems essential to us that FARC' s leaders return to the negotiating table and that the time period for the peace zone be extended beyond the weekend which President Pastrana has just proposed, so that the peace talks may continue and reach a successful conclusion.
Europe' s external action in Latin America has proved successful when Europe has conducted its own independent policy, promoting solutions and imbuing its cooperation programmes with its own political values regarding human rights, democracy and social cohesion.
To this end, as I understand it, the Council and the Commission are prepared to support an independent autonomous approach and to fight against drugs.
A commitment to sustainable development is also called for: we are already aware that fumigation using Fusarium oxysporum is harmful to the environment.
As regards Community cooperation, we are somewhat concerned that the EUR 105 million of aid planned may not be allocated to specific projects to combat poverty and promote human rights.
According to the information available to me at present, there are currently no NGO cooperation programmes cofinanced by the Commission in Colombia.
These three problems can only be solved in interrelation to one another.
Lawlessness reigns supreme, and human rights violations are legion.
Needless to say, the world drugs problem must mainly be tackled at root level, that is to say also in the producing countries themselves.
In addition, Europe and America must, of course, also open up their markets to alternative products from Columbia.
However, we should at the same time not be naïve.
The world must be set free from drugs and the Columbian population from poverty and violence.
This programme of aid to the Colombian Government aims to combat drug production and trafficking.
In reality, the drug barons are protected by paramilitary groups, who are in turn trained by the Colombian army.
On the pretext of combating drugs, a war is being waged against the civilian population,.
This plan provides direct support to the murderers, by which I mean the paramilitary groups, that have already killed over 150 people since the start of the year and whose close links with the army are obvious.
The European Union and the Member States should not cooperate with this plan; they should oppose it, as do the NGOs and local social movements.
The European Union has made conflict prevention and the peaceful and negotiated resolution of conflicts a fundamental principle of its international role.
It was the first time in thirty years of conflict that a President-elect came face to face with the leaders of a guerrilla movement on Colombian soil.
Three weeks after his investiture, the leadership of the ELN, the second largest guerrilla group in the country and representatives of civil society reached an agreement in the German town of Mainz.
As stated by the Commission and the Council, the only possible way forward is to support a specific European Union response aimed at promoting the strengthening of institutions, respect for human rights, alternative development, humanitarian aid and social development.
The European Union cannot and must not enter into any commitment other than a firm commitment to offer strong support for peace.
For peace to be possible, three conditions must be met: cessation of criminal violence, a return to the negotiating table on the part of the guerrillas - President Pastrana has issued an appeal for them to do so and we hope it will be heeded-, and a firm commitment by the government to ensure that all the players in the peace process - every single one of them - reap the benefits of peace, along with civil society.
Mr President, the European Union should combat the illegal drugs trade and support a genuine peace process in Colombia but it cannot, must not, should not, do so by cooperating with Plan Colombia.
How anyone can argue that this is a plan that will support the peace process is baffling when only 1% of the US contribution is set aside for this specific purpose.
Plan Colombia was not a product of consultation with civil society at a local, national or international level; it was never approved by the Colombian Congress.
Support for it would therefore damage the trust and credibility the EU has earned with its projects and in its relations with local communities.
This Plan Colombia is a plan for war not a plan for peace and tonight Europe rejects it completely.
Plan Colombia is promoted as a means of combating of drug production and trafficking, but since drug eradication and crop spraying started six years ago, the actual coca plantations have almost trebled, which shows that this is not an effective method.
If military equipment is increased in accordance with what Plan Colombia is proposing, it will clearly reach the paramilitaries.
Many Member States have a major problem with the military component and it is very cynical to say that we want to help the social area when clearly this plan is a military plan.
If the European Union genuinely believes in the provisions of its Treaties and its recent Charter on justice and human rights, it must support the social claims of the Colombian people and oppose 'Plan Columbia' , for it is a plan for war, not for peace.
Mr President, as many Members have said, speaking on 'Plan Columbia' , this United States military plan, the European Union must intervene autonomously and independently, pursuing a non-military strategy, promoting and safeguarding respect for human rights, humanitarian law and fundamental freedoms and, most importantly, doing something to improve the standard of living of the local communities.
On several occasions, including in recent months, we have drawn up resolutions on human rights in Columbia, resolutions adopted in this Chamber.
The Italian authorities are doing everything in their power but there is a certain unwillingness, even on the part of the Colombian Government, to undertake serious negotiations with the National Liberation Army in order to reach a solution.
Naturally I agree with this, but the problem of the conflict in Colombia must also be tackled at the roots, and Europe cannot afford to make the same mistakes as the USA, by believing that the drugs trade is at the root of the intensifying violence and conflict, and at the same time, closing its eyes to the unjust social system and difficult political system in Colombia.
It is farcical to believe that we can resolve the conflict in Colombia by deploying military means in order to fight the drugs trade, whilst forgetting the social and political problems facing this country, and it is also a betrayal of the Colombian people, who have already waited so long for peace and stability in their country.
But anyone who believes that Plan Colombia - negotiated by the USA with Pastrana, Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra take note - represents another step in the direction of peace, ought to reflect once again on the fact that it will intensify the war and give succour to the military conflict in neighbouring regions, in other states.
The role of the European Union here must be to continue to support the peace process and drive it forward, but also to encourage the government in Colombia to restore the rule of law, which is conspicuous by its absence.
Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, I challenge you to tell me at which point in my speech I supported the military dimension of Plan Colombia.
Mr Howitt, I maintain my belief and my statement that President Pastrana acted in the best of faith.
We have our own plan.
We have our own philosophy and we will cooperate with all parts of society in Colombia to strengthen the role of peace.
This includes a series of decentralised initiatives in the areas of health, education, development of agricultural and traditional production, and coastal fishing.
Over and above this we are envisaging a level of around EUR 10 million per year, part of which we expect to be ECHO activities.
We have activities amounting to EUR 1.3 million over recent years for programmes to protect the environment and tropical forests.
Many of these activities will be carried out in cooperation with or through different NGOs.
It is essential for us to do this if possible with Colombian NGOs and I will be asking European NGOs when they engage in these tasks to find partners in Colombia as in other cases and create partnerships.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
Firstly, is it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and acceptable to submit an alternative motion for a resolution to a motion tabled by a committee?
Mr President, just for the record: it is my understanding that, after a careful process of negotiation between the PSE and the PPE, the PPE will be withdrawing their resolution.
Mr Howitt, I am not going to reopen the debate on this issue.
The debate is closed.
Firstly, it was agreed that all railway undertakings should definitively be granted rights of access to the entire rail networks of all Member States for international freight transport, by 2008 at the latest.
In so doing, we ensured that from this point onwards, all Member States will be obliged not just to open the marked-out routes of the so-called new trans-European rail freight network, but also their network in its entirety, to the railway companies from the other EU States.
As I see it, in taking these three essential steps, we are already breaking down the national, fixed railway structures and creating new possibilities for competition between the railway undertakings.
The Commission was not exactly enthusiastic to begin with, but it fought alongside us in the end, in a bid to achieve this liberalisation, and I would therefore like to say a special thank you to the Vice-President for her cooperation in the Conciliation Procedure.
I believe that as a result, Parliament, together with the Council and the Commission, has established the framework for an attractive railway sector, which will offer a wider range of customer-orientated, cross-border freight services in the future.
But no, a fair Conciliation Procedure enabled us to make progress and achieve a single market, at least for cross-border freight traffic, with effect from the year 2008 at the latest.
Thus, for example, the Deutsche Bundesbahn, perhaps in conjunction with the Dutch national railways or other railways, should truly exploit the opportunity to make cross-border freight traffic a reality.
Sometimes there are also people who get in the way, but in this case I should like to mention only those who assisted, in particular Commissioner de Palacio, who, as transport commissioner, was a very great help to us in finding a good solution.
But we then quickly dealt with the common position on 5 July and adopted the corresponding amendment that same day.
I should like to stress that Parliament works quickly when it needs to, and especially when there is close cooperation as between myself and Mr Jarzembowski.
It is the Council that always has great difficulty in reaching a common position.
But in the long term the aim must be to cover costs completely.
I shall, too, and I also thank you for your support in getting a particular principle introduced, or reintroduced, namely that, to a limited extent and where there is good reason for doing so, public services can have priority, of course not to hinder the most important part of traffic, namely commercial traffic, freight traffic, which is the most important since that is what we particularly want to shift from road to rail.
Here, too, the Commissioner has promised, and the Council has already decided in principle, to help us to put an end to the unfair undercutting of tariffs and prices in the Member States of the European Union - a particularly common practice by the Willi Betz company - in order to arrive at a fairer system in this particular field with regard to labour law and working hours, another area where the railways are disadvantaged compared to the legal and especially the actual circumstances on the roads.
That is how I understand the railway package that we are proposing today - that we get a transport system that is a little kinder to the environment and a little more just.
Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, since 1994, when I was elected to the European Parliament, I have heard many a debate on the frightful problems facing the European railways and I imagine that many such debates were also held before I was elected.
I remember that when a compromise was reached between the 15 ministers, the Helsinki Council felt that it had come to the end of the line as far as the liberalisation of the railways and the new institutional framework are concerned.
Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating all those who made the agreement we are discussing this afternoon possible.
I therefore feel we are enjoying a very positive and constructive atmosphere, in which we can tackle tasks such as that before us today.
The legislative consultation between Parliament and the Council resulted in a satisfactory package that meant the job of developing rail transport could be tackled with vigour.
The development of rail transport will remain on the agenda in the future, as the Commission is promising a second railway package to include further liberalisation and the aspect of safety.
Special attention has to be paid to the coordination of different forms of transport as well as the overall functioning of the network.
Ultimately, we have had to take measures in order to stimulate the development of rail, railway licences and railway infrastructure by, among other things, opting for liberalisation in this case.
We are, to a certain extent, in favour of efficient transport, but we are mainly in favour of environmentally friendly transport.
Against this background, I believe that it is fair to say - we have asked questions and have received answers in this connection - that a great deal of fine-tuning is still required, and I would now like to see the sector make a political gesture.
We have taken the political decision, but we now want to see the sector send us a signal that it is about to launch into further development.
Mr President, my group is keen on removing unnecessary border restrictions in railway traffic.
Unfortunately, the majority of Parliament believed that this arrangement was inadequate and that instead, liberalisation and privatisation should be brought more to the fore.
This opinion fits in with a fashion trend which has led to a neo-liberal stampede against public services, public companies and organised employees, especially in the sectors of postal services, rail and energy supply.
Those were companies that could prove to us that we can organise our economy in a more democratic, environmentally-friendly and less profit-orientated manner, but that are now being forced to attend to the pursuit of profit and competition.
Liberalisation could, of course, benefit private companies that can gain more freedom and more opportunities to tap into fresh income, but that does not guarantee a choice in favour of more environmentally-friendly modes of transport.
Consequently, in this case my group was more on the side of the Council than the majority of this Parliament.
Although I have voted against the direction previously opted for by Parliament on 22 November, I called on the parliamentary delegation to reach a compromise.
Moreover, I fear that this conciliation package will soon be overtaken by liberalisation plans from the European Commission which go even further, and which my group will be unable to endorse.
There has been a massive decline in the amount of freight transported by rail over the last few years, and there is every reason to believe that it will be very difficult to reverse the trend in the foreseeable future.
Setting a deadline of 2003 for the opening-up of the trans-European rail freight network certainly sounds reasonably committed, as does a deadline of 2008 for national freight traffic, but this is surely sending out the wrong signals.
We know, of course, that road transport is increasing at the expense of rail transport and that it has been doing so for a long time.
This is important in Europe, where distances are long.
What we need is for the public and private suppliers of services in a European internal market to adopt an approach that is in the interests of the common good.
Certain Member States have already implemented more far-reaching liberalisation measures, with very mixed results.
As is apparent from all the other areas that have already undergone liberalisation, competition has a positive effect on the area concerned.
If the European railways can improve their competitive position vis-à-vis other modes of transport, especially road transport, this will have a positive impact on the environment and will also help solve the serious problems attending road transport.
In order to achieve these goals, and in fact this is logical, competition must not stop at respective national borders.
Mr President, all of us here are aware that rail transport plays an important role in the proper development of human activities, protection of the environment and sustainable local planning.
That is why I believe that we cannot be satisfied with the results of the conciliation between the European Parliament and the Council.
This compromise perpetuates the race to open up the markets and introduce competition in rail transport services, for goods and passengers alike, in order to satisfy the economic rationale of profitability, instead of meeting the requirements of the users and employees in this sector.
The report approves the plan to liberalise rail transport, and, more particularly, the plan to make infrastructure managers independent of the State.
However, last October the Hatfield train crash took place in Hertfordshire, part of the eastern region which I represent in this Parliament.
The accident took place on a bend with the train travelling at 115 mph.
The British transport minister, Lord McDonald, has announced there will be no be no public inquiry.
However, named members of Railtrack, the infrastructure company, and of Balfour Beatty possibly face manslaughter charges as a result of this accident.
In the United Kingdom there has been chaos on our railways, there has been plummeting customer confidence in the rail system, remedial work has caused huge financial investment and Railtrack has threatened a delay in work on the Euro Channel Tunnel Phase II programme which is very much part of the integrated European rail system that we all support.
I very much hope that the Commissioner may be able to give some support to the relevant authorities in the United Kingdom.
It may well be that additional support can be given through the TENs programme and I look forward to my discussions with the Commissioner on this extremely serious development.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to express my satisfaction with the final outcome of the conciliation, along with all or almost all those who have already spoken.
I believe we took a significant step in that direction on 22 November last year.
Contrary to the views expressed by some honourable Members, I believe that the problem with rail transport nowadays is not whether it should be public or private, although it is generally public.
There would certainly be scope for discussing some of the measures put forward here if we were dealing with a rail network which worked.
Many of you, ladies and gentlemen, have raised this issue.
In this regard, the conclusions of the Costa report are to be included in the White Paper, and I am grateful to Parliament for this.
However, in addition to this communication we plan to present a new directive, amending 91/440/EEC, to open up access to the national freight network and international passenger transport.
What we are concerned with today is opening up a trans-European network and a trans-European railway to competition, and ensuring that properly licensed European operators may be either public or private.
The situation is that in some countries not a single euro has been invested in infrastructure over the last thirty years.
A moment ago Mr Ortuondo Larrea said that two other issues had to be dealt with: intermodal transport and balancing other forms of transport with road transport.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner and Members of the Commission, at this late hour, I would like to use the speaking time available to me to give you a brief introduction to the Commission proposal for a Council regulation concerning the implementation of projects promoting cooperation and commercial relations between the EU and the industrialised countries of North America, the Far East and Australasia, together with my report on it.
Apart from the rather misleading formulation of the title, which mentions the industrialised countries and which does not of course include all the industrialised countries in the world, but only those with which we do not have any free-trade areas, cooperation or partnership agreements, I would expressly like to thank the Commission for its proposal for a regulation.
As I see it, this is not the only area where it has done some splendid work, bearing in mind all the difficult political debates on this issue that have taken place in the Council, and also the cooperation with the European Parliament, which has perhaps not always been easy, no, it has done something else rather wonderful in that is has actually brought the many and varied, small-scale existing projects and programmes to be found in the aforementioned countries together in a single budget line, thereby creating a legal basis as well.
I would therefore like to take this opportunity to say a heartfelt thank you to the Commission for the excellent cooperation we have had.
The Commission proposal for a Council regulation under consideration seeks to create a solid legal and budgetary framework to underpin actions taken under the various bilateral agreements signed between the EU and the six industrialised countries mentioned.
In producing this proposal for a regulation, the Commission has now created a legal basis.
In drafting the proposal, the Commission aimed to ensure that Member States retain the primary responsibility for export promotion.
Community action is thus restricted to measures that complement the endeavours of the Member States and other EU public bodies, and - as we always put it so nicely - thereby create European added value.
The proposal provides for regular reports to be made in future to the European Parliament and the Council.
We have amended it slightly in several places and we have also inserted the stipulation that the regulation is to expire at the end of December 2005.
I believe the post-Nice Process lends itself extremely well to this, and in this connection I would also ask the Commission to always keep in mind that Parliament is not happy with the current wording of Article 133.
I would also like the ruminations that are currently taking place within the Commission, especially on the part of Commissioner Lamy - who would like a policy statement to be produced in the sphere of trade policy at some stage - to be included in a review in the year 2003.
Mr President, a number of existing budget lines have proved useful when financing Community action involving cooperation and trade relations within the framework of the various bilateral agreements signed by the European Union and industrialised third countries.
Mr President, it is sometimes easier to offer congratulations at such a late hour, but when you have a report like this in your hand, you could offer them at any time of day.
One is the issue of transparency and the other is the problem of a trade doctrine which still endures.
I think that is precisely the line we should be taking, in other words, not only should Parliament be kept duly informed, but since so much has been made of transparency under the European transparency initiative, a fully comprehensive array of documents should also be made available on the Internet, so that they can be called up any time, and can, in their turn, help enhance the credibility of what we all stand for, namely the development of a new Europe.
It is to be hoped that the Commission, in particular, will quickly get to grips with these fundamental issues, so that we can submit corresponding programmes setting out the basic principles, well in advance of 2005 and use them to win the public over.
In fact, the question of trade and trade relations between the EU and the industrialised countries, particularly the US, is a very hot topic.
However, the proposal to establish a single budget line could simplify the work of the European Parliament as a whole and increase transparency.
Firstly, I would like to echo Mrs Mann' s commendation of the Commissioner for the excellent cooperation we have had, but I would especially like to join the group of delegates present here today in praising your work, Mrs Mann, because it was no easy task and I know it has been a tripartite business, involving the Commission, the Member States and Parliament.
I believe that we have, in this new draft regulation, a solid basis for a political and economic debate with the industrialised states.
I believe the Executive Training Programme in Japan is exemplary and could be adopted elsewhere, indeed there is now a similar project in Korea which is in its pilot phase.
The Gateway to Japan project is also outstanding as a trade promotion project.
I therefore believe we should seize on this example, in a bid to build closer relations between the two houses of the Japanese parliament and the European Parliament, and just as the Americans do, working from a legal basis, so should we use the same opportunities with regard to Asia.
I believe we should underpin the ASEM Process much more firmly in political and parliamentary terms.
The emphasis Mrs Mann has given to the importance of clarity about the division of responsibility between the Community and the Member States in the field of export promotion is also crucial.
There is some sensitivity about this and clarity about the budget line and the legal base are not only going to help us to do our work in a more logical way but also reassure the Member States that there is a proper allocation of responsibilities.
I want to comment very briefly on two other matters.
I was very pleased as President of the delegation between this Parliament and the US Congress that the transatlantic legislators' dialogue merited a mention in the budget report.
You know, colleagues, how much emphasis this Parliament has put on the TLD.
It is just one example, but an excellent one, of how cooperation, not only financial but political, industrial and commercial, can pay very considerable dividends.
I warmly support the targeted programme of measures to make the general commercial policy of the EU and its Member States more effective.
Closer cooperation might even be regarded as an inevitability when we take into account the amendments made at Nice to Article 133 and those many speeches which were made during the night at Nice in favour of a solution that would also go much further.
Transatlantic trade is still the thread of life as far as the global economy is concerned, and the importance of cooperation in this area must not be underrated.
We have to remember that there is also a strongly political element connected with this cooperation, the basis for which was created in 1995 with the signing of the New Transatlantic Agenda.
Let me begin first by thanking Parliament for the support that it has given to this Commission proposal, firstly by allocating a budget for the implementation of this regulation in line with the Commission' s request for 2001 of EUR 15.6 million.
Secondly, I would like to thank Parliament for adopting unanimously, as I hope it will, the favourable report from the rapporteur, Ms Mann.
Our relations with the industrialised countries have significantly deepened, and indeed broadened, in recent years.
In the case of the United States and Canada, these comprehensive relationships are already a reality, while other partners like Japan, the Republic of Korea, New Zealand and Australia are keen to develop similar relationships.
So while we see on the one hand an increasing demand for closer cooperation with some of our most important partners, on the other, we have lacked the legal framework to be able to follow things up.
The Commission proposal under discussion aims to resolve this situation by establishing a solid and common legal base which can underpin our relations with the industrialised countries.
A common legal base is appropriate since our relations with all these countries are based on common values and shared interests.
Finally, a common legal base linked to a single budget line is in line with the Commission' s policy of limiting the number of small legal bases and budget lines.
The benefits of a common, legal and budgetary framework to support our relationships with the industrialised countries are clear.
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 refer to the division of responsibility between the Community and Member States on market access and export promotion.
Although I am not afraid of having occasional disagreements with the Council, I would advise against the adoption of these two amendments.
Amendment No 14 of the Budget Committee would be a derogation from the 1999 comitology decision and therefore is not acceptable either.
This is a horizontal issue which should find a general solution instead of being addressed in every regulation and I hope we can proceed on that basis.
Again, I would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for her constructive and intelligent help in developing our relationship with some of our closest friends around the world.
Thank you very much, Mr Patten.
The debate is closed.
Our irresponsible and profligate use of energy, with its consequential emissions of C02 and other environmental hazards must stop.
Ironically enough, it is in the United States, where the energy star scheme originated, that we have recently seen the absurd spectacle of power cuts in California, largely because of the incredible increase in the use of computers and other office equipment with the accompanying need for air-conditioning within a framework of quite bizarre and unwise deregulation.
This scheme, which is voluntary, was introduced in 1992 and is now very widespread.
It has been officially adopted in Australia and Japan for example.
It is a voluntary scheme and it is hoped that between now and 2015 savings of 10 terawatt hours and 5 million tonnes of C02 emissions will be achieved in the EU through this scheme.
When they are asleep their electricity consumption is cut on average from 100 watts to 5 watts.
Luckily that is not the case however, and the Commission is to be given powers to negotiate improvements in the technical specifications.
And it has been made quite clear to the US authorities in a side letter to the agreement that the European Parliament, which would have been a co-legislator with the Council for similar measures at European level, will be consulted by the Commission on matters concerning technical specifications.
I am quite sure that the Council will see the wisdom of these amendments and of the regular and earlier monitoring of the energy star scheme as one, but only one, component of our energy efficient action plan.
We all hope that the energy star scheme is a success and we look forward to watching computers throughout Europe going to sleep at the correct time.
Add to that the private and public spheres and the losses total 20 TWh per year, which corresponds to the output of two large power stations that we are simply running for no purpose.
Since 1994 the Commission has been working on the introduction of this programme with the full support of Community industry and independent experts.
Mr President, I am aware that Parliament was not very happy with the procedures followed in connection with the conclusion and signature of this agreement.
However, we were bound by the procedures laid down in Article 300 of the Treaty, and I am delighted to note that Parliament feels that the advantages of the agreement outweigh such differences of opinion.
As regards the amendments, I am in a position to say that we can accept all the amendments tabled by Parliament, with the exception of Amendment No 9.
The Commission agrees that the energy efficiency of office equipment must be monitored, but it does not feel that we should call for a special unit to be set up, as stated in the aforementioned amendment, if only because the necessary resources will not be forthcoming.
On the other hand, we do in principle accept Amendments Nos 5, 11, and 15.
Concerning Amendments Nos 11 and 15, we accept that the Commission should present a report to the Council and to Parliament.
The debate is closed.
There are essentially three reasons.
I believe we have reached a good compromise.
France was persuaded to increase it from two and a half to three years, while we have conceded to Member States Belgium and Finland that this special type can also be accepted with a longer basic training.
But I should also like to say that we very much regret that the Commission was unfortunately not on our side from the outset on the points we were calling for and on which the Council finally gave way.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the late shift, anyone who wants to do good work in politics must find the willpower and the patience to persevere.
We are now saying for the first time that passing the final professional examination is not enough, but that training must continue, in the interests of patients in particular, but also in the interests of doctors and nursing staff.
I therefore ask the Commission to abandon two arguments when preparing future recognition directives.
Mr President, I would like to join with my colleagues in thanking the rapporteur for his ongoing and diligent work on this issue which may not grab the headlines, but is of extreme importance to each and every one of the people that we represent here in this Parliament.
In particular there is the question of replacing the word "similar" with the word "equivalent" .
On top of that, there is also a necessity for us to make sure, once the legislation is passed at a European level, that the Member States strictly enforce the legislation and open up the opportunities that are available.
If we are truly to bring about the idea of the single market, and if we are truly to live up to the principles of the freedom of movement of persons, than we must dismantle these barriers, which we can see are not so much at a European Union institution level but are actually at Member State level and indeed in some Member States at the level of certain individual professions.
I would commend this report to the House and ask it to support it.
Mr President, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to extend warm thanks to the Members of your Parliament who have taken part in the debate, for all the sound work they have done.
The Commission is delighted that the Council and the European Parliament have reached agreement.
The Commission can identify with the result which, after all, aims to facilitate the recognition of qualifications and to improve legal certainty.
With this, Parliament has reached a result with the Council which is in the interest of all those clutching qualifications and looking for jobs elsewhere in Europe.
Thank you for your kind words, Mr Bolkestein.
The debate is closed.
In reality, I see this motion for a resolution as being quite an effective, substantial initial step in that it is practical.
Of course, certain positive elements have also been noted, such as a computer system from the Netherlands known as KRIS, which has been used as a model.
We therefore call for cooperation from the judicial authorities, public prosecutors and judges of the different Member States as well, which will then become part of the European Public Prosecutor as support at the level of the different States.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our guiding objective is the creation of a great European area of freedom, security and justice, in which it is vital that we strengthen the security of European citizens and the fight against organised crime.
Under this evaluation system, although it is envisaged that the Council will adopt the necessary measures after one complete round of evaluations - in other words, three years, with five countries being evaluated per year - we should welcome the decisions taken by some Member States to determine in advance the reforms and improvements considered to be most urgent within their own legal systems, bearing in mind the results of these evaluations.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, on behalf of my group, I support the analysis, conclusions and considerations presented by the rapporteur, and I also share his concern about the problems highlighted by the Multidisciplinary Group.
The creation of contact points alone is still no guarantee of the qualitative leap needed in European cooperation.
If the Council is serious about successfully fighting cross-border crime, which simply disregards democracy and the rules of the legal economy, the recommendations of the rapporteur and the committee must be translated into action.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work that he has done on a very difficult and complex issue.
We have Europol, and other institutions like this, where different agencies in different Member States working together can achieve results.
We also have the opportunity to assess other Member States and take the best practices from them and use those as a common minimum standard for all Member States.
It is very difficult, perhaps impossible, to marry these two together, so we must always work on the basis of three tenets of how things should operate.
I would encourage each and every Member of this House and every Member State to look at how the Criminal Assets Bureau operates in Ireland and how successful it has been since its establishment.
One proposal which I oppose - and we have asked for a separate vote - is on the question of a European Public Prosecutor' s Office.
I am totally opposed to a European Public Prosecutor' s Office with its powers extending over the territory of all the Member States.
Finally, sanctioning Member States is a very dangerous area.
This process of professionals in the field exchanging information, whether it is carried out in the framework of mutual evaluation, in contacts within the judicial network or, quite soon, I hope, in the framework of cooperation within Eurojust, is crucial and must be pursued.
Parliament is now being consulted on the renewal of the Grotius programme, which is an important tool for enhancing cooperation between legal professionals and similarly, on the project of creating a European network for judicial training, which will facilitate the development of closer cooperation links between magistrates' colleges in the various Member States.
As Parliament knows, at the last Intergovernmental Conference, the Commission proposed that the Treaty should provide for an independent European Public Prosecutor, but with the specific and sole aim of safeguarding the Community' s financial interests.
This proposal was not accepted in Nice and the Commission will certainly take this decision by the Council into account, having already moved ahead with improving the arrangements and means necessary for OLAF to be able to fulfil its duties.
This is why the Commission has included a specific initiative on the adoption of fast-track arrangements for extradition in its programme for 2001.
The debate is closed.
