However, I voted against the report, owing to its pro-abortion stance.
Where the state has failed to provide education for poor children, parents themselves have come together, finance non-state education and, therefore, are also able to subsidise the non-working poor.
For example, it has rights to full access to the mass media in all communication to children and vice versa.
So we have based this whole report on a very flawed convention, which also places the state as the only arbitrator of the best interests of the child, as opposed to the family, which in fact sets the parents as the nurturers and the guardians but not as the determiners of rights.
It also includes abortion, which has no place in children's rights. - Madam President, I think our constituents would be interested to see how far we have gone in these fields.
In the run-up to the Irish referendum, and then especially after it, we were told that the European Union was not really progressing towards a common foreign policy and that it certainly was not meddling in the field of abortion law, and yet here we have those two issues tied together in one report.
People in the PSE and the PPE-DE Groups turned their backs and walked out.
Pactio Olisipiensis censenda est. - (PL) Madam President, the transposition of Directive 2002/14/EC on European works councils and consulting employees is particularly crucial in a time of crisis, when it is necessary to ensure that management goes hand in hand with social responsibility, and to ensure that, where jobs cannot be saved, the employees are guaranteed training and a smooth transition to their new workplace.
As set out in the Lisbon Strategy, it forms an integral part of a common employment policy.
It is also worth emphasising the role played by the social economy in rural areas, promoting economic development by regenerating declining industrial zones and creating and sustaining new jobs.
Its role has also been strengthened in traditional sectors, such as commerce, agriculture and industry.
It is therefore essential to incorporate the social economy into all strategies which aim to foster industrial and socio-economic development. (PL) Madam President, it is not only the crisis which has brought about the need to identify the market presence of associations, foundations, cooperatives and the entire social economy, which involves citizen stakeholders and has both a social, and also a measurable economic dimension, in terms of its contribution to GDP.
I support the report and anticipate a new approach on the part of the European Commission, involving organisational and financial support for the social economy, such as the simplification of the administrative procedures for obtaining EU funding.
It pointed out two things that struck me: one was social objectives over capital, and the other was the principles of solidarity and responsibility.
It must remain high on the EU health policy agenda, as one in four people will experience a depressive illness at least once in their lives, and by 2020 it will be the most common illness in the developing world.
Our mental health policy is articulated in a document called A Vision for Change and many of the calls for action in the rapporteur's report are stated in our national policy or, indeed, are enshrined in our legislation.
I am afraid mental health services and delivery to those who require them continue to be the Cinderella area of most mental health policies in all our Member States.
This must change. - Madam President, one in four people experience mental health problems at least once in their lives.
Therefore, we urgently need to update mental health legislation that can properly develop an awareness of the importance of good mental health.
The message I have been trying to get across in my constituency in the West Midlands is that the media, the internet, schools and workplaces all have a vital role to play in making the public aware.
However, we also need more research into the field of mental health and the interaction between mental and physical health problems, and an explanation of how mental health initiatives might be funded under the European Social Fund and the European Regional Development Fund.
The ageing of Europe's population is linked to an increase in the number of people who fall victim to age-related diseases.
I have therefore given Mrs Tzampazi's report my heartfelt support. - Madam President, I did vote for this report but I felt that there was a missed opportunity here - missed in committee - to include electro-shock and to once and for all recommend a ban on this most torturous of treatments that we still use in many countries in Europe.
It will be necessary to ensure that we are not, at Community level, doing what is best left to Member States. - Madam President, when we look at applied research, I wonder whether we should be looking into the defects of the common fisheries policy.
We also need to stress that we have to allow Member States to reduce VAT on certain items to battle against climate change.
Of course, we must protect human rights and of course the legal process should prevail, but sometimes in the world in which we live it is necessary to take extraordinary measures.
We have to ensure that a free society has the right tools and the right measures in order to fight and defeat those who would destroy it.
Our position in relation to that and our involvement in the European Union have been written into protocol.
That mandate expires on 15 March 2009.
Ireland will continue to make its contribution in a peacekeeping role, whether this is through the UN or the European Union. - Madam President, I voted in favour of paragraph 43 of the Vatanen report only because of our colleague Mr Landsbergis's oral amendment to it that the House finally approved.
We must remember the vital role that NATO has played, but we must also not forget that part of NATO is burden-sharing.
To conclude, Madam President, although we have doubts about paragraphs 29 and 36, my group voted in favour of the report on the Barcelona process as an act of hope in the face of so much scepticism. (PL) Madam President, the Eastern Partnership is a project of the utmost importance, which is why I am eager to see it become a priority in terms of European Union foreign policy.
I would like to mention four aspects on which we should, in my opinion, focus our activities.
Thirdly, we need to focus on ensuring security and stability in Europe.
They have an impact on the EU's positive image in the East, and increase mutual tolerance and cooperation in the field of research and development.
We need a separate debate on the subject of the Eastern partnership in the European Parliament.
It was a telling point that as a member of her IND/DEM Group she was willing to be rapporteur to play a constructive role in the work of our Parliament, unlike her colleagues from the so-called UK Independence Party, who, I believe - if I am right - have never been rapporteurs for any report in this Parliament in the four-and-a-half years since a motley crew of 12 of them were elected at the last European elections.
All they do is snipe from the sidelines, usually on the basis of ignorance, because they are unwilling to get engaged in the real work that we are doing across the political spectrum in this House to ensure that the legislation and policies the Union produces are properly scrutinised and are a fair balance of interests of our different Member States and our different political viewpoints.
In petition No. 0795/2007, the facts are presented in a biased and tendentious way, and the party affected - the Bulgarian Orthodox Church - was not asked to present its position.
During its fact-finding mission in Bulgaria from 27-30 October 2008, the Commission did not ask for the views of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church.
The new rules leave the decision whether to waive privacy or confidentiality, or both, up to the petitioner.
I also believe that we need to emphasise the importance of the technological factor as enormous progress has been made in this area in recent years, but that it is equally important not to neglect respect for individuals and their fundamental right to privacy.
The report addresses the objectives of the 2007 Green Paper on the European Research Area: 'Developing world class research infrastructures'.
On the mandate of the Council, the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures (ESFRI) started developing a coordinated approach for activities in the field of research infrastructures in April 2002.
In our opinion, there is no doubt about the importance of simplifying the establishment of world class research infrastructures in Europe with the added value that these may represent in terms of improved quality of research and education, the ties established between public and private researchers and, in general, their positive socioeconomic impact.
However, we do not agree that the establishment of large-scale infrastructure should only allow the creation of more opportunities to achieve research excellence in certain areas, meaning that certain countries will be the main beneficiaries of this process.
in writing. - (SV) There are many good reasons for simplifying the opportunities for cooperation on research across national borders within the EU.
The proposal for a new common legal entity could be a step in this direction and the wordings of the proposal indicate that the Commission has a sound awareness of the importance of, and special working conditions involved in, research.
However, the June List is immovable in respect of the issue of tax policy.
I have therefore voted against the Commission's proposal and the report.
Research infrastructures are playing an increasingly important role in the advancement of knowledge and technology by offering unique research services to users in different countries.
One aspect which can be regarded as extremely important is that these services, by unlocking the research potential of every region in the EU, will attract young people to science, thereby playing a key role in creating an effective environment for research and innovation.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the proposal for a Council regulation on the Community legal framework for a European Research Infrastructure (ERI), because I believe the Member States need to adopt a coordinated approach to developing a united policy in the field of research, given that the current national and international legislative framework is inadequate for the Union's ambitious targets for this sector.
I also think it is crucial to act to improve the interface between industry and academic research, which is still too weak in some EU countries, including Italy.
Finally, this research, in my opinion, should be characterised by better interconnections between public and private researchers, because it can only herald real and balanced technological progress if all those involved work together.
in writing. - With regard to the motion for an EP Resolution on a special place for children in the EU external action, I am in favour of the report as it refers to the rights of the most vulnerable in the society, namely children, but in line with this I do not agree with particular clauses which may condone abortion.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, I voted for the report.
The future of children is a topic requiring and deserving of our attention.
In pursuing the Millennium Development Goals we should pay greater attention, in all our strategies, initiatives and funding decisions, to the priorities set by children for children.
As an MEP, I have had the opportunity to travel to developing countries and work with major non-profit organisations such as UNICEF, and I am aware that there are many urgent issues to be addressed.
If we want to achieve sustainable improvements for children we must focus on the main causes for infringement of their rights, but above all we must collaborate with all of the voluntary organisations that over the years have become well rooted in these areas that are so different from Europe in terms of their culture, economy, structure and politics.
in writing. - With regard to the motion for a European Parliament resolution on a special place for children in EU External Action, our delegation is in favour of the report as it refers to the rights of the most vulnerable in society, namely children.
in writing. - (SV) I regard the EU as a union of values and am in favour of several of the wordings in the report which direct our attention to the vulnerable position of children around the world.
It is clear that society must take responsibility for safeguarding the rights of children, for reducing child mortality in poor countries and for combating all forms of child exploitation.
The measures necessary to safeguard children's rights are, and must remain, a matter for the national parliaments to decide.
If international cooperation is considered necessary, it should be sought within the framework of the United Nations, not the European Union.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of Mrs Kinnock's report on a special place for children in EU external action.
I therefore agree that children should be more involved when decisions are taken that affect them, starting at local level, where they have more opportunity to give their input on these issues.
In order to achieve such ambitious objectives it will be essential to channel more intellectual and financial resources in this direction.
I have voted against this motion for a resolution.
It runs counter to paragraph 9 of the Platform for Action of the Fourth World Conference on Women held in Beijing in 1995, which states 'The implementation of this platform, including through national laws and the formulation of strategies, policies, programmes and development priorities, is the sovereign responsibility of each State, in conformity with all human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the significance of and full respect for various religious and ethical values, cultural backgrounds and philosophical convictions of individuals and their communities should contribute to the full enjoyment by women of their human rights in order to achieve equality, development and peace'.
The participating parties, employers, hired workers and government institutions must understand that this procedure is best able to help them forecast the economic and social consequences of changes in a company's environment.
For this reason all European employers and hired workers must know and recognise this European Social Model procedure.
Any company operating within the territory of the European Union, which faces such a change in its economic environment, should use the same early warning and preparation measures as its competitors in the European Union, and this, incidentally, would encourage honest competition between companies in accordance with internal market rules.
The report is about worker's information and consultation rights.
This is even more important during the times of crisis, in order to mitigate or avoid job losses.
We therefore welcome the adoption of our proposal, which is now incorporated, as follows, into the European Parliament resolution: 'Guarantee that representatives of public administration employees and employees in the public and financial sector enjoy the same rights to information and consultation as are granted to other employees'.
We hope that Member States will take this into account, thereby guaranteeing all employees the same rights to information and consultation.
The report's vision is generally positive as it stresses the need to strengthen rights to information and consultation in the various Member States.
This aims to ensure that, throughout the process of restructuring companies, particularly industrial companies, employees' representatives have access to information and the possibility of intervening in the decision-making process, including the right of veto, in cases where companies do not comply with their contractual obligations.
in writing. - Conservatives are fully in support of the principles of consultation and the engagement of employees in the running of successful enterprises.
in writing. - I support this report which calls for countries which have not done so to enforce a 2002 directive which seeks to strengthen the process of informing and consulting employees within the EU.
The report asks that workers representatives be allowed to scrutinise the information provided, that information be provided in good time before consultation, and that trade unions be involved in the process in order to consolidate social dialogue.
I believe that consulting employees is particularly important and justified in two areas: the work-life balance, and the protection of Sunday as a day of rest, which are fundamental pillars of the European Social Model and part of the European cultural heritage.
In view of the fact that the Commission has already recognised the concept of the social economy many times, I would echo Mrs Toia's call for it to promote the social economy in its new policies and to defend the idea of a 'different approach to entrepreneurship' that is inherent to this sector, which is not driven mainly by the profit motive but by social benefit.
in writing. - (LT) The social economy helps to implement the four main goals of EU employment policy: to improve opportunities for residents to find work; to encourage enterprise, especially by creating local jobs; to improve the ability of companies and employees to adapt, in particular by modernising work organisation; and to strengthen equal opportunities policies, first of all by organising public policy measures, which help to reconcile work and family life.
Social economy enterprises may provide great additional benefits for society, that is, involve people in the economic development of European society, increase business democracy with the participation of members and employees, as well as apply the principles of corporate social responsibility and local service provision.
It is important to link the social economy with the goals of social cohesion and active citizenship, taking into account the character of the local social economy and its role in encouraging active participation.
in writing. - I support this Report which calls on the Commission to promote the social economy in its new policies and to defend the social economy's concept of 'a different approach to entrepreneurship', which is not driven mainly by the profit motive but by social benefit, to ensure that the particular features of the social economy are properly taken into account in the framing of legislation.
It also calls on the Commission and the Member States to develop a legal framework that recognise the social economy as a third sector as well as to set up clear rules for establishing which entities can legally operate as social economy enterprises.
However, we recognise the important role of various forms of social economy, the wealth of diversity in its institutions and also its specific characteristics, with differing needs.
However, we believe that this must not undermine the quality of public services, particularly in areas where the social economy also plays a significant role.
It should be borne in mind that the social economy cannot replace the resources and public management of public services, but can be an important addition.
Conservatives have a strong belief, for example, in the benefits of communities working together, the work of charitable institutions and the voluntary sector in general, and have recently commissioned extensive research in this area.
There are, however, a number of recommendations for new European measures in this report which we are unable to accept.
in writing. - (SV) We have today voted against Mrs Toias's own-initiative report on social economy.
Thus, the efficient functioning of the social economy, or the third sector, is especially important when it comes to disadvantaged people.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of Mrs Toia's report on the social economy.
I share the rapporteur's view that the social economy is becoming increasingly important in the current economic climate, since many needs are now arising that traditional economic operators are not able to meet.
The social economy certainly plays an important role in realising the EU's aims such as improving employment and social cohesion and strengthening equal opportunities policies.
This may be achieved by setting up networks between the interested parties, as well as through greater cooperation and exchange of experiences at all levels, whether local, national or transnational.
Its basic features and values involve placing people and social objectives above capital, combining the interests of its members with the general good, and implementing a democratic control system, enforced by its members.
The social economy, which is also referred to as the solidarity economy and the third sector, is a key instrument for attaining the Lisbon objectives.
The third sector plays a leading role in the European economy, combining profitability and solidarity.
The European Union and the Member States must respond to real needs, create real opportunities and build new hopes, for the good of all Europeans.
in writing. - (FR) The social economy needs more than ever to have a specific legal framework and Mrs Toia's report is a step in the right direction.
The European Commission has withdrawn two proposals intended to put in place statutes for European mutual societies and associations.
Founded on principles of mutualisation and interdependence, the social economy advocates a new concept of business practice that is more human and breaks with the capitalist approach of the simple pursuit of profit.
It has been expanding successfully in recent years and today represents 10% of businesses and 6% of jobs in the European Union.
In the Resolution on Women and Poverty in the European Union, I mention and again emphasise the urgent need to support a new Europe based on the creative coexistence of cultures and mentalities and full respect for otherness.
A Europe in which the concept of responsible freedom does not cover solely the free movement of capital and in which citizens pool their abilities irrespective of their social status.
A Europe in which creativity is harnessed and the dignity of each citizen is protected for the common good.
What we have learned from research which is crucial for our services, is that mental health is strongly determined during the first five years of life.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Conservatives have today voted in favour of the own-initiative report on mental health by Mrs Tzampazi.
We respect the decision of the Member States to enter into the European Pact for Mental Health and Well-being referred to in the report.
in writing. - (EL) The restructuring of the mental health system being promoted serves the interests of capital, capitalist restructurings and the commercialisation of health, rather than the interests of patients.
Most mental health services, at least those which generate a profit for capital, are being privatised within the framework of the Lisbon Strategy.
Intervention in the health care sector by NGOs, sponsors and other 'philanthropists' other than private capital are the alibi for and, at the same time, the bridge to the full privatisation of services.
Conversely, mental ill-health detracts from the quality of life of people and their families and has implications for the health, economic, educational, social security, penal and legal sectors.
We need to consider some of the figures given by the report, particularly: one in four people will experience some form of mental disorder at least once in their lives; depression is one of the most common disorders - affecting one in six women in Europe - and it is estimated that, by 2020, it will be the most common illness in the developed world and the second cause of disability; in the EU, some 59 000 suicides are committed every year, 90% of which are attributable to mental disorder; vulnerable groups such as the unemployed, migrants, the disabled, people who suffer abuse, and users of psychoactive substances are more likely to suffer mental health problems.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of this report on mental health, which seeks to ensure that this challenge remains one of the political priorities of the European Union with regard to health.
The text also invites the Commission to propose common indicators to improve the comparability of data and to facilitate the exchange of good practices and cooperation between Member States to promote mental health.
in writing. - The Tzampazi report deals with an important health issue.
in writing. - WHO statistics indicate that there are currently 450 million people facing some kind of mental, behavioural or psychological problem, which represents 12% of the world's population.
Those categories of people who are vulnerable and marginalised, such as the unemployed and immigrants, as well as the disabled or people who have suffered abuse, have a greater predisposition to depression in the current economic crisis.
The average figure for poor countries is 0.05 psychiatrists per 100 000 inhabitants.
I think that we will need, first and foremost, to deal with the issue of people's mental health in a much less superficial way and that all Member States will have to establish joint programmes to limit by every possible means the spread of this problem.
in writing. - I support this report which calls for Member States to develop awareness raising campaigns, to combat stigma and social exclusion and to improve mental health legislation.
One in four people experience mental health problems at least once in their lives, yet there is still stigma attached to mental illness.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report and am particularly concerned that the current economic crisis is putting pressure on individuals and families and could result in an increase in mental health problems.
It is estimated that by 2020 depression will be the most common illness in the developed world.
In the EU, some 59 000 suicides are committed each year, 90% of which are attributable to mental disorder.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mrs Tzampazi's report on mental health.
I welcome the result of this resolution.
In the intermediate group on carers, we have often discussed the potential of the EU to participate in this policy whilst respecting the principles of subsidiarity and the primacy of decisions by the Member States.
I support the call for cooperation among European Institutions at national, regional and local level, as well as among the social partners in the five priority areas of support for mental health.
By using energy more efficiently in Europe we would ensure greater security of supply.
As no essential measures are being taken, over the next 20 - 30 years Europe's dependency on imported energy (currently 50% of our energy is imported) may reach 70%, and some Member States may become even more dependent.
More efficient energy use is one of the most effective ways of reducing the amount of gas emissions which cause the greenhouse effect and of ensuring that the great EU climate policy plans are implemented.
Energy efficiency is vital if the EU is to reduce its energy bill.
As regards Portugal, I regret that the measures that have been implemented have not been framed within a coherent and comprehensive action plan submitted to the Commission within the statutory period.
This first assessment of the national action plans is a point of reference for dialogue in the EU and a useful tool allowing the Member States to turn the spirit of energy efficiency into pragmatic measures that will produce the expected results by 2020.
Several Member States are developing action plans, but there are problems with defining the energy efficiency objectives.
This analysis should serve to monitor the difficulties and, if necessary, take appropriate support measures aimed at achieving the proposed objective for energy efficiency.
It also seems important to support the provisions which reinforce the exemplary role of the public sector and to recognise that increasing the energy efficiency of buildings has immense potential for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the fight against climate change, in terms both of the adaptation and of tackling the causes of climate change.
in writing. - The European Union wastes more than 20% of its energy due to inefficiency, representing about 400 Mtoe (million tonnes of oil equivalent) less energy, and would also represent a huge cut in emissions.
The report gives us a target of saving a 9% loss of energy by 2016.
I therefore believe a stronger commitment is needed from both the public and private sectors, as well as from individual citizens.
in writing. - (PL) Rationalising energy consumption is an extremely important activity.
The consequences of this policy can be measured.
Since 1990, energy production in the EU has risen by 40%, and revenue per capita by 1/3, while energy demand has risen by only 11%.
More rational energy management has thus contributed to economic growth in all the Member States.
The European economy must become less vulnerable to fluctuating energy prices and inflation, as well as to the risk inherent in the geopolitical location of these resources.
This is obvious in view of this sector's economic, social and political importance in the EU.
I fully concur with the Committee on Fisheries to recommend that, in the field of scientific marine research, priority be given not only to research to gain knowledge about the state of fish stocks but also to the commercial, economic and social aspects that determine fisheries management, since all these aspects are of crucial importance.
in writing. - (SV) I have chosen to vote in favour of Mrs Miguelez Ramos's report on applied research relating to the common fisheries policy.
It is important to support increased investment in research into the consequences of the fisheries policy for fish stocks, ecosystems and biodiversity.
However, Mrs Miguelez Ramos emphasises the importance of political decisions being founded on science and long-term sustainability and not primarily on the fishing industry's short-term interests, and this is something that I see as a good thing.
In December 2006 the European Parliament and the Council adopted an important decision on the Seventh Framework Programme of the European Community for research, technological development and demonstration activities (2007-2013).
I congratulate myself on having, at that time, referred to the huge importance of guaranteeing more and better technological development in the area of fisheries and aquaculture.
I therefore believe that this own-initiative report is timely and is extremely important in terms of pursuing the objectives of the new reform of the common fisheries policy (CFP).
Furthermore, the technological development of vessels, fishing gear and engines may guarantee the sector's sustained development in the future, thus better protecting the environment and ensuring that fleets are more competitive.
I voted in favour of this report.
That is why we support the recommendations in this respect in the report.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Mrs Miguélez' report on fisheries research.
I am opposed to the common fisheries policy and believe that fisheries management should be a competence of Europe's maritime nations working in cooperation with each other.
That cooperation would require common actions in the field of science and research and this is an area within which the EU can give added value.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Miguélez Ramos on applied research relating to the common fisheries policy.
Wise and responsible utilisation of natural resources is increasingly important given the evident and unacceptable impoverishment of these resources over the years in terms of both quality and quantity.
In terms of the marine environment it is therefore essential to consider its protection and to adopt an approach based on a careful assessment of ecosystems, considering all activities that concern European seas in a holistic fashion.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote in favour of Mrs Miguelez Ramos's report on applied research relating to the common fisheries policy.
It is important to support increased investment in research into the consequences of the fisheries policy for fish stocks, ecosystems and biodiversity.
However, Mrs Miguelez Ramos emphasises the importance of political decisions being founded on science and long-term sustainability and not primarily on the fishing industry's short-term interests, and this is something that we see as a good thing.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Cederschiöld report because I believe that the ability for European citizens to work and live in another Member State is an important right.
However, there are aspects of the Cederschiöld report that I do not fully support, such as the formulations regarding abolition of obstacles to the free movement of persons and services, which could be interpreted as a statement against collective agreements in the labour market.
As regards the inclusion of health care professionals in the agreement, I see a risk of deregulation of the health care sector.
One of the fundamental freedoms of the EU's internal market is the freedom of movement, which allows us not only to travel freely within its borders, but also to undertake employment.
I am therefore delighted that the European Parliament has adopted the report, which will most certainly have an impact on future debates on the creation of a European professional card.
in writing. - The ability for European citizens to work and live in another Member State is an important right and I support the intentions to facilitate the mobility of professionals and to guarantee the safety of consumers.
However, there are aspects of the Cederschiöld report that I do not fully support, such as the formulations regarding abolition of obstacles to the free movement of persons and services, which could be interpreted as a statement against collective agreements in the labour market.
Therefore I abstained in the final vote on the report.
in writing. - The ability for European citizens to work and live in another Member State is an important right and I support the intentions to facilitate the mobility of professionals and to guarantee the safety of consumers.
However, there are aspects of the Cederschiöld report that I do not fully support, such as the formulations regarding abolition of obstacles to the free movement of persons and services, which could be interpreted as a statement against collective agreements in the labour market.
Therefore I abstained on final vote on the report.
Creating a professional European card for service providers will remove some of the obstacles which are still obstructing European citizens who want to carry out gainful employment in a country other than their country of origin.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of Mrs Cederschiöld's report on the creation of a European professional card for service providers.
This will promote their recognition in Member States and thus increase opportunities for consumers to access foreign service providers more easily, thereby helping to increase integration in the European internal market.
in writing. - (LT) I believe that considering the painful past of commercial whaling and the recent increase in threats to whale populations - such as accidental whaling during fishing, collisions with boats, global climate change and acoustic pollution in oceans - in international forums the EU must consistently and harmoniously ensure the greatest protection of whales at global level.
The whole issue of capturing whales for scientific purposes is still a 'cover' for the capture of these mammals, which is why the EU must intervene in terms of revising this international position.
Supporting the maintenance of the moratorium, opposing all proposals regarding new types of whaling, accepting that all whaling operations by IWC members should be brought under IWC control and supporting proposals aimed at ending 'scientific whaling' outside IWC control are some of the premises of this report that I consider to be essential.
Ensuring that the EU defines its political position on this subject and taking the lead in pursuing objectives relating to respect for biodiversity and the sustainable development of our planet are fundamental objectives which the EU must embrace.
I therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (SV) Like the rapporteur, I support the global moratorium for commercial whaling and the prohibition on international trade in whale products.
In spite of this objection on grounds of principle, I have chosen to vote in favour of the report.
The existing moratorium on whaling has already produced good results in terms of increasing cetacean populations, although many key countries have not ratified it, meaning that whaling still goes on.
The Observatory helps to surmount these obstacles by providing expertise and systematic information to the operators concerned.
Lastly, it is vital to boost the Observatory's capacity for monitoring new developments such as new consumption models for audiovisual products, in particular videogames and the Internet.
in writing. - (LT) One of the main reasons for the European Community's participation in the activities of the Observatory is the precondition that by carrying out its work, the Observatory will help to strengthen the competitiveness of the Community's audiovisual industry.
By specially purchasing information and advertising its publications, the Observatory has become the main source of economic and legal information covering various segments of the audiovisual industry, which is used by members in both the public and private sectors.
in writing. - (SV) I have voted against this report on Community participation in the European Audiovisual Observatory.
It is for the Member States to become involved in and fund the European Audiovisual Observatory.
I voted in favour of the draft report on Community participation in the European Audiovisual Observatory, a project supported by the PPE-DE Group, for a number of reasons.
Firstly, I believe that it is vital for us to have maximum transparency on the audiovisual market and to ensure that as many institutions as possible have access to relevant information in this field.
However, we must take into account the advent and development of new technologies in order to boost the Observatory's effectiveness.
I personally support the application of the provisions which expand the Observatory's scope of activity in order to provide better coverage in this area and supply even more valuable information which is useful from an economic perspective, but also for understanding the European social and cultural context.
In my view, the Observatory's work is very important; it is the only organisation dedicated to gathering and distributing information on the European audiovisual industry and therefore has the task of fostering new developments in the audiovisual field, which have become increasingly significant in recent years as digital technology is used more and more.
I also agree that the Observatory's activities should be further extended to include the study of fiscal and labour law regarding the audiovisual sector, thereby strengthening its cooperation with the Member States.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats in the European Parliament are in favour of a generous immigration policy centred on people's needs.
A prerequisite for our being able to vote in favour of the report was the Council's approval of Parliament's statement that Article 9 should not be precedential in any way in future, because this could make it more difficult to adopt common rules regarding the liability of contractors for their subcontractors.
The directive which has just been voted on marks another step towards drafting and applying common regulations and measures required to regulate the situation of immigrants, especially employees from third countries staying illegally in the European Union.
At the same time, the consequences of the benefits gained by employers include the waste of public finances and distorted competition in the economic sector, depriving illegal workers of any social insurance or right to a pension.
Particular attention must also be focused on nationals from the new Member States who, in spite of their status as European citizens, are still subject to transnational employment rules, thereby limiting free access for them to the old Member States' labour market.
In fact, at a time when the European Union is facing an increased population decline, we must bear in mind that the solution is not to expel but regulate the situation of these workers.
It was with this hope that I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (SV) I voted in favour of the report on sanctions against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals.
The person who is to be punished in the event of illegal employment is the employer who breaks the law, not the worker.
Common EU rules to prevent exploitation and the employment of illegally staying workers are therefore one way of raising the bar for many EU countries.
I would have liked to see greater protection for women involved in domestic work, for example.
While it is important to prevent illegal immigration and the exploitation of illegally staying third-country nationals, we must also ensure that we increase the opportunities for people to settle and seek work within the EU on a legal basis.
in writing. - I support the Fava report on sanctions against employers of illegally staying third-country workers.
Some unscrupulous employers are prepared to exploit these illegal workers with wage rates below the legal minimum, appalling conditions and long working hours.
Regardless of the need to strengthen procedures aimed at combating the use of illegal workers, it is unacceptable that this directive punishes both the transgressor and the victims.
The aim of this directive is to complement the shameful 'Return' Directive - which the Socialist Government in Portugal has adopted - by applying sanctions to employers of illegally staying workers and laying down, as a general and automatic rule, the procedure for expelling these workers, with rare exceptions.
In reality, European institutions are embarrassed by this issue.
It is obvious that these measures only offer a partial, incomplete solution to illegal immigration and black labour.
EU Member States must start from now to follow a common, consistent policy on the issue of illegal immigration.
in writing. - I support this report which will crackdown on employers of illegal immigrants within Europe.
I support this legislation because it will create a fairer system for legitimate European workers.
in writing. - (DE) The prospect of finding work in Europe is attractive for third-country nationals for very understandable reasons.
In these unsettled times, illegal labour cannot be tolerated, and we must start with those that are within reach locally and where sanctions will also have an effect.
Based on a simple view of this issue, there are two reasons why there are illegal immigrants: the precarious situation in the country of origin and labour market demand in other countries.
Whereas, in regard to the first problem, we have funds for development and cooperation programmes supported by the EU and which are obviously still not sufficient, in the case of the second matter, the problem has to date been dealt with in different ways at Member State level.
I am convinced that applying this directive will improve practical employment conditions within the Community.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, combating illegal immigration should, in my view, be a priority for the European Union.
I believe that it is necessary to re-establish legal conditions in the labour market as a matter of principle, whether in relation to European citizens or citizens from third countries who sometimes work without any minimum safety conditions at their workplace.
I feel that these types of measures are in line with the desire to build a more transparent, fair and homogenous single European labour market.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote in favour of the report on sanctions against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals.
The person who is to be punished in the event of illegal employment is the employer who breaks the law, not the worker.
Common EU rules to prevent exploitation and the employment of illegally staying workers are therefore one way of raising the bar for many EU countries.
We would have liked to see greater protection for women involved in domestic work, for example.
While it is important to prevent illegal immigration and the exploitation of illegally staying third-country nationals, we must also ensure that we increase the opportunities for people to settle and seek work within the EU on a legal basis.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to vote in favour of the report on sanctions against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals.
The person who is to be punished in the event of illegal employment is the employer who breaks the law, not the worker.
Common EU rules to prevent exploitation and the employment of illegally staying workers are therefore one way of raising the bar for many EU countries.
We would have liked to see greater protection for women involved in domestic work, for example.
While it is important to prevent illegal immigration and the exploitation of illegally staying third-country nationals, we must also ensure that we increase the opportunities for people to settle and seek work within the EU on a legal basis.
The report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning crop statistics comes with a number of supplementary elements required to improve the application of the new provisions.
Statistics play a vital role in drafting Community policies because they provide a precise picture of market supply and demand, and this information helps achieve an economic balance.
At the same time, standard regulations at European level must not become a bureaucratic burden but ensure that there is a constant exchange of information between Member States in a simple, effective manner.
For this reason, I welcome the Commission's proposal and the additions proposed by the rapporteur as they provide a new phase in the creation of a simple, flexible legal framework which complies with EU principles.
The impact of these regulations on European agriculture will establish a greater capacity to respond to the problems which can crop up in the market, such as overproduction, which can lead to falling prices.
in writing. - (SV) I have voted in favour of this report, partly because the Commission's proposal aims to simplify the current legislation and partly because agricultural statistics are nevertheless necessary in the present circumstances, with the common agricultural policy.
I would like to stress that my 'yes' vote for this report is not an expression of support for the common agricultural policy itself.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome Mrs Jeggle's work and I voted in favour of her report on the need to compile crop statistics.
I share the opinion of the rapporteur and the Commission that statistics on crops are essential for the evaluation of the common agricultural policy and the management of EU markets in these goods.
I believe that the report fits perfectly with the action programme for reducing administrative burdens in the European Union set out in the Communication of 24 January 2007 and, as I said, it therefore has my support.
As I have already stated when I expressed my support for the report on promoting agricultural products on the Community market and in third countries, wine is one of the Community's products which enjoys a dominant position on the global market and must assume a key role in Europe's commercial strategy.
These products are renowned worldwide and, thanks to the new provisions, we will successfully achieve a better position on the market for them, while supporting Community producers and distributors.
I believe that the wine industry is very important for the EU economy, since a number of countries, including Italy, France and Spain, rank among the world's leading wine producers and export their celebrated products all over the world.
in writing. - (SV) We Social Democrats in the European Parliament have chosen to vote in favour of the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 2006/112/EC as regards reduced rates of value added tax.
in writing. - Today we voted on the report on reduced rates of VAT.
The proposal goes back to the summer of 2008 and proposes the addition of certain other locally supplied services, including restaurant services.
The category is broadened to include other locally supplied services of similar nature such as: minor repairs of tangible movable goods, including bikes, shoes, clothes, computers, watches; cleaning and maintenance services for all these goods; domestic care services; all personal care services, including hairdressing, beauty services, gardening services; renovation and maintenance services provided for places of worship and cultural heritage and historical monuments.
Printed books, including audio-books, under current legislation may also be subject to reduced rates.
The fostering of small- and medium-sized enterprises - which comprise 99% of Europe's companies, which are responsible for more than 100 million jobs and which, in the last eight years alone, have created 8 million jobs - is central to the Small Business Act.
The current proposal exemplifies the measures taken.
For all these reasons I voted in favour of this report, which I regard as a perfect example of the policies to be adopted by the European Parliament in the economic field.
in writing. - (FR) For the first time I am happy to vote for a European directive on taxation.
The proper solution would have been to bring an end once and for all to tax harmonisation, for which there is still no justification.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report which will allow Britain to reduce VAT rates for a new category of goods and services including restaurant services and other local services.
I support the report because it gives smaller companies the opportunity to attract better custom.
in writing. - Conservatives have always argued that taxation is a fundamental issue of sovereignty and therefore any move to transfer powers in this area from the European Union to the Member States is to be welcomed.
This measure, which allows Member States to apply a lower rate of VAT to a number of locally provided and labour intensive services, is a positive example of the application of the principle of subsidiarity, and we encourage the Commission to move further in this direction.
The recent reduction of the general rate of VAT in the United Kingdom has been an expensive exercise which has produced little effect, when other measures such as much bigger but targeted reductions in VAT, as permitted by this proposal, or increased personal income tax allowances, would have been more beneficial both to individuals and to the economy as a whole.
in writing. - (DA) The Danish Social Democratic Members of the European Parliament, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, Britta Thomsen, Christel Schaldemose, Dan Jørgensen and Ole Christensen, have abstained from the vote on Mrs van den Burg's report on reduced rates of value added tax.
In view of the current economic crisis, there may, however, be more of a need in other EU Member States to utilise the instrument of VAT as one element of their national crisis packages and thus strengthen employment in sectors that have been badly affected.
We already have very different rates of VAT, and therefore we do not want to prevent other EU Member States from taking this path.
in writing. - The European Parliamentary Labour Party voted in favour of this report.
We consider that VAT reduction can make a contribution to the maintenance of certain jobs and allow for the creation of others.
in writing. - Since 11 September 2001, America has led a global war on terror.
Sadly, the absolutist culture of human rights in the EU and the political cowardice of many of its senior politicians have obliged the United States to assume a grossly disproportionate responsibility for tackling a threat that knows no boundaries.
I am glad that some countries in the EU saw fit to cooperate with the CIA, our American allies.
I cannot understand why some countries put the human rights of terrorists over the protection of their own citizens and refused to cooperate with the CIA.
Once again the anti-Americanism so prevalent in the EU put its citizens' safety in jeopardy.
This whole issue shows the importance of each Member State retaining the right to act independently in matters of foreign policy and intelligence.
I voted against this report.
In 2007, as a result of the investigation conducted by the Committee which presided over this issue, the European Parliament adopted a resolution which contained dozens of recommendations aimed at preventing a repetition of these illegal activities.
The President of the European Parliament recently sent a formal request for cooperation to the presidents of the national parliaments and a hearing will be held shortly.
Adopting a new resolution before this process is completed would be rash and would lead to mistakes: the mistake of speaking too soon when there is nothing new to say; the mistake of yielding to the desire to adopt a resolution in order to affect people or make domestic policy; and the mistake of starting off by criticising President Obama when we should be working to boost transatlantic cooperation by taking advantage of the change in the US administration.
I therefore cannot vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, my decision to vote against the motion for a resolution was based on the fact that it reiterates the same ideas that my group opposed in the final vote of the temporary committee on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners (TDIP).
in writing. - I did vote for keeping the reference to Portugal, including the reference to the responsibilities of the Barroso Government, despite the fact that I think that the text of that paragraph could be more accurate and mention 'new factual information' and not just 'press information'.
in writing. - Even though there are contentious elements in the CIA resolution, like welcoming the EU-US agreements on judicial cooperation and extradition, I still voted in favour of the resolution to support human rights and the attempt to shed light on the extraordinary renditions programme.
in writing. - The resolution adopted by this House reaffirms that, according to Article 14 of the UN Convention against Torture, any victim of an act of torture has an enforceable right to redress and to fair and adequate compensation.
in writing. - Even though there are elements in the CIA resolution such as welcoming the EU-US agreements on judicial cooperation and extradition which I am very critical of, I still voted in favour of the resolution, to support human rights and the attempt to shed light on the extraordinary renditions programme.
in writing. - (SV) I have previously expressed my disgust with regard to the information that has come to light in respect of the treatment of people who are suspected, but not convicted, of crimes and who have been extradited and in some cases kidnapped by the authorities of various states.
I have therefore voted against this motion for a resolution.
I voted against the motion for a resolution on the alleged CIA activities involving the transportation and illegal detention of prisoners in some European countries as the purpose of this resolution is unfounded.
Firstly, I would like to emphasise that, from a procedural perspective, the political groups which signed this resolution ought to have waited for the replies from the national parliaments to the letter from President Pöttering dated 9 February 2009, which requested details of the measures taken by Member States following the February 2007 resolution on this matter.
Secondly, it is completely unproductive getting ourselves bogged down again in suspicions and accusations against certain Member States, brought about by the executive order passed by President Obama in January 2009, requesting the closure of the Guantánamo Bay detention centre within one year.
I believe that Romania has entirely demonstrated good will in its cooperation and has supplied the Commission and European Parliament with all the necessary information, as well as with all the results of the investigations carried out on this matter.
I would also like this time, as on the occasion of the Strasbourg part-session held from 2 to 5 February, to reaffirm my opposition to the resolution on the alleged CIA activities involving the transportation and illegal detention of alleged terrorists on the territory of certain European countries.
The accusations levelled against Romania, according to which it had been involved in the terrorist suspect transfer programme, are unfounded.
It is therefore unacceptable for Romania's name to be freely bandied about as part of the discussion on alleged CIA prisons.
I believe it is extremely important to implement in full the recommendations made by this Parliament in the report by the temporary committee on the alleged use of European countries by the CIA for the transport and illegal detention of prisoners because the existence of secret detention centres, enforced disappearances and the torture of detainees are not only a flagrant violation of international human rights law, the UN Convention on Torture, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Charter of Fundamental Rights but also cannot be tolerated in an international system governed by democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. - EPLP MEPs believe that this resolution contains a number of points of merit.
in writing. - Even though there are contentious elements in the CIA resolution, like welcoming the EU-US agreements on judicial cooperation and extradition, I still voted in favour of the resolution to support human rights and the attempt to shed light on the extraordinary renditions programme.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, I supported Mr Saryusz-Wolski's report.
in writing. - I support the retention of the national veto in matters of foreign affairs and I am increasingly concerned about the growing role of the EU on the world stage despite the fact that the Lisbon treaty has not been ratified.
I support this policy because I think it is unacceptable to deny the 23 million people of Taiwan a voice on the international stage.
I therefore voted to abstain on this report.
In my view, the Eastern Partnership must have a clear institutional structure, with parliamentary and intergovernmental dimensions, as well as adequate technical and financial bodies.
As regards the intergovernmental dimension, I feel that we need to establish a clear timetable of meetings at ministerial level involving the 27 Member States with their counterparts from the Eastern Partnership countries.
Obviously, in the case of Belarus, the EU Council's decision to resume negotiations with both the government in Minsk and with all the democratic forces in this country must be supported.
Belarus's authoritarian regime must understand that the EU stipulates as a firm condition of any cooperation the need to respect democratic principles and human rights.
I feel that the Eastern Partnership's parliamentary dimension is important because it ensures this project's democratic legitimacy.
in writing. - (EL) The group of the Communist Party of Greece in the European Parliament voted against the annual report on the application of the EU common foreign and security policy (CFSP) in 2007.
The report defends the EU's imperialist action in various areas of the world, such as the Western Balkans, where it has already established the EULEX police/judicial force in Kosovo, the Middle East as a whole, Georgia, Africa and elsewhere, and is looking to become even stronger.
Year on year, the EU is becoming more aggressive to and dangerous for the people, who must fight a more decisive and coordinated fight to overturn this policy, together with the US and NATO policy and the imperialist order of things overall.
in writing. - This report criticises the human rights situation in China, but it might also have mentioned the human rights situation in Taiwan, which is exemplary.
President Ma Ying-jeou is to be congratulated for bringing this about.
As a matter of fact, the report and the resolution constitute an outline of the objectives, priorities and interests of the EU's major powers, whether in the Balkans (Kosovo, Bosnia-Herzegovina), Eastern Europe (Caucasus, Black Sea, Belarus, Georgia, Russia), Middle East (Gaza Strip, Iraq), Mediterranean, Central Asia (Afghanistan, Iran), Africa (Chad, Sudan, Somalia, Democratic Republic of the Congo), Asia (China) or Latin America.
The Council's report for 2007 provides a fitting description of these issues.
It would be difficult not to agree that the financial resources earmarked for implementing the CFSP are far from sufficient, particularly in circumstances involving aggressive terrorist activity.
The right to live in peace and with a sense of security is an EU priority.
Cooperation with other countries plays an enormous role in this field.
The particular importance of transatlantic relations with the USA and Canada should be acknowledged, as should the closer cooperation between the EU and NATO.
The EU can also exert a positive influence on the situation in the Middle East.
The recent conflict in the Gaza Strip has demonstrated the dramatic circumstances in which the people of that region live, be they Palestinian or Jewish.
Moreover, universal solidarity requires particular respect for fundamental values and human rights, as well as the dignity and freedom to which every individual is entitled.
As apparent from the debate and the report on the common foreign and security policy, the European Union's ambition in terms of foreign policy is huge.
It is clearly apparent from the facts that the EU's role in the world does not match up to this ambition.
However, not only is its role growing, but in the vast majority of cases the Member States are in agreement and act in cooperation.
The recognition, however, that there are disagreements which basically stem from the existence of different interests and priorities does not lead me to conclude that the EU is irrelevant in the world or that a single foreign policy needs to be imposed on all the Member States, contrary to their own interests or even their own history.
I voted in favour of the motion for a European Parliament resolution on the 'Annual report from the Council to the European Parliament on the main aspects and basic choices of the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) in 2007, presented to the European Parliament in application of point G, paragraph 43 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 17 May 2006' in order to support peace, human dignity, human rights, democracy, multilateralism and the rule of law.
in writing. - The Saryusz-Wolski report contains some welcome references to Taiwan, and in particular the recent thaw in cross-straits relations.
I congratulate Taiwanese President Ma for his courageous and determined initiative to improve relations with the People's Republic of China.
Nevertheless, I fear we in the EU do not fully appreciate the importance of supporting democratic Taiwan and giving its 23 million people a voice on the international stage.
in writing. - I and my British Conservative colleagues welcome the need for effective inter-governmental co-operation within the CFSP, provided the United Kingdom retains its veto and ability to act alone in its national interest when required.
The report has good things to say on the need for more co-operation internationally by the 27 EU Member States in areas such as transatlantic relations, Georgia, the Eastern Partnership and the broader Middle East.
in writing. - (EL) The report on updating the European Security Strategy openly supports even greater militarisation of the EU in order to strengthen its military capabilities for its imperialist interventions.
In fact, the EU is reserving the 'right' of military intervention where and when it deems necessary for its imperialist interests and, more to the point, not only against third countries and peoples, but also against the peoples of its Member States, in order to defend the power of the monopolies as and when necessary.
in writing. - Mr von Wogau has my congratulations on his work both here and more generally for his chairmanship of the Subcommittee on Security and Defence.
Yet during the Bush-Gore debates just over a decade ago, George Bush said that had he been President he would not have intervened in Kosovo.
Now despite my antipathy to the Bush Administration's foreign policy it seems to me that it is a perfectly reasonable position for Bush to take on the basis of US self-interest.
Apart from the strong moral argument that we had a responsibility to protect those facing the genocide of the Serbs, we also had the consequences of tens/hundreds of thousands of refugees.
Those in Portugal, like the Portuguese Communist Party, who, in rejecting this Treaty, have demanded that a referendum and wide national debate should be held on its extremely serious consequences for Portugal, Europe and the world, and for peace, are right.
Labour MEPs voted against the section of text devoted to the creation of a permanent EU Military Operational Headquarters.
Labour MEPs have consistently questioned the need for this type of new institutional structure.
in writing. - This report calls for the setting-up of an autonomous and permanent EU Operational Headquarters with the capacity to undertake strategic planning and to conduct European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP) operations and missions.
The report is right to recommend the reform of the United Nations Organization in order to make it capable of fully meeting its responsibilities and acting effectively in providing solutions to global challenges and responding to key threats.
In order to promote stability among its eastern neighbours and minimise the impact on Member States, the EU must adopt a tough policy towards Russia, which should be drafted in close cooperation with transatlantic partners and include the relevant multilateral organisations, as well as the OSCE.
It also necessitates an agreement on what is common and what can be shared in this concern for security and among these burdens.
Security has a price, and the demand for greater multilateralism on our allies' part imposes an added cost.
I voted in favour of the motion for a European Parliament resolution on the 'European Security Strategy and ESDP' as I feel that the European Union needs to develop strategic autonomy by means of a powerful and effective security and defence policy.
I also think that the European Union must be able to guarantee its own security, as well as that of neighbouring countries.
in writing. - The Conservative Delegation fundamentally opposes the EU involvement in defence which this report aims significantly to extend.
ESDP is a political project that contributes no additional military capability while at the same time duplicating and undermining NATO.
The report envisions further unacceptable transfer of national competence in defence and security to the EU.
It proposes 'integrated European Armed Forces' and 'Synchronised Armed Forces Europe' as an EU army in embryo.
We therefore voted against the Report.
in writing. - (FR) I voted against this report, presented by the French Christian Democrat, Mr Vatanen.
The text of this report relates to the role of NATO in the security architecture of the European Union.
Strengthening the European Union's military credibility is, however, indispensable.
In the area of security and defence, the actions carried out by the European Union as a global player have taken the form of intervention to prevent conflict, thereby giving it the status of the main promoter of peace in the world.
In the present context, the lack of any common European foreign policy and discrepancies between Member States in the area of funding and military technological capacity make NATO a vital partner for managing military crises.
With this in mind, it is important to promote an open-door policy and support a constructive dialogue with Russia aimed at establishing collective security in this part of Europe.
America's part in our collective security is, and will remain, vital.
in writing. - (EL) The report literally paints what is black white and insultingly extols the so-called 'peaceful' and 'democratic' nature and role both of NATO and the EU, which are guilty of so many crimes against humanity, and presents them as common guardians of peace and human rights in Europe.
In this direction, it urges greater cooperation in 'crisis management', such as in Afghanistan and Kosovo, better exchange of information between the two imperialist organisations and so on.
The Communist Party of Greece voted against the report.
in writing. - I declare that I voted in favour in the final vote on the Vatanen report on the role of NATO in the security architecture of the EU.
It is a text which makes explicit - if any doubt existed - one of the objectives and central themes of the EU and its proposed Treaty of Lisbon: the militarisation of the EU and its consolidation as a political and military bloc, within the framework of NATO; that is, in partnership (coordination and rivalry) with the US.
Here is a report and resolution in step with the imperialist ambitions of the EU's major powers.
in writing. - British Labour MEPs are supportive of positive cooperation between NATO and the EU, and welcome sharing of experience and expertise as a key method for strengthening basic capabilities, improving interoperability and coordinating planning, equipment and training.
We voted in favour of the original text in paragraph 22 as we welcome French participation as part of strengthening EU-NATO cooperation.
Labour MEPs have consistently questioned the need for this type of new institutional structure.
in writing. - (NL) NATO played an important role during the Cold War between 1949 and 1989.
Its official task was to defend the Member States' common territory against foreign invasions, without taking action outside of that territory.
The right-wing dictatorships in Portugal and Greece were allowed to join in, there were bilateral agreements with a similar dictatorship in Spain, and the French colony of Algeria was forced to belong to NATO territory until 1962.
When the Soviet Union and the Warsaw Pact disappeared, this NATO lost its raison d'être.
Its continued existence is a problem for the EU, because six Member States have opted for military neutrality.
Although we would like to draw up a European security policy capable of meeting the security needs of all EU members, we must accept that a security structure already exists which acts as the centre of gravity of the majority of EU Member States' defence.
No matter what terms are used to formulate the European Security Strategy, the EU 'mosaic' will allow us to intervene in complex areas where diplomacy or limited intervention are only possible thanks to the EU's unrivalled capacity for subtlety.
A first step towards this consolidation may be an operational headquarters for the European Union.
The location of Europe dictates its security priorities and concerns.
However, the integration of Europe and the 27 Member States within a set of values and a model of society which, in a broad sense, we call the western world also defines the threats and our security context.
For that reason, the alliance that most EU Member States share with the United States, among others, is and must continue to be a central element in our security.
In the year in which we are celebrating the 60th anniversary of the Atlantic Alliance, it is time to rethink its strategic concept and bring it into line with the new reality.
in writing. - I voted in favour of Ari Vatanen's report on the role of NATO in the security architecture of the EU.
The rapporteur has pointed out the most important deficiencies of the current EU 'security architecture' and offers clear and effective solutions for improving the security of the European Union.
In order to develop a more efficient co-operation, all EU Member States should be present at the EU-NATO joint meetings.
The EU and NATO amend each other and together, our common goals can be attained the fastest and most effectively.
in writing. - I voted against this report.
The strength and security of Europe has depended for some time on the allies willing to play an active role in our defence.
in writing. - The Conservative Delegation welcomes some aspects of this report, including the endorsement of NATO as the core of European security, and the call for Member States to invest more in defence.
However, it is in essence a paean to ESDP, which we have opposed both in principle and in practice for more than ten years.
in writing. - The Barcelona Process was adopted by the Heads of State and Government at the Summit for the Mediterranean held in Paris on July 13, 2008.
It contributes towards peace and prosperity, and it will constitute a step towards economic and regional integration as well as ecological and climate cooperation between the Mediterranean countries.
This has taken on an added importance in view of the recent issues in Gaza and the declarations in Cyprus.
I also supported the report, as EU support for the Mediterranean Region has no adverse effect on other regional cooperation initiatives, such as the Eastern Partnership.
We also regret the fact that the report does not impose any requirements on occupying powers such as Israel and Morocco.
In a report that talks of strengthening human rights in the Mediterranean region, this should be a minimum requirement.
We therefore voted against this report in the vote.
This cooperation is deemed important in the south of Europe but is of far less significance to the rest of Europe.
Despite this, there are no major differences of opinion about this, because nobody objects to good relations at the EU's external borders.
in writing. - (DE) The projects proposed by the newly-formed Union for the Mediterranean all sound well and good: the Solar Plan, collaboration in civil protection, joint initiatives for the depollution of the Mediterranean and new port and motorway projects.
As I do not believe that the new Union for the Mediterranean will be any more successful than its predecessor organisation, I have voted against this report.
in writing. - (PL) What is of significance to me is that the agreement, within the framework of the Barcelona Process, facilitates the regulation of many regional strategic issues such as energy security, environmental protection and water management.
At the same time, I would like to emphasise the need for considerably broader cooperation in the following sectors: services (medical and educational), agriculture, as this provides the basis for the region's economy, and, in conjunction with the latter, the monitoring of food security.
Dialogue, the promotion of multicultural and religious tolerance, as well as educational projects, may pave the way for a peaceful solution to the conflicts in which those countries are currently involved.
This will allow for closer economic and political co-operation in terms of enhanced aid and trade facilities, as well as security issues, in exchange for the promotion of common values in the sphere of democracy and human rights and the rule of law.
We wish to make clear our opposition to the Treaty of Lisbon in accordance with our long-held policy and we cannot therefore accept the references to it in Paragraph 10 of this report.
in writing. - We have voted on the report of the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Policy Instrument and the following points have been made: the Mediterranean component of the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument should complement the Barcelona Process, and the ENP's objectives need to be more clearly defined in order to strengthen the Barcelona Process by favouring a multilateral regional approach; there should be enhanced EU involvement in the Black Sea region and an ambitious Eastern Partnership.
I hope to see greater integration and a resulting rapprochement in the economic and political spheres between the European Union and neighbouring countries, and am therefore in full agreement with the report by Mr Konrad Szymański.
It also urges the Commission and national, regional and local authorities to promote twinning programmes between towns and regions and, in addition, calls for the annual action programmes in the fields of democracy, the rule of law and human rights to be pursued more ambitiously, in line with the objectives set up in the ENP action plans, asking for more to be done to persuade the partner governments to commit themselves to action in those fields.
I believe that the countries lying beyond the Eastern borders of the EU are our strategic partners.
in writing. - (PL) I supported Mr Konrad Szymanowski's report on the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument.
It also includes efforts to reduce poverty, promote equality between women and men, promote employment and social protection, foster cross-border cooperation, promote health, education and human rights, combat terrorism and organised crime, and promote cooperation in the scientific, educational, innovation and cultural spheres.
It is therefore essential to conduct a substantive and financial review of all ENPI Operational Programmes, taking into account the countries, the regions and the issues involved.
These activities should expand the free trade zone.
I also accept that it is advisable to review our cooperation with Belarus, along with the level of funding allocated to that country, in order to ascertain whether the policy of re-engagement with that country, initiated in September 2008, should be continued.
The European Neighbourhood Policy is a vital instrument for ensuring stability in the area to the east of the EU.
Indeed, recent events in the region such as the crisis in Georgia and the gas crisis have demonstrated once again the need for the EU to have a strategy capable of ensuring that it plays an active role in this area.
I support this report because it highlights the importance of initiatives such as the Black Sea Synergy and the Eastern Partnership.
They are particularly worthwhile in consolidating cooperation with the countries in the region, especially Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova, but also the states from the Caucasus and the Caspian Region.
Furthermore, the majority of these resources must be allocated with a view to involving civil society in the partner countries in common projects and to supporting the mobility of their citizens.
The ENPI can become more effective through greater rapprochement by the citizens from the partner countries and by encouraging the process of Europeanisation at every level.
in writing. - (SK) Trans-border cooperation is an important stimulus for the sustainable development of neighbouring border regions.
I welcome the fact that in his report on reviewing the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Policy Instrument the rapporteur Konrad Szymański included trans-border cooperation within the remit of the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument (ENPI).
I have voted for the report, which will facilitate the negotiating process for countries applying for membership to the EU.
I believe we must admit that in some of the countries covered by the instrument, no progress at all has been made towards the initial objectives of promoting democracy, stability and good governance, integration and economic convergence with the policies of the European Union.
While, on the one hand, assistance and a neighbourhood approach by the EU may act as a stimulus for the dissemination and implementation of good practice, it is, however, true that it is vital for this assistance and the financial aid granted by the EU to be conditional.
On this point, I agree with my fellow Member in believing that sectoral and general budget support under the ENPI should be made available only to governments which are able to implement it in a transparent, effective and accountable manner and where it constitutes a real incentive; for this very reason, however, I cannot agree to a review of the ENPI as set out in his report.
Examples are the creation of partnerships between economic, academic and scientific operators, particularly in sectors of great importance such as scientific and technological research, transport, energy and the environment.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, I support the report by Mrs Dahl and I am in favour, quoting Article 1 of the Publications Office of the European Union, of it being 'an interinstitutional office with the task of publishing the publications of the institutions of the European Communities and the European Union under optimum conditions'.
I believe that the use of information is the main way to bring the European Union closer to its citizens and, in this context, multilingualism must be the key instrument in putting into practice the aims of the Publications Office through the simultaneous publication of the Official Journal in all the European Union official languages, so as to ensure that it is clearly understood by everyone.
This principle ought to extend to all the activities carried out by the Publications Office.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this draft decision since it takes into account the EP's demands and clearly allocates administrative and political responsibilities to the Office and the Commission, unlike the previous decision dating from 2000.
However, this is not the case, as the web pages are often only understandable to insiders and are also not always intelligible in all languages.
The EU is always emphasising the importance of information policy, but in this regard is allowing an information gap to develop.
For this reason, I have voted against the Dahl report.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted for the report by Mrs Dahl on the organisation and operation of the Publications Office of the European Union.
I believe that the report is also useful in clarifying the allocation of political and administrative responsibilities within the Publications Office of the European Union and that such clarification is necessary in order to ensure that the office carries out its tasks in a correct, streamlined and efficient manner. - That concludes the explanations of vote.
