Export and import of dangerous chemicals (debate) The next item is the report by Johannes Blokland, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the export and import of dangerous chemicals - C6-0439/2006 -.
For the last 30 years the European Union's policies and legislation on the protection of public health and the environment have made significant progress in reducing the risks posed by chemical substances, not only in the European Union, but also worldwide.
The European Union has constantly been an important partner in international conventions, including the Rotterdam Convention on the prior informed consent procedure for certain hazardous chemicals and pesticides in international trade.
On many points the regulation does not stop at the provisions of the Rotterdam Convention, but goes further by offering a higher level of protection for countries that import chemicals.
On 10 January 2006 the Court of Justice of the European Communities adopted a judgment annulling Regulation 304/2003 on the grounds that it should have had a dual legal basis, namely Articles 133 and 175(1) of the Treaty.
Madam President, I should like to express my satisfaction with the efforts we have all made to reach agreement on this regulation at first reading.
The most important thing that we have achieved, in my view, is that through this new regulation the trade in dangerous chemicals will be dealt with in an ethically responsible manner.
After all, we are talking about substances that are banned in the European Union or severely restricted.
We in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy have given a high priority to producing a practical regulation that will control the international import and export of hazardous chemicals in a reasonable and logical way and that is sufficiently coherent that the importing countries can understand what we in the European Union are trying to achieve.
That essentially was the main problem, namely that we had put in some nice things and we had put in some dangerous things but no-one could understand what it actually all meant, all the stuff that we then added in the supplement to the international list.
The Committee on Industry is satisfied and I should particularly like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Blokland, for having negotiated with such persistence and common sense that we ultimately achieved a good compromise.
That is why there was no provision for a debate originally, but now that we have the opportunity to express our point of view after all, I would like to say something briefly on behalf of the PPE-DE Group.
Now the present regulation on the import and export of certain dangerous chemicals, in addition to the dual legal basis - Article 133 and Article 175(1) - and a number of technical changes, does indeed focus, as the rapporteur has also already mentioned, on the amended procedure for explicit consent, which is dealt with in Article 13.
It is good that the period for exemptions has been shortened from 36 to 12 months.
We know that there are more than 1.5 million cases of poisoning and nearly 30 000 deaths a year in the developing world.
It would have been appalling if the Commission's proposal had come into force, as this would have meant that dangerous chemicals could be exported without the authorisation of the importing countries provided that no response had been received within 90 days.
In fact, the Court of Justice has said that we need a dual legal base in this particular area rather than the single legal base, which normally makes life much easier - if we can keep to a single legal base - because very often dual legal bases have been lawyers' charters.
The Commissioner's views on that and on the whole saga of the legal base that has us here a second time would be very welcome.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Madam President, I would like to thank all the speakers for their positive comments.
As for the dual legal basis, it would, in fact, have been much easier and simpler had we had a single legal basis, but we well know the problem that arises so often: here we have, if I remember rightly, Article 133 with Article 175, while in most other cases we have Article 95 with Article 175.
Certainly, in proposing a legal basis, we always rely on the opinion of our Legal Service.
Here, as I have already said, we have dealt with trade and the environment, and this was the reason for the European Court of Justice's decision on the dual legal basis.
The Court of Justice pronounced a kind of judgment of Solomon and said: dual legal basis, while the Council and Parliament had been assuming that you could not have that, that it was impossible.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The proposal for a Regulation concerning the export and import of dangerous chemicals is an improvement in the use of chemicals, in that the health of the population and the environment are protected more effectively.
The regulation aims to encourage the joint accountability of exporters and importers and to support them in their cooperation effort so as to ensure control over the international circulation of hazardous chemicals.
in writing. - (DE) The new regulation on the import of certain hazardous chemicals and pesticides now includes a number of sensible technical amendments.
