Milk quotas (debate) The next item is the oral question to the Commission on milk quotas by Duarte Freitas, Carmen Fraga Estévez, Salvador Garriga Polledo, Esther Herranz García, Elisabeth Jeggle, Albert Jan Maat, Mairead McGuinness, Francisco José Millán Mon, James Nicholson, Neil Parish and Daniel Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group - B6-0444/2006).
author. - (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, I should first like to thank the political group and the other groups for the interest that they have shown in this subject and that made it possible for this oral question to be put quickly onto the agenda.
Commissioner, you suggested at the informal Council meeting that the system of milk quotas appears increasingly outdated and that it should be questioned and examined in such a way that farmers can plan their lives over the long term.
It was not Parliament that raised this issue now, but it is in Parliament that the issue must be clarified, because our voters are most concerned and are anxious to know what is going on.
In the dairy sector, planning is done over the long term.
It is therefore essential that we know whether or not the agreement must be complied with and whether any stringent mechanisms are to be put in place before or after 2015.
On the other hand, it is also crucial to state for political purposes that the EU will take into account the social and economic impact that changes of this nature could have on regions that depend on milk and, in particular, on regions in which there are no production alternatives.
Mr President, for the time being the quota system provides some kind of stability for the European market, allowing successful full implementation of the 2003 reform without undue disturbances.
Quota levels per Member State are fixed until 31 March 2015, as Mr Freitas rightly said.
That is important.
If no decision is taken, the system will expire on 31 March 2015.
As you have already, and repeatedly, pointed out, Commissioner, the current state of affairs - that is to say, the decision to retain the quota until 31 March 2015 - and the question as to what will succeed it, is a cause of vigorous debate, particularly in certain regions that are, or believe themselves to be, dependent on milk and on the quotas.
It is good to hear a clear statement from you - as we indeed just have done - in which you give us the facts - namely, that the quota has been agreed on up to this point - and also tell us that we should have a debate in good time on what we propose to do about the situation.
Commissioner, we cannot be in favour of controlling milk production after 2015 under the current preconditions, which often create oligopolies in the sector.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I too should like to start by thanking Mr Freitas for taking the initiative and raising this important topic this evening.
The difference between the global market prices in 1984 and the price in the European Union was enormous, but it is now considerably less pronounced.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) Mr President, the Commissioner's position on the milk quota system is most worrying, in that she is suggesting that they might be dismantled by 2015.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, I would like to thank the author of the question for initiating this greatly needed debate on dairy quotas.
There is therefore every reason to look at how we can come up with a good timetable after 2015 in order to attain a better and effective system.
In that way, the Commissioner may well be able to use a good timetable that leads to a more market-oriented focus and, as a member of the Dutch Christian Democratic party, the CDA, I would very much welcome it if the Commissioner were to adopt this line.
It is not uncommon for production quotas to be bought for EUR 150 000 or more.
Milk production therefore needs a long-term protected framework.
A case in point is Germany, which has 80 million inhabitants, and has a quota of around 28 million tonnes, while Poland, which has half the population, is only allowed some 9 million tonnes of milk.
Unfortunately during that time many Polish milk producers will disappear from the market. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, as a representative of Galicia, a milk-producing region par excellence, I think that this oral question put to the European Commission today is very opportune.
Commissioner, producers are quite disconcerted by information that has been circulated, from which it can be deduced that there will be changes to the system established in 2003 for the milk sector and specifically concerning the quota system.
In a region like Galicia, in which there is a need to continue with the restructuring process, it is essential, in order to complete it, that the current quota system is maintained as planned.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the fact that the policies of the Member States need to cooperate in the whole of this process and that therefore any restriction on exchanges of quotas in a Member State should be considered as a serious obstacle to the capitalisation, competitiveness and development of the sector, as is unfortunately the case with the national plan proposed by the Spanish Government. (PT) I should once again like to thank you for being in the Chamber, Commissioner.
Quotas are in place until 2015 and this I believe was a good decision during the mid-term review.
Commissioner, you said that quotas have outlived their usefulness.
It is not only the people who are employed on the farms who are important; the people who are employed in the processing industries and off the farms are equally important. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, we all agree that the European countryside and European farmers and livestock breeders need some certainty.
The Brussels Agreement in 2002 provided that certainty, and in exchange for it, the Member States tolerated a reform of the CAP that required serious sacrifices for the rural world, especially for the 'cohesion countries'.
Between 1996 and 2006 the number of farms has dropped from 30 000 to just 3 200.
Are you planning to report this situation during the review that you carry out next year? (PL) Mr President, the debate in this House on dairy quotas is intensifying.
I spoke to a large group of dairy farmers in Navan, County Meath on Thursday night and the question they are asking is not so much if quotas will be gone in 2015, but what is going to be done from 2008 to collapse the value of the milk quota.
That is already happening, certainly in Ireland.
The key to all this is that we are all for abolition if markets are positive in 2015, but none of us knows what the markets will be like at that time.
Everyone in this House accepts the value of dairy production to all our Member States - nowhere more so than in my own region of the UK, the West Country, where dairying is the bread and butter of the whole area but is also under huge pressure.
The decision was taken to maintain the quota system until 31 March 2015.
That is important.
They will keep their quotas on the basis of these still being worth something after 31 March 2015, only for the Council and Parliament to suddenly decide to abolish them, with the value of quotas falling to zero overnight.
There is no such compelling reason in the case of the milk sector, since the regulations for this sector are in force until 2015 and, moreover, the quota system has been providing the market and producers with adequate stability.
Commissioner Fischer Boel stated that in the context of the review, we should look at the question of quotas, but she did not give any concrete details.
