Subject: Information campaigns concerning the buying of properties in different EU Member States Would the European Commission consider drawing up and marketing an information leaflet which would highlight the different taxation, accountancy and legal issues that prospective European purchasers should watch out for when buying a residential property in a different EU Member State?
I suppose in this area, as in all other areas, the clause caveat emptor should always apply first and foremost.
In all these areas, whether you are buying property or financial products, it is something that everybody must be aware of.
One of the 48 recommendations set out by the expert group was for there to be an information leaflet.
I myself have written a book on how to establish a business in the 15 old European Union countries, including the purchase of real estate, taxes and other considerations.
The external dimension of EU migration policy and Commission action in this area has developed a lot over the last few years due to the needs regarding migration, in particular for the definition but also the implementation of a global approach to migration.
The programme provides for an indicative amount of more than EUR 380 million over the period 2007-2013 for cooperation with third countries in the areas of migration and asylum, including on labour migration and reintegration of returnees.
Through these measures, we in the Commission ensure that the delegations are able to interact with the Member States but also with third countries, and to implement migration-related Community assistance. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, over recent months I have listened to the statements by you and by Commissioners Michel and Frattini, and I have found the commitments that you have made very encouraging.
The procedure and timetable employed are as follows: On 22 September last year, Greece presented the Commission with the revised figures on its gross domestic product and its gross national product.
The committee also pointed to the urgent need for Greece to cooperate fully with Eurostat and to provide a completely revised inventory of its GDP and its GNP, explaining in detail the new sources and methods used by Greece for its national accounts, in order to enable Eurostat to carry out a complete verification of the new data and inform the committee of the results of that verification.
Greece presented the inventory to Eurostat on 6 February of this year, in the form of a 460-page document in Greek.
Like those carried out in other countries, experts from other Member States take part in that mission, in order to ensure the necessary degree of transparency.
With regard to the level of indebtedness, it is calculated that it will continue to fall, from the 104.5% of GDP in 2006 to around 100.7% in 2007 and 97.5% in 2008.
In view of these figures, on 16 May of this year the Commission recommended to the Council that the excessive deficit procedure, which had been opened up two years earlier, be ended, and on 5 June of this year the Ecofin Council adopted the decision to close the procedure, in accordance with the Commission's proposal.
On 20 April, following the meeting of the Eurogroup in Berlin, the Greek Minister for the Economy and Finance formally and publicly announced that the government had decided to bring forward from 2012 to 2010 the time limit for achieving that medium-term budgetary objective. (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your detailed reply.
In a statement after 5 June, you expressed the Commission's concern about the large deficit in the balance of payments of the Greek economy and recommended strict measures in order to achieve a sustainable and constant reduction in the deficit and the debt.
Subject: Implementation of the Treaty on the Accession of the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union Article 2 of the first part of the Treaty concerning the accession of the Kingdom of Norway, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland and the Kingdom of Sweden to the European Union states that, from the date of accession, the provisions of the original Treaties and the acts adopted by the institutions before accession shall be binding on the new Member States and shall apply in those States under the conditions laid down in those Treaties and in this Act (of Accession).
Our last convergence report, which covers the States with exceptions, was published in December 2006, and in it the Commission concluded that Sweden met the price stability criterion, the criterion relating to the public budget situation and the criterion on the convergence of long-term interest rates.
Furthermore, in last December's convergence report, the Commission pointed out that the Swedish legislation was not fully compatible with Articles 108 and 109 of the Treaty with regard to the regulation of the Central Bank and its integration into the European system of central banks.
In accordance with the Treaty, the Commission and the European Central Bank will publish the next convergence report in 2008, in principle in May 2008.
These directives must be transposed into national legislation, and in the case of the latter directive, it must be transposed by 1 December of this year.
Member of the Commission. (ES) Mr President, Sweden must apply the Treaties, of course.
The Commission also has to apply the Treaty, and what it has done, and what it is going to continue to do, is analyse every two years, as the Treaty demands, whether or not the Member State in question in this case Sweden - fulfils the required conditions for entering the euro.
Sweden has a problem because its currency is not included in the exchange rate mechanism and, therefore, it does not fulfil the exchange rate stability criterion, it does not conform to the criterion on bringing its legislation into line with the rules laid down in the articles of the Treaty that I referred to earlier, and we point that out.
What all Member States must do is try to prepare for that moment.
As the honourable Member knows, and as you all know, the results of the referendum held in Sweden in 2003 are not going to remain in force forever.
The first is a purely technical issue: is the Accession Treaty clause for the Swedish Accession Treaty completely identical to those of the 12 Member States which joined after 2004?
Firstly, Sweden has exactly the same regulation as the 12 new Member States.
The Member States that are not yet members of the euro zone are committed to adopting the single currency once they fulfil the conditions necessary in order to do so and to try to prepare for fulfilling them.
Furthermore, the legislation regulating the Central Bank in Poland does not yet conform to the Treaty's requirements, according to the analysis included in our latest convergence report of December 2006.
I am very aware of the fact that the European Commission cannot discuss dates, but could we broadly state that 2012 would be a more or less suitable date for both sides?
Member of the Commission. (ES) Mr President, I would insist that it does not fall to the Commission to reply to that question.
I therefore believe that it is good for everybody that the countries that are going to join the euro, not just through obligation, but above all through conviction, and which are undergoing a process of convergence, growth and modernisation, through a very significant reform effort, clarify this element of the strategy; above all, because it is good for them and for their own interests.
Member of the Commission. (ES) Mr President, it is true that the situation in the United Kingdom - as I have already said, and as you have repeated - is not the same.
The United Kingdom has an 'opt-out' clause, and, therefore, the comments I made earlier with regard to the 12 countries that do not have that clause do not apply to it.
I am sure that that time will come, but, to be frank, I believe that it will come after the next crisis. (LT) Honourable Commissioner, I also would like to link the last two issues and ask you a specific question.
Unfortunately, none of these characteristics are apparent, for the time being, in Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic, countries with high rates of growth but with large ongoing nominal and real convergence processes, which requires them, their citizens and their authorities to carry out significant reforms and to work extremely hard.
Moreover, pursuant to the 2002 Directive on environmental noise, Heathrow must, before the end of this month, draw up a strategic noise map that includes an analysis of possible eventualities.
However, an extra runway at Heathrow would allow an extra 500 flights a day to pass over London.
This Convention, to which the Community and the Member States are party, reinforces the commitments mentioned in the White Paper on European Governance.
Subject: EU targets for the concentration of greenhouse gas emissions The European Union has set itself the world's most stringent target for limiting the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.
The Commission is aware that, according to recent research, with greenhouse gases stabilising at 550 parts per million (ppm) CO2 equivalent, the chances of meeting the objective of limiting global warming to two degrees are dwindling.
At the same time, emissions from developing countries must reach their maximum targets between 2020 and 2025.
Member of the Commission. (ES) Mr President, Mr Posselt, the European Union applies strict legislation to transfers of waste between Member Status and to transfers to third countries.
This year awareness-raising events and meetings have been organised with the Member States, with a view to improving implementation and compliance with the rules on the transfer of waste in the Member States.
We are aware that similar situations may exist in other Member States, in addition to the one you raise in your question.
Member of the Commission. (ES) Mr President, I am no expert in this field, but I can tell you that when it comes to this kind of action, and given that both you in your question and I in my reply note that illegal transportation exists, anything that can be done in addition to what is already being done will be welcome, and this is applicable both to our own responsibilities for ensuring compliance with European law and - as I said in my initial reply - to the actions of the Member States, which have the monitoring and inspection instruments on the ground.
This report will provide information on the implementation and possible impact of the recommendation in the Member States, in the European Economic Area states and candidate countries.
I asked the question because I have been talking to doctors, consultants and oncologists in my own city of London, and in the United Kingdom we have a disproportionate number of cancer cases for what is a prosperous Member State.
I do not expect there to be a horizontal provision especially for children; however, in every health sector and in every health problem that can be avoided, the strategy and the initiative will refer specifically to children and to prevention. (DE) Mr President, the Commissioner raised the issue of alcoholism.
We are in fact waiting for the European Parliament's position on this issue, but the question of young people and combating this form of excessive consumption of alcohol in general are among the strategy's main objectives.
