Countries involved in the European Neighbourhood Policy have received similar threats.
Ahead of the Commission's Consultation Forum, I should like the Commission to listen to the experts when considering the effects of this directive on Ireland. (ES) Mr President, I too want to add my thanks for the formal statement made by the Chamber on the grave accident that occurred on 20 August at Barajas Airport and which led to 155 deaths.
Taking into consideration that the issue of Transnistria, a region close to the European Union's Eastern border, is of high interest for all Member States and in particular for Romania, I consider a decisive involvement at Community level to be necessary in order to avoid needless tense relations between the countries and entities that have declared interests in this region.
It signals Russia's military comeback, heralded by its offensive energy supply policy initiated in 2006.
A European Commission mission of June 2008 visited Bulgaria and Romania and ordered the suspension of payments in Sapard projects.
After that shameful event, the Hungarian Prime Minister has initiated a Hungarian Charter, and here in the European Parliament I would like to launch a European Charter with my colleagues Michael Cashman and Edit Bauer.
The recent military policy decisions in respect of Georgia and NATO also indicate that, with the new Putin-Medvedev duo in power, a new Ice Age has begun, not only in the domestic but also in the foreign policy arena.
No such allegation should ever be made in a Member State of the European Union. (PT) The media in Portugal has in recent days reported a further 312 redundancies at Yasaki in Ovar.
Together with this latest round of redundancies, in the last year and a half Yasaki Saltano has made nearly 1 200 people redundant at the Ovar and Vila Nova de Gaia units.
The present conflict was triggered by the murder of a spiritual leader and member of the World Hindu Council on 23 August.
The European Parliament must urge the Indian Government to guarantee the right to life and liberty of Christians in Orissa. (ET) Ladies and gentlemen, Transnistria has recognised the independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
Russia has told President Voronin that it is interested in an agreement under which Transnistria would be treated as an autonomous region of Moldova.
It is vital to bring the 5+2 partners to the negotiating table: we cannot allow Medvedev and Voronin to resolve the conflict between them.
Mr President, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) decided in July 2007 to grant the right to host the 2014 Winter Olympics to Sochi, Russia.
The European Community's concerns about the crisis in the Caucasus, the imperialist aggression and menace of Russia, and the dangers facing Ukraine and Moldova are justified.
I believe it is an appropriate occasion on which to call on you and on all MEPs to support the call for 25 May to be declared an international day devoted to honouring those who fought heroically against totalitarianism.
The choice of the date of 25 May is not accidental.
On 25 May 1948 the Communists murdered Captain Witold Pilecki.
People like Witold Pilecki deserve to be remembered.
The latest detention was that of Gorki Águila, leader of a rock band, who has now fortunately been released.
It is not in the interests of consumer rights, and it is a farce if we are quoting security reasons. (DE) Madam President, on 14 August 2008 the departure time of a Ryanair flight from Austria to the United Kingdom was postponed until the following day.
This type of thing is happening more and more frequently, at European air passengers' expense, and it really is time that the European Commission took some action. (PL) Madam President, 87 years ago Lenin, the then leader of world Communism and of the Soviet Union, took the decision to separate three regions from Georgia.
It is, however, the first case in the last 60 years in which a large country has appropriated part of a small one through military action.
