Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am bound to admit to you that I too am overcome by a feeling of frustration.
All these concerns have been raised in public and no doubt in private too.
Ladies and gentlemen, Europe sponsored the Road&#160;Map initiative.
It is this commitment that currently seems to be lacking: we therefore have to re-establish the political will to make the two-state solution work.
Israel now has to adopt a sufficient number of measures to strengthen trust.
The new government under Prime Minister Abu Ala must take effective control of the Palestinian territories, undertake clear action against those who organise and commit violent attacks on the Israeli population, and publicly reaffirm Israel’s right to exist.
It is understandable that the international community should be focusing its attention on the security issue, but we must not forget the need to strengthen institutions and undertake reforms.
Having institutions that work well is the basis for long-term stability and security for both Palestine and Israel.
Both sides have signed up to the creation of a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and to a guarantee of secure borders for the state of Israel, not to mention full acceptance of Israel by all countries in the region.
On behalf of our group, I would like to state very clearly that every suicide bombing is a crime against the young people who carry it out and a crime against the Israelis whom they take with them into death.
I would like to thank Commissioner Monti for what he said about the wall, for his great ability – we know he has other abilities as well – but I would particularly like to thank him for saying what he did, and for the way he said it.
I am profoundly convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that the construction of this wall is a very great tragedy.
Let me say, not only on my own behalf, but also on behalf of my parliamentary group, that if a wall is constructed which leads to more hatred and more humiliation, this is a further argument, to my mind, for having an international peacekeeping force to keep the two hostile parties apart.
From our point of view, it is clear that the aim must be for Israel to exist in secure borders.
The aim must also be a Palestinian state in secure borders.
Perhaps we have an even greater responsibility than our American friends.
As Europeans, we should now, for once, take the initiative, especially since our American friends have other concerns with the start of the presidential election campaign – and we know how important are the groups in America whose support a candidate needs in order to be elected.
In the European Union, we are currently in the process of adopting a constitution, and this constitution is a process underpinned by values.
We should play a strong and pro-active role in this context.
I must say, Mr Solana, that I feel frustrated, embittered and, above all, highly indignant.
It is clearly criminal to send young people to kill themselves and others; those who do so are responsible for these deaths and I consider it a crime, but please let us also break out of this inertia, this diplomacy that causes more deaths every day and contributes to this crime.
He can do what the government under Abu Mazen and now Abu Ala has been trying to do: to come to a political agreement with all the forces, including Hamas and Jihad, the moderate wing, let us say the wing that accepts peace or accepts a total cease-fire.
An article in the Israeli newspaper, , by Gideon Levi, who is an amazing journalist, tells of how, in order to cross the road, children have to squeeze through the gaps in the concrete: their thin bodies get through but their schoolbags do not and they throw them over to the other side.
The motion shall be that the Palestinian state shall receive the same rights and responsibilities as the Israeli state.
After this motion has been approved, the European Union shall propose, through its representatives on the Security Council, that a UN&#160;military force be sent to keep the peace between the Israeli and Palestinian states.
They forget, for instance, that the Palestinian constitution denies the existence of Israel; they forget that Palestinian school books teach that Israel does not exist and that its people do not exist and never have existed; they forget that, in 1999 or 2000, the Camp David initiative failed because of Yasser Arafat’s clumsiness at negotiating and accepting a compromise that might, perhaps, have resulted in a very different situation from the one we have today; they also forget everything about which we are quite rightly indignant, because we demand a lot from Israel, a democratic people, and we are also entitled to demand a lot from peoples that are not democratic but, we hope, will become so.
Clearly, however, we can only conclude that what is happening is a response to attacks that society would normally be unable to tolerate but which have, however, become the daily bread of Israeli society.
Therefore, I believe that, if all this is true, we Europeans should also examine our consciences.
In the same way, we must condemn the Israeli attack on Syria, an action that contravenes international law.
The Israeli Government must withdraw its military forces from the occupied territories and bring them home.
We must reach a definitive peace agreement between two equal, democratic and sovereign states that live peacefully together behind secure and recognised borders on the basis of UN Resolution 242 of 22 November 1967.
Israel and Palestine cannot resolve the conflict without help from outside, and the international community must continue to put pressure on both parties.
It may also be necessary to send an international intervention and observation force to the region, a force that the Quartet must assemble, that, under the auspices of the UN, would monitor developments and that, subsequently, could guarantee that the final peace agreement was being observed by the parties. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the wall being built by the Israeli Government will reduce the already tiny West Bank territories by 58%.
The building of this wall makes the destruction of the Palestinian state possible, security for either of the two peoples unlikely, and also dashes any hope of peace in the Middle East.
The European Union must prevent the threats against President&#160;Arafat from being carried out.
Our group believes that any remaining hope of peace between Israelis and Palestinians still lies in the road map.
This initiative, which involves not only the belligerents but also the United States, Russia, the United Nations and the European Union, must be improved, but cannot be abandoned.
Its objectives remain valid, aiming as they do to resolve the conflict by 2005, putting an end to the violence and terrorism and allowing a future Palestinian state to exist peacefully alongside Israel.
On the other hand, it is also crucial to ensure that the response of the democratic Israeli Government is restrained, and also to warn neighbouring countries in the region to refrain from harbouring terrorist groups in whose bases criminal activities are sustained and undertaken.
For, while it is true that there can be no peace without security, there can be no peace without justice either.
Let us clearly state where we want to go.
That is the prerequisite for the resolution of this conflict. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the High Representative has just talked about the dreadful and ongoing death toll in this territory between Israel and the Palestinians.
The European Community is certainly powerful in the economic field, and its economic contribution to stabilising this territory in the past undoubtedly outstrips the contribution made by others in the same way.
That is why I too have a question for the High Representative, who is working with great commitment in this region: What role does this territory play in the European Union’s security strategy, which is currently being drafted?
Yesterday, however, I spoke to friends and colleagues in the NGO UNA International Service, which is active in the region.
They tell me that all EU-funded development projects have had to be halted because of the emergency in the Middle East.
It is undeniable that between President&#160;Assad, who is sticking to a rigid political stance and whose duty it is, therefore, to react strongly to the serious provocation represented by an attack on Syrian soil, and Prime&#160;Minister&#160;Sharon who, 13 months away from the US elections, can feel that he has a particularly free rein, there are elements that could further inflame tensions and result in the entire region becoming engulfed.
This indirect response is not without risk.
In this sensitive phase European diplomacy could, therefore, play a useful mediating role alongside the two players to help prevent the spiral of another regional escalation from being set in motion. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Secretary-General&#160;Solana, the Palestinian Prime Minister, Ahmad&#160;Quray categorically excludes Palestinian moves and efforts to combat the terrorist groups that systematically sabotage the fragile and extremely relative peace in the Middle East.
In a democratic country such as Israel, which is a sign to the rest of the world that democracy exists in the Middle East, every such suicide attack carried out by a terrorist group will make Israeli opinion less willing to compromise with the Palestinian Authority and less well disposed towards handing land over to the Palestinians.
Nor has the President of the Palestinian Authority, Yasser Arafat, dared to intervene vigorously against the terrorist groups, in spite of the fact that Hamas, Islamic Jihad and other terrorist groups are indirectly and deliberately sabotaging the peace process with its associated two-state solution, of which the Palestinian Government officially professes itself an adherent.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Middle East crisis is escalating.
The picture is clear.
The European Union must take decisive initiatives in order to prevent any danger of expansion and must propose specific solutions and ways of applying them.
The role of umpire between the Israelis and the Palestinians is not enough.
I personally am against this wall, because I am against the line that it follows.
There is war being waged by the Israeli State for its safety.
There is also, and this has to be said, a type of colonial war being waged by some Israelis and there is, and we really cannot overlook this one, a war to destroy the Israeli State being waged by some Palestinian factions.
The military junta in Chile fell partly because politicians were being murdered.
The Middle East is often compared with the Crusader empires that lasted for 200 years.
It is possible that Israel will continue to exist for 100 years with the help of US money and weapons and the EU’s passivity; but, if no one intervenes, our grandchildren will perhaps witness the destruction of Israel.
The issue must therefore continue to one of our main concerns.
It is clear that all countries must actively comply with UN Security Council Resolution 1373.
As far as I am concerned, Palestine is not the Middle East.
It has persisted in the military occupation, in destroying infrastructure, housing and other installations, in carrying out targeted killings, and in holding more than 7&#160;000 Palestinian prisoners, almost 340&#160;of whom are children, in Israeli jails.
Apart from hollow proclamations, not a word of support for the Palestinian people fighting for human dignity for the whole of mankind in the face of imperialist brutality.
Not a word about the satanically inspired wall designed to choke Palestine or about the criminal settlements and the cynical threats against the elected President Arafat.
We denounce this policy, we express our undivided support for the Palestinian resistance and President Arafat.
We stand by the Israeli communists and all those in this country who, like the 27 pilots and hundreds of Israeli soldiers and officers, are fighting to stop Sharon's cannibalistic machine.
We call here too for a front of solidarity for peace in the Middle East and for reconciliation between the two peoples in two independent, sovereign states. (1) &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject we are dealing with is not politically controversial; on the contrary, it has to do with the safety of air travel, which is a matter of concern for us and for all travellers.
That shows the need for a Community safety policy for airports.
Both paragraph 11 and our amendment in its original form mention the possible budgetary consequences of 'the' increase in the number of agreements in the near future.
We therefore bring the problem to the attention of the Commission and Parliament in the hope that we shall not remain its only proponents. &#160;&#160; I could only vote in favour of this report, which confirms the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund in Portugal’s favour by granting it EUR&#160;48.539&#160;million – in other words, the exact amount requested by the Portuguese Government – to deal with the effects of this summer’s devastating fires.
The EUR&#160;48.5&#160;million in aid for which we have voted today is a fairer and more fitting amount than that previously provided. &#160;&#160; The repercussions of the forest fires which swept through Portugal this summer are far from over.
On 4 August 2003, following the tragic summer fires in Portugal, the Portuguese authorities announced their intention to submit to the Commission a request for mobilisation of the European Union Solidarity Fund.
The CPNT MEPs of the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities are unable to approve these documents. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the Frassoni report on ‘Better Law-Making’.
It now remains to give practical expression to that ambition. &#160;&#160; .– I believe it is essential to improve the coordination of the law-making process.
We can obviously only vote against a report so obviously marked by these preoccupations alone. &#160;&#160; I have supported, and voted in favour of, this report which acknowledges the efforts made by a number of European states to ensure that Europe now has policies concerned with space.
Space will be ever more present in all aspects of people’s daily lives.
Europe needs to be in space.
Europe’s industrial future also depends, therefore, upon our investment in space.
Satisfaction, because what is at stake is European autonomy: a Europe that is sovereign in strategic terms must have its own military and spatial capacities.
Following the crucial support given to the Galileo programme and to Ariane V, this vote by the European Parliament shows that the European Union knows how to defend its vital strategic interests and, over and above that, wishes to contribute to the knowledge of a universe about which the human race cannot remain indifferent. &#160;&#160; .– We uphold the view that a space policy based on cooperation between Member States should be clearly and unambiguously founded on the non-proliferation of weapons, the non-use of space for military purposes and a rejection of the arms race in space.
For that reason, I have voted against the report. &#160;&#160; Article 2 of Council Regulation (EEC) 4064/89on the control of concentrations between undertakings sets out the guidelines according to which the Commission is to assess whether a concentration between undertakings is or is not compatible with the common market.
The rapporteur wants to go even further.
In France, the latest concentrations between undertakings – from Vivendi to Air France, from Alstom to Péchiney – have shown how, in terms of their concerns, national and European institutions are getting it all wrong when it comes to the things that are needed.
In general, both the courts and the business community are stressing the need to take account of the requirements of a free and dynamic market, which should not be excessively burdened by long and cumbersome procedures for transactions which are in no way illicit, but are part of the normal functioning of a free market.
We have a series of international police state measures to which we are adding a new one.
I therefore think that our proposals should have been the other way around: accept transfers of data for a transitional period, at the expiry of which a fair and transparent international agreement should be concluded. &#160;&#160; .– In reacting to the attacks of 11 September 2001, the European Union showed its solidarity with the United States’ goal of preventing and fighting terrorism.
It is therefore essential that any transmission of data in contravention of Community rules should be stopped.
Passengers must be fully informed in advance and must always have access to a swift and efficient appeals system. &#160;&#160; .– The current situation, whereby the United States authorities have access to transatlantic passengers’ personal data (PNR, or ‘Passenger Name Record’) from computer booking systems (APIS, or ‘Advance Passenger Information System’), is unacceptable.
Our allies in the United States are heavily committed in the fight against terrorism and we should do everything reasonable to support them.
Visits of one’s own free will are already in practice affected by the attempt to demand thirty-nine items of personal data on each and every passenger on transatlantic flights, including the choice of meals as a means towards determining whether someone is a Moslem.
On 20 May, I was one of those who took part in the protest against this at Schiphol airport in the Netherlands.
In the course of the debate prior to this resolution, held on 25 September, I had considered that, at present, the latest studies carried out, like the practical experience of beekeepers, reveal the existence of a direct link between the death of bees and the use of these insecticides.
I am therefore delighted at the adoption of our proposal for the Commission to carry out an overall assessment of the damage and to devise the requisite Community support measures. &#160;&#160; I should like to thank all my fellow MEPs in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development who have helped find a consensus with a view to presenting, today in plenary, a resolution in response to the oral question to the Commission and in response to the debate that took place on 25 September in Strasbourg on the difficulties encountered by European beekeeping.
More and more beekeepers, in all regions of the European Union, are giving up beekeeping.
Bayer’s Gaucho (imidaclopride) pesticide and BASF’s Regent (fipronil) pesticide bear a very heavy responsibility for these excessive mortality rates, however.
The ball is now in the court of the Commission whose objective should be to support European honey production. &#160;&#160; We welcome the trend whereby the European Union is setting aside the traditional fisheries agreements in favour of new fisheries partnership agreements with third countries.
These agreements, which account for 20% of the total Community catch, have also been an incentive for the development of the local fishing industries and, insofar as they help boost economic activity and trading volume in the co-signatory countries – developing countries, as a rule – they may prove to be additional valuable instruments for cooperation and dialogue with the European Union.
You have helped to bring your country to its European vocation.In November this year we in this Parliament will pay close attention to the monitoring reports of the European Commission on all of the accession states.
I think your story is in some ways a parable for so many stories and so many journeys towards this new Europe of tomorrow.
In a very human, personal way, your journey is part of the modern European journey and so it gives me some licence, I hope, without breaking the rules of copyright – on which we in this House are very particular – to say: Madam President, in the name of freedom, we welcome you. &#160;&#160; .(1) I would like to thank you, Mr President, for the warm welcome and for the invitation to address you here in the European Parliament.
I see it as an acknowledgement to the people of Latvia for everything that they have achieved since regaining their independence in 1991.
Our referendum on 20 September 2003 was the last among the European Union's new Member States.
The positive outcome of this vote means that we can continue working together to repair the division of Europe that resulted from the Second World War.
We were responsible for our own future, we were responsible in front of our neighbours.
We live and work in accordance with the same values that are cherished in our western neighbouring countries – democracy, freedom of speech, the rule of law, and respect for the individual.
They have been working within the scope of the Fifth and Sixth European Union Framework Programmes for the development of science and technologies, and they are ready to contribute to the creation of a Single European Research Area.
The people of Latvia see security and stability as the pillars of their development.
The European Union itself came into being when post-war France and Germany turned a new and decisive page in their relationship.
Latvia must become a modern and economically developed country, and the European Union will provide us with numerous opportunities for growth.
The EU's pre-accession financial assistance, along with future support from the EU's Structural Funds to projects in such fields as value-added manufacturing and the development of science and research, is already helping and will serve to promote the establishment of a knowledge-based economy in Latvia.
An advanced infrastructure will be greatly significant for the development of an enlarged European Union, particularly in the new Member States.
The EU's support for this immense project will be crucial for its implementation.
It is essential for Latvia to ensure uniform development in all of its regions, as well as in its rural areas.
We wish to devote special attention to our eastern region of Latgale, which is in most urgent need of assistance.
We in Latvia see this important gesture as a sign that the principle of equality will remain a primary basis of cooperation among the countries of the European Union.
We believe that all Member States must have an equal say in the adoption of decisions that concern our continent’s security.
It is therefore essential for the EU to work as effectively as possible, to make full use of its existing institutions, and to precisely define the functions of any new institutions that are to be created.
Any division of competences between the President of the European Council, the President of the European Commission and the Foreign Minister of the European Union must be clear and quite unambiguous.
If the post of President of the European Council is eventually created, then Latvia believes that his or her principal mandate must lie in coordinating the internal work of the Council and in preparing the agenda of the Council’s meetings.
In other words, the new Council President should undertake those tasks that up until now have been performed by the Prime Minister of the EU’s presiding country.
Regarding the future number of Members of the European Parliament, Latvia firmly believes that it would not be desirable to reduce the minimum number of Members representing any one country from five to four.
Latvia would like a strong, integrated and united Europe to assume a more prominent role in the international community.
Regardless of the differences in opinion that have arisen between several European countries and the United States concerning the crisis in Iraq and other issues, we all share the same fundamental values and ideals, which we must protect by acting together.
The expanded European Union of 25 Member States will be able to flourish and prosper only if the world’s democracies remain united in the defence of their common ideals.
The forthcoming expansion of the European Union underscores the importance of the EU’s relations with its current and future eastern neighbours.
Ladies and gentlemen, in order to maintain the influence and importance of Europe in the world today, it is our responsibility to make the best of the main asset of this continent that we share: its rich tapestry of cultures, languages and diverse nations.
Unfortunately, the great dream of the Latvian people to live in freedom in a stable and prosperous country was too quickly transformed into a nightmare.
The secret agreement between Hitler and Stalin, concluded in 1939 in the form of the infamous Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, divided Central and Eastern Europe into German and Russian spheres of influence, unleashed the most destructive war humanity has ever known and erased the names of the three Baltic countries from the political maps of the world.
I know of no country in the world in which people would be able to participate in this way without having an adequate command of the national language which, in our case, happens to be Latvian.
Few countries in the world can boast of such an accomplishment.
Latvian, which is spoken by fewer than two million people throughout the world, therefore constitutes a unique feature of our great European cultural heritage.
Madam President, you said that your country had to endure a nightmare.
