Decision on urgent procedure Ladies and gentlemen, before we debate Mr Manders' report, we have to vote on the request to apply the urgent procedure to the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of a letter between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia on the ecopoint system applicable to Croatian transit traffic through Austria.
The coordinators present were, in fact, surprised at the application of Rule 112 precisely because - as I said before, Mr President - it is, in my opinion, an instrument which is to be used in exceptional circumstances.
The next item is the report (A5-0145/2003) by Mr Manders, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage [COM(2002) 17 - C5-0088/2002 - 2002/0021(COD)].
Mr President, I wish to begin by welcoming our new colleagues from the new Member States.
Environmental liability is an important subject that has received well-deserved attention and caused intensive discussion for many years.
The Commission has been working on this issue for a long time, in close contact with the parties concerned and civil society.
Difficult choices had to be made on many of its aspects and the appropriate balance had to be found among competing interests.
The proposal aims to establish a Community framework whereby environmental damage - which is defined in the proposal as biodiversity damage, water damage and land damage - would be prevented or remedied through a system of environmental liability.
In certain cases, in which no operator can be held liable or a liable operator is unable to pay, Member States must assume the responsibility for finding an alternative source of financing the measures in question.
Firstly, the scope of the proposal in terms of the activities and biodiversity to be covered: in the Commission's view, strict liability should apply to the activities listed in Annex I to the proposal, and also to occupational activities other than those listed in Annex I, it being understood that this second tier of liability is fault-based.
Conversely, the Commission does not believe it either justifiable or workable to expand strict liability to all occupational activities in the EU.
That is my position.
The conflict in competence between the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was the starting point of political sentiment in particular.
It could have 626 members, and possibly even 735 after next year, and then I know for sure that we would never get out of it.
I ultimately decided on an approach that was considered on the basis of all the amendments submitted and that does not specifically favour industry and does not specifically favour the environment.
I also think that it is important to create a level playing field, because I believe that environmental legislation is part of our economy.
In this way we will get a level playing field, we will avoid environmental dumping and we will avoid a situation in which there will ultimately be 25 different legal systems which will definitely do nothing to promote the internal market nor protect the environment.
I understand that there are a number of countries, including my own country, the Netherlands, that will always want to go a little bit further.
In order to ensure that we could deal with this here today, I looked for and found support in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
I hope that we will have a favourable vote, and I welcome the challenge of being able to continue to play a prominent role in this difficult matter at second reading.
This draft directive gives rise to conflicting emotions in me: both satisfaction, because it may pave the way for reform, but merely pave the way, and reservations, because the steps proposed are timid, Commissioner.
For example, biodiversity, as defined in the draft, is restricted to habitats and species covered by the Habitats and Birds Directives, in other words only 13% of the EU's territory.
There is a study which was carried out by the Commission itself, Commissioner, and which shows that 10 of the 15 Member States of the Union do not make provision for this sort of exception.
Furthermore, the proposal for a directive establishes a public law regime, with the competent authority responsible for determining and securing the appropriate prevention or remediation measures.
The competent public authority must comply with the procedure for ascertaining and restoring the damage.
The proposal does not foresee the possibility of citizens' taking direct recourse to justice.
We are trying to achieve a rapprochement with the Council's positions so that we can see the Greek Presidency achieve political agreement in the Environment Council on 13 June.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ecosystem and the flow of matter and energy follow a predictable, quantifiable course to which human activity must be adapted.
I trust that the outcome of our vote will send a clear political message to the whole of Europe: that we are determined to lay down a substantial policy which will guarantee better environmental protection, in keeping with the economic and social objectives of the Union.
If we vote in favour of the amendments which we have the honour of presenting to you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we can start paving the way for the gradual introduction of a model of sustainability and responsibility in Europe and beyond.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will be voting here in Parliament on the environmental liability directive, thus bringing to an end what has been a long and, as you know, very controversial debate.
Before I go any further, allow me also to say very clearly, ladies and gentlemen, that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports both this directive and the Commission proposal.
We want stricter rules on environmental liability.
As such provisions do not yet exist in the Member States, we are entering new territory here.
I do understand that it is not always possible to reach a broad consensus where environmental liability is concerned.
The report represents a major step forward towards improved environmental protection and therefore also deserves to receive strong support in tomorrow's vote in the plenary.
It makes sense, in my opinion, to base the rules on habitats and species that are already protected by European law.
Finally, my group also firmly supports the exemptions from liability that are named in the Commission draft.
May I say in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, that we reached a good compromise in the Legal Affairs Committee and I would ask that this compromise also be supported here tomorrow by a majority of this House.
That is why it is high time for us in the European Union to create strict rules on protecting the environment, such as the uniform provisions on environmental liability that we are finally able to deal with today in plenary after lengthy preliminary wrangling in the committees responsible.
That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists is in favour of a series of amendments to the Commission text.
In these amendments we demand a minimum of what the people of Europe rightly expect from environmental liability legislation at European level.
Our rapporteur, Mr Manders, whom I heartily congratulate, has attempted to reconcile what are often highly diverse standpoints, and I believe the result is a well-balanced report and a well-balanced result which takes account of the many interests and economic sectors involved in this subject.
That is ultimately what we all want: a good, well-defined, uniform European framework which provides a comprehensive approach to environmental damage with specific European standards and the same rules for the whole of the European Union; one in which everybody knows exactly what they must comply with.
After all, the question then arises as to whether this is affordable or insurable for the economic sectors or whether it will remain incalculable for them.
The European Parliament, via the ENVI, subsequently urged the Commission, on several occasions, to take rapid action on this subject.
The first of these factors is that the definition of the environment is too restricted.
In the case of biodiversity, for example, a proportion estimated to be equivalent to only 20% of biodiversity would be protected, and only 13% of European territory would be covered.
The second factor is the scope of the proposals.
Annex I lists the various economic activities which are covered by the principle of liability without fault.
This list of activities is very restrictive.
Reference is made to international conventions, which certainly exist but which do not cover the remedying of environmental damage.
The third factor which has to be taken into consideration is the exemptions laid down on the basis of the existence of an operating permit or the existence of scientific knowledge which, at the time of the accident, would not have been sufficiently relevant to justify the liability of the economic activity in question.
For example, in the case of GMOs or of pesticides which are, amongst other things, endocrine disrupters, if one follows this principle then practically all related activities would escape the application of the directive.
I believe that these important changes are essential in order to give this directive real substance.
Mr President, as we know, the environment is 'out'.
We have been dealing with it for many years, and we always seem to lack the conviction to actually do something about it.
If it does not work, we can always amend the directive.
It would show real guts if we, as the legislative organ, were to take this risk now in order to avoid the risk of environmental damage.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive on environmental liability which has been presented to us today is a big disappointment to us.
The first example is that, in Article 3, we discover that the directive would not apply to the carriage by sea of hazardous substances, to the damage caused by oil pollution and to the damage caused by nuclear activities.
The grounds for this omission are that there already exist international conventions which deal with civil liability in all these areas.
The second example is that of GMOs.
When the directive on the deliberate release of GMOs was being discussed, the Commission promised us that the issues of liability and insurance would be dealt with in the general directive on environmental liability, in other words the directive that we are discussing here today.
GMOs are certainly covered by this proposal in theory, but under Article 9, which exempts those activities which have been given official authorisation, a category which includes GMOs, they fall within the scope of the directive on deliberate release.
All this is quite intolerable, particularly at a time when the Commission is seeking to unload onto Member States the problem of the co-existence of GMO and non-GMO crops, which is something that it wants to authorise.
In these conditions, we are asking the Council not to remove the moratorium until the issues of liability and insurance in the case of GMOs are clearly resolved in a way that gives optimum protection to the public and to the environment.
If I am not mistaken, the farming world welcomed the proposal for a directive on environmental liability, particularly because the Commission had opted for a horizontal approach.
In practical terms, a farmer might be forced to pay compensation for environmental damage caused by an activity, even though he has been issued with a permit to perform that activity and has observed all the relevant legal provisions.
I hope that the rapporteur will agree with this position and that the European Parliament will endorse it.
Extending the directive's scope beyond that of the Commission's original proposal would, as I see it, be likely to jeopardise the certainty of the legal framework proposed and the resulting insurance guarantees, thus making it difficult to enforce a principle useful to European society in general.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive presented by the Commission is a timid proposal.
It is timid at a time when there is continuous environmental damage - the most recent example being the 'Prestige' - which is causing indignation amongst all our peoples, with mass demonstrations - in my country, for example, where the people are calling for this type of damage never to happen again.
And faced with this timid directive, the Group of the European Peoples' Party, taking advantage of their current majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, has established even more restrictions, making it practically impossible to demand that the people causing the damage should meet their environmental responsibilities.
The polluter pays principle would be entirely jeopardised if the amendments approved on the proposal of the European Peoples' Party within the Committee on Legal Affairs were adopted.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists presented a series of amendments intended to reinforce the content of this directive.
We hope that, in plenary, these amendments presented by the Group of the Party of European Socialists which are aimed, as I said earlier, at re-establishing, on the one hand, the whole of the directive and, on the other, at reinforcing the directive as a whole so that the damage caused, for example, by maritime goods transport, by nuclear accidents, by the damage caused by the spread of genetically modified organisms or even by biotechnology, can be effectively repaired.
I hope that the plenary of the European Parliament will approve this group of amendments and thereby rectify the text adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market as a result of this unilateral approach favouring the people causing the damage.
I believe this is a justified aspiration, which the citizens of the European Union expect from us, and I therefore hope that the modified text will be accepted.
And specifically, I imagine that the Commission will have to provide a little more detail in relation to the statements by Commissioner Wallström, since we would like to know a little more precisely what the Commission's attitude is to both the amendments which have been approved within the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and the amendments which we hope will be approved once the plenary gives its opinion on the group of amendments we have now presented.
Mr President, like other Members here today, I have been lobbied extensively about this directive and I have been impressed by the degree of support - or at least the support in principle - for it.
All organisations should, above all, be very conscious of the need to take measures to prevent damage in the first place.
I believe the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has not done this House justice.
We should give citizens the right to go to court directly to prevent environmental damage or to seek redress.
After all, most human activities have some impact on the environment.
Like many members of this House I have received powerful representations from local authorities in my own constituency in Scotland, saying that if this directive is not carried local authorities and other public bodies will continue to have to deal, out of general tax revenues, with the problems which other people ought either to have prevented in the first place or be dealing with at present.
The fact of the matter is that those who pollute are engaged in economic activities producing goods or services which other people want to buy, presumably at the price at which they are offered.
Mr President, drafting legislation on environmental liability is like opening Pandora's box, because environmental damage is so badly defined by the directive, and the scope of the directive is so vague, particularly with regard to biodiversity, which is already governed by the international Berne and Bonn Conventions.
The 'remedying' aspect would be limited to Natura 2000 areas and would exclude non-profit-making activities such as leisure activities, which the directive treats as equivalent to occupational activities.
Mr President, Commissioner, we have waited a long time for a system of environmental liability, a system which would be sufficiently stringent but at the same time objective and workable, so as to protect the environment without harming either the industrial or the agricultural economy.
The polluter pays principle is a fundamental principle, but it must be accompanied by financial guarantees.
Finally, this liability must be in proportion to the acknowledged fault.
We must avoid any question of joint and several liability, which would shift part of the liability onto other people.
In conclusion, I should like to say that remedying does not appear to me to be the only solution.
Seveso, the disasters, with which we are sadly, all familiar, in the Natural Park of Doñana and the sinking of the oil tanker, the Prestige, and, last but not least, the confirmation of the devastating future health implications of the environmental degradation caused by the Priolo chemical plant, are all incidents which call for the establishment of a European system of civil liability for environmental damage.
It is, moreover, necessary for all the economic activities which could result in environmental damage to be taken into consideration and provided for in the liability system.
This system should lay down, as a general rule, specific liability for environmental damage, irrespective of whether the activity causing the damage is deemed to be dangerous or not.
I must say that I am also pleased that a level playing field is being created for all parties involved in creating environmental damage.
In Belgium, for example, that amounts to EUR 300 million per power station, and in my country the figure is EUR 2.26 billion.
I find the amendment that asks for this to be reviewed in 5 years' time very flexible, and I think that the Commission must adopt it and that we must also vote on it.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, numerous speakers have stressed the importance of this environment directive.
We actually ought to have been ambitious enough to make it the centrepiece of our environmental legislation.
It is all the more regrettable that industry has managed to insert a series of exemptions in these provisions.
This is very regrettable.
Furthermore, the fact that the notion of strict liability is linked to the list of dangerous activities in this way means that entire areas that pose a potential risk, such as mining and drilling for oil and gas, are also excluded, as is a large proportion of the consumer goods industry.
The fact that there is no obligation to introduce general insurance for environmental damage is also a mistake in my view, because we have to ensure that when damage is caused to property and health, liability is not only restricted to Natura 2000 areas, but also applies further afield.
That is very significant in a country like Denmark where we drink water directly from the tap.
The crop spray is called Roundup and is manufactured by Monsanto.
Self-evidently, prevention is the first priority and in any event, pollution should be kept to a minimum.
What we must recognise, however, is that much of what creates a threat to our environment may not only be helping mankind in other ways but may actually be helping the environment itself.
It is not about punishing wrongdoers but apportioning and allocating responsibility for environmental damage.
It is for these reasons that the British Conservatives support the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market's amendments to the draft directive.
But they represent a further responsible step on the journey of dealing with the consequences of pollution across Europe and the wider world.
Mr President, the objectives of the proposal for a directive are very ambitious and are designed to minimise environmental damage using both preventive means and means of apportioning the cost of restoring the damage.
In all events, however, the phases for imposing a compulsory insurance system need to be defined as of now in the text of the directive, together with the type of damage it will cover and the activities to which it will refer.
As far as restoring environmental damage is concerned, we cannot accept broad derogations from operators' liability.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on environmental liability was the missing link in an effective environmental policy.
To try and protect and remedy biodiversity with a directive which establishes liability for only 13% of our territory is unacceptable.
Yet the worst thing is the hypocrisy of certain Member States on the issue of environmental liability.
Mr President, the tightening up of the environmental liability legislation that we are discussing today is a very important subject.
It is necessary if we are to repair and tackle environmental damage, but we also need it as a big stick to wield against damage occurring in future.
The report before us seems to me to be a very workable compromise that should win a majority of votes.
This will now be reviewed after five years.
Mr President, like everybody else in the Chamber, I welcome this directive.
We have left it unclear, we have left it vague.
The definition of biodiversity is a very weak and very vague description.
My group, and the European Parliamentary Labour Party, has some difficulty with the question of GMOs, not because we are against GMOs but because we think this legislation might weaken existing GMO legislation.
Mr President, environmental liability should be one of the jewels in the crown of European environmental legislation, but up to now it has been a tragedy.
The Commission has taken 20 years to translate the polluter pays principle into legislation.
The polluter pays principle has been desecrated by the Commission.
If industry has an environmental permit, it can never be liable.
We must be able to claim against the perpetrators for accidents like those involving the Prestige and the Erika, as well as nuclear accidents and pollution caused by genetically modified food.
I believe that, at the moment, at a time when there have been numerous disasters in Europe, including the Prestige disaster, we must insist on the polluter pays principle.
I will focus on two specific points of this important Directive.
The establishment of exceptions, such as activities covered by permits, as well as activities covered by the state of the art, correspond to the principle of legal certainty and legitimate confidence, which are being upheld by numerous judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
Furthermore, this exception exclusively exempts damage caused by emissions and actions which fall within authorised parameters, and we should remember the principle of the IPPC Directive on the integrated control and prevention of pollution.
I therefore believe that Amendment No 37 perfectly covers the activities permitted specifically and explicitly by the laws.
With regard to financial guarantees, I believe that this is one of the key points of this report and that we must try to establish some sort of obligatory system of financial guarantees, on the part of the operators, in order to cover the responsibilities stemming from this Directive.
Bearing in mind the fear of certain countries that the insurance companies cannot take on this responsibility, the step-by-step approach would undoubtedly allow the financial guarantee to be ensured and the possibility of insuring against environmental damage.
This is an important aspect of this Directive and I believe it is taken up appropriately in Amendment No 92, presented by our group.
Mr President, I think it is very important that we should now obtain common legislation on environmental liability.
I do not believe that the Commission's proposal for a directive is completely satisfactory.
First and foremost, it must be ensured that the polluter pays principle is applied without exception, and we must at the same time ensure, along the lines indicated by several other people, that there are financial guarantees of the polluter's also actually being able to pay, either through compulsory insurance arrangements or in some other way.
When it comes to the issue of reducing biodiversity, I think it important that we obtain as broad a definition as possible so that all the habitats and species protected by Community legislation and corresponding national legislation are in actual fact covered.
Finally, I believe that the directive should also cover pollution of the countryside by genetically modified organisms.
I appreciate that some people would like, in a few years' time, to transfer the legal base from the environmental protection provisions to the internal market.
That would, in my view, be a total mistake, and it would in actual fact destroy the rules governing environmental liability already established in many Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now that we have the opportunity to vote in favour of a proposal that will put a stop to a situation in which those who cause pollution are able to evade their responsibility.
At the same time, we must also be consistent and not allow unduly major exemptions in connection, for example, with genetically modified organisms, nuclear power and marine transport.
If we want to be consistent, we must also vote in favour of Amendment No 93 and the following amendments by the group of the Party of European Socialists, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left and progressive people from other groups.
As many others have already pointed out, Amendment No 107 is very important for, if the polluter pays principle really is to work in practice, there must be financial guarantees, even if a company goes bankrupt.
It is also very important for Article 175 to form the legal basis so that, as the previous speaker too pointed out, the existing systems are not undermined.
Mr President, a legislative framework on environmental liability is necessary because it is right that the polluter should pay.
However, the legislation must be well-balanced and take into consideration the expressed requirements of European industry.
Amendment No 95 is not acceptable either, in that it disregards the polluter pays principle.
Prevention can and must continue to be the highest priority in activities which might affect the environment.
I therefore urge the Members to support the Committee on Legal Affairs' compromise, which is a clear, powerful signal furthering environmental protection but does not penalise European industry.
Mr President, it is essential for the polluter pays principle to be rigorously applied.
Consequently, with regard to the directive's scope, I would first of all admit that the issue of damage to biodiversity must be clarified but the solution does not lie, in my opinion, in excluding it from the directive.
The loss of biodiversity in the European Union is a reality and the commitments given in Johannesburg and Gothenburg must be honoured.
Thirdly, I feel it is unacceptable for oil pollution in maritime transport and radioactive pollution caused by nuclear reactors to be excluded from the directive's scope.
These activities are amongst the most damaging to the environment and international instruments do not properly address the prevention and remedying of the damage these activities cause.
Lastly, Mr President, I call for the directive to contain clearer provisions on making insurance compulsory, particularly for operators in more dangerous activities, in order to prevent taxpayers having to pay for damage in the event that companies become insolvent.
We have naturally been used to this modus operandi in other sectors for some time, but it is and remains a far-reaching principle.
Let us hope that the Council follows Parliament's example, takes a decision and does not delay the directive.
Parliament should accept this proposal as a basis for a decision and extend the directive to environmental damage caused by nuclear activities.
Mrs Flemming and I tabled 35 amendments on behalf of the Austrian contingent.
Thirdly, the principle of shared liability has been accepted instead of liability based on solidarity, which means that the costs will be split in cases where there are several polluters.
Fourthly, the directive seeks to have environmental damage made good and for that reason the provisions on compensation for interim losses have been deleted.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, numerous environmental disasters such as the latest one concerning the Prestige oil tanker, which was shipwrecked on the Spanish coast, have sped up the progress of environmental liability legislation in the EU.
A third of the petitions that arrived at the European Parliament last year, around 1 700, concerned these very problems relating to the environment.
The Commission's proposal for a directive aims to ensure that the polluter will pay the costs of remedying future environmental damage.
This to be a harmonised framework across the European Union, allowing us to avoid a situation whereby a company chooses to establish its registered office wherever the most favourable legislation applies.
In order to avoid distortion of competition in the internal market, it is important that the directive is implemented in as uniform a manner as possible in the EU Member States.
It is also important to retain the legal basis relating to the internal market, that is to say Article 95, after a five-year transition period.
We discussed the Commission proposal on the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and we are proposing numerous necessary amendments to it.
To avoid any legal uncertainty we proposed that the field of nuclear safety, which is already regulated by means of international agreements, should be excluded from the directive.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on environmental liability provides for a balanced approach which will apply pressure on operators to avoid contamination and to remediate damage whilst suggesting only a light regulatory touch in order to achieve this.
In fact, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has not made any fundamental changes to the Commission's approach, but it has clarified a number of essential principles.
The directive does not apply retroactively.
A mandatory financial security regime might destabilise this relationship: operators would know that their financial liabilities are covered by an insurance policy, fund or levy and, as a consequence, the incentive to prevent damage is removed.
A mandatory system of financial security might well be described as the 'insurer pays principle' in that the risk of liability has been transferred from operator to financial security provider.
Thanks to the reasonable approach advocated by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, a Directive will have been created that reflects the interests of both industry and the environment.
Mr President, I should like to thank Members for all those valuable speeches and constructive ideas on how to improve this proposal.
The polluter-pays principle is the guiding principle behind this whole proposal, and that is why it is quoted in the first article.
It was very important for us to ensure that we have legal clarity if we want to introduce a new system covering biodiversity, because traditional damage - economic damage or damage to people - is already well covered by the legislation in all Member States.
As I have already said, traditional damage is already covered by legislation in Member States.
The Commission is well aware of the situation and this is why we have always supported the attempt to raise the funds available up to EUR 1 billion.
I understand that this week a diplomatic conference is being held in London to sign a protocol to raise the ceiling of the funds available for compensation.
It has also been proposed that after a five-year transitional period, the Commission should develop proposals so that the directive applies eventually in a complementary manner to the international conventions where liability or compensation is insufficiently regulated within those conventions.
Some amendments have been tabled that seek to maintain the so-called permit and state-of-the-art or development risk defences as proper defences and, as far as permit defences are concerned, with a formulation that would better specify its scope.
Other amendments aim instead to introduce regulatory compliance and state-of-the-art as mitigating factors.
The Commission believes that proper defences, with the proposed improved wording, constitute a preferable solution in terms of insurability and legal certainty.
The Commission considers it useful, however, to better specify the scope of the so-called permit defence to avoid any suggestion that this might be tantamount to a blank cheque to pollute, because this is not the idea.
The Commission does not find it appropriate to impose liability on the competent authority when damage is caused by a permitted activity, nor does it find it appropriate that there should be a link between the state-of-the-art defence and any environmental audit and management system.
I am sure that these issues will come back during further decision-making on this issue.
Amendments have been tabled to impose either proportional liability or joint and several liability.
Member States and market operators, as well as the Commission, will have an important role to play in encouraging a timely emergence of financial assurance systems, products and markets to that effect.
Having said this, it is clear to me that Member States should have the possibility to develop financial assurance solutions at their own pace; solutions which are well adapted to their own needs and institutional conditions.
In addition, financial markets should be given time and leeway to develop market solutions following the demand for insurance that is very likely to take off once the new liability regime is established.
In the light of this, it appears premature to impose fully-fledged financial security for all Annex I operators within a few years.
I am also aware, however, that we are still at the beginning of the legislative process, and thus entirely conscious of the need for all the institutions involved in this process to reach agreement in due course.
The debate has reflected this need to ensure that we bridge the different views and find a workable solution in the end.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
WRITTEN STATEMENT (RULE 120) The proposal for a directive on environmental liability is of great importance in ensuring improved environmental protection and combating all kinds of pollution.
Whether we take the example of AZF in Toulouse in 2002 or the Erika and Prestige oil tankers, these disasters cost human lives and lead to serious, long-term environmental damage.
The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market proposes a more conciliatory position with regard to business interests, weakening the initial proposal for a directive.
I support the line taken by the Commission, which makes a distinction between two types of environmental agreement and, having made a number of amendments, I fully acknowledge the usefulness of these instruments to supplement regulatory measures, to be used only with a view to making improvements in the environmental field with a scope equal to or broader than those to be obtained by means of traditional legislative procedures.
The basic structure of Community policy on the environment is and has always been legislative provisions, which in only a few specific cases may be combined with voluntary agreements.
New regulatory instruments should, in fact, be used on the basis of a common reference framework showing, from the outset, the intention to use voluntary agreements in that specific sector.
Failure to respect or achieve the objectives laid down would trigger recourse to supplementary legislative mechanisms or the replacement of the agreement.
I welcome the overall positive tone of the report and the motion for a resolution.
The report broadly endorses the approach set out by the Commission in its communication.
I am particularly pleased that Parliament explicitly recognises environmental agreements as a useful complement to legislative measures.
I reconfirm the Commission's commitment to making use of voluntary agreements at Community level on a selective case-by-case basis only, checking them against the criteria laid down in the communication and respecting procedural requirements that ensure proper involvement of the European Parliament.
It is important to satisfy the need for transparency and control on the one hand without, on the other hand, discouraging economic actors from taking up the instrument of environmental agreements by imposing excessive requirements.
The Commission will make the choice between self-regulation and co-regulation on the basis of an ad hoc assessment of the individual agreement, the legal context and the policy issue at stake.
As I have already indicated, imposing ambitious monitoring requirements on spontaneous agreements that are not formally acknowledged by the Commission appears to be overly burdensome and a real disincentive for industry to come forward with such agreements.
The Commission proposed general rules on impact assessment in its communication of 5 June 2002.
I also appreciate the suggestion that environmental agreements could be used in the sectors defined in the action plan set out by the Johannesburg world summit.
Mr Sacconi, that is why I am asking everyone to approve the amendment that I have submitted on behalf of my group.
Operators that are prepared to participate in these voluntary agreements may be regarded as pilots of a sort.
Taking everything into consideration, however, we have to ensure that these voluntary agreements actually yield results and do not just remain a pious hope.
Although in theory, voluntary environmental agreements are to be applauded, reality has shown that, precisely because they are voluntary, many of these agreements are ultimately not observed and, furthermore, have frequently been used as a pretext for not bringing into force more ambitious legally binding initiatives.
I therefore believe it is greatly to be welcomed that the Commission has taken the initiative to define clear rules for recognising voluntary agreements at Community level.
Mr President, Commissioner, the report now before us is an important contribution to the aim of simplifying and improving environmental legislation in the Community.
On the other hand, it has been the wish of industry to spread the practice of making voluntary agreements in order to achieve positive results from the point of view of flexibility, and so also, hopefully, that of the environment.
The report works on the assumption that voluntary agreements may be applied when the impact can be assessed using an integrated method and the added value for civil society can be measured using indicators of sustainable development.
In practice this would mean that badly organised sectors or those that provide opportunities for 'free riding' would not be suitable for inclusion in any voluntary agreement.
With voluntary agreements it is just as necessary as it is with legislative measures to take account of public participation and to guarantee the transparency of agreements.
With these conditions in place there is no risk attached to the use of voluntary agreements.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
The next item is the report (A5-0128/2003) by Mr Corbett, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the proposal for a Council decision on amending Decision 1999/468/EC laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the Commission (COM(2002) 719 - C5-0002/2003 - 2002/0298(CNS)).
With this proposal the Commission is keeping to the commitments it made in the White Paper on European Governance and in its action plan on better regulation, namely, inter alia, to give the Council and the European Parliament equal rights in monitoring and overseeing the executive.
The European Parliament should, as co-legislator, be given the right to object not just to the scope of powers delegated to the Commission under codecision - the current right of scrutiny granted in Council Decision 1999/468/EC - but also to the substance of a measure implementing a codecision act.
It is the hope of the Commission that such reform will ultimately pave the way to a wider review based on Treaty changes.
To this end, the Commission made concrete proposals to amend Article 202 of the Treaty in the framework of the European Convention, notably by introducing the concept of delegation of legislative powers in the Treaty.
I emphasise that a temporary reform of the system is all the more necessary as the uncertainty surrounding the ratification by 25 Member States of the new constitutional treaty is not inconsiderable.
All systems, be they national parliamentary or European Parliamentary systems, have methods of delegating powers to the executive: implementing powers, secondary legislation - call them what you like.
What is not normal is the way we do it in the European Union where we set up, alongside the Commission, committees of national civil servants which, in some cases, have the powers to block the Commission.
Secondly, if a decision is called back, it only goes to one branch of the legislative authority, namely the Council, even when it is codecision legislation adopted in the first place by Parliament and the Council jointly.
The Commission proposal almost achieves that.
If you look at the fact that the legislation is adopted anyway, in the first place, under codecision by Parliament and the Council, it is up to Parliament and the Council to put in place any system, and any checks and balances that they want.
If one argues that such checks and balances must conform to Article 202, then let us look at that article.
If such a complex system can be set up on the basis of that clause in the Treaty, there is absolutely nothing to prevent the Council from setting up a different system - the one which we are advocating - that gives the Council and Parliament equal rights to call back and equal rights to scrutinise.
Article 202, in other words, is much more flexible than the Commission's legal service seems to believe.
I would therefore urge the Commission to accept our amendment concerning the word 'possibly'.
We have also sought to amend the Commission proposal to make it slightly more flexible.
We propose to give the Commission the right simply to withdraw an implementing measure if Parliament objects to it or indeed if the Council objects to it.
This is common sense.
Some implementing measures are discretionary, not obligatory.
I look forward to hearing their arguments on this, but it is in conformity with what Parliament adopted in the Bourlanges report only a few months ago.
We similarly propose to give the Commission the right to maintain an implementing measure, provisionally, when Parliament has objected to it, pending a full legislative procedure to review, amend or repeal the implementing measure - again an element of flexibility that I expect the Commission to welcome.
If we manage to find a solution to this issue now we will have eliminated a problem that has messed up and held up numerous legislative procedures, and we will have removed one of the obstacles to Parliament being willing to delegate far more implementing powers to the Commission than is the case under these procedures.
If we have the right to call back in the way that is envisaged we will be able to delegate much more than we can now, knowing that we have the safety of being able to scrutinise and call back if necessary.
It is vital for us in the European Parliament to retain our influence at European level.
The PPE-DE approves the main thrust of the report and in particular it supports the idea that, in the case of a disagreement between Parliament and the Commission on a draft implementing text, the latter should not be able to override Parliament's opposition.
Firstly, it lays down that if Parliament does not agree to the text proposed by the Commission, the latter may simply withdraw its text without preparing a new one and without taking any legislative initiative.
In fact, it seems to us to be an abuse to allow the Commission to override, for a very long period, the opposition of Parliament, even when the disagreement between the two institutions is so serious and so deep-seated that it cannot be overcome by a simple amendment to the draft, but requires recourse to a legislative procedure.
The success of this project will depend on this, but also on whether we can find the words and expressions - once Mr Corbett has built this bridge - to explain this to the public and the electorate in a way that they can actually understand, so as to bring clarity and transparency to the issue, so that there is nowhere that anyone can hide any tricks.
With this in mind I would stick to my ceterum censeo, that there can be no democracy without transparency.
On the other hand, the Council reflects the primacy of the nation-states, in theory at least, and should have the final say on whether a legislative instrument should have legal force.
Again, on the one hand, the problem is that the secretive and complex system adopted by the Council does not facilitate external scrutiny, which therefore negates any resemblance of accountability and therefore democracy.
On the other hand, the Parliament, despite its pretensions, lacks the European demos and therefore cannot claim to be a democratic institution.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's implementing powers: it all sounds so harmless and yet it conceals a multitude of problems that all of the committees that deal with European legislation have to contend with, and have been doing so for two decades.
The Council Decision of 1999 reduced the Babylonian confusion of over 20 variants of such committees in the Commission to three procedures, namely management, regulatory and advisory procedures.
This might well not matter to us in Parliament if our influence and supervisory powers were enhanced accordingly.
That is why we will, in the Convention, be abolishing the old comitology system, but - and this too has already been mentioned - this is only possible if we have something with which to replace it.
In this context I have already referred several times to our discussions in the Convention.
Mr President, allow me to reply to some of the points that have been raised.
So I am consistent with what is in Parliament's position up to now, and, indeed, in our own Rules of Procedure, where we have called upon the President of Parliament to ask the Commission to withdraw or modify any implementing measure that Parliament objects to, or to bring forward a legislative proposal.
So I am on the solid ground of what Parliament has consistently argued for over time in this and I would hope that the PPE-DE Group would rethink its position before we vote in half an hour's time.
Also, on the question of the provisional adoption of a text pending the legislative procedure, this is important in certain circumstances in order to avoid a legal vacuum.
The measure applies provisionally while Parliament and the Council go through a legislative procedure to review it, amend it or repeal it, depending on what we decide to do.
But it can also be important to have a stopgap solution without a legal vacuum pending that legislative procedure.
In other words, I am asking for a menu of options.
If Parliament or Council objects to an implementing measure that the Commission has put forward, the Commission can either withdraw it - I think it has that right implicitly under the Treaty anyway but let us make that explicit - or it can amend it to take account of our objections, or it can put forward a legislative proposal.
We should maintain the full list and I hope the PPE-DE Group will rethink its position and vote accordingly.
The Commission can accept, in whole or in part, Amendments Nos 1, 2 (in part), 4, 7, 8, 11 (in part), 13, 14, 18 and 19.
However, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3, 10 or 11 (in part), as they could complicate the Commission's negotiations with the Council.
The Commission, as the sole executive, should be able to retain full responsibility for adopting executive instruments.
This political responsibility goes hand in hand with the freedom of the Commission to adopt a decision, taking on board or not the objections raised by the legislator.
The reform, as I have just mentioned, cannot go as far as a more thoroughgoing reform conducted in the process of amending the Treaty.
In the framework of the European Convention, the Commission has explicitly suggested that the Council and the European Parliament should, under delegation of legislative powers, have the possibility to oppose a text proposed by the Commission.
I am confident that the Commission can count on Parliament's continued support in the process of clarifying the roles and competences of the executive and the legislator.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended at 11.51 a.m.
Last year, Mr Solans, a member of the Executive Board of the European Central Bank, writing in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, even called for greater quantities of relevant statistics for the eurozone.
At the moment, for example, the Commission is compelled to produce its initial estimates of gross domestic product for the eurozone on the basis of incomplete data, which undermines the reliability of these indicators and can have an unfavourable impact on the financial markets, and above all on the measures taken by the central banks.
Compared with the USA, where these data are available after 45 days, this is far too late and makes it difficult for the European Central Bank to fulfil its duty to provide guidance.
I therefore hope that you will vote in favour of the common position and I should like to thank you for taking such an enthusiastic interest in this report. (Laughter and applause) Mrs Lulling, that ovation shows you how much better we now understand the transmission of the main aggregates of national accounts.
Mr President, our group has tabled four requests for separate votes.
These are requests for separate votes concerning Amendment No 3 and Amendment No 10 and a second request for separate vote concerning Amendment No 11.
Before the vote on the draft legislative resolution .
it is not as bad as it sounds!
We cannot accept Amendments Nos 3, 10 and 11 (in part).
Mr President, I would invite Parliament to avail itself of Article 69(2) of the Rules of Procedure and refer the report back to committee to pursue negotiations with the Commission.
What the Commissioner has just said amounts to insisting on the word 'possibly' remaining in the text.
In other words, the Commission would 'possibly' take account of Parliament's objections and the Commission would 'possibly' amend its text to take account of our views.
This directive complements the 1994 directive, which contains a series of measures on investigations into accidents in civil aviation, and which is not likely to produce significant results due to the fortunately lower number of accidents occurring.
For its part, the reporting system on which this new proposal for a directive is based has greater potential in terms of the quantity of data it can provide.
Also to be welcomed is the proposal for a directive's provision to force Member States to set up a system for removing personal data in the event that they decide to set up a system for the non-mandatory reporting of data useful to air safety? (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) . (PT) In the context of achieving the aims of the Lisbon Strategy - which are intended to increase employment, economic reform and social cohesion in a knowledge-based economy - and of the open method of coordination in the field of social inclusion, a common framework must be created for the systematic production of statistics.
I therefore voted in favour of this Recommendation, which accepts the Common Position adopted by the Council on the approval of the European Parliament and Council Directive.
The European Commission initiative: the future of the European Employment Strategy 'A strategy of full employment and better jobs for all' (COM(2003) 6 final), principally laid down three wide-ranging objectives: full employment, quality and productivity in work and an inclusive labour market.
The ultimate aim remains, therefore, that of meeting the needs of the single European market in the energy sector.
We Moderate Members of the European Parliament have voted against the above report.
New orders represent less than 60% of those made in 2000, although in the European Union this figure was 77%, to which we can add falling prices.
The EU's share of the shipbuilding market fell from 19%, in 2000, to 10% in the first quarter of 2002, resulting in the closure of several European shipyards, unemployment and ever-present threats of further cuts, as I saw on a visit to the shipyards at Viana do Castelo.
The loss of half the EU's share of the global market within a mere two years is due to the stand taken by the ?U and the Member States which, instead of supporting and improving this strategic sector, are supporting and multiplying the profits of the monopolies, mainly in Germany and Denmark.
It is an accepted fact that social and environmental responsibility increase competitiveness.
I wish to highlight the importance: of including gender-related issues in the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility, specifically promoting entrepreneurship amongst women and helping women to combine professional and private life; of the role of the Multi-Stakeholder Forum on CSR, which will enable us to hear all partners, help to define the limits and challenges facing companies and to share good practices; of the European Eco-label as a guarantee of quality for consumers and companies, because consumers are placing increasing value on Corporate Social Responsibility in their buying decisions.
Reality shows that many of these companies wishing to promote themselves internationally have no sense of social responsibility whatsoever.
Adoption of the proposal would seriously damage the prospects for cogeneration in the UK. (Abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1)of the Rules of Procedure) . (PT) I broadly share the rapporteur's concerns with regard to the need to promote the rational use of energy and to the strategic preference for non-polluting forms of energy.
However, our continued support for the draft regulation depends on the Commission addressing the major concerns that the rapporteur raised in his speech last night.
Finally, we must insist that the Commission provides a full business impact assessment before this report returns for its second reading.
I also share the rapporteur's concern about the application of the principle of equality, and welcome the solution he recommends - which provides for different treatment for small and large carriers - without which these measures could, in practice, allow this specific market surreptitiously to become an oligopoly, due to the excessive burden of insurance requirements.
Today, after some progress, particularly in 1999, the Commission wants to take the process to its natural conclusion, and pressure the Council into giving Parliament fully equal control.
Furthermore, the voluntary agreements should not be considered as instruments that supplement the current Community legislative arsenal.
Voluntary agreements are flexible agreements which have their own place in the range of legislative instruments.
In fact, since the Treaty of Maastricht, the Union has been committed to including environmental protection in all its policies.
In order genuinely to protect the environment and safeguard biodiversity, we must have the cooperation of all economic actors because, as the report also concludes, today 'the sources of environmental pollution are no longer concentrated in industrial facilities but lie in manifold economic activities and consumer behaviour', which means that a new, more creative approach is required, in order to achieve the targets for a high degree of environmental protection, targets which are as ambitious as they are crucial.
The text that was ultimately adopted in committee prefers to emphasise that part of this crisis falls outside the competence of the APP (and specifically concerns the coherence and the hierarchy of the decisions taken by the Council and the European Parliament), and welcomes the normalisation of relations between the two parties, illustrated by the fact that that the March session took place in Brazzaville in favourable circumstances and by the positive outcome that was achieved.
I agree with this interpretation and therefore intended to vote in favour of the report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very satisfied to be here with you today in order to present to you the results so far from the Council's work on severe acute respiratory syndrome.
As you know, the Presidency convened an Extraordinary Council on 6 May in order to examine this serious issue which, in addition to the obvious and significant repercussions on public health and the economy, is causing understandable concern among our citizens, which are often exacerbated by the way in which this issue is presented in the media.
Before telling you about the results of the Council, allow me to make a preliminary comment.
The case of severe acute respiratory syndrome shows once again that communicable diseases, like many other problems which touch on the public health sector, are another example of bio-terrorism which go well beyond the level of the Member States and point to the need for institutional changes that will raise health protection to a basic priority of united Europe.
Allow me to remind you that health still does not hold the position which behoves it at Community level.
I am convinced that Europe is the best way to promote ambitious policies in the public health sector in each of our countries, especially with regard to disease prevention and control.
In today's Europe, especially after enlargement, health must acquire a stable and strong legal basis which allows for immediate, coordinated, scientific, reliable, efficient intervention.
There is no evidence that goods arriving in the European Union from SARS-infected areas pose a threat to public health.
As far as the epidemiology is concerned, the number of confirmed or suspected cases in the Member States of the European Union remains limited and patients have been effectively isolated and treated, thus so far avoiding further spread of infection and, most importantly, there have been no fatal cases.
As far as Community measures to deal with the problem are concerned, I would start by recalling that the application of health protection measures falls to the authorities of the Member States.
At Community level, a network for the epidemiological surveillance and control of communicable diseases is already operating and is responsible for coordinating measures.
These measures must be applied in all the Member States.
As far as future action is concerned, the Council decided that Community action and efforts being made via the communicable diseases surveillance network and the new programme in the public health sector should continue.
Cooperation between the Member States, the Commission and the World Health Organisation also needs to continue in order to contain and eventually stop the spread of this atypical pneumonia.
The Council will review the situation and developments at its meeting on 2 June, at which the Commission will submit a report on measures taken by the Member States.
On the basis of this report, the Council will take any further action it deems necessary.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have confined myself to this brief presentation of the work of the Council and am available to answer your questions.
Thirty new infectious diseases or variations on old diseases due to mutating viruses have been reported over the last twenty years.
If we are to be able to do so, we need public health to have an eminent position in the Treaty of the European Union.
I feel exactly the same when I hear that the Member States have had a constructive exchange of views and are responsible for taking preventive measures.
We do not know anything about the infection channels.
Mr President, I would like to thank the minister for his explanation.
SARS is pre-eminently a problem that does not respect national borders, and reminds us that problems such as these may also arise with other infectious diseases.
The Council of 6 May called on the Commission to continue to coordinate the EU's action in respect of SARS and to consider developing a plan concerning a general preparedness for transmittable diseases and public health threats.
I think that the European Commission should develop an emergency plan for this kind of situation, a plan which enables us to take concrete action in response to emergencies and then take measures such as those our American and Canadian colleagues are taking: quarantining people suspected of having the infection, providing additional funds for preventing the spread of the virus and support for people who are in voluntary or enforced quarantine.
Commissioner Byrne informed Parliament on 7 April about the possibility that the SARS virus was transferred to humans from animals.
The role of public health in the Treaty really must be laid down and reinforced now.
Mr President, people cannot be vaccinated against new diseases in advance.
The first is to limit the chance of infection.
In the fight against the advance of SARS, only this third opportunity is being paid full attention.
It is a good thing that we are already taking on board the possibility that this infection could gain a significant foothold in Europe, but it looks as if this is as far as we are going.
Following a declaration by the European Commission, I asked on 7 April for action to be taken against the risks posed by incoming air traffic, involving a previously announced compulsory period of quarantine for people at risk of infection if necessary.
I am surprised that on 6 May, after consultation with the World Health Organisation, the Council decided not to do this and to rely instead on checks in the country of departure and written declarations by interested parties.
Mr President, Minister, members of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 April last, we addressed the issue of the SARS crisis in an attempt to stop the spread of the virus, a matter which concerned more or less all the Member States and other countries as well.
I must point out that the proposals advanced to the Commission by the UEN Group on that occasion have almost all been adopted by some of the Member States, including Italy.
It is time to ask ourselves whether each Member State has these resources and appropriate centres for treating virulent infectious diseases such as SARS; if they do not, then all the measures taken to delay its arrival in Europe will be in vain.
I would like to invite you to consider this viral disease as proof for Europe of the possibility of the transmission of diseases which are currently unknown to us or which we have stamped out in the past but which globalisation could bring back to Europe, as I said in my speech on 14 November 2001.
The European Parliament and, in this case, the Commission - which I am addressing here - must learn from this experience and recognise the crucial role played by public health services.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 May, a Commissioner who is not present in the House today - and I regret that because, for once, I would have liked to congratulate a Commissioner - said: as regards the prevention of animal epidemics we have developed a cutting-edge system, creating a Committee of Veterinary Experts which lays down the law for every Member State, whereas, when it comes to human health, we have no say on the matter.
It is true that these animals cost us a dollar a day - money which we do not give the world or even our unemployed in some cases - but it is also true that the culling is subsidised.
We are therefore in a situation where we lack specific knowledge - even after some, after many years, I am still not at all sure what the difference is between HIV and AIDS.
I would point out that 600 000 died in Italy from Spanish influenza alone - as many as in a major world war.
The outcome was a proposal to introduce medical protection in airports within a deadline of two months to check passengers leaving for these countries, in other words people returning to China, Hong Kong and the other areas where there is an epidemic situation already declared.
Everything is still in the hands of the states, which are giving economic considerations priority over respect for citizens' health.
It has been said that Spanish influenza claimed hundreds of thousands of victims.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Health Council, serious acute respiratory syndrome is yet another reminder of the need for coordinated action in the public health sector.
Epidemics such as this atypical pneumonia epidemic call for transparency and direct information, a surveillance system that operates efficiently and health systems that get beyond bureaucratic malfunctions and offer the best possible services in the public interest.
The role of the World Health Organisation is fundamental, which is why cooperation between the WHO, the European Commission and the Member States has been effective.
As regards the Extraordinary Council held last week, I think it is important that the Council is pushing for the setting up of a special expert group on SARS to draw up joint programmes and advice on hygiene measures throughout Europe and provide information on measures taken so far and their results.
In Europe we have an internal market.
There are many examples here and health is one of them.
There are some people in my country who say that Europe should not have any competence for health protection.
I have already discussed this problem with Commissioner Byrne and also with our Members in the Convention.
I believe that we should do these things quickly, but at the same time we should send out the right signals in the Convention.
Mr President, SARS poses a huge challenge to the EU and the applicant states and, as the minister says, we do not know what causes the virus.
However, 6% of people who contract SARS will die.
The concept of an EU centre for disease control and prevention similar to the US model in Atlanta, which is not a new concept and is being promoted through the public health programme, goes some way towards coordination.
However, it will take until 2005 to have such an agency up and running.
We can do everything possible through research, early warning systems, disease control centres, education and information, but this should be a wake-up call to everyone concerned with public health.
We need to work together across the EU and the globe to protect public health in the future and we must think seriously about how to do this.
Mr President, SARS may not be a cause of hype in politics, but it certainly is for our citizens.
We actually know far too little about where it comes from and how it is transmitted.
As a second element I should like to mention the sixth action programme on public health.
But, Mr President, consider also the competences in the area of public health.
Mr President, Mr Stefanis, two Dutch hospital workers who had been working in China voluntarily went into quarantine on their return to the Netherlands.
Their sense of responsibility should be an example to the authorities, not only those in the Netherlands, but also to their European counterparts.
The measures against SARS are inadequate.
The disease has proved more serious and more infectious than was thought.
We cannot allow quarantine to be an individual decision of responsible people.
The epidemic is already now threatening what was already poor economic growth in Asian countries and, through a series of reflex actions, the entire global economy.
At a general level, this shows how badly the authorities in the Western countries have prepared themselves mentally for the spread of new and dangerous infectious diseases.
The extraordinary meeting of the EU Member States' Health Ministers, with its recommendations for action, was nevertheless an important first step, but we expect more.
The EU needs more powers when it comes to infectious diseases.
Mr President, there are two things that are giving rise to fear at the moment: the absence of a vaccine for the virus that has been found and a fear that the authorities, both national and European, are not properly geared for dealing with a virus which knows no boundaries.
It is nonsense to try to ensure that we have a body which in the long term will deal with communicable diseases but which will not have the resources to do its job effectively.
I know some progress has been made in identifying the virus, but what progress has been made in identifying a vaccine for us?
I know that there are concerns in Greece in relation to the Olympics due to take place in 2004, and that various discussions are taking place on this matter.
This is a very basic measure in order to restrict the spread of the virus and prevent hospital infections.
The text in general was the result of compromise.
The presidency believes that it is possible, on the basis of the specific conditions which prevail in the country and how the dangers which come from outside are perceived and evaluated, for every Member State to take the corresponding measures.
However, there are some which should be joint measures for all the Member States of the European Union and, first and foremost, there is a need for coordination, at least at the information level.
On the subject of research, the presidency agrees with maximum possible support for research activities at European level.
There should be a common fund, in addition to the fund already set up in Directorate XII, a special fund to deal with this sort of emergency.
As Mr Liese said, we must not overlook the fact that, if the cases in China had been reported promptly, we probably would not have reached this point.
To conclude, may I say that, generally, what happened at the Extraordinary Council on 6 May was a very good beginning.
The ordinary Council of Ministers will meet on 2 June, by which time more facts will have been gathered, account will be taken of all the observations made by the honourable Members of the European Parliament and, I think, the Member States of the European Union will be in a position to be more coordinated and more specific about the measures which need to be taken at European level.
Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, I wish to begin by taking this opportunity to welcome the observers.
All these factors will have significant political, structural and budgetary implications.
Thus these estimates for 2004 involve some profound changes that make budgetary planning a little more challenging.
In addition to the challenges posed by enlargement and the elections, Parliament will also face considerable changes in 2004, such as the possible adoption of the Statute for Members, the increase in the total number of Members, the revision of staff regulations and a reform of its administrative structure with a view to improving service to Members.
The precise budgetary implications of some of these changes are not yet determined and, therefore, are not fully incorporated into these estimates and will have to be taken into consideration during the first reading of the 2004 budget in the autumn.
The lack of transparency in the travel regime and the general allowance regime does more to undermine the credibility of this House than any other factor.
Therefore, I am advising this House to vote against paragraph 3 in my report, or to support the amendment tabled by the Verts/ALE Group.
These two issues are not just technical internal matters; they will run and run in the press of many countries leading up not just to next year's election but for many years to come.
Next year's election - apart from a huge turnover of Members in this House, combined with the increase in its membership by a fifth - will be one of the biggest transitions in the history of this Parliament.
Whilst we have made preparations in our physical environment and our linguistic regime, in the hemicycles and so on, we have not adequately addressed many very important issues concerning information, communication and IT strategies.
I know that the Bureau has now adopted a report of activities with a view to the European elections.
The Commission and the Member States have let us down.
Whilst one of our main objectives in the last few years has been to get closer to the citizen, our technology is still somewhere in the 20th century.
Having said that, I am pleased to note that we are finally making progress in Internet broadcasting.
In the context of all of this, I welcome the efforts by the administration and the Bureau to modernise not just Parliament's staff policy but the way we deal with staffing matters.
We need to move from a pure administration aspect of staff matters to a more modern, strategic and forward-looking staff management and also recognise that information technology has changed the way we work and look at our administration.
I know there are some very difficult decisions that will have an impact on establishment plans, but it is important that we continue to evolve and look at the best way we can use our human resources.
We can achieve this through improved presentation and transparency of the budget.
There are two main areas I want to touch on briefly: we need to improve the presentation and accountability of the budget in every area, and that applies equally to the political groups.
Mr President, I endorse the fact that this budget for Parliament and the other institutions is indeed a very important matter.
I would like to go through one or two detailed matters before I tackle the issue of health insurance.
This repairs some damage that was done in the earlier versions of this report by Neena Gill.
They have produced all the necessary reports, but they have to have meetings in June, which does not tie in with our budget calendar.
It is no place of ours to criticise them and therefore I hope that we can pass Amendment No 7, which welcomes the decision of the Bureau, concerning the costs of meetings of this association.
I turn now to the contentious matter raised and the reference to the Greens' amendment on health insurance.
If we as Parliamentarians do not safeguard against illness of our Members, I do not believe we are doing our duty.
We must ensure that the onerous duties placed on us of travelling extensively, lengthy debates and discussions and busy programmes in our regions and our countries throughout the European Union are reflected in a proper health insurance which is up and running and cost effective.
The final decision is one for the Bureau of this Parliament.
It is difficult to make estimates because parliamentary elections are to be held during the year and the EU will enlarge.
In general, with parliamentary elections half the Members change, and next time it will perhaps be more, as the old Member States will have 56 fewer seats.
At the same time we will have 162 new Members from the new Member States.
The aim is to keep Parliament's share of administrative expenditure below 20%.
The target is an ambitious one because a further EUR 46 million is to be budgeted for the Statute of Members.
For that reason exceeding the ceiling by this amount may be justified because it would not actually alter the old way costs are distributed between the EU and the Member States, as the Member States have been responsible for salaries up till now.
The rapporteur is trying to improve services to Members in core activities, which is to say those duties that relate to legislation and the budget.
This would cut costs, for example, through a simultaneous reduction in the number of interpreters needed, which would make interpreting arrangements for the new Member States easier in particular.
At the same time that would allow Members to participate more in the work of all their committees.
Extending the health insurance scheme to apply to former Members does not seem justified and my group is not in favour of this.
Multilingualism will increase in Parliament, as the number of official languages will grow from 11 to 20.
This means that the practice of using two separate interpreters to translate what someone is saying will increase.
We should investigate whether we could impose special obligations to translate many languages directly into the 'big' languages, such as English, French and German, in which case most of the Members of Parliament would be able to listen to a speech that has been translated by just one interpreter.
Until we have a Statute for Members, Members of the European Parliament will continue receiving the same salary as the Members of Parliament in their country of origin.
Which brings me to the fact that last time, during the voting on the calendar of meetings, we took the democratic decision in this place that next year there will be only 10 sessions in Strasbourg.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, first of all, to greet our fellow Members from the states which are no longer candidate countries but are not yet full Members.
At EUR 100.6 billion, the volume of expenditure has been increased by hardly 3.3% of the 2003 figure; moreover, the 2003 budget related solely to the Europe of 15.
All this is absurd.
Indeed, not only does the Commission not intend, once and for all, to concentrate on resolving the problem of the RALs, which has been one of Parliament's priorities for years, but, what is more, it is presenting a draft which will lead to exactly the same situation being repeated with regard to the countries joining the Union as of 2004.
Then there is the question of heading 3.
If we genuinely want a political Union, a direction for all the political groupings present in the Chamber - which we can all endeavour to follow - then we must also give them the working tools they need, the instruments necessary to achieve our goals.
We warmly endorse the plea for strict budgetary discipline by the European Parliament.
The primary task of this House, the supervision of the European Commission, must have priority, in addition to the responsibility for legislation in which the Parliament has the power of codecision.
The accessibility and comprehensibility of European political debate for citizens from all the Member States is crucial for the quality of the democracy.
I understand for example that the degree of use of Dutch and Italian in this House is of the same order of magnitude.
The importance of tighter criteria that are as objective as possible for allowances is evident.
Our institution respects the principle of public debate.
We are pleased about this, as we feel less alone, but there are 150, maybe 200 people here, whereas an enlarged Europe will comprise between 300 and 350 million inhabitants.
The third priority was to deal with all these matters within the budgetary framework.
When, last December, the Copenhagen European Council decided to adopt a big bang approach, there were no doubt many of us who thought that this was one of the finest moments of all in the entire history of the EU, with a further ten countries in line to become members in time for the next elections to the European Parliament in 2004.
This was subsequently followed up by decisions here in Parliament on 9 April, the signing of the accession treaties in Athens a week later and a number of successful referendums, most recently in Lithuania, something that imposes extraordinarily large demands, especially upon Europe's elected parliaments.
We have just had the great pleasure of welcoming 162 observers from all those candidate countries that have carried out their negotiations successfully.
Alternatively we could keep in service ten complete infantry battalions.
I wonder which would give Britain more influence in the world.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The next item is the presentation by the Commission of the preliminary draft general budget for the 2004 financial year.
The 2004 Budget is a truly historic one.
The budget plans therefore contain both the figures for the EU of 15 and those for the enlarged Union, but all of our deliberations will from the outset be in respect of the European Union of 25 Member States.
The third exceptional feature of this budget is that the European Union's budgetary reform is now fully in force and for the first time the official budget will be broken down by policy area, that is in accordance with the principle of activity-based budgeting.
This 2004 budgetary procedure will therefore certainly be an innovative one.
The Commission's preliminary draft budget was subject to the framework that was newly established for the financial perspective in view of enlargement, as adopted by the European Parliament on 9 April, which of course incorporates the results of Copenhagen, that is the results of the negotiations between the Council and the applicant countries, as well as the results of the negotiations between the Council and Parliament.
In 2004, commitment appropriations will increase to EUR 112 billion, of which EUR 11.8 billion are earmarked for commitments in the new Member States.
According to our proposal, the European Union of 15 Member States will only receive an increase of 0.7%, which takes into account the political priorities of stability and sustainable growth.
Expenditure, that is payments, will, according to the Commission proposal, total EUR 100.6 billion in 2004.
The reason for this is that fewer payment appropriations are needed in the Structural Funds next year than have been this year because the final payments for the old programmes are entered in this year's budget.
Of the total budget of EUR 100 billion that we are proposing, payments of EUR 5 billion are set aside for the new Member States.
In addition, payments from the pre-accession programmes will also continue to flow into the accession countries next year, so that overall we guarantee that all of the new Member States are net beneficiaries, as was of course intended at the beginning of the negotiations.
Agricultural expenditure - I now turn to the individual categories - is estimated at EUR 48 billion.
Incidentally, in 2004 the reform of agricultural policy will only be visible in a few specific areas, for example in the milk sector; all of the other effects will only be felt later on.
Of the total of EUR 48 billion, EUR 6.5 billion is earmarked for supporting rural development, EUR 1.7 billion of which for the new Member States.
Overall, next year's agriculture budget has two unusual features as far as the new Member States are concerned: firstly, the fact that direct payments to farmers in the new Member States will only take effect in the budget in 2005, because of course we have a time lag in the rules here.
The second unusual feature is that support for developing rural areas in the new Member States is substantially higher - disproportionately so - than it is in the EU of 15.
A further peculiarity is that the programmes providing support for rural development in the new Member States are so-called differentiated expenditure.
The greatest increase is for internal policies, in what is termed Category 3.
Overall, an increase of 27% in commitment appropriations is provided for here.
This is partly due to the fact that Parliament asked for additional room for manoeuvre in this particular area.
Category 3 of the budget is of course characterised by all of our political priorities: enlargement, stability and sustainable growth.
For the new Member States, funds are, in the first instance, made available to enable them to participate in existing Community programmes, which they already do in some cases.
In accordance with the decisions made in Copenhagen, funds will also be made available for completely new programmes in the enlargement countries: EUR 317 million for implementing the Schengen Agreement, that is, for building the necessary infrastructure to secure the external border; EUR 221 million for increasing administrative capacity in the accession countries and EUR 138 million for decommissioning nuclear power stations.
Overall, the preliminary draft budget provides for very high increases for promoting an area of security, freedom and justice.
Finally, I should mention that next year so-called freestanding lump-sum payments, or cash facilities, of EUR 1.4 billion will be made to the new Member States.
Administrative expenditure will have to be adapted to the new requirements.
Ladies and gentlemen, there are going to be very many new aspects to the budgetary procedure that lies before us.
Mr President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for her explanation and I should also like to say that I am very pleased that we are able to hold this first debate on the budget that affects the new countries in the presence of the observers from these new countries.
Parliament's aim - as we have explained in the guidelines - is to vote on a budget for 25 countries in December, on the understanding that the budget for the ten new countries will not take effect until 1 May of next year.
I think that it is also important for Parliament to know, and I shall also be referring to this, what relationship this new system bears to the prospects, because we shall always as far as possible have to respond to what was agreed in all the categories in Copenhagen.
When I look at the guidelines adopted by this Parliament in March during the vote on the standpoint of the Parliament, then at first sight the Commission has acted wonderfully well in accordance with those guidelines.
We shall most certainly see whether the 221 million that the Commission has set aside for this is sufficient.
We have noted that there is a 1.4 billion margin in the budget.
One thing we have not yet mentioned since Parliament's guidelines and since the budget was printed, is the disturbing development of SARS all over the world.
Finally, category 7, the title of which has been changed.
I would like to remind the other committees that what we are trying to do, or at least what we and the Commission are trying to do is to ensure a legislative proposal is presented to Parliament and to the Council this year, hopefully between July and September, so that we can actually enshrine in legislation the amounts needed between now and the end of 2006.
That of course means the committees which are involved in codecision reacting rather swiftly to make sure that we have that information so that we can make sure that this budget is complete.
This is because what we want to do is to have a trialogue and a conciliation meeting with the Council in July to formalise this, not just for the 2004 budget, but also for the other two budgets.
The other point I want to make concerns the format in which the budget is now presented.
So in the next 20 minutes, when we meet as the Committee on Budgets, Members - because we are simple souls after all - will have the new budget presented in two formats: one in the ABB which we have insisted upon, and one in the old format which we can understand.
I am sure it will give a lot more transparency and enable a lot more understanding in the long run.
Secondly, we want to project our acquis and the principles which govern our internal market as a model for our regional neighbours to follow, based on the fact that our acquis and our operative system are being shown to stimulate economic development, growth and peoples' well-being.
Thirdly, we must establish a range of projects for common energy networks which allow us to specifically define our priorities and thereby facilitate investment, both public and - in particular - private, in the energy sector in the future and on the part of the various European Union players and the different European Union governments.
By means of this Communication, the Commission intends to respond to these three challenges and proposes four specific objectives: firstly, increasing the European Union's security of supply, but also that of our neighbours; secondly, to extend the benefits of the enlarged Union's internal energy market to a Europe beyond our borders; thirdly, to support the modernisation of energy systems in the countries surrounding us; and finally, to promote the implementation of energy infrastructure projects which correspond to the Union's strategic interests.
I would like briefly to comment on a series of important issues in this communication, which will surely be dealt with within the public debate which will subsequently take place, particularly when Parliament gives its opinion.
Firstly, the geographical area means that we must restrict ourselves to our closest neighbours - the Mediterranean in the south, Russia, Ukraine or any other country of the ring of friends - and that, in some cases, we must also deal with partners who are somewhat further away, but which border our neighbours.
Finally, with regard to the infrastructures and energy network projects jointly established with these countries - I would like to insist on this point - I would like to stress that they are still of crucial importance, since they allow us to work towards clear objectives which we have decided jointly with the countries in question.
Our cooperation must prevent a sort of list of demands - what we call in English a shopping list - in which there are no planning or financial priorities.
The Communication I am presenting to you today will be officially presented next week during the meeting of Energy Ministers, Euromed-Energy, to take place in Athens.
I intend to take advantage of this important initiative to support the communication whose content I have explained briefly and which I hope the honourable Members can analyse and study closely very soon, given its importance for the European Union's security of supply, and also in order to support and promote a stability plan and greater cooperation within the Union.
I could envisage us concluding treaties with the states surrounding the European Union, and all the technical integral parts of the Treaty on European Union or of our future constitution then applying to these states as well, so that - in the area of energy, for example - these states would have a share in the liberalisation of the energy market, in the projects for trans-European networks, and so on.
Far from the least important question is whether this sort of cooperation in competition - and competition is what this is about - has to be backed up by joint undertakings in research, and whether there is also financial support for one project or another.
As I have said, on Wednesday of next week we will present this communication to all the countries of the Mediterranean Rim.
In the case of the Balkans, the whole issue of the electricity market has been raised; in relation to the Balkan electricity market, we expect to be able to ensure that it is continued with a similar integration, by means of gas.
There is clear interest, not only on the part of the Mediterranean countries - I would insist - but also on the part of all the other countries, including those with which there is already a structured dialogue in place.
I would like to point out that the problems suffered on 11 and 12 April in the Azores - which the honourable Member has mentioned - do not in principle allow for the allocation of supplementary sums from the effective reserve.
In other words, they are intended to stimulate the different European regions of the different countries of the European Union to manage the Structural Funds available to them in the best and most efficient way possible.
If the Commission is consulted in this regard, it will of course study the measures which may be adopted in order to deal with the consequences of this bad weather within the framework of the legislation in force.
This salt completely covered Graciosa, for example, resulting in the chemical destruction of practically everything that lived there.
These new measures were given impetus at the last Council of Ministers in March, because, without waiting any longer, the Commission has applied certain provisions proposed in its Communication.
All the measures necessary for the establishment of the European Maritime Safety Agency have therefore been adopted: on 29 January its Executive Director was appointed and its activities are already beginning in Brussels, with a provisional headquarters while its final headquarters is decided upon.
The Commission has also begun to establish a Community system for the monitoring of ship traffic, the SafeSeaNet, and has also asked the Member States to define in advance national plans for receiving ships in difficulties in ports or areas of refuge before this summer.
I must add that, on 20 December, the College of Commissioners adopted a Regulation prohibiting the transport of heavy fuel by single-hull oil tankers, to or from European Union ports, and according to which, the replacement of single hull ships with double hull ships is speeded up, a proposal which furthermore has been agreed in the Council and examined at first reading by the European Parliament's Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism and which therefore should enter into force next June, if the agreements within the Council are maintained.
I would finally like to point out that, on 5 March, the Commission delivered to the European Parliament and the Council a proposal for a directive on pollution from ships and the introduction of penalties, including of a criminal nature, for pollution crimes.
Commissioner, I am able to express my satisfaction with all these supplementary measures, because in reality the conservation of the environment and the prevention of risks within the field of the trade in hydrocarbons is a process consisting of many supplementary measures which are gradually being taken.
With regard to Gibraltar, I would like to say to the honourable Member that in the Directive and Regulation adopted, in relation to the requirement on double-hull vessels, the transport of heavy oil, the modernisation of the fleet and other issues, it is stated very clearly: it is applicable in all ports, quays or anchorage areas in the European Union.
Gibraltar is in the European Union and is therefore also affected, like any other place - such as Algeciras - to mention the opposite port.
Naturally, the Commissioner responsible for the Environment fully agrees with the measures we have proposed, although we are establishing a specific definition in relation to oil and pollution by hydrocarbons.
A specific definition which relates to the fact that the FIFG Fund provides specific and differentiated cover and insurance for pollution by hydrocarbons - which other possible types of potential pollutants lack - and furthermore, in the field of criminal penalties, we also believe that pollution by hydrocarbons or by the cleaning out of bilge has a component which requires a specific type if penalty or which, at least, can require that other types of ecological crime are not treated as such a crime, with criminal penalties in some countries.
The difficulty lies in identifying those who are responsible for spilling these substances.
What we are talking about is proposing that the Member States of the Union - and this is what I have presented for debate in the Council and in Parliament - define, including from a criminal point of view, with custodial sentences, sea pollution resulting from dumping, including the cleaning of hulls, when it is carried out - as the honourable Member says - deliberately at sea.
We are talking about this being a crime within 200 miles, within the exclusive economic zone.
I believe - and we are going to begin some studies in this regard - that we are currently carrying out control of maritime traffic in relation to certain types of vessel, specifically oil tankers, and also in certain areas.
I believe that it is a matter of going a step further, of controlling all types of ships sailing, apart from traffic close to the coast, within three, four or five miles; that, from a certain distance from the coast, all traffic must be controlled.
This would mean greater safety in a sea which is increasingly being used for maritime transport and recreational activities, but also in a sea which is increasingly polluted and which must be protected more thoroughly.
What is being done in the sky in relation to aircraft could also be done, with the appropriate modifications and variations, in relation to the sea, and that is what we are working on, beginning - I would insist - with the control of the oil tanker traffic entering European Union waters and of all traffic in certain areas of the European Union.
Subsequently, the Commission's representation in Portugal publicly explained that senior appointments in the Commission are based on merit and competence, the principle of equal opportunities and geographical balance.
In view of this, can the Commission say whether the appointment of a Portuguese as Director-General for Press and Communication was based solely on an assessment of his abilities with reference to the relevant criteria or on diplomatic pressure on the part of the Portuguese Government?
The House will be aware that it is not unusual and not irregular for Member States to raise these types of issues from time to time.
Having accepted the urgent need to reform the Commission's accounting system along the lines suggested by its former Chief Accountant, Marta Andreasen - who was in post just four months and working in what was supposedly a hostile environment - and with your understanding, as Commissioner for Reform, that reforms often take longer than expected to deliver, conceive, plan and actually put into action, surely now you can accept that it is time to stop victimising Marta Andreasen and stop these ridiculous disciplinary proceedings against her.
Perhaps then common sense can prevail once again within the European Commission.
It is therefore regrettable, certainly - as all disciplinary procedures are - but it is certainly not ridiculous.
As the author is not present, Question No 30 lapses.
Question No 31 by Michl Ebner (H-0219/03): Subject: Drinking water in developing countries and industrialised countries Many countries, particularly developing countries, have no safe water supply.
Firstly, as regards drinking water in developing countries, the Commission proposed in its communication on water management in developing countries that priority should be given to ensuring a supply to every human being - especially the poorest - of sufficient drinking water of good quality and of adequate means of waste disposal, with the general objective of reducing poverty and improving people's health and quality of life.
This focus on access to safe water and sanitation was further reinforced in the context of the World Summit on Sustainable Development with the launch of the EU Water Initiative and the signature of the EU-Africa Strategic Partnership on Water Affairs and Sanitation.
We are engaged in a dialogue to anchor the process at country level.
We negotiated this in Johannesburg and we are now trying to tackle the problem.
The Commission is also exploring the opportunities to increase financial support for these objectives, including the possible creation of a specific water fund using development aid as a catalyst to attract other financial resources in response to the countries' prioritisation of water in their poverty reduction and sustainable development strategies.
This proposal by the Commission is presented in the recent communication on the establishment of an EU water fund.
Secondly, concerning drinking water in industrialised countries, the European Union started more than 20 years ago to take steps to secure drinking water quality.
The Drinking Water Directive of 1980 established quality standards for drinking water as well as regular monitoring obligations, thus ensuring a high level of protection throughout the Union.
In 1998 the Drinking Water Directive was amended to check the parameters and related values and, where necessary, tighten them up and ensure greater transparency and more information to citizens.
But I agree and I am happy about the support given to this idea.
On monitoring, I think it is quite clear that in our European Union framework it is really for Member States to deliver on the important issue of monitoring what has been decided carefully and highly professionally.
Much of the peace dividend between Israel and its neighbours will relate to a better and more rational use of water.
For the Iraqis, this is not such a burning issue in the list of problems they are facing; but a better use of water and its agricultural potential are not matters to be neglected.
Oil is not the only resource in that country.
We adhere to the Programme for Action adopted at the International Conference on Population and Development held in Cairo in 1994.
All governments and relevant intergovernmental and non-governmental organisations are urged to strengthen their commitment to women's health, to deal with the health impact of unsafe abortion as a major public health concern and to reduce the recourse to abortion through expanded and improved family planning services.' In January this year I wrote to the European Parliament in response to a letter from 47 MEPs on the issue of abortion.
In this letter, which is available on my website, I stressed that we aim to prevent the need for abortion, through our support for reproductive health programmes.
The Community's programmes and actions in the field of reproductive and sexual health and rights in developing countries aim to reduce maternal mortality and contribute to achieving the respective Millennium Development Goal.
The stakes are high, maternal mortality rates have remained unchanged and are even on the increase in countries such as Malawi and Afghanistan.
I would prefer Community aid in the areas of reproductive and sexual health to be judged on whether it delivers in reducing the unnecessary deaths of women in developing countries.
Just two more brief supplementary questions: firstly, does the Commission check to see that all the organisations that are promoted or supported do not, in fact, fund abortions?
Secondly, does development aid comply under all circumstances with the laws of developing countries on abortion, or is the attempt being made here to exert influence on legislation in those countries?
Mr President, we do monitor these organisations and considering the kind of global debate that is taking place on this issue, it is quite clear that organisations like UNFPA or IPPF which are being criticised have to be very careful how they work.
I hope that on this issue and related matters we can move forward as a result of the response by the Commission, and help reduce the number of abortions, by giving women access to the services they wish, should they wish them.
We have the global contour of the structure of this debate.
As the author is not present, Question No 33 lapses.
The Commission considers that Angola has made substantial progress towards consolidation of the peace process since the signing of the peace agreement in April 2002 and that a return to war seems unlikely at this stage.
In fact, when people started moving after the peace agreement had been signed, we saw an unfortunate increase in the number of accidents due to landmines - a terrible consequence.
The success of the conference is strongly linked to the establishment of a credible government plan for rehabilitation and reconstruction of the country, including a poverty reduction strategy, as well as to an improvement of the relationship between the Government of Angola and the IMF.
Transparency of public accounts and revenues from national resources, oil and diamonds, could improve definitely with the new economic team in place since the December cabinet reshuffle, although concrete results are not yet visible.
I raised these issues very directly with the government during the visit I just mentioned.
The Commission will follow developments very closely and has offered to assist in creating conditions for free and fair elections.
I wish to encourage the Commission to pursue a more wide-ranging and more open dialogue with all political forces represented in the Angolan parliament and indeed with all forces in civil society and the churches.
This open dialogue is our best chance of helping to consolidate pluralism in Angola and this, in the long term, is our best chance of consolidating democracy and freedom in that country.
My question is whether the Commission would be willing to direct resources specifically to programmes for the vocational training and social reintegration of UNITA ex-combatants and for these programmes to be monitored by both sides.
Fortunately, owing to the structure of the peace agreement and the way in which the two opposing movements are in general able to talk and do things, we are now at a point at which peace is irreversible.
Many of them should go back to agricultural activities and this is the key to doing what needs to be done concerning the majority of these people.
I see the focus on health education and food security in our programme in Angola as something which will be useful for precisely this endeavour.
I have raised this matter myself in very clear terms.
Question No 35 by Glenys Kinnock (H-0250/03): Subject: Convention on the Future of Europe Would the Commission outline its views on whether the Convention on the Future of Europe is giving sufficient emphasis to the EU's development cooperation priorities?
The Commission believes that the draft text presented on 23 April contains many valuable elements.
As for the development cooperation priorities, draft Article 1 provides a good basis, but at the same time we sympathise with the draft amendments proposed by Parliament's Committee on Development and Cooperation, notably where it suggests introducing references to good governance, environmental aspects and prevention of HIV/Aids.
Secondly, poverty focus (Article 25), where the Commission has proposed to make an explicit reference to the primary aim of eradicating poverty for EU policies in the sphere of development cooperation.
We are committed to deliver effective support to people in often desperate situations, and we are working through the organisations we are funding.
It is one of a number of elements in this discussion that we have to take up directly.
It is very important to keep to a high level of linguistic clarity.
The point about governance and democracy is also true.
Question No 36 by Mihail Papayannakis (H-0253/03) will not be replied to since it is included in the agenda for the present part-session - in this week's debate on Iraq.
Question No 37 by Margrietus J.
The objectives set in Dakar and the Millennium Development Goals in this field of education are the basis of our policy in developing countries.
Overall, the Community has allocated an estimated EUR 1.3 billion to education in developing countries for the next 5 years.
It is difficult to say exactly how much, and with what sort of direct focus, but one part of this is clearly relevant.
Unfortunately these 7 ACP countries have not chosen education as a priority sector in their cooperation with the Community.
The Commission is therefore looking into the possibility of using old, dormant funds to support the fast track initiative in these 7 countries.
The same goes for recommitting the money, which will take place in the annual reviews.
Partner countries of course have the final say on decisions to use these dormant funds for the fast-track initiative.
I believe that even in its technical form, in its institutional form, in the cooperation with the World Bank and a number of countries in Europe and the role that Europe can play in it as coordinator or initiator, the fast track initiative can be exceptionally effective.
Perhaps the Commissioner could say something more, without specific reference to each of these countries, about the role that he envisages for the European Union.
I understand that he also says that we are prepared to play a coordinating role so that we can deliver added value to the relations with - for example - the ACP countries.
I am rather curious about this added value role, not just in financial terms, but also in terms of political leadership and institutional support.
I would maintain that the budget support which the Commission and Parliament discussed in great detail a couple of years ago is an extremely important tool where a partner country has reached a reasonable level of quality in its sector policy for education.
We have a basis that is good enough to inject money through budgetary support relating to the more detailed work carried out by Member States or other donors working very directly at a technical level in that country.
On this issue of money, we are doing important things.
In addition, in having this initiative organised as broadly and energetically as it is, we are inspiring - not to say pushing - African and other countries to lift education higher up the ladder of priorities.
It is quite helpful but, again, successful coordination and approaching the problems via sector programmes is exactly what this initiative can also accelerate.
Mr Nielson, I congratulate you and thank you for your cooperation since you have not spent just twenty minutes, but forty-eight minutes replying to the honourable Members.
In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Questions Nos 38 and 39 will be replied to in writing.
Mr President, the Commission proposal for a legal basis for reproductive and sexual health and related rights in developing countries was put before the legislative authority - in this instance, the Council and Parliament in a codecision procedure - on 7 March 2002.
In accordance with item 33 of the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999, it is the legislative authority that lays down the financial framework for the entire duration of the programme.
The Commission was able to give a binding assurance to the budgetary authority that, in accordance with the policy priorities for future expenditure, as redefined by a resolution of 5 March 2003 in the course of annual strategic planning, such funding was very definitely available.
Mr President, Mrs Scallon, all funds from the European Budget are spent in accordance with the Treaty bases.
The programme in question has to do with the protection of health, both reproductive and sexual, and I believe that my fellow Commissioner Mr Nielson, in anticipation of further interventions by you, has also stated in writing in his letters to you that the relevant programmes are in accordance with the overall international programming in this area.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
We still have 10 minutes left.
The first question is my question.
I believe that the Commission is not in a position to deal with this question as such.
I repeat that this is the first time this problem has arisen in all these years.
Mr President, I shall not insist, despite the fact that I think that, as a matter of principle, this part of Question Time is included if there is time.
I shall not insist because I know that you always demonstrate flexibility on matters to do with questions and the Members of Parliament.
This was a really dishonest question, because the funds go into the reserve and they are used for purposes such as HIV.
I just want to make it clear to Mrs Schreyer that, as far as I am concerned, if the money goes into the reserve, it is perfectly reasonable for them to be funding things such as HIV and AIDS in the developing world, particularly in Africa.
Mrs Ahern, this Budget line was discussed in depth in the debates leading up to the resolutions on the 2003 Budget.
It is the case that this programme is now in the hands of the legislative authority, that discussions are ongoing, and I believe it to be a matter of general consensus that the European Union should continue to give support in the health sector.
I believe I have given you a full explanation in accordance with my competences, but I agree with you that there should be prior warning of the questions which are going to be replied to in writing.
The persecution of associations such as this one is difficult to understand at a time when, as has happened recently, political reforms have taken place and the fundamental rights of free expression of opinion and freedom of association have been extended.
The Commission has mentioned similar cases in its regular reports, and it takes the view that such incidents are contrary to the objectives of current efforts at reform.
Only recently, on 25 March, the Commission submitted a revised communication on an improved pre-accession strategy for Turkey.
Human rights organisations must be able to do their work without hindrance, and their activities will continue to be supported by the Commission in future.
This time it is about what is, even by Turkish standards, an unprecedented case of unhesitating disregard for the basic tenets of the rule of law and democratic intergovernmentalism and, what is worse, under the supervision of a high-ranking judicial officer who ostentatiously confirmed a prevalent Turkish practice and state of affairs, within the framework of which Turkey systematically and blatantly infringes even the most fundamental obligations which it is supposed to have undertaken in order to justify and support its application to join the European Union.
We take it for granted that the Turkish Government, in a case such as this, will act in an exemplary way and sort the matter out.
On the day in question, 6 May, a meeting had actually been planned between non-governmental organisations, the Turkish foreign minister, and the minister responsible for human rights issues.
For this reason, I would like to ask my fellow Members of this House to help and support those in Turkey who are really campaigning for democracy and human rights, and, when faced with provocations such as this, to be very careful in what they do and not allow themselves to be provoked and misused by the wrong side.
It is therefore very sad that we continue to receive reports of torture in Turkish prisons and of other infringements of human rights, including violations of freedom of expression.
The events of 6 May unfortunately show that there are still forces in Turkish society that either do not understand the need for changes or do not approve of them and who act on that basis.
Turkey is a very complex country with many different cultures.
The ten countries that are to accede in May 2004 have had to implement difficult reforms for which there was often little grass-roots support and which were also opposed internally.
With a representative of the Turkish Public Prosecutor's office present, the offices of the IHD in Ankara were searched by the authorities and everything in them seized.
The Confederal Group of the United European Left/Nordic Green Left protests emphatically against the Turkish authorities' actions.
The latest raid on the IHD is but the last in a series of hostile acts against this human rights organisation.
Let us remind ourselves that, since 1991, over ten members of the IHD have been murdered, and that, in May 1998, the organisation's chairman, Akin Birdal, was gunned down in his office.
Let us mention first the banning of HADEP, yet another ban imposed on a party that champions in particular the concerns of minorities in Turkey.
Then there is the legal action against Mrs Leyla Zana, a former member of the Turkish parliament, whose party, the DEP, was also proscribed.
The assumption that Turkey can hope for accession negotiations with the EU without fundamental changes to its policies is an illusion.
I am convinced that there is a struggle going on not only in public, but also - and in particular - behind the scenes at the moment, between on the one hand the reformers, the new government, the new Parliament, many human rights organisations and other reformers and on the other the conservatives, who are still very strongly represented, in the army, in the bureaucracy, and also in the judiciary.
If there is a struggle between the conservatives on the one hand and the reformers on the other, then I am convinced that it is the task of Parliament to support the reformers.
It is the role of our Parliament to be critical if things go wrong in Turkey, that is what we are doing this evening, that is what we shall be doing in the Oostlander report, but it is also the task of the Parliament to support reformers and reforms so that raids of this kind become a thing of the past.
It is our job as a Parliament to place ourselves firmly behind those people in Turkey who are promoting democracy, to make it quite clear that we support those agents of the state who are saying that this is not the way to run it and that we support people like Abdullah Gul, who clearly was deeply upset by this activity.
The fact of the matter is that in a modern democratic state, the state security corps and the military have to be subordinate to the civilian power - that is the definition of a modern democratic state.
Mr President, Leila Zana, winner of the Sakharov prize, at a time when her case is being reviewed due to the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, has just called on the European Union to encourage reform by instigating accession negotiations with Turkey without delay.
She claimed that this would speed up the democratisation process in Turkey.
The recent ban last March of the ADEP party is also unacceptable, given that this party clearly rejects any link with armed combat.
The Turkish powers are keeping rigidly to a way of thinking which not only harms the direct victims of oppression but also Turkish society as a whole and the image of the country abroad.
Almost exactly a year ago, on 10 May 2002, the ad hoc delegation from Parliament considered that the ban on the ADEP would constitute a substantial step backwards for Turkish democracy.
That is why I would like to reiterate here my full support for the activities of those in Turkey who are demonstrating in favour of human rights, sometimes risking their lives.
The democratic forces need to know that we are by their side to ensure that the day when it is possible to live and speak freely in Turkey comes as soon as possible.
Lastly, following the reopening of the Leila Zana case and those of three of her colleagues a few days ago, I would like to express my hope that the European Parliament will be able to present Mrs Zana with her prize here in this hemicycle as soon as possible.
I personally have had occasion in the past to condemn the Turkish Government for the imprisonment without trial of many among the Kurdish community, as I have also condemned the 14-year imprisonment sentence imposed on Leyla Zana and three of her colleagues.
A retrial of Leyla Zana was ordered following a ruling of the European Court of Human Rights here in Strasbourg, a court the international community established itself, because the original trial of Leyla Zana and her colleagues was deemed not to be equitable.
Mr President, the Turkish legal system is based on the idea that collective order and security very definitely take precedence over individual human rights.
I hope that Commissioner Verheugen can make this visible in Turkey too, possibly through measures relating to the support for human rights organisations in that country.
Mr President, the raid on the offices of the Human Rights Association of Turkey is not the first attack on this organisation, which has played and is playing a leading part in the fight against the repression of the people of Turkey, Turks, Kurds and national minorities.
The raid was carried out on the basis of Articles 169 and 312 of the Criminal Code and the anti-terrorism law respectively, which criminalise any support for the hunger strike of political prisoners and their fight against the white cells as an act of terrorism.
The ban on the Turkish communist party and the HADEP party was decided in the same spirit.
Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to start by extending the Commission's thanks to the rapporteurs of both the leading Committees for the outstanding work they have done, both on the regulation on European Cooperative Societies and on the related directive on the involvement of employees.
Parliament expressed its approval for the Statute for a European Cooperative Society at first reading, which was on 20 January 1993.
At Council level, it met with the Member States' unanimous approval, something that constitutes considerable progress in view of the individual Member States' divergent regulations on cooperative societies.
The Commission took Article 95 as the legal basis for its proposal on the grounds that this article has the completion of the internal market as its objective.
We continue to believe that Article 95 provides the right legal basis.
The directive is the right place for this rule, and so we cannot support the proposed amendments.
Having examined in detail all the amendments proposed by Parliament, the Commission is prepared to agree, either fully or in part, to half of them and to support these in the Council.
The Commission is also in agreement with a number of other amendments, which, however, still require certain minor changes of formulation in order to take into account the concerns of certain Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you.
We do indeed have before us a very important report, a very important piece of legislation for the very large number of people in the European Union who have joined together in common enterprises in order to pool their strengths and bring those strengths to market more effectively.
The Commission also took on board our concerns, and, as Commissioner Schreyer has just said, we did indeed, after some time, have the beginnings of legislation.
Article 8 makes it clear that the regulation does not govern the structure by itself, but does so in conjunction with the statutes of the cooperative society in question and the company law of the Member State in which that cooperative society has its registered office.
The fact is that, as a Social Democrat, I regard the reinforcement of such rights as an obligation without the possibility of any exceptions, and so I will self-evidently vote in favour of it, even if, when we vote tomorrow, it will be said that I recommend that you do the opposite.
The cooperative sector has been waiting 30 years for this legislation, because of the extremely diverse nature of this sector.
The social economy is an important sector in terms of employment in the Union and in terms of gross domestic product.
This, I hope, will have a particular impact on emerging cooperatives in the accession countries and serve also to strengthen the European social model throughout the enlarged Union.
But with regard to the level of agreement that we have achieved in relation to the directive, I want to thank the Council and the Commission, the staff of the Employment Committee and the staff of my own group for their assistance.
The regulation on a Statute for a European Cooperative Society and the Directive on the involvement of employees are inseparable.
The Statute concerns how the mechanisms that are to guarantee employees' right of codecision in European Cooperative Societies are to operate in practice.
In the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, we have chosen to adopt three political priorities.
In order to defend Parliament's role in the legislative process, and with reference to Parliament's legal service, those of us in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have highlighted Article 95 of the Treaty as the correct legal base.
There is little doubt that the majority on the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market takes the view that, this time, we should appeal to the Court of Justice against the choice of the legal basis.
The legal issue is, however, a topic of great importance in terms of the future, for one cannot exclude the possibility of the Council of Ministers doing the same thing in other areas of company law - the other types of company are waiting to be dealt with.
As far as the Regulation is concerned, we share the view expressed by the Commission, that Article 95 is the proper legal basis.
We have already heard that a number of times, but, with reference to the directive on the involvement of employees, I would like to go into further detail.
Article 137 (1) (e) is the rule on jurisdiction for informing and consulting employees and provides for no exception to the co-determination procedure in Article 251.
In this instance, however, the Council can decide by unanimous vote to apply the codecision procedure.
It is my contention that, in a situation like this, where there are two equivalent legal bases alongside each other, option is downgraded to obligation and the Council's discretion is correspondingly limited.
Quite deliberately, then, it is the choice of legal basis that is being contested, not the subject-matter of either the Regulation or the directive.
Because the proposal for a regulation concerns the various stages in the life cycle of a European Cooperative Society, such as its establishment, the transfer of headquarters and liquidation, a number of different amendments are required if it is to be possible to apply these principles to the different situations described in the proposal for a regulation.
I also wish to emphasise that the employee representatives on the management and supervisory bodies should be chosen or designated in accordance with national legislation.
Mr President, we are going to have to wait and see what the Council makes of the points we are raising tonight in relation to the legal basis.
In the meantime I would like to take the opportunity to look beyond the institutional and legal basis arguments and look at the implications these proposals might have for the development of the social economy in a European Union which is trying to deal with a range of profound changes.
These increasing and more diversified social needs, compounded by budgetary restrictions, have led public authorities to decentralise the provision of services or to reduce the range or level of services they are providing.
I can say these things with certainty because I have been looking back at the evaluation of the third-sector initiative which ran from 1997 to 1998, thanks to a budgetary initiative by Mrs Ghilardotti, who is here tonight.
That evaluation underlined the fact that the development of the social economy to satisfy unmet needs could create as many as 120 000 jobs in the United Kingdom, 380 000 in Germany and 100 000 in France.
Equalising the rates would be equivalent to up to 7 million jobs.
The promotion of the third system could contribute to an increased demand for and supply of these services and one, moreover, which could help close the employment gap most among the very social groups where it is greatest.
The sector in my own region provides 13 000 jobs in the north-east of England.
In this case, new and streamlined does not mean better, and that needs to be rectified as a matter of urgency.
We cannot now wait any longer for this Statute.
On behalf of my group, I wish therefore to appeal to the European Parliament and to my fellow MEPs to avoid further delays and not to take issue with the Council concerning the legal base and our right of codecision, even though I in principle agree with the reasons presented concerning the legal base.
Whilst we have to pick our fights or arguments with the other institutions, we also have to keep an eye on the bigger picture of ensuring that we can put in place legislation that facilitates and allows for the fostering of new opportunities within the social economy.
We have in our midst enough innovation, ingenuity and compromise to bring forward positive, new initiatives to ensure that all the peoples within Europe can benefit from what we are trying to create here today.
My last point is that our legal services have drafted an opinion for the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market with regard to the ability of using Article 95.
However, that opinion is not as cast-iron or as tight as we would like to think it is.
Mr President, I am very glad to be here this evening.
I was a Member of this Parliament in 1993.
I reproach the Greens for actually being too principled, but I am glad that this time we in the PPE-DE Group are more principled than the Greens.
I think that it is possible and in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs we have done everything to avoid making this just a debate on a matter of principle.
The Council can simply adopt our amendments.
The arguments expounded by the Committee on Legal Affairs in favour of Article 95 are right, but it is also right to look at how relations between the European Parliament and the Council are going to shape up in the future.
We therefore have to use every possible means to foster approval both of the regulation and of the directive on the statute of the European Cooperative Society, taking account of the fact that the European Cooperative Society will constitute the necessary complement to the European company.
In adopting them, we shall help to develop cross-border cooperative activities in the social work sector which, according to the more general strategy on employment in Europe, will constitute an important source of employment.
In this light, I should like to congratulate the two Socialist Group rapporteurs who agreed to proceed jointly and adopt a joint strategy.
That parity of status in a modern economy is extremely important at a time when many people are looking for added value.
It is important that we safeguard cooperatives and their parity of status, particularly at a time of increased competition and threats of globalisation, when there is a considerable threat of undermining the cooperative ethos and its way of operating.
This situation means that, once again, the Members are facing an impossible choice: whether to recognise the rights of this House in terms of codecision or to adopt a Statute which has been awaited for 30 years by the social economy sector.
As regards the first point, my fellow Members have amply elaborated on the grounds for challenging the legal base and they have put forward strong arguments.
At the same time, however, and despite everything, it is just as important that we achieve a text on the Statute for a Cooperative Society at last.
Although the draft that has been submitted to us represents a backwards step in some respects in relation to the 1993 text, and even though there has been no real debate on the content, I am not sure we need to take the risk of delaying the implementation of a draft which has known many ups and downs.
The draft has the agreement of representatives of the cooperative sector as a whole, as we have heard.
Out of 200 000 companies - Commissioner, my figures are slightly higher than yours - in this European cooperative sector representing over 3 million jobs, between 10 and 12% operate outside the local area and their activities concern every sector of economic life.
These cooperatives must be able to extend their activities to European level and to be able to do so within a certain legal framework, which safeguards their specific nature, both in terms of the primacy of the individual and the objects of the undertaking on capital, and in terms of participation in the general interest and social cohesion.
Lastly - and I feel this is an important point - we should allow an economic sector built on the original legal base, which has proven itself in terms of local development, to be able to develop, in particular in countries currently experiencing a sometimes painful economic transition towards the market economy.
This is the case of the future Members of our Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs for this report.
It is the case that the European Parliament has dealt with the issue we are discussing today, the Cooperative Society, in various resolutions.
If we compare these resolutions with the commitment made at the Lisbon Summit in 2000, and ratified in Barcelona in 2002, we will see that the content coincides to a great extent, equality policies, job creation, etc.
Within this framework, we must not forget that cooperatives are groups of people or legal entities in which people, the personal dimension, are paramount, and must always be - and in fact are - very present.
In this connection - as the rapporteur has already explained - the aim of the proposal for a regulation on the Statute for a Cooperative Society is harmonisation, to approximate Member States' laws, in other words to remove all the barriers hindering the functioning of the internal market.
It does not regulate matters of taxation or competition - although these are important and will have to be addressed in future - or matters of copyright or insolvency, but merely the structure of the societies, referring systematically to the national law of the country in which the cooperative society has its registered office.
That said, we cannot fail to agree that it is important and urgent that we find a solution for the creation of the cooperative society, given that work on this project has been at a standstill for decades and that it was only in December 2000 that the Council finally reached political agreement on the substance, the content of the regulation and the Directive on Worker Involvement , which is linked to the creation of the European Cooperative Society.
Over these years - or decades, rather - the world of cooperatives in Europe has expanded greatly, acquired economic weight and shown that it actually has a key social role to play, particularly in terms of employment.
Mr Hughes mentioned a successful European Parliament initiative which revealed the zeal and skill shown by the third sector and the cooperative sector in responding to the challenges of employment and social cohesion.
With the proposed amendments, which I hope will be adopted tomorrow and taken into consideration by the Commission and the Council, the European Parliament is enhancing the proposal, introducing into the regulation the changes necessary to harmonise the statute and the provisions of the Directive on Worker Involvement.
I will end, Mr President, by congratulating the two rapporteurs for my part too, for they have worked together and developed these two important reports side by side.
I want to put to one side the debate that we are having on the legal basis and talk about the very important issue of employee participation, which should be to the fore for us in the European Parliament tonight.
That cooperative principle dates not least from the work of Robert Owen in my own Member State and is something which we celebrate in this debate.
Just one recent report produced by the Work Foundation and by Birkbeck College in the United Kingdom showed graphically how employee involvement actually goes together with business success: the two go hand in hand.
The principles in supporting this directive are clear.
If the Commission was honest it would agree that the original proposal it presented to this House had many problems, particularly related to the retrospective element of the proposals.
After those few, relatively negative comments, let me thank the Commission for its help in producing these proposals.
Mr President, honourable Members, Mr Callanan, I would like to start by thanking Parliament's delegation to the Conciliation Committee and you above all, Mr Callanan, for the outstanding work that has speedily produced the compromise text that is before us today.
The compromise reached in the trilogue between representatives of this House and of the Council represents a balance between these two pillars of sustainable development.
The new water scooters released onto the market as from 1 January 2005 will have to comply with the directive.
I hope that a new approach can be adopted when reviewing the directive, for we are concerned here with thoroughly detailed regulation that should perhaps take a different turn in the future.
Let me again express my heartfelt gratitude and my hope that this may bring us an agreed outcome in Parliament too.
Thank you, Mr Rübig.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 11.30 a.m.
The next item is the oral question (O-0027/2003 - B5-0091/2003) to the Commission, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on tourism.
In its 13 November 2001 communication entitled 'Working together for the future of European tourism', the Commission proposed an operational framework and measures aimed at invigorating the European tourist industry, an area in which it is backing close collaboration between all participants in the public and private sectors.
The Commission's legislative and work programme for 2003 envisages a new communication on the further transposition of parts of the 2001 communication, with specific reference to the issue of the sustainability of European tourism.
As regards reference to tourism as a complementary responsibility in the future constitution, we must wait and see what proposals the praesidium will put forward on the subject and how the Convention responds to them.
As far as its legislative programme for 2003 is concerned, the Commission has listed over 40 items of proposed legislation that can be expected to have some effect on tourism, 24 of them to a more or less marked degree.
Mr President, Commissioner, there can be no doubt that, especially recently, tourism in Europe is going through a serious crisis, due in part to the Iraqi crisis.
No-one here in this Parliament, Commissioner, is talking about replacing the role of the Member States.
We are talking about added value at Brussels level.
This is an opportunity for us to make a fresh start on tourism at European level.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, approximately one year ago, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the future of tourism in Europe, for which I was rapporteur, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
This resolution expressly proposed that the tourism sector should have a solid legal base in the future European Constitution in order to allow the Commission to react effectively to the various problems that might arise.
Since this is one of the largest sectors of activity in Europe, which is the top tourist region in the world, and since it is one of the sectors with the brightest future in terms of jobs and wealth creation, it is hard to understand the lack of political recognition and means for intervention provided in the current Treaties.
Since the growing trend in our manufacturing industry is to relocate outside Europe, tourism emerges as a labour-intensive activity involving a multitude of services that cannot be relocated, which Europe has now and on which it can continue to count in future.
We in the European Parliament maintain our position of wanting tourism to be referred to expressly as a sector of competences shared between the European Union and the Member States, being referred to specifically in the first part of the Constitution and in the part concerning the policies of the future European Constitution.
I therefore ask the Commission what its proposals are for strengthening the legal base of tourism in the future European Constitution.
A very large number of Members of this House come from areas where tourism is important as an economic sector and where tourism has a major impact on people and the environment.
I also think of the importance of Article 6 of the Treaty, which obliges the Commission to integrate environmental protection in its policy sectors, thus including the tourist sector, with a view to the promotion of sustainable development.
A second aspect is the link with regional policy.
Here we need a specific approach in my view in favour of environmentally friendly and safe transport.
I believe that, as a result of the war in Iraq and of the outbreak of SARS in Asia, tourism in Europe and tourist travel to Europe have - as we say on the German coast - heavy weather to contend with, as does foreign tourism outside Europe.
So my first question to the Commissioner is to ask whether she is willing to appoint, on an ad hoc basis, a high-level working party, which would involve the tourist industry and whose purpose would be to develop a strategy to reduce the tourist industry's costs and to stimulate international tourism?
After all, it cannot be right, in a European single market, that the Member States should levy VAT at different rates on similar tourist activities.
In conclusion, I want to repeat something that has been said by all the previous speakers, which is that support measures for tourism require legal certainty and legal clarity, and, for that reason, tourism must become a task in its own right in the constitution, with clear powers to act laid down for it.
Thank you, Mr Jarzembowski.
The debate is closed. (The sitting was closed at 11.06 p.m.)
