Consequently, on 3 April this year the Commission adopted a Recommendation on better cooperation in order to remedy the shortcomings in the implementation, application and enforcement of the existing Directive.
The Recommendation is expected to be approved by the next Employment and Social Affairs Council on 9 June.
If our society and our economy are to continue to flourish, we have to give equal priority to social aspects and to competitiveness. (on behalf of the PPE-DE Group). - (SV) Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his presentation, and I welcome the fact that he emphasises the importance of greater cooperation between the Member States and the responsibility Member States have for implementing the Posting of Workers Directive correctly.
On the other hand, the Member State must have legislation and society must function, in order to permit and encourage mobility.
It is in this context that I also think it is important that we now develop better cooperation, and that the different Member States make sure that they implement and evaluate this so as to combine mobility with social security and stability for everyone in Europe.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for the recommendation for improved administrative cooperation and better options for the labour inspectorates.
Yet the directive also allows the Member States the space to impose more generous provisions for the protection of workers, in accordance with their own social traditions and in keeping with collective agreements or generally binding collective agreements.
Indeed, the free movement of workers guarantees equal treatment from day one and that is also what we want to achieve with regard to the free movement of services.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DA) Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his statement.
on behalf of the Greens/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all the court judgments concern cases in which the trade unions have taken internationally recognised collective measures for action against social dumping.
In the Laval and Rüffert cases, the legal minimum standard was interpreted as the only maximum standard valid on the internal market.
In considering the Directive, the free trade in services must be promoted in fair competition and employees' rights must be guaranteed.
Our group's response therefore at this point is: the principle of 'equal pay for equal work in the same establishment' must occupy an equivalent position in the internal market with regard to the criteria of freedom.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Commissioner, first of all, I would like to note for the record that my colleagues from the Conference of Presidents, who decided on a late-night debate against my wishes, are all absent this evening.
Therefore, I will briefly outline the three stages of this new dimension of European law. 11 December 2007: the Court quashed a trade union action claiming that the Finnish shipping company Viking Line should not be allowed to register its ferry in Estonia to reduce workers' wages. 18 December 2007: the Court again found against the unions, this time in Vaxholm, Sweden, for blockading a building against a Latvian company which was refusing to observe the collective agreement applicable to the building sector. 3 April 2008: the Court found Lower Saxony in Germany guilty of imposing a minimum salary on any construction company awarded a procurement contract.
This was the Rüffert ruling.
In all three cases, the fundamental reason invoked by the Court to justify its decision to encourage wage dumping was that Community law prohibits any measure - take note - likely to 'make less attractive' the conditions of a company from another Member State because this is - and I quote - a 'restriction on the freedom to provide services' or the freedom of establishment, which are among the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the Treaty.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, recently, in the Rüffert case, a Polish company paid 53 workers only 46% of the agreed wage for the trade in Germany.
Not long ago, Mr John Monks, the President of the European Trade Union Confederation, speaking in a hearing in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs about an earlier case - the Laval case - and warning of future cases, said that 'we have been told that our right to strike is fundamental, but not as fundamental as the free movement of services'.
As Mr Monk stated in the hearing on Laval, we need a protective protocol in the Lisbon Treaty or face social dumping in the future.
Mr President, I believe that the Commission first published a guidance document on the implementation of the Posting of Workers Directive back in 2006, and at the time the Socialist Group - in response - led a call in Parliament for a toughening up of the Directive.
The problem lies, as the Commission has so clearly defined, in weaknesses in national implementation, in insufficient cooperation between Member States and in poor supply of information.
We should all agree with that on all sides of the House, but we should also agree that there is another right to be protected: the right of all workers to be mobile, to be posted and to provide services across borders.
I suggest that the Commissioner has pointed the way and invite him to agree with me that our role as MEPs should be to get each of our own countries to follow. (SV) Mr President, Commissioner, I welcome the recommendation, and I welcome even more the fact that the Commissioner seeks to combat social dumping and that Mr Barroso and Mr Špidla say that the right to strike does not subordinate free movement.
This is unacceptable.
This too is unacceptable.
I am in favour of open borders between new and old Member States, but I am also in favour of equal terms for equal work, and that too must be fundamental.
Leaving the Posting of Workers Directive behind for a second, I would like to draw your attention to another related subject, to the complaint that the company TNT has filed with the Commission following a judgment by an administrative tribunal in Berlin, claiming that the German government, by imposing a minimum wage in the postal sector, has failed to take into account the economic impact of the minimum wage - we are talking about a minimum wage of EUR 9.80 an hour - on its competitors.
If you or your colleagues and the College, find in TNT's favour in this case, I believe, Mr Špidla, that you will lose all credibility, in this and in other cases, and that it will take more than a recommendation from the Commission on the best information and administrative cooperation between Member States to truly guarantee the dignity of workers in the European Union. (SV) Mr President, it is the task of the European Court of Justice to issue judgments in line with the Treaties.
This is what is known as legal activism, and it must be seen as a direct threat to democracy and the principle of subsidiarity.
This is completely unacceptable.
Article 49 of the Treaty is one of the most clearly formulated regulations governing the internal affairs of the European Union, and it states unambiguously that restrictions on freedom to provide services within the Community shall be prohibited in respect of nationals of Member States who are established in a State of the Community other than that of the person for whom the services are intended.
The persistent practices found in many Member States aimed at administrative restriction of this freedom, which is guaranteed in the Treaty, are therefore surprising.
I have raised this issue on many occasions in this House, demanding an unambiguous statement from the European Commission on behalf of EU law, and consequently in defence of the freedom to provide services.
I am convinced that in the light of recent Court verdicts we - that is, Parliament and the European Commission together - will be able to draw up a formula for the organisation of an internal services market that, while ensuring the fundamental rights of employees, ensuring those rights - those fundamental rights - will not impose extra burdens on EU businesspeople that will hamper their activities and that are by definition - as the Court's rulings state - in breach of European law.
The Court has spoken.
This concerns Article 50 and Article 56, for example, of the consolidated version of the Lisbon Treaty of 15 April, the sharpening of the Posting of Workers Directive, the granting of the right to take industrial action and the cross-border right to take industrial action.
I also refer to the fact that the review of the political problems should not simply be left to the ECJ, but that here both the EU Institutions - the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament - and the nation states bear responsibility for this through their legislation. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Lisbon will mean a considerable improvement for employees - Mr Wurtz, I have to contradict you here.
This is a quotation by Ludwig Erhard, of whom it definitely cannot be said that he was against a market economy.
Mr President, let me say how much I agree with Mr Brok and how much I disagree with Mr Bushill-Matthews, but I will come to that in a moment.
I would like to thank the Commissioner for the recommendation adopted on 3 April.
I think these modest proposed changes to the posting of workers directive would be a start. (DA) Mr President, when we considered the Treaty of Lisbon in February, both my fellow Members and I proposed that the right to take collective industrial action should belong within the competence of the Member States.
You might of course believe this, but you must then stop talking about a social Europe.
The alternative is social dumping.
One might be forgiven for thinking that, in some interpretations, the ECJ has sought to establish the pre-eminence of articles 43 and 49 over every other consideration.
We also need to enforce - and the national parliaments could supervise this - the principle of subsidiarity in all that concerns the right to work, workers' rights and the right to strike in particular.
According to the Rüffert judgment, there is only one solution in my opinion.
I do not think that we can prescribe aspirin when what is needed is major surgery, and I think that we need to restore a balance between the principles of workers' rights and the rights of the market, because otherwise not only social Europe but the whole of Europe will go this way. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the aim of the Posting of Workers Directive is to ensure the freedom to provide services while at the same time guaranteeing employee's rights.
I would point out that in the Rüffert case, which we are discussing, violation of social standards and the setting of wages at the scandalously low level of 46% took place not as a result of any defects in the Posting of Workers Directive, but simply as a result of the failure to implement part of the relevant legislation of Lower Saxony in the manner envisaged in the Posting of Workers Directive.
I note that the concept of social dumping does not exist either in international law or in economic theory.
It appears that the Court itself is inviting us to make this legislative change, and I think that it is now the responsibility of the Commission, first of all, but also of Parliament and the Council, to change the legislative texts in order to prevent this case law from becoming permanent. (RO) The legislative provisions we are discussing today could improve the lives of more than one million European citizens working in another Member State as suppliers of services or posted workers.
In particular the provisions of Article 3 of the Directive are not implemented entirely in every European Union Member State.
Moreover, it has become a practice for many European companies to hire workers from new Member States and send them abroad as posted workers for a period that can be extended up to 24 months, thus taking advantage of the differences existing as to the payment of contributions to social insurance.
I end by saying that this type of social dumping must be stopped by implementing all the provisions of the Directive on the posting of workers. (PL) Mr President, a lot of remarks have been heard in this House, as well as some very critical evaluations, of judgments - judgments by the European Court of Justice.
Workers from the countries joining the EU after 1 May 2004 owe nothing to anyone.
Situations in which key provisions of the Directive are interpreted differently in the different Member States are also inadmissible.
Workers are not aware of their rights, and Member States do not monitor whether the provisions of the Directive are being correctly applied.
member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your contributions.
I would also like to endorse the constructive approach taken in Sweden and Denmark to bring about this compliance.
This must be because for 30 years of my life I have been fighting to ensure that a Spanish worker in Sweden or Germany does not earn less than a German or Swedish worker, and because for 20 more years I have been fighting to ensure that a Polish, Romanian or Moroccan worker does not earn less in Spain than a Spanish worker. (Applause) Written statements (Rule 142) The recent judgments of the Court of Justice in the Laval-Vaxholm case in Sweden, the Viking Line case in Finland and now the Rüffert case in Germany simply serve to clarify the real objectives and priorities of this European Union.
The European Court of Justice stated that its judgment on the Rüffert case is in keeping with the provisions of the existing Treaties.
in writing. - (FI) The Court of Justice of the European Communities has delivered three judgments against the trade union movement, and we can therefore expect more court decisions on cases in the same series.
