In view of the loss of 3 million jobs in the EU alone and the banks' difficulties in extending credit, this instrument will provide easier access to the necessary resources for those who wish to start up a new business.
I am certain that this new initiative will help create new jobs, especially if we introduce new accompanying measures such as funding for training, which will help young people set up investment projects.
This instrument, Mr President, must be adopted as quickly as possible in order to revitalise small and medium-sized enterprises which represent the life-blood of Europe's economy. (BG) Thank you, Mr President, I voted in favour of the financial measures report.
This facility, which is aimed at people who want to start or develop a micro-enterprise (less than 10 employees and a turnover of less than EUR 2 million), will open up new horizons for many unemployed people.
The 'blocking' of the votes on several amendments prevented me from voting separately on some amendments.
It is for this reason that I have decided to support the rapporteur on this issue and vote in favour of the report.
I voted against the report because unemployment, which is constantly increasing in the European Union, cannot be combated with a microfinance programme.
Integrated programmes with adequate funding under a separate budget line are needed, programmes which focus on combating youth unemployment, which is extremely high in Greece in particular, with one in four young people under the age of 25 out of work.
As Europe is going through a deep economic and financial crisis, which has led to serious social problems with unemployment growing in all the Member States, it is essential for the European Union to create effective mechanisms for tackling the crisis and also supporting those worst affected, including the unemployed and businesses in difficulty.
I had already voted in favour of this facility in the Committee on Budgets in the context of the budgetary procedure for 2010, through which two new budget lines were created, one for operational expenses in the sum of EUR 37.5 million and the other for administrative expenses in the sum of EUR 0.25 million.
The text approved by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs clearly rejected the idea of financing this facility from Progress and proposed creating a new budget line with its own resources: in other words, 'new' money.
Since social conditions in the various Member States are deteriorating, it is unacceptable for funds to be channelled away from the employment and social inclusion area towards other priorities that have been defined in the meantime, even if it is to the area of microfinance.
Some people are refusing to deduct EUR 100 million for micro-credit from the paltry sum of EUR 700 million allocated over seven years.
In this period of economic crisis and due to the considerable fall in the number of loans granted, it is vitally important for the European Union to create a facility aimed at the most vulnerable, such as the unemployed, young people and small businesses.
The facility will see its funding increased to EUR 100 million, the money being taken from the budget for the Progress programme (Community Programme for Employment and Social Solidarity), and will come into force on 1 January 2010 (for a four-year period).
I voted in favour of the report by my colleague, Mrs Göncz, because I feel it is crucial, especially in the context of an employment crisis and of a social crisis, to support micro-finance by providing it with a specific budget line.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the report on microfinance facilities.
The financial and economic crisis has brought with it an employment and a social crisis, and it is indeed predicted that there will be another 10 million unemployed people in Europe next year.
Nevertheless, we must also invest, for example, in young people's workshops and business incubators, as well as entrepreneurship education.
I am in favour of financing social provisions in order to assist workers who have lost their jobs.
However, this should not mean that businesses are exempted from their social and territorial obligations.
This finance opportunity will be available initially for a period of four years, starting from 1 January 2010.
This will give people who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis or who are finding it difficult to gain access to credit for their company the opportunity to undergo training, to retain existing jobs and, in some cases, even to create new ones.
At a time of crisis, when credit is scarce and access to it difficult, this kind of facility is essential to help provide micro-credit for small enterprises and people who have lost their jobs and want to start up new businesses on their own.
The financial and economic crisis caused primarily by British and American speculators is now leading to growing unemployment in Europe as a result of the economic downturn.
I hope that the new European microfinance facility for employment and social inclusion - Progress - will give them significant support in this respect.
On 10 November 2009, the European Commission published a Proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a European Microfinance Facility.
The situation in the lending sector shows that the financial and economic crisis is changing into an employment and social crisis.
The rapporteur proposes putting the facility under a separate budget line, and also proposes increasing the facility's budget for the next four years by EUR 50 million.
However, I am calling on the Council not to take the funding from Progress.
In particular in this crisis, EU money must not be redeployed at the expense of the weakest members of society.
This decision will allow EUR 100 million to be made available at regional and national level over the next four years.
More and more, we are seeing greater consideration of small and medium-sized enterprises in European Union policy and legislation.
I welcome this new development and, in particular, the European Parliament's contribution to stimulating the development of small businesses in difficult economic times.
The Progress programme was started to assist in realisation of European Union objectives in the fields of employment, social affairs and equal opportunities, which are laid out in the Social Agenda.
Currently, the financial and economic crisis is changing into a social crisis and an employment crisis.
The Progress programme is aimed at the most exposed groups, and in relation to this, I think Member States and the European Union are responsible for effective implementation of the programme.
The main responsibility for employment and social policy rests with the Member States, but the European Union should be the initiator of these changes.
Microfinance is an interesting instrument to provide people who are unemployed or in danger of losing their jobs, and also enterprises in the social economy, with financial support in times of crisis.
It is possible that resources from the existing Progress programme will be used, a programme that was launched in 2007 and comprises actions concerning poverty reduction, anti-discrimination, social inclusion, gender and employment.
To enable this to start at the beginning of 2010, EUR 25 million is being released from the 2010 EU budget.
in writing. - This is a great initiative that will make it easier for people who have lost, or risk losing, their jobs to get credit to start up their own businesses.
I am pleased that the European Parliament was able to ensure this money did not come from the 'Progress' programme, which is designed to help vulnerable people, but was created using money from the 2010 budget for the first year.
The EUR 100 million fund, available from early 2010, is exactly the kind of help that small businesses need at this time of financial crisis when banks are still unwilling to release credit.
