Venezuela The next item is the debate on three motions for resolutions on Venezuela.
However, they have unfortunately been living for some years in a terrible situation, which is getting worse, in which their fundamental rights are being violated.
The actions taken to disqualify dozens of citizens from standing in the regional and local elections to be held in Venezuela are unacceptable.
Unfortunately, for many years Venezuelan society has been experiencing polarisation of political forces.
As a result of this struggle over decisions taken, the structure of Venezuelan society is becoming similar to that of Cuba, namely socialism with historical and nationalistic features.
The situation is so serious that the resolution alone will not halt the process of further limitation of citizens' rights in Venezuela.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (PT) Once again we are faced with an unacceptable and deplorable attempt by the European Parliament to interfere, which just happens to have occurred before the regional and local elections in Venezuela.
They have shown that it is worthwhile for a people to fight and that it is possible to have a fairer, more democratic and more peaceful country and world.
The 1999 Constitution of Venezuela was a perfect opportunity to strengthen the rule of law and guarantee human rights in this country.
Our resolution today is one more reminder to President Chavez that the constitution is not just a piece of paper; its rules must be enforced in real life. - (PL) The House is about to debate the very dramatic and tragic situation in Congo, where the victims are counted in hundreds, or even in thousands.
The attempt being made is unacceptable and we wish to take this opportunity to condemn the action by the political forces intervening in the internal affairs of Venezuela with this resolution.
The country is in the process of preparing for the regional and local elections which will take place on 23 November.
The Commission is also aware of the expulsion of the representatives of Human Rights Watch from Venezuela.
