&#160;&#160; The next item is the oral question (B6-0012/2005) by Mr Ransdorf, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, to the Commission, on the doubling of EU budgetary resources for research. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I shall open the discussion on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
The research community and the wider community expect a great deal from the Seventh Framework Programme, as it is seen as a crucial part of the Lisbon strategy for strengthening the European economy.
Commissioner, the purpose behind this oral question today is to give you the opportunity to share some thoughts with us before making your proposal to the Council and Parliament on how research is to be funded.
Bearing in mind the existence of the 'one per cent club' of Member States who wish to keep European-level spending within an overall cap of one per cent of GDP, I want to offer some suggestions as to ways in which spending on research might be increased at a European level, without necessarily breaching that one per cent cap, and given that there seems to be no lack of goodwill on the part of Member States to spend more on research.
The first suggestion is that the proposals for the spending programme with regard to research on security should be funded by the Member States at European level, but outside the Seventh Framework Programme.
Secondly, I see great potential for using part of the Cohesion Fund for directing research spending to the new Member States, and I hope you will be sympathetic to that suggestion, Commissioner.
Mr Mayor Oreja heads a special working group on the European Research Council, which has suggested that an independent body of scientists should take the programme of research forward, and that this should happen on the basis of excellence and scientific merit.
We talk about it; let us hope this time, Commissioner, you are able to do something about it.
The objective of pursuing excellence above all else is crucial to achieving successful research at European level.
I would particularly like to thank two members of the committee, Mr&#160;Chichester and Mrs Locatelli.
It is a debate about nothing less than our credibility to reach the Lisbon objectives, and is a crucial debate for both our institutions only a few weeks before Europe hopefully agrees on the financial means for the next decade.
The discussion about the new Financial Perspectives is a moment of truth and the question of sufficient funding for European research is an essential part of it.
It also brings continuous progress to society: progress in fields such as health; preservation of the environment; and sustainable energy supply.
The answer is yes.
In February 2004, when launching the debate on policy challenges and budgetary means of the enlarged Union, the Commission emphasised the role research will play in building our common future and consequently proposed the doubling of the budget.
This was reaffirmed in the Commission's communication on the Financial Perspectives last July and President Barroso confirmed the approach to this House last December, when he endorsed the Financial Perspective that had been proposed by the Prodi Commission.
On behalf of the European Commission, I can therefore confirm not only our strong commitment to research, but also that we will do everything to achieve the doubling of the research budget.
It is good that we clarify these fully justified issues.
This figure does not include related Community programmes such as Mr Gunther Verheugen's programme for competitiveness and innovation.
The current candidate countries also participate in the Framework Programme.
However in addition, I want this programme to be an enabling one that allows the use of the full research potential in the new Member States and creates an active and effective link with the Structural Funds.
Additional new areas of research are included and are part of the justification for doubling the funds.
In other words, it would not be possible to strengthen existing activities in an efficient way and, at the same time, introduce widely supported new activities, such as the European Research Council and technology initiatives, if the research budget was not doubled.
Doubling will enable us to take a decisive step forward in our overall research policy and in continuing support for the European Research Area.
Agreement on the substance of future research activities necessarily implies agreement on adequate funding for these activities.
In order to underpin the debate on the Financial Perspectives, the Commission will present its proposal for FP7 on 6 April.
It will also allow the ministries for research and science to have an initial discussion at the Competitiveness Council on 18 April.
The Commission proposal will provide sound justification for doubling the budget for FP7, based on a detailed and thorough assessment of the impact of the research and development instruments on investment in growth and jobs.
Doubling the funding is one of the crucial steps towards a more growth-oriented European Union budget.
Secondly, we need more R[amp]D funding at EU level because of the strong added value of European research funding through the critical mass of resources, sharing of knowledge and facilities, strengthening excellence through close cooperation, competition at European level, the coordination of national activities and support for European Union policies.
Let me add to that the fact that we are currently rejecting an unacceptable number of excellent proposals purely because of the lack of financial resources.
Finally, we should not forget the very simple fact that the costs of research itself are also growing.
The proposals in the field of research are at the core of the delivery of the new Lisbon Agenda.
Building a knowledge society is probably the best, and perhaps only, way to sustain the European social model without having to make a trade-off between economic growth, social cohesion and environmental protection.
The first and foremost policy priority for the Union is thus to strongly support the three sides of the knowledge triangle – research, education and innovation – and to ensure that the triangle operates in the most favourable framework conditions.
The change in the structure of the European budget in favour of more growth and competitive oriented expenses in the direction proposed by the Commission is thus crucial.
This structural change to the European budget should also be followed by the Member States in their budgets.
If we do not make the effort now, we will have to make it later; but it will be more difficult later and it could even be too late.
Achieving this by 2010 will be a far from easy task.
We should take this opportunity to make a big impression on the public, and to show them that we take the Lisbon goals seriously and want to achieve them. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy has been virtually unanimous on this issue, because we are certain that only long-term commitment to increased resources for research channelled through the Seventh EU Framework Programme can help us to pull through.
The problem is the Member States.
Only two Member States have achieved the 3% target for research, my own country being one of them.
That is the only way out of this vicious circle of competitiveness. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Potočnik, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for research funds to be doubled with respect to the Sixth Framework Programme, without asking ourselves whether the latter programme is an appropriate yardstick.
In fact, when it was established, there was not yet such a pressing need to revitalise the competitiveness of the European Union, such a massive and important enlargement had not taken place, international competition had not yet emerged so forcefully, and nor had a knowledge-based strategy such as the Lisbon strategy yet been formulated.
All of that has now happened and, furthermore, very little has been done in terms of the Lisbon objectives.
The European Research Council has emerged out of the acknowledgment that basic research now has an importance which goes beyond the Member States and must be supported at Union level and in accordance with the Lisbon strategy.
These platforms must obtain resources chiefly from enterprises, but also from public institutions, the Member States, regions and local authorities, in order to organise research of general interest and to help businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, meet the need for research in order to make them competitive.
The first relates to the total volume of funding for science and research.
In the USA a number of key projects are funded by securities, and this could also act as a financial basis for key European projects.
Another way to boost funding would be to exploit the resources available in the new Member States.
The costs of achieving research goals could realistically be reduced if these countries were involved.
The Commission is relying on two thirds of this money coming from the private sector.
This will be very difficult to achieve, however, given that only 3% of small and medium-sized enterprises, which pay 85% of all business taxes and provide 75% of jobs, currently invest in research, and 40% of them are involved in innovation.
At present the European Union is lagging 50% behind the US with regard to the number of researchers for every 1000 workers; in other words, the US has 50% more researchers for every 1000 workers.
Finally, I should like to note that research follows certain laws.
The second most important reason, however, lies within the Commission itself.
When it comes to informing the public about how funds are used, the European Union will have to decide whether it wishes to move towards propaganda – made what it is by Josef Goebbels, himself the subject of much debate at present – or towards information, with the pioneer of this approach being Jean-Jacques Rousseau.
There is an undoubted need sharply to increase the volume of resources allocated to this important area, but this must be in line with our financial perspectives.
The framework programmes for research and technological development, which have been the main tool in the European Union’s implementation strategy, have been found, for various reasons and throughout their existence, to be inadequate in promoting the research and innovation potential of mainly small and medium-sized enterprises.
The European Union budget must take account of both an increased level of financing for its framework programmes and a strengthened budget for the structural funds in order to establish a regional research infrastructure and also strengthened programmes for the European financial institutions to stimulate the development of regional risk capital funds. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Commission communication on the guidelines for the Seventh Framework Programme and in its proposals for the Financial Perspectives, reference is made, in general terms, to doubling the funds.
Mr&#160;Potočnik, you are already aware of the outcome of the vote of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy on the guidelines for the Seventh Framework Programme.
The Seventh Framework Programme must not merely be a new framework programme, but it must mark a turning-point, in line with the Union’s new powers, if we really want to create a new European Research Area. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am very pleased that the basic, underlying idea concerning how we are to achieve better development in Europe is now the knowledge-based economy.
The second matter of concern to me is, of course, industry’s share of the total resources allocated to research.
I should therefore also like to see an initial fundamental framework programme for innovation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am of course in favour of doubling the EU budgetary resources allocated to research.
It is even more important that questions of research in Europe should no longer be decided by the Commission alone, but by elected representatives of the scientific community.
As you know better than we do, Commissioner, the research programmes will have an even greater effect if you use them to build a bridge between, on the one hand, the research and development programmes under the Cohesion Policy, and, on the other, the Seventh Framework Programme.
Commissioner, the universities of Eindhoven, Louvain, and Aachen, as well as those of Hasselt and Maastricht, now cooperate closely in research, training and development, as well as in the field of cohesion projects.
At the moment there exists what is termed a ‘window of opportunity’, with many members of government at every level – regional, national and, of course, European too – being convinced that we must drastically upgrade our investments in innovation.
If we simply allow this to ebb away, then I think we will have to look among ourselves to find the reason why. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I too should like to thank the Commissioner for emphasising that, in line with the Lisbon objectives, Europe should be competing on the basis of knowledge and not on the basis of poor wages or environmental destruction.
Separating scientific and sociological research when drafting the Seventh Framework Programme has, however, in actual fact put sociological research into budgetary competition with technological research in relation to the IST programme.
Socioeconomic research in the information society is a precondition for our achieving this objective. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, with the justified momentum which has developed today in favour of research, I personally feel that the doubling of funding is one of the , as our ancestors would have said.
I listened very attentively to Mr&#160;Ransdorf’s comments; he mentioned that we need, among other things, a better depreciation policy and more flexible legislation.
These are useful considerations, but I would be interested to hear the Commissioner's proposals in this regard as well. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, research and innovation are the basic tools for implementing the Lisbon strategy.
The Seventh Framework Programme has presented us with a unique opportunity to move towards this goal by improving the way we exploit the intellectual potential of the European Union’s 450&#160;million citizens, including its almost 80&#160;million new citizens in the new Member States.
The Seventh Framework Programme should accelerate European integration, and it should provide not only for a much-needed and significant rise in funding, but also for measures under which this funding will be put to effective use.
Students from Central and Eastern Europe do not wish to be treated as an afterthought, or sometimes merely as the odd ones out, in ‘Centres of Excellence’ programmes, as is the case under the current Sixth Framework Programme.
The first is whether the concept of ‘excellence’ is not being misused here as a strange kind of curse, which can later be invoked to justify an unequal distribution of funds.
The second question that arises concerns the kind of objective criteria for the distribution of funds provided for in the Seventh Framework Programme.
The calculation behind doubling is made in real terms on a yearly basis and with the same assumptions in mind as with the other aspects of the debate on the new financial perspective.
Our proposal was based on that thinking and I believe that this proposal is ambitious enough to achieve our goals.
I am more afraid of going backwards than of asking whether it goes far enough, although even that question is credible, too, and could be approached in an official way.
However, as some of you stressed, it is even more crucial to create conditions under which companies will stay and invest in Europe.
The latest figures are not promising: in 2002, investment by the 500 biggest companies in the European Union decreased by 2%; investment by the 500 biggest non-EU companies increased by 3.9%.
If we want to achieve our goal, we need to create an environment in which companies will work, compete and carry out their research and development activities in Europe.
That is why technology platforms should play an important role in deciding where money will go and how decisions are taken.
That will be more transparent.
The major problem there is that they have been under-financed.
Here, we would like to address the question of new Member States, but not in a way that would undermine the excellence of the programme.
Our programme seeks to achieve excellence and competitiveness in the EU, which is crucial.
Framework programmes, research and development structures, cohesion programmes, and competitiveness and innovation programmes are crucial.
For them, costs are proportionally much higher and burdens are greater than they are for the bigger users.
I believe these two things will be crucial.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his outstanding answers, and to apologise for the fact that a fellow Member asked extremely aggressive questions, while not thinking it worth his while to wait for your answers to them.
Concerning the subject, I wish to thank Members of Parliament for accepting the urgency procedure, and the members of the Committee on Fisheries for their support and their efficiency in handling that matter.
The tsunami disaster devastated the coastal areas of numerous Asian countries and, besides tourism, the fisheries and aquaculture sector of these countries was the most affected.
Parliament and the Council have already welcomed and encouraged the initiatives taken by the Commission, in particular the measures aimed at rebuilding the sector in the areas concerned.
This proposal is only a specific part of a whole package of rehabilitation and restructuring measures.
This is on the agenda for the next FAO meeting of fisheries ministers in Rome on 12 March.
Two main guiding principles have determined our approach in this proposal.
Firstly, a strong commitment to ensure consistency with the general objectives of the common fisheries policy and promote sustainability of the fishing activities in the long term.
In addition, we have also emphasised that the transfers must be in accordance with the third country’s requests and that they respect the local fishing traditions.
The present proposal respects these constraints.
I would underline the political importance of this proposal.
The expected availability of suitable vessels, taking into account the principles of adaptability and sustainability, will allow us to meet only a fraction of the needs with this short-term measure.
Doubtless, this specific and focussed action will be followed by other actions in the humanitarian field to address the immense needs also of the fishing sector in the affected countries.
I can tell you that the Council has already discussed this proposal at a technical level and Member States' reactions are overall very encouraging.
I hope that the European Parliament will give a positive opinion on this proposal to enable me to move this regulation forward in the Council next Monday, on 28&#160;February.
The Commission can accept Amendment No 1.
On Amendment No 2: the Commission is in agreement with the spirit of this amendment, but it is somewhat misplaced and inappropriate to have such a reference to education and training since this aspect is not within the scope with respect to third countries.
On Amendments Nos 3, 18 and 19: again we agree with the spirit of these proposals, but the actions being proposed are provided for by the monitoring mechanism contemplated by the regulation.
On Amendment No 7: there again we agree with the spirit, but we have difficulty in accepting the amendment because it goes beyond the scope of this regulation.
On Amendments Nos 8, 9, 11 and 21: again, we agree with the spirit, but we feel that this is not the place to address such wider issues relating to the humanitarian assistance programmes.
On Amendments Nos 10 and 12: the coming into force of these amendments to Regulation 2792/99 cannot be made dependent to specific requests being made by affected countries.
I wish to point out that this regulation guarantees the participation of the third countries and I refer honourable Members to Article 1 of the current regulation, which amends Article 7 of the basic regulation, and which states that our actions are to be in accordance with the third countries' request.
On Amendments Nos 13, 14 and 15: we agree with the spirit of these amendments and we will take them up with the Presidency and the Council to see how best they can be reflected in the regulation.
On Amendment No 16: the regulation already provides in a number of instances for the assurance that fishing activity will be carried out in a sustainable manner.
We can accept Amendment No 17, but we would like to limit the scope of the action to small-scale fishing vessels, as defined in Article 3 of Council Regulation 2371/2002 (the CFP reform regulation).
The Commission's response to the amendments tabled by the various groups this morning would nevertheless suggest that the entire focus remains on this regulation to transfer vessels.
I would suggest that the Commission refocuses and looks more closely at sending the things we can provide quickly, such as skilled experts, fishermen, carpenters, engineers, blacksmiths, boat builders, and the money to get people over there, as quickly as possible, to start rebuilding the kind of vessels they need to help replace the ones destroyed, instead of this nonsense of sending redundant, old, decrepit boats from the Mediterranean as a symbolic gesture. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, the destruction of a huge number of boats has meant that an entire sector of the economy has been damaged.
In order to provide emergency aid in this way, however, amendments must be made to the legal framework currently in force.
Obviously, that is not what the Commission intends, since it has sent the necessary experts to look at how to reconstruct the devastated countries in the medium and long term.
Authorising the transfer of a few dozen vessels suitable for the needs of the local populations and therefore requested by their authorities is therefore a short-term measure, one for the next few months.
The FAO has not received any request for boats.
On the contrary, both Indonesia and Sri&#160;Lanka have declined such offers.
Forget about prestige, and see things not from a European perspective but from the point of view of those affected. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, at first glance, this proposal to send surplus EU boats to the disaster-hit areas, where so many vessels have been destroyed, seems an extremely good idea.
No request for these boats has been received; instead, the countries concerned want to be able to build their own boats, using their local traditions and their local techniques.
That would bring greater benefit to those we all wish to help, that is to say the victims of the terrible tsunami disaster. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, Boxing Day saw one of the worst natural disasters of modern times.
The fishing industry was hit particularly hard by the tsunami.
Often, the truth is, however, that, in such situations, the EU Member States should coordinate financial and material resources through other international bodies, principally within the framework of cooperation with the UN.
The European peoples’ support for global solidarity should not be abused with a view to undermining the principle of subsidiarity. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the great options for European aid for the countries affected must be mobilised as soon as possible and, as you have acknowledged, this Parliament has done its duty by approving the urgent procedure.
For all these reasons, we would ask that the amendments which have been presented by the majority of these groups, which we have all signed and which we are going to support, and which propose other alternatives and furthermore propose accepting the European Commission’s proposal, be seen as a political message from this Parliament to the European Commission and the Council, and I hope it will become effective over the coming weeks. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, two months have passed since the tsunami tragedy.
These two months must have been the most terrible eternity for the many thousands of human beings who have lost not only their families, their homes and their communities, but have also been deprived – and unfortunately remain deprived – of their only means of subsistence, especially those whose livelihood was fishing.
The proposal tabled by the Commission is therefore a welcome one and should be adopted by Parliament once the proposals for improvement, tabled by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and other parliamentary groups, have been incorporated.
Yet solidarity will only be effective if we go further, that is, if adequate funding is granted for building and rebuilding vessels , especially small boats and traditional tools that are appropriate for local fishing methods.
Our primary objective is to do everything we can to bring it up to speed. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, this is a very difficult one to call.
If decommissioned vessels are to be exported, this must be under stringent conditions as to suitability, processed in accordance with the full assessment of needs, only upon request by the country concerned and accompanied by appropriate assistance.
Given such reassurance, and on the understanding that both the Commission and the Council will take our reservations seriously, it is possible to support the proposal.
The swift commitment of support to projects like that offered by the Maritime Rescue Institute in Stonehaven, Scotland, is just one example, and it is much more directly in tune with Parliament's earlier call. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it can sometimes be difficult to explain to European tax payers, our constituents, why it makes sense to use their money in order to destroy vessels that may well be seaworthy and which could be used in some way, even for non-fishing purposes.
However, that does not mean that these vessels are suitable for use in any area.
A measure such as this should be looked at as an enabling measure; not to enable Member States to actively offload unsuitable vessels to the these countries, but to enable those countries that have been affected to request certain vessels to be transferred to their areas if they are suitable for use or conversion. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, every once in a while the world is hit by a major natural disaster.
There is a force more powerful than we are, and from time to time it humbles us and reminds us of our insignificance.
The provision of long-term aid is a different story, though, and another opportunity for us to be reminded of our own small-mindedness.
The tsunami destroyed the coastal and seaside economy.
The tourist industry was hit hardest, including the sex tourism industry, for which many of the regions devastated were renowned, but the fishing industry was also hit.
Surely, if the boats are still seaworthy we should instead give them to fishermen in the areas hit by the tsunami disaster who have lost their own boats?
The countries hit by the tsunami should be the ones to benefit wherever possible, with donor countries taking second place.
I thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission’s laudable desire to transfer Community vessels, which would otherwise be scrapped, to the Asian countries affected by the tsunami disaster is all to its credit.
There is a real risk that the vessels sent to the Asian countries will be suited neither to those countries’ fishing habits nor to their environment.
My other concern is about the cost of transport.
The European Commission estimates that transferring fishing vessels from the European Union to the countries affected by the tsunami will cost around EUR 50&#160;000 per vessel.
In that case, would it not be better to give that money directly to the countries concerned, which could then build far more boats that are in keeping with their traditions, especially since the NGOs that are in contact with the fishermen have told us they can build a vessel for around EUR 1&#160;200?
That is why I believe that two essential conditions must be satisfied for Europe’s action.
The request for the transfer of shipping vessels must come from the Asian countries themselves; it would in fact already appear that neither Indonesia nor Sri Lanka wish to receive any.
Moreover, the FAO has not received any requests for this kind of transfer.
I am also convinced that the transfer of the vessels must only be one part of our efforts.
Aid could for example take the form of sending experts and fishermen to help with the rebuilding of the local fishing infrastructures.
But severe losses and/or damage to fishing vessels of all types have been reported from countries affected by the tsunami disaster, in particular Sri Lanka, Thailand, Indonesia and India.
Understandably, we want to help.
The urgency before us today relates to transferring vessels from EU Member States to countries hit by the tsunami.
On that basis, I am happy to support the urgency and I call on colleagues to do likewise. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, well-intentioned initiatives can sometimes have the wrong consequences.
This week, the FAO has written to this House to say that, firstly, we were mentioned seven times in the Commission’s proposal, about which it itself was not consulted even once.
This proposal is well-intentioned.
I appreciate we all want to do all we can to help the hundreds and thousands of people who have lost their homes and their livelihoods because of the tsunami but it is important that this is additional help and not replacement help or help in kind and that this does not count towards the EUR&#160;350&#160;million that the EU has already committed to this.
Secondly, I would like to ask the Commission to look at the best use for the larger decommissioned boats.
The fishing communities in India and Thailand were equally devastated and I believe that the more developed fishing industry in these countries may be better placed and better equipped, to use the larger vessels, so this idea should be explored.
It is important that all the countries are treated equally and that we explore the right avenue for them. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, in January 2005 the European Commission and the European Parliament joined the international show of solidarity by taking an instant decision to grant enormous amounts of financial and other assistance to the victims of the tsunami.
I shall attempt to address all the questions that have been asked, but I should like to start my answer with a phrase that Mr&#160;Kindermann used; ‘a political sign of solidarity’.
Our aim is to send out precisely such a sign by means of this project, which is merely a small part of a much larger aid measure, and one way in which we can provide aid rapidly and to those who need it.
What we are talking about here, however, are medium-sized vessels of not more than 12 metres, and the necessary capacity for building such vessels does not exist on the spot.
The average age of European vessels in service is 25 years; that of the vessels that will be exported to the countries affected by the tsunami will be between 5 and 20 years.
We are not therefore talking about very old boats.
Moreover, it is at our request that the FAO is making an assessment of needs and this point will be on the agenda for the 12 March ministerial meeting, at which Mr Borg will represent the Commission.
Mr President, I would like to say very clearly that the condition of the vessels and their suitability for the needs will be examined by experts.
The delegation attended the 5th meeting of the EU-Turkey Joint Parliamentary Committee yesterday and today. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, on a point of order.
At the beginning of this debate, the Commission informed us that it would not accept most of the amendments that have been agreed between the political parties in this House.
The FAO has written to the chairman of the Committee on Fisheries to explain that Sri Lanka and Indonesia reject this help.
Since this amendment is presented by the Socialist Group, I have spoken, rather than to the author — who is not in the chamber at the moment — to Mr Howitt, and I have proposed to him that, in order that our group may take a favourable position, we focus on the second part of this amendment and remove the first part.
The political groups clearly have the right to oppose, but we also have the right to vote against the report.
I believe that the essential content of the amendments is preserved, although our group is against it, and that this may be a reasonable solution that would allow our group to vote in favour of the resolution in the end. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group, as I understand it, Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra proposes removing the word 'deplore' as part of a deal that maintains the support for the Brazilian initiative in this paragraph.
The Socialist Group accepts that proposal.
Also involved are the identical Amendments 4, 19 and 23, tabled by the Socialist and ALDE Groups.
The services have advised me that this problem can be resolved by voting on the PSE and ALDE amendments as recital Ia (new), rather than as amendments to recital I.
It is actually funded by the European Union.
I hope the entire House will reaffirm its support for the work of the Office by supporting the PPE-DE amendments and the PSE/ALDE amendments.
I regret that, but I am grateful for his support in the technical matters concerning these amendments. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Thank you, Mr&#160;President.
In that case, we could vote in favour, if not we will vote against. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, could I ask the Verts/ALE Group to accept this amendment as a supplement to the paragraph and not as a substitute for it? &#160;&#160; – Yes, Mr President, for Amendment No 21 we would like it to be a supplement.
In that case, we could vote for it, if not we will vote against. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I merely wished to extend my sincere thanks to all Members, especially those on the Right, who voted in favour of our amendments.
Unfortunately those Members were too few in number, and not enough consideration has been given to the social concerns that are of such crucial importance to us and to the public.
This means that we cannot vote in favour of this resolution, and we will continue to fight for the public’s social rights. &#160;&#160; . – The conflicts and general developments in Côte d’Ivoire constitute a significant political issue.
The UN has a commitment with regard to this conflict and, by means of Resolution 1572 (2004), has decided to introduce restrictive measures against Côte d’Ivoire.
The June List does not believe that the EU Member States should coordinate their respective commitments as members of the UN within the framework of EU cooperation.
In this context, and bearing in mind the Union’s legal structure, this proposal for a Council regulation makes perfect sense.
For these reasons, I voted for the report. &#160;&#160; . – The aim of the proposal for a directive on unfair commercial practices is to increase harmonisation of rules on unfair commercial practices that harm consumers’ financial interests.
The directive is to help improve the functioning of the internal market and strengthen consumer protection.
The proposal bans unfair commercial practices.
When the issues are viewed from this perspective, the directive of the European Parliament and the Council concerning unfair business to consumer practices in the internal market clearly manages to achieve, as stated in the report, ‘sufficient harmonisation of mutual recognition of national legislation’, resulting in a proposal for a directive that the report rightly deems ‘properly balanced’.
Let me add to that the fact that the FAO confirmed to me that most of the fishing grounds in that area have been over-fished and that we have to take into account the limited biological capacities that exist there.
The authorities and the fishing community would far rather receive support in building boats for themselves, adapted to local traditions and methods of fishing.
The FAO has confirmed that there is ample technical capacity in the area to build these vessels there.
I insist that the Commission take the FAO advice before taking any action; that they only respond to requests from tsunami countries and do not impose the transfer of vessels on any particular country; and that they carry out a full cost/benefit analysis of shipping boats to the tsunami region, as opposed to building boats in that region.
That decision should be based on other considerations. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, like my colleague, Mr David Martin, I found this to be a difficult vote.
I voted against this resolution with a heavy heart but I did so for practical and sensible reasons.
I was in the north and east of Sri Lanka recently.
The people of Sri Lanka and elsewhere in South Asia need real help.
Eight-and-a-half weeks on from 26 December, here we are offering a few clapped-out boats.
Give them the tools to build their own boats, suitable vessels.
We should not be in the business of just making gestures, however well-meaning they are. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, thank you for this opportunity to give a very brief statement about my vote on the transfer of vessels to countries hit by the tsunami.
This statement explains my decision. &#160;&#160; . – The tsunami disaster is a major international tragedy requiring global solidarity and generosity.
We disapprove of the EU taking every opportunity to promote and strengthen its own position and influence.
According to the figures, with the money spent on sending out these vessels, 9&#160;600 new ones suited to the fishing methods used in those countries could be built.
We therefore support the amendments aimed at turning this Commission proposal into humanitarian aid and financial and technical aid to develop the fisheries sector in the countries affected.
The challenge laid down by the European Parliament is to the European Commission to change its mind and accept our amended proposal, and to the Council of Ministers to follow the strong lead which we have given in this matter. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;Despite my heartfelt sympathy for the victims of this unimaginable tragedy, I voted against the Council regulation, for the reasons I shall now explain.
The European fishing boats in question were built to operate in conditions that are entirely different from those prevailing in the countries affected by the tsunami.
For these and other reasons, I am inclined to believe that the sending of around 150&#160;fishing boats is intended to appease European consciences and to be a symbolic gesture.
Seen in this light, it must unfortunately be concluded that the Council regulation does not make sense. &#160;&#160; . – The European Parliament voted today on a proposal whereby small fishing vessels no longer used in the EU would be transferred to fishing communities hit by the tsunami.
In addition, support for the fishing industries of the countries hit should be adapted to local needs and local demand. &#160;&#160; . – I am voting against this resolution, as I consider it to be contrary to the principles of the market economy.
Experience in Sweden shows that the solutions proposed in the resolution will make no impact on the problems there is a desire to solve. &#160;&#160; . – The June List does not believe that the European Parliament should become involved in deciding where enterprises should locate their production.
Each Member State should be free to conduct its own industrial policy within the framework of competition law.
These industrial activities account for a large proportion of the population of the enlarged Europe and, in recent years, there has been substantial public investment in innovation and development in European industrial interests.
The situation is all the more serious when, as mentioned in the resolution, the business concerned registers positive net results and economic growth, and yet takes the inexplicable decision to relocate or to close the plant in question. &#160;&#160; .– We express our undivided solidarity and support for the workers at the Thyssen Krupp steelworks in Terni in Italy, who are fighting for the right to work and for industrial steel production to be protected and against the anti-labour policy of the EU and of the company, which is expressed in terms of coercion and threats of further redundancies.
The right to work and satisfaction of contemporary grass-roots needs will be achieved through the working-class and grass-roots fight against the ΕU and its anti-labour policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I should like to give the following explanation of vote with regard to the vote on the human rights report.
We have voted in favour of the report as a whole, although there are a number of key paragraphs in it that we have been unable to endorse, above all the one relating to reproductive health and the Brazilian initiative.
This disturbing list of countries does not include any Member States of the European Union.
It is an absolute scandal, but it has never been mentioned in this House other than by members of the political grouping in question.
Finally, what should we say about the situation in many European countries, including France?
The European Union had a human rights dialogue with North Korea modelled on our human rights dialogue with China.
This was suspended in 2003 when the EU sponsored in Geneva a highly critical human rights resolution on North Korea without even informing our interlocutors in advance.
Today we voted against EPP amendment 12 for the technical reason that it simply duplicates these political positions, which were already contained in Parliament's text. &#160;&#160; . – The resolution by the Committee on Foreign Affairs expresses in its entirety the reactionary, aggressive and anti-grass roots foreign policy of the ΕU and its imperialist character.
The EU has undoubtedly been a factor in the expansion of the defence of human rights, both in its relations with third countries – although some serious anomalies continue to exist – and, particularly, throughout its enlargement process, whereby the expectation of accession or some kind of privileged partnership with the Union has led to some welcome reforms in various countries.
This is the idea that must be uppermost in the minds of those participating in the 61st session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights when it gets underway.
The world will only be a better place if someone shows the way forward, and we should be that someone.
The Member States and the Commission must continue the work done in this area on a continuous basis and must be alive to any potential new initiatives, be they private or public, that may contribute towards raising the level and effectiveness of aid, towards debt relief for the poorest countries in the world and towards international trade, which plays a crucial role in eradicating the root causes of poverty and hunger. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I want to give an explanation of vote on the Commission's legislative work programme.
I am also concerned that we do not see serious enough measures put in place in this work programme to try and get serious financial control over the EU budget.
When it is disclosed that the operating profits of the large companies in the EU rose by almost 80% in 2004, and that the percentage of profits as a proportion of GDP in the euro zone is currently approaching its highest level in the past 25 years; while salary levels continue to fall, yet both the trade balance and the balance of payments on current accounts in the euro zone have registered positive results in the past 12 months, we cannot accept the prevailing strategic importance that the Commission attaches to competitiveness and on the structural economic reforms.
We believe that the Commission Work Programme takes forward the Lisbon Agenda and details some necessary environmental action. &#160;&#160; . – I shall be voting against the Commission’s legislative work programme, presented by Mr&#160;Barroso, for the following reasons.
It is clear that this programme does not make for the creation of a genuinely social Europe, but will instead pose a threat to the present European social model.
Both resolutions cultivate the theory of social assent and social partnership in a bid to bring the workers and other movements to subordination and subjugation to capitalist barbarity.
I should like to highlight the work of these two fora each with its own perspective, in addressing global issues such as the fight against poverty, health, education, trade, agriculture and human rights.
I wish to restate my belief that globalisation is a key element in promoting competitiveness and growth in the EU and in developing countries.
Within the scope of the European Neighbourhood Policy, Moldova continues to pursue the reforms in the Action Plan, which was drawn up to promote and consolidate democracy, respect for the values of the rule of law and respect for human and civil rights.
Parliament therefore expects from the elections a clear sign that the Moldovan Government will ensure that the parliamentary elections will be free and fair, both on election day itself and throughout the election campaign.
The framework directive could go further and could be more practical...
The proposals tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are unacceptable. &#160;&#160; . – The June List has chosen to vote against the own-initiative report on health and safety at the workplace.
A good working environment is important for all employees.
As far as Sweden is concerned, for example, it is a matter for negotiation between the social partners, and not a matter for regulation by EU legislation. &#160;&#160; .
I congratulate Mr Maštálka on his important report on promoting health and safety at the workplace, to which I offer my support, particularly as regards the need to strengthen the system of prevention as a key means of increasing safety at work and of reducing the number of work-related accidents.
It is now fundamental for the Commission to examine the state of Member States’ preventive systems in greater detail and to come forward with proposals, in cooperation with the competent national authorities, for framing coherent national prevention policies based on an overall EU strategy.
In other words, we are increasingly demanding and, with regard to this issue, that is a sign of significant progress.
Although I do not agree entirely with some of the points made in the report, and whilst I would change the order of priorities in some cases, I welcome the thrust of its content, because its guiding principles are close to mine on this issue.
I approached them yesterday in relation to a ruling on paragraph 89 of the Commission's legislative proposals.
Mr President, are you telling me that the ruling was that paragraph 89, as written, was in any event admissible? &#160;&#160; Indeed, the paragraph, as written, was admissible.
We just had the ruling before the voting. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is resumed. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning Pope&#160;John&#160;Paul&#160;II was admitted to hospital in Rome.
Before we begin the debate on the defence of human rights, I think it is appropriate, if you agree, to send a message of support and solidarity from Parliament to a great defender of human rights, a man of peace and a great European, loved by all European citizens, believers and non-believers alike.
I think that this could be an important signal from the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Yes, certainly, Mr Tajani, we shall immediately communicate your suggestion to the President's office, since I believe it is very appropriate and we will tell the President that the House wishes to send a message of support and solidarity to the Holy Father at this time. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Togo(1). &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is not only in monarchies that the Head of State’s children succeed to power; it is also, alas, not unknown in republics.
Continuing this state of affairs has robbed Togo of the hope that it, having been a German and then a French colonial possession, and then for a long time a home-grown dictatorship, might develop into a democracy.
The unfortunate fact that it is the rule rather than an exception means that we have to ensure that these events do not repeat themselves and that it would be a good thing if free elections could be held in Togo within a short period of time. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I believe that the reaching of a clear conclusion about the events in Togo demands that a differentiated approach be adopted towards them.
Our demands are therefore quite clear; resignation by the President, who came to power illegally, a reinstatement of the parliament’s legitimate President, free elections to be held without delay, and widespread respect for the rule of law and human rights.
The Togolese people and Togo nationals living in our European countries are looking to the European Parliament and the European Union to take a firm and resolute stance.
Our resolution responds to that expectation by referring to sanctions, some of which have already been imposed by the Economic Community of West African States, while others are planned by other international bodies.
For my part, I want to stress the need for targeted measures to be taken quickly concerning the supply of arms and transfers of money outside Togo.
The European Union has responded firmly by condemning what must be considered a and by calling for a return to the constitutional order and respect for the principles of the rule of law.
The actions of the international community have already begun to have an effect, since on 18 February Mr&#160;Gnassingbé agreed to hold presidential elections within the time laid down by the constitution.
The right to demonstrate was restored on 18 February and some radio stations were able to resume broadcasting from 21&#160;February.
So far as cooperation is concerned, Mr President, and in particular the ninth EDF, the Commission is therefore sticking to the conclusions of the consultations contained in the Council decision of 15 November 2004.
Regarding the proposal for targeted sanctions, in its statement of 20 February the European Union indicated that it reserves the right to take measures to support the action taken by the Economic Community of West African States.
In general, the Commission supports Parliament’s draft resolution, which is in line with the proposal and position adopted by the European Union and backed by the Commission. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place following the debates. &#160;&#160; – The situation we are seeing in Togo today calls for the strongest condemnation from our Parliament of the that brought Fauré Gnassingbé to power in that country.
That is the only way to guarantee the holding of free and transparent elections, to ensure the return to democracy of a country that has been bled dry and reduced to poverty by General Eyadéma’s dictatorship and to enable the European Union to resume its cooperation with Togo, which has been suspended since 1993 and which the Togolese people greatly need. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Nepal(1). &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in January 1990 Nepal celebrated the Year of Tourism.
The main reason, however, is the lack of security in the country.
The civil war has claimed 10&#160;000 lives so far and shows no sign of coming to an end, with tourism, the country's main source of income, having been brought almost to a standstill.
The situation is becoming increasingly desperate.
Commissioner, I welcome the initiatives taken by the European Union, as well as those taken by India and the USA, one example of these being that the King has been called upon to end the state of emergency within 100&#160;days.
A representative of the European Commission who was present at the meeting of our SAARC Delegation this morning said that a number of funding programmes would be suspended, in order to strengthen democracy by means of economic pressure.
Fortunately, however, development aid will continue to be granted, and targeted at the poorer sections of the population and local human rights organisations and NGOs.
Nepalese democracy is only 15 years old; it is still fragile, and must be protected rather than destroyed. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Many thanks, Mr&#160;President.
On the one hand we cannot afford to waste any time in taking a stance on this issue.
The King has announced that he wishes to mount a more effective fight against the Maoist guerrilla movement, but at the same time he has closed the Tibetan Refugee Welfare Office, as Mr&#160;Mann mentioned a short time ago.
I believe we should be reassured that the more active diplomatic measures taken by other countries, such as the United States and India, are appropriate.
As I said earlier, the reasons behind these events are unclear, but they are a source of some concern.
Let us hope that a rapid reaction by this House, along with the measures taken by other countries, will go some way towards normalising the situation in Tibet.
Both these destinations for alternative holidays have since become places of horror to which nobody goes any more as a tourist or as somebody in search of a better world.
The outside world, too, has an interest in putting governments in the saddle or imposing one new regime or another.
Let us not impose limits on the people of Nepal’s ability to choose for themselves. &#160;&#160; – The state of emergency declared by King Gyanendra on 1 February represents a clear threat to human rights in Nepal, since it has increased the power of the security forces and reduced the prospects for a political peace process.
Furthermore, the European Union must strongly insist that King Gyanendra immediately suspend the state of emergency and engage in a political process aimed at resolving the conflict, based on justice and respect for human rights.
In addition, the European Union must urge the Maoist guerrillas to commit themselves to respecting international humanitarian law and to signing a humanitarian and human rights agreement with the governmental security forces.
Fourthly, in accordance with the resolution we adopted this morning on the next session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, we must also urge that Commission to adopt a specific resolution on Nepal and to appoint a Special Rapporteur to monitor the human rights situation in that country.
The Nepalese people have suffered a legacy of human rights abuses, both from the security forces and from the Maoist rebels.
The EU and the Member States provide more than EUR&#160;100&#160;million in aid per year.
A military solution is not the answer. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to welcome to the Chamber Mr Desmond de Silva QC, who is assistant Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Deputy Special Prosecutor for the Special Court in Sierra Leone for war crimes.
He is here to listen to our debate on Sierra Leone. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is with deep regret that we witnessed the recent events in Nepal.
It cannot be overlooked that King Gyanendra's actions on 1 February were a sad day for democracy in Nepal.
The European Parliament cannot just stand by.
So, this small country is very significant for regional security. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, I wish to congratulate Mrs Gill on her excellent speech.
Nepal is relatively new to the concept of multiparty democracy, which it established only in 1990 with the framework of a constitutional monarchy.
Over the last 15 years, the credibility of the Nepalese politicians has been repeatedly undermined with allegations of corruption and self-interest.
Politicians have proved incapable of ridding Nepal of a group of so-called 'Maoist insurgents' that was launched in 1996 to bring down the monarchy and the regime.
The recent chain of events is extremely worrying and reminiscent of the Nepal of the Rana oligarchs, a Nepal whose human rights record the world had hoped was finally going to be laid to rest.
It also calls on the Council and the Commission to take practical measures such as imposing an embargo on military assistance to force the King to give up his dictatorship. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Many thanks.
The events of recent weeks have left the European Parliament with no choice but to hold a debate on human rights violations in Nepal, a problem that has been escalating for many years.
The civil war in Nepal has already claimed over 12&#160;000&#160;victims, and the political situation is Byzantine in its complexity, although the information blackout means that we are not familiar with all the details.
The Nepalese Government, however, acts in violation of national and international law by handing Tibetans over to China.
Ladies and gentlemen, the previous speakers have spoken very knowledgably on the internal situation in Nepal, the lack of democracy in the country and its history.
As many Nepalese citizens cannot read, the closure of these radio stations means that they no longer have any access to news or to any radio stations other than the BBC.
We must draw on principles such as non-violence, democracy, tolerance, solidarity, dialogue, respect and justice as a whole, without choosing, as often happens, however, easier or more convenient struggles with regard to upholding peoples’ right to self-determination.
I do not have to tell Members of this Parliament how important the respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law are in our relations with third countries.
The Presidency’s declaration of 2 February is very clear: the European Union views the King's move as a serious setback for the prospect of a negotiated and democratically-based solution to the current conflict.
The United Nations has recorded more than 340 detentions of political leaders, journalists, human rights defenders and civil society activists.
We, the European Union, will continue to press for the release of all those who remain arbitrarily detained, and we will use the opportunity of the forthcoming session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in Geneva to remind both sides to the conflict of their obligations under international law.
The Commission's global approach to conflict prevention calls for us to ensure that Community instruments and programmes are directed towards achieving political and social stability and democracy.
Indeed, the priorities of support to poverty reduction, human rights and conflict mitigation are more urgent in the new environment.
The Commission maintains extensive contacts on this issue with Member States and with other donors on the ground, and will participate in a meeting of like-minded donors during the week of 7 March in Europe to continue to seek a coordinated line.
The vote will take place following the debates. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on The Special Court for Sierra Leone: the Charles Taylor case(1) &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Liberia and Sierra Leone have moved on from being countries whose social elites were very much in thrall to American and European traditions, to being countries that have brought into the present day the most primitive aspects of African history.
The problems of Liberia and Sierra Leone will not be resolved in the long term without all the groups of their inhabitants being involved on an equal basis. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Sierra Leone, Nigeria and Liberia are all members of the ACP and signatories to the Cotonou Agreement.
However, Sierra Leone is ranked as the least-developed country in the world.
In January 2002 Sierra Leone saw the end of a decade-long, savage civil war.
The conflict in Sierra Leone cost tens of thousands of lives and the displacement of millions.
Charles Ghankay Taylor, the former President of Liberia, has recently been indicted by the Special Court for Sierra Leone with actively supporting the Revolutionary United Front which was responsible for the widespread atrocities in Sierra Leone.
The Special Court of Sierra Leone created by the international community and which the EU supported with some EUR 800 000 last year, has charged Taylor with 17 counts of war crimes, crimes against humanity and other serious violations of international humanitarian law.
If Taylor remains in Nigeria, however, it is doubtful that this man accused of heinous crimes will ever face trial.
Moreover, if he seeks sanctuary in another ACP country we should bring the full force of the Cotonou Agreement to bear on that country. &#160;&#160; – The impassioned speech by the previous speaker and the motion for a resolution before us, along with its justifications, which has been endorsed by all political groups in this House, are proof that action is urgently needed.
Those of us who live in prosperous countries have no idea of what is happening in many African states.
Immediately upon achieving so-called freedom after centuries of exploitation as colonies, many countries suffered another tyranny of the worst kind, for example in the case of Liberia under Charles Taylor.
We cannot remain indifferent to the catalogue of crimes of which a Special Court in Sierra Leone found Charles Taylor guilty in 2003, and we must do everything in our power to ensure the handover to the courts of this criminal, who, whilst in exile, is persisting in his attempts to destabilise Liberia and its neighbouring countries.
I should like to thank everyone in this House who has worked on this motion for a resolution. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Charles Taylor, as President of Liberia, was guilty of serious crimes against humanity and of acts of war.
He actively supported armed opposition groups in Sierra Leone in their committing of such atrocities as murders, mutilations, rapes and the conscription of child soldiers.
Nigeria must be induced to surrender Charles Taylor to the court in Sierra Leone, thus doing the right thing by the innumerable victims and survivors in Liberia and elsewhere, and bringing peace to West Africa.
The European Union is working for peace, security, stability, respect for human rights and democratic principles.
We cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that Charles Taylor remains at liberty in Nigeria, from where he is still in a position to manipulate the peace process in the region.
Not only is Nigeria under a moral obligation to hand Charles Taylor over to the tribunal, but it is also subject to an obligation under international law.
Nigeria will need to extradite Charles Taylor to the tribunal in Sierra Leone, in order that he may be judged by it. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Africa has for too long been torn by civil strife, hunger, economic mismanagement and blatant corruption.
It is now, at last, beginning to get its own house in order with regional blocs and continent-wide supranational institutions committed to observing international human rights law, such as Economic Community of West Africa (ECOWAS) and the African Union.
Taylor was indicted for war crimes by this court in 2003, but Nigeria is refusing to extradite him, claiming he has sovereign immunity and benefits from the asylum deal they agreed to.
President Obasanjo of Nigeria is currently Chairman of the African Union, and his country must set an example to the international community, and end impunity for bloody tyrants, by handing Taylor over. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Charles Taylor, the former warlord president of Liberia, is alleged to have been responsible for gross human rights violations, including thousands of killings, widespread torture, massive forced displacement of populations and the breakdown of social and economic structures, over the ten year period of his rule over Liberia.
In July 2003, Taylor fled the country and accepted the Nigerian Government's offer of asylum.
In March 2003, Charles Taylor was indicted by the prosecutor of the Special Court of Sierra Leone on 17 counts of crimes against humanity and war crimes, including murder, mutilation, rape, sexual slavery and the recruitment of child soldiers.
Perhaps the strongest contributing factor to the likelihood of current and future human rights abuses and war crimes is the fact that, in the past, persons of power have been allowed to act with impunity, with no fear of prosecution or trial under international law.
This resolution emphasizes a high-profile case in the necessary fight by the international community to bring an end to the scourge of people committing human rights abuses with impunity, anywhere in the world.
Charles Taylor is indicted for heinous crimes, including extermination, murder, rape, enslavement, inhuman acts, crimes against humanity.
The resolution also recognises the importance of the pacification process in the region, a process led and implemented by African countries and organisations.
The crimes Charles Taylor is accused of are terrible and have led Interpol to add his name to the list of the most wanted criminals in the world.
Taylor's alleged interference in Liberia's economic and political life, and his openly expressed desire to return to the country, represent a threat to the continuation of peace-building in Liberia and to this year's electoral process.
The Special Court of Sierra Leone, unlike the international courts for Yugoslavia and Rwanda, was not granted a mandate under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter requiring all UN member states to comply with the court orders.
The latest UN initiative was during the high-level troika meeting with Nigeria in December.
It is also vital that effective initiatives are taken in Nigeria and elsewhere to stop Taylor from continuing to interfere in Liberian affairs and destabilise other countries in the region. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place next. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I just wanted to make it absolutely clear how the Special Court was established.
Therefore, I propose that we amend the first citation of the joint resolution to read: 'having regard to the Special Court for Sierra Leone, established through an agreement between the United Nations and the Government of Sierra Leone pursuant to UN Security Council Resolution 1315 of 14 August 2000, with the aim of putting on trial those accused of war crimes, crimes against humanity and violations of international law committed in Sierra Leone,'.
Furthermore, because of the importance of this issue to the international community, the Commission and the Member States, I should like to request a roll-call on the final vote. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I support my colleague’s call for a roll call vote. &#160;&#160; We shall therefore treat this request as if it were presented by a political group and we shall vote on this joint motion for a resolution by roll call, with the oral amendment by Mr Deva incorporated. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I obviously have no objections to this decision.
We would further ask that Commission President Barroso, Commissioner Reding and Commissioner Potočnik be present on this occasion to outline the Seventh Framework Programme to the House, and I would ask that the Conference of Presidents take a decision on this matter. &#160;&#160; I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
