On 1 December 2008, as you know, the Council endorsed the European Economic Recovery Plan, which was presented by the Commission on 26 November 2008.
The Council also adopted two sets of conclusions related to providing support for SMEs, in the context of overall competitiveness.
Firstly, conclusions endorsing proposals to support SMEs presented in the Commission Communication entitled, as you probably know, 'Think Small First: a Small Business Act for Europe', this so-called SBA, including an action plan outlining the priority measures requiring particular attention.
At its meeting in mid-December 2008, the European Council approved this European Economic Recovery Plan and supported the full implementation of the Action Plan for the Small Business Act.
The Council also supported a temporary exemption for two years beyond the de minimis threshold for state aid in respect of an amount of up to EUR 50 000 and the adaptation of the state aid framework as required to increase support for enterprises, especially the SMEs.
Therefore, both of the forthcoming Competitiveness Councils under the Czech Presidency - one will take place very soon in early March, as well as the informal one which will take place in Prague - will tackle the question of reducing the administrative burden, since we believe that better regulation is an important factor for improving competitiveness, in particular for SMEs, and it plays an even more important role in times of economic crisis.
The Members I have selected are Philip Bushill-Matthews and Silvia-Adriana Ţicău.
This plan is providing a sum of EUR 30 billion for small- and medium-sized enterprises.
We will have to see whether we can do more by 2012.
The Commission has announced a road map for the end of January 2009 showing how it will ensure that all the proposals needed to achieve the 25% reduction in the administrative burden at Community level are tabled before the end of 2009.
I would like to point out that on 15 November last year the members of the G20 emphasised the importance of establishing the modalities for an agreement by the end of 2008, which has already passed.
However, on 12 December 2008, the WTO Director-General, Pascal Lamy, at an informal meeting of the heads of delegation, indicated that he would not convene the ministers to finalise modalities by the end of the year, because the conditions did not yet exist for a successful ministerial meeting, despite intensive consultation.
Considering that the BRIC countries played a greater role at the Washington meeting, it is possible that the previous unwillingness of these countries to make a concession was due to their considering that they had been afforded a secondary position, whereas at the Washington meeting they were given a priority role.
So as a representative of the Council who is coming from a small- or medium-sized country which traditionally has an open economy, I would like to promote this, and would like to tell you that our primary goal is to finish the talks successfully, as soon as possible, but I am afraid we also have to be realistic, and I cannot promise you castles in the air.
The optimistic scenario is this: a clear favourable message from the G20 meeting which will take place in London early in April, and then the fulfilment and implementation of the commitment, which could be followed by a ministerial meeting in Geneva in June or July.
In November the Commission proposed a revision of the directive on the energy efficiency of buildings.
President-in-Office of the Council. - I would like to thank Mrs Ţicău for her question, which is also timely.
Housing, or the issue of increasing energy efficiency and the commitment to increase energy efficiency by 20% by 2020, has to be taken seriously.
The adoption of the Council conclusions on the Second Strategic Energy Review is envisaged for the first TTE Councils, which will be held on 19 February, and which will form the input for the March European Council meeting.
In fact, we have just been discussing this at home - now I will just step out of my Presidency role - and in Prague we consider two measures to be really important.
The Council, at its extraordinary session of 12 January 2009, which was devoted to this subject, adopted conclusions outlining a number of measures to be taken in the short, medium and long term.
I would like to ask him this: under Lisbon, we were talking about a common energy policy; maybe he could outline, in his capacity as President-in-Office, his opinions on the improved tool kit which Lisbon provides to address these challenges in the future and the advantages of adopting the whole Lisbon approach and Treaty. - (LT) Thank you for your explanation of a very important subject.
Thank you. (DE) It would interest me to find out whether there is an initiative in ECOFIN and on the part of Commissioner Kovács to initiate a progressive tax write-off across Europe for those energy projects that are currently imminent, such as the Nabucco pipeline or the building of new power stations, in order to create incentives and thus drive these strategic initiatives forward.
The other one is the need to react quickly in a time of crisis and to respond, for example, to a difficult situation which we had in Bulgaria or Slovakia during the crisis.
President-in-Office of the Council. - I see Avril Doyle and I am asking myself whether I am the other side of this question: the last time we discussed this was in the only place in this building where I as a heavy smoker can smoke.
I am a member of the 30% minority in Europe: I am a heavy smoker, and I feel terribly discriminated against in this building.
I can assure you that the ratification process of the framework convention in the Czech Republic is in progress.
It has been in progress since 2003, and the new attempt to find approval in the Czech Parliament is ongoing.
Regarding our approach as the Presidency: the next formal meeting in the framework of the FCTC will be the third meeting of the international negotiating body on a protocol on illicit trade in tobacco products.
That will take place from 28 June to 5 July in Geneva, so we will share this somehow with our friends the Swedes, because that is the time when we, the Czechs, will hand over the Presidency to our friends in Stockholm.
I am now fighting in my country for the earliest possible ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
