Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament, adjourned on Wednesday 12 September 2001.
Madam President, although I know that we have more important things to do today, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on 6 September, I raised objections to the Minutes of the previous day and also asked - with a view to having these issues in general clarified, and not just this particular instance - that the committee responsible for dealing with agenda questions be asked to look into the matter of a vote result being retrospectively altered.
Yes, Mr Swoboda, of course.
Mr Jarzembowski, we shall look into the whole matter very carefully. (The Minutes were approved) Tribute Ladies and gentlemen, Commander Massoud visited the European Parliament on 4 April 2001.
He was recently assassinated in a cowardly attack by his opponents, a few days before the terrible attacks on New York and Washington.
I would like to ask you to pay tribute to him by observing a minute' s silence. (The House rose and observed a minute' s silence) Statement by the President Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a communication that I shall now give to you on security measures at the European Parliament.
As you know, the dreadful terrorist attacks in the United States have fuelled quite legitimate feelings of concern within the European Parliament itself.
The Sunday Telegraph even reported that we were the target of very serious threats, which had been thwarted.
I would like to confirm that the European Parliament has never known of any threats.
Immediately after the events of 11 September, the Secretary-General and I were in contact, and we have introduced additional measures to further increase checks on people and luggage at the entrances of the three European Parliament buildings.
Lastly, the Bureau is meeting this evening in order to consider a series of new measures proposed by the Secretary-General which aim to extend - and I did say 'extend' - security measures.
This is why we hope to build further on the links that already exist between this organisation and the European Union.
The next item is the Council and Commission statements with a view to the informal and extraordinary meeting of the European Council on Friday 21 September, on the measures needed to tackle terrorism.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Europe, its citizens and its institutions are still deeply shocked by the terrorist attack on the United States on Tuesday 11 September 2001.
The Presidency and the Council immediately condemned, in the strongest possible terms, the perpetrators, organisers and sponsors of these barbaric acts.
At its emergency session on Wednesday 12 September, the Council of Foreign Affairs Ministers expressed its profound solidarity with the American people.
Madam President, at the instigation of the General Affairs Council, the Council of Transport Ministers held a meeting on 14 September.
The Council reviewed the urgent measures taken by each Member State in order to guarantee the safety of air travel.
A preliminary report on this subject is to be laid before the Council of Transport Ministers meeting scheduled for 15 October next.
The first proposal concerns the approximation of criminal law in the Member States with a view to developing a common definition of terrorist action and establishing a common system for punishing criminal acts.
The second proposal concerns the introduction of a European warrant of arrest.
The fight against international terrorism will be a long, drawn-out battle.
As the Heads of State and Governments have stated, the European Union will have to assume an even greater role in managing regional tension and conflicts if it is to stamp out international terrorism.
The inclusion of fragile nations and regions in a peaceful world governed by the rule of law will be a powerful weapon in the battle against the scourge of terrorism.
The tragic events of 11 September 2001 will also prompt us to develop closer ties with the United States, which will go beyond the established mechanisms for cooperation.
The transatlantic dialogue will enable us to exchange information and share our respective assessments of the threat posed by terrorism, in all its guises.
He will report back on his meeting to the extraordinary meeting of the European Council, which is scheduled for Friday 21 September.
The Council will also be an opportunity to reflect on the EU' s diplomatic role in stabilising regional conflicts.
In order to be effective, the fight against terrorism must be able to rely on the efforts of all the countries that share our values of freedom, tolerance and democracy.
The candidate countries unanimously backed the declarations of the General Affairs Council and the declarations made by the Heads of State and Government.
Third countries have also been invited, via the foreign embassies of Member States, to confirm their commitment to the unrelenting fight against terrorism.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union can thus help to build a world of peace and legality for all nations. (Applause) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is actively preparing for the European Council meeting to be held next Friday, an important part of which is tomorrow' s European Union troika meeting in the United States.
This is why my colleague Chris Patten, who hoped to give a speech on external relations with particular emphasis on the fight against terrorism, could not attend this debate.
On behalf of the Commission, I would like to stress that we support the principle that the Union must make more effort to give a consistent message where the fight against terrorism is concerned and that we need a European agenda to acknowledge the key role that must be assigned to the United Nations Organisation in the fight against global terrorism.
That is why we welcome the initiative by the Belgian Presidency to schedule an extraordinary and informal meeting of the European Council for next Friday and we are pleased to take part in today' s debate in the European Parliament.
We must show the American people and the American authorities that they have the solidarity of the whole European Union.
But in order for the Union to influence the guidelines on the fight against terrorism, we must give a consistent message.
The tragic events in the United States of America sadly demonstrate the timeliness of the two proposals that were today approved by the Commission, which are closely related and which are also in response to a request by the European Parliament that was approved at the September plenary session in Strasbourg.
The Commission has been working on these proposals for more than a year, working closely with the European Parliament, and we would like to stress that these proposals will help Europe to co-operate in a much more effective manner in the fight against terrorism, and therefore to collaborate in the fight at international level.
Terrorism constitutes one of the greatest threats to democracy, to the free exercise of human rights and free economic and social development.
In recent years, we have witnessed an increase in terrorist activities both within the European Union' s borders and worldwide.
The actual or potential effects of armed attacks are increasingly devastating and fatal.
Today more than any other time, therefore, we need measures to fight against this scourge.
The Treaty on European Union expressly lays down that the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice shall include progressively adopting measures establishing rules relating to the constituent elements of criminal acts and to penalties in the field of terrorism.
Terrorists take advantage of any differences in legal treatment in the Member States, particularly where the offence is not referred to in one of the State' s national legislation.
We must admit that the situation is very different from one Member State to another.
Most Member States have no specific regulations on terrorism and terrorist acts are punished as common offences.
It is proposed that such acts incur prison sentences ranging from a minimum of 2 years to 20 years of prison depending on the severity of the offence.
Secondly, the Commission is presenting a proposal of a horizontal nature, a fairly ambitious proposal, I must admit, which is to replace the traditional extradition procedures by a system of surrendering persons to judicial authorities on the basis of a European arrest warrant.
The underlying idea is that where the judicial authority of one Member State requests the surrender of a person, either for final sentencing or because this person is undergoing criminal proceedings, the decision must be recognised and executed throughout the European Union in order to simplify and accelerate procedures as far as possible.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, tomorrow I shall have the opportunity to present these proposals to the ministers at the extraordinary Council meeting called by the Belgian Presidency to discuss the European Union' s contribution to the fight against the threat of terrorism.
The benefit of this meeting is that it provides us with the opportunity to ask the ministers questions of principle at a political level and to try to resolve them.
This concerns our legislative proposals as well as a whole raft of measures that should be taken in order to step up our action at an operational level and to improve and make more effective our collaboration with our partners.
As you know, the Commission does not have any experience at an operational level, but it believes that the European Union should take a number of measures internally, including to ensure that Europol becomes an operational instrument in the fight against the various forms of crime, one of which is terrorism.
For this to be done, we must implement the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam on Europol, which provide for its participation in joint enquiry teams and the possibility of inviting Member States to launch investigations, which also requires a major review of the content of the Europol convention, including questions of judicial control and democratic control.
This is also necessary in order to bring about a significant improvement in the conditions in which Member States' police and intelligence services provide Europol with the information needed to carry out their work, the most important part of which, in my opinion, is the prevention of terrorist acts.
Furthermore, it is important for the Union to strengthen international cooperation and this will involve taking all the necessary measures regarding judicial assistance, extradition, police and judicial cooperation in order to improve our ability to pre-empt and fight international terrorism.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are some ideas formulated by the Commission and which were put to the European Parliament and the European Council.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats greatly welcomes the special summit of Heads of State and Government to be held on Friday at the Belgian Presidency's initiative, and you, Madam President, will of course be there too, to speak for the European Parliament.
We in the European Parliament can take real pride in passing the Watson Report in the last part-session; it points the way ahead for our common struggle against terrorism.
It should again signal to our American friends that the diabolical attacks on Washington and New York were not only an assault on the United States, but on the whole of the civilised world and on every one of us.
Our group's Bureau met this morning and decided to recommend to you, Madam President, that we should, as a European Parliament, meet as soon as possible with parliamentarians from the Arabic and Islamic world in the context of the Mediterranean Forum, that is to say, with those States with which we are linked in the Barcelona process and in the Mediterranean Dialogue.
Mr Vitorino, we thank you for presenting these proposals today.
If there is anyone who now wants to stop Europeans going from strength to strength, who does not support European cooperation in the name of Europol, then they are fundamentally denying solidarity not only to Europeans, but also to our American friends, because in combating crime we must also be united against terrorism, if we are to stand alongside our American friends and partners. (Applause) For this reason, our group has tabled an amendment to the Budget for the year 2002.
At the same time, however, we must act calmly and with deliberation, and above all we must resolve conflicts peacefully wherever we can.
A military operation is never an act of retaliation, but must always lead to greater security.
We must therefore work together: Parliament produced the Watson report, the Commission has speeded up its work and this week a Special Council has been called.
I would add another point: the ratification of the International Criminal Court must be accelerated so that we may have a global instrument of justice in this very field.
No conflict between East and West, between Islam and Christianity, between the traditional and the modern, can explain why killing innocent people can bring progress in the world.
There must also be increasing cooperation between intelligence services and a strengthening of Europol.
Confidence-building measures must not be viewed as recompense, but rather such measures must be an integral part of this process.
They show the difficulties faced by any state, especially a democracy, in defending its citizens against terrorists.
These atrocities and the subsequent search for those responsible also highlight the weaknesses of our defence of the civilian population and throw into sharp relief the painfully slow progress of EU cooperation in justice and home affairs, so boldly trumpeted in Amsterdam and in Tampere.
I welcome Commissioner Vitorino's statement.
The proposals he has put forward today take on board the key recommendations of the report we adopted on 5 September, to which Mr Poettering so kindly referred.
They deal with terrorist crimes within the Union but do nothing to improve cooperation with countries outside the EU.
If the EU is serious about combating terrorism, we must gear up the operational instruments of common action.
We must act decisively too, to combat money laundering in the conciliation currently under way and we must develop common policies for the collection and sharing of criminal intelligence, as Mrs Neyts pointed out.
But we must guard against a blurring of the second and the third pillars, which last week's Council declaration suggested, and guard too against upsetting the delicate balance between the needs of security and the civil liberties, which our citizens enjoy.
I believe that this House stands ready to play its part.
We must now call on our national leaders to show the courage and the vision which the moment demands. (Applause) Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we must put aside the understandable emotions of the last ten days and the messages of solidarity and compassion and contemplate the future calmly.
The criminal attacks carried out in the United States on 11 September, which cost thousands of lives, force us to seriously consider the course of action we need to take in order to prevent this ever happening again, to break up criminal and terrorist networks and to avoid violence spiralling out of control.
This does not mean, however, responding to the acts of barbarism, such as those perpetrated on 11 September, with military action that would cause civilian casualties and cost innocent lives.
I believe that our representatives are convinced of this, and I believe that the comments made by the chairs of the political groups and other Members were also along these lines.
The current situation certainly calls for an international and multilateral response.
First of all, we must of course take a European and Community approach, but we work at an international level, and we must therefore take appropriate action, in other words, on both levels.
I therefore believe that the European Union must demand that the perpetrators and sponsors of criminal actions such as those of 11 September are brought before the International Criminal Tribunal, which would of course be the most appropriate body to judge such acts, which are, as we have already said, crimes against humanity.
A multilateral approach is required - all the more so because there is a strong risk of seeing a coalition forming in Muslim countries against the West, at the instigation of the most fanatical regimes in power - in Afghanistan particularly - which could persuade other countries that we are hostile towards them.
Lastly, Madam President, I would like to thank Commissioner Vitorino for the Commission proposals on the fight against terrorism, but I believe that we must also deal with the root causes of the problem.
I believe that the European Union must take steps in order to eliminate these two elements and therefore destroy the root cause of this evil. (Applause) Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, my group and I believe, in the wake of the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, that the need to see the European Union display its character and show how useful it can be in world affairs has never been so great.
The coming period - perhaps the next few days - will certainly provide it with the opportunity to display its determination and ability to face three challenges, in particular, which are posed by this tragic situation.
Yesterday and this morning, Mr Solana quite rightly stressed that it is vital that our fight against terrorism is not perceived by those in the Arab and Muslim world as a war against their civilisation, or even as a crusade, to use one of the most alarming expressions of President Bush.
The second challenge that we must face is directly related to what I have just said.
And one of the practical commitments to make in line with this strategic choice is primarily to take concerted action to resolve the Middle East conflict fairly.
This is therefore the time to make every endeavour to work not against but in partnership with the United States and other actors, particularly in the region.
Citizens everywhere - in Africa, in the Mediterranean, in Latin America, in Eastern Europe, in the United States itself and often in the Member States - expect to see a revision of world governance.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I believe that we have already had the opportunity to discuss the root of the problem in the past and that we will have further opportunities to do so in the future.
In this debate, therefore, I shall not discuss the general philosophy of the course of action to take.
My second point is that we very clearly cannot contemplate taking any action worthy of that name, unless there is also sincere political cooperation between States, first and foremost between Member States of the European Union.
I therefore feel that we must have true solidarity and it must be clearly expressed.
I am fully in favour of enhancing Europol' s effectiveness, but this will not enable you to begin fighting against terrorism instantly.
We need genuine, immediate cooperation between the intelligence and security services, a sincere exchange of information and for States to be able to take the necessary measures, whatever some States might think - and, for the moment, it is the States who are responsible for security as part of their cooperation.
And if we do not realise that they may well only be the first of many, then we will pay an extremely high price for our blindness.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic events of 11 September do not only implicate the criminal organisation that carried out these dramatic attacks to express its hatred of the West, but they also reveal that there is immense frustration towards US Middle East policy, which dates back as far as 1991.
It is out of the question for France and Europe to take part in a new crusade against the Arab world, whether this takes the form of military action, extraditions or European arrest warrants.
On the contrary, France will find its strategic interests lie in resolutely supporting the Arab world in its fight against racism in the policy pursued by the State of Israel.
We cannot possibly vote in favour of the Watson report, which has no explanatory statement, that dramatically widens the provisions on implementing the right to asylum, to the point where this essential right is changed beyond recognition and where the option to carry out checks is irresponsibly taken from Member States' authorities.
Mr President, as has been pointed out previously, we European citizens have witnessed, in astonishment and live on TV, a crime against humanity, as the president of my group pointed out, and an attempt to destroy our freedom and democracy.
But in the immediate aftermath we must react determinedly in order to defend our freedom and to do justice to the victims, showing the terrorists and their accomplices that their objectives have failed.
As in other eras of our history, it is essential that we reaffirm our democratic values in order to destroy the totalitarian course which terrorism takes us along.
The European Parliament has demonstrated its unequivocal commitment to combating terrorism, and the Watson report is a clear example of this.
But, now in particular, we must continue to put our political weight and impetus behind the concrete initiatives presented to us by the European Commission.
The President of my Group has presented certain budgetary initiatives aimed at strengthening the role of Europol.
The European institutions have an inescapable responsibility to speed up procedures in order to provide the justice system with Community instruments which will make their work against terrorism and organised crime more effective.
The European Commission, and in particular Commissioner Vitorino, must be aware that it can count on the support of Parliament in order to guarantee concerted cooperation and action in tracking down these criminals, because this is the way to put an end to terror.
Mr President, as has been mentioned, on the 5th this Parliament approved the Watson report, with a series of measures which were essential to dealing with the issue of terrorism.
As has been mentioned here, a common definition of terrorism for all Member States, a European arrest warrant - which has been called for for some time - and the elimination of extradition seemed to us to be essential issues when Parliament asked for them on the 5th.
On 5 September, Mr President, this Parliament took the lead in asking the other institutions to adopt a firm attitude towards these issues.
Mr Watson modestly tells us that what he asked for in his report is useful only within the European Union.
I believe that they are all essential to defending the world and, above all, freedom.
Some of our American colleagues quite clearly said that the time for fine words is over.
This is the positive element that I am trying to glean from the fact that Article 5 of the NATO Treaty has been invoked: that it is seen as a sign of solidarity.
No one must be exempt from training in love of peace and respect for the law, especially Heads of State.
In April, Commander Massoud came to the European Parliament seeking support for his opposition to the fundamentalist Taliban regime.
We welcomed him as a friend, just as we empathised with the victims of the fundamentalist regime in Algeria and the other countries where citizens, politicians and journalists have been massacred, even including Spain.
Mr President, I too feel that our response to large-scale attacks must not take the form of a crusade against Islam, but certain things need to be said.
The United States is the most powerful country in the world and this patently did not enable it to predict or prevent the events of Tuesday 11 September and we really cannot see what Europol can do in this matter, other than to strengthen the European Union, which once again is undoubtedly showing that its sole concern is its own power, that it has absolutely no interest whatsoever in the root causes of the problems and that it is only concerned by its return to a position of power.
Right now, before any military action takes place, we are already witnessing a massive humanitarian tragedy affecting many thousands of innocent people in Afghanistan.
We share the grief of the civilian victims and their families and we share the values of our great ally - democracy and individual freedom.
However, in addition to our united political reaction, we must adjust the European Union's diplomatic standpoint.
My party and group are committed to giving our full support, in particular to the British Government, its partners in the European Union and to our NATO allies.
The many messages from the European Union, and indeed from the European Parliament, plus the many personal messages of support and solidarity, were very much appreciated.
This statement stressed, apart, of course, from the natural sympathy that we wanted to express, that this had to be tackled by the United States of America and the European Union and many other countries in partnership.
It is becoming ever clearer that the response must be measured and proportionate, and the consequences for all must be anticipated and planned.
There is a clear need for major diplomatic and political initiatives to maintain cooperation with those countries nearest to any possible targets or military action and those at most risk from the consequences.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the United States of America and the free world have been taken by surprise by the absolutely barbaric wave of attacks that has destroyed the lives of thousands of men, women and children from more than 60 countries, murdered in appalling circumstances of horror and brutality.
In this context, the European Union has enormous responsibilities as a community that acts as a trustee of the universal values of life, freedom, peace and security.
Apart from stimulating relationships of trust, cooperation and cultural dialogue with all Islamic communities and citizens that share these universal values, in an attempt to involve them in an active commitment against terrorism and the threat that this represents, the European Union and its Member States must establish, between themselves and internationally, new and more effective forms of cooperation in the field of gathering and processing information by police forces, in harmonising judicial and legal systems and finally, in the field of common security and defence, which will help to guard against and allow the harsh punishment of anyone who encourages this new form of world threat or their agents.
The whole world is afraid because of the vehement statements - and I understand the emotions and the political situation - of the American President, whose reasons of State we acknowledge and for whom we express all our support and sympathy.
My first observation must be to my own Prime Minister, who of course was instrumental in the release of over 400 convicted terrorists.
We must fight terrorism in all its forms and we must say 'No' to any more appeasement.
However dark and uncertain the future may be, we must stand firm behind the USA as that noble country did for us in our darkest hour.
Our commitment to the defeat of terrorism must be no less than theirs.
Mr President, this terrorist attack in the USA affects us all, unfortunately, and not only because there are probably hundreds of Europeans among its victims.
Europeans should be seen unreservedly offering solidarity and cooperation in response to this terrorist attack, and the European partners should refrain from imposing conditions.
Just as important, in this international joint endeavour, as the working relationship of the democratic countries with each other will be their cooperation with moderate Arab States and with those with Moslem majority populations.
The most important foundation for a successful counterstrike this time will be effective international solidarity.
And as for those who offer us their pacifist fantasies and words of wisdom about military restraint, I should like to invite them to New York, so they can visit the school my children go to and talk to the children who have lost their fathers or mothers or, indeed, both parents in this attack.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, solidarity in speech must now give way to solidarity in action.
American action was decisive in the reconstruction of our country and the recovery of our unity.
Mr Vitorino's proposals are a first step on this road, and the right one.
Mr President, Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no excuse for any terrorist act.
If all citizens have a duty to stand in the way of terrorism, it is not sufficient merely to arrest and pass judgment on the perpetrators and organisers of terrorist acts.
After the attack on the United States, it risks getting even worse, particularly if there is prolonged military action.
Europe, in order to be able to help others, should tackle its own economic problems.
Our main priority should be to aim for the true integration of all countries into world trade.
Globalisation, often discredited, only in fact affects a severely limited number of countries.
Coherent, common European reactions of defence and response are vital, and the Council and Commission statements have set us off in the right direction.
However, there is still a complex issue to be resolved in international legal systems or, if you prefer, international law: the attitude to be taken by institutions such as the European Union or even the United Nations to States which tolerate and collaborate with terrorist groups.
Mr President, Commissioner, Europe and the European Parliament are standing shoulder to shoulder with the United States at this dark time in human history, which is certainly the darkest moment since the end of the Second World War.
It was not just the symbols of the economic and collective freedom of the West that were the targets on 11 September: we have all been affected.
Europe must take the lead in the new political phase which has opened after the recent tragic events.
The strategy and international action taken must, of necessity, include all the Arab countries.
It must be clear that the battle currently being played out is not between the West and Islam: it is between the whole world and the lunacy of terrorism.
That is why we attach great importance to Russia and China' s declarations and see the positions of Yasser Arafat and the Israeli government in taking certain decisions which facilitate encouraging steps towards peace in the Middle East as positive.
Mr President, Europe and all its institutions are called to undergo a great test.
Mr President, there is no doubt that the whole of the European Union stands together with the people of the United States in utterly and totally condemning those who carried out those terrible atrocities in the United States and in expressing our deepest sympathy to the families who lost their loved ones in these terrible atrocities.
The European Union and all democratic societies in the world should join together with the United States in seeking to bring to justice those guilty of those atrocities and in doing so, ensure that they target the actual terrorist organisations and their members, not the communities in which they live with the danger of innocent people suffering.
The European Union can play a major role in solving conflict resolution in the different parts of the world by sending to those areas of conflict not an army but a philosophy of peace based on firm principles.
Secondly there is the principle of respect for difference because all conflict is about difference, whether of religion, nationality or race.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has up to this moment been more vulnerable in every respect than the USA, and will remain so for as long as cooperation between Member States in both the legal and operational aspects of counter-terrorism is not optimised.
I therefore want the Member States to be exhorted to adhere strictly to the Europol Convention, in particular Article 4, and a mechanism to be introduced to compel the Member States to supply this information.
Counter-terrorism demands, thirdly, that we set up joint investigatory teams within the framework of collaboration between Europol analysts and representatives of the Member States.
We welcome the accelerated initiative of Mr Vitorino's two framework decisions as a new and urgently needed legal basis with which to effectively combat terrorism.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the attack of 11 September on the WTC and the Pentagon strikes at the very heart of our democracy.
In this way, we can immobilise the funding of terrorist networks extremely effectively.
Our desire to live in an open democracy that is accessible to everyone makes us vulnerable.
I believe that, for this reason, we must also make it clear that there is no reason for us to evade our responsibilities and obligations, not simply because of our gratitude and not only in order to guarantee the future of transatlantic relations, but because it is in our most fundamental best interests.
Terrorism is taking on the dimensions of a war and resulting in destruction the like of which we knew only in wartime; it is this terrorism that is in a position to strike in the same way at Brussels today, London tomorrow and Madrid the day after tomorrow!
On this last point, it must be clear that cross-border measures can be put in place against cross-border terrorism and that the best national legislation and the best national police can do nothing without cooperation in this sphere.
Quite apart from the effect on the economy or on world political relations, however, thousands of people have died, thousands have lost their parents, children, spouses, friends and loved ones.
We know that something has to be done, that there has to be a response, a just, democratic, proportionate response, but a response nevertheless, because terrorists cannot be allowed to have, or believe they have, impunity and because we are obliged to assure the citizens that, living under the rule of law, we have the necessary instruments to defend their life, freedom and security.
I know that international cooperation is the right approach, that the initiatives presented today by Commissioner Vitorino are the right approach: political cooperation, judicial cooperation, police cooperation.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we must also draw conclusions as regards civil aviation.
Mr President, on Tuesday we awoke in astonishment to a manifestation of a new form of totalitarianism.
The Nazism of the past, the Stalinism of yesterday and the Islamic fundamentalism of today all had and have in common a most profound contempt for human beings, who they intend to subject to their plans for world domination.
Those who financed this monstrous attack deliberately sacrificed the lives of their own people with the sole objective of killing the largest number of innocent victims possible, in order to put terror firmly into their opponents' minds and to rekindle the flame of their supporters' fanaticism.
The resolve shown throughout the world proves that they did not succeed in their main objective, but the subsequent celebrations that took place in various locations show that the second objective could well have been achieved.
Faced with this menace, we will naturally be obliged to review our common defence policy, but we should also be working toward the implementation of a new world order that allows Europe, in particular, to be increasingly engaged in the resolution of regional conflicts which, in the Middle East, in Afghanistan, and in Africa, do nothing to stem the flow of blood around the world.
In order to combat fundamentalist terrorism, we should mainly focus our efforts on increased assistance to all supporters of moderate and tolerant Islam, whether they be in power or in opposition.
The American Congress and Senate have just allocated USD 40 billion to the President of the United States.
I hope that in the adoption of our 2002 draft budget at second reading we will know how to draw the right conclusions.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, I represent a country which has a unique and close historical relationship with the United States.
We very much appreciated the support we received from that country in eliminating violence on our own island.
We in Ireland hope that this atrocity will precipitate a change in the way representatives of organisations responsible for similar atrocities in Ireland are treated as celebrities in parts of the United States.
Hopefully, it will also undermine their fund-raising capabilities, particularly when their paramilitary wing still retains the weapons of terrorism and mass destruction and fraternises with other terrorist leaders.
The major issue facing democratic leaders is how to respond to this latest atrocity.
When I listen to the language currently being used by President George W.
The revulsion that followed last week's events, provides the impetus to unite everyone in support of democratic ideals in the fight against international terrorism.
Therefore the response must be well thought out and proportionate.
We are reassured by the solidarity with the United States expressed by political leaders right across Europe.
Seldom has the need for Euro/Atlantic unity been more vital.
On the internal front, I hope that the proposed European Union common definition of terrorist crime and associated legislation will be sufficiently robust to allow effective action at last to be taken against large numbers of terrorist front organisations throughout Europe.
The problem is that too many terrorists have their apologists and masquerade in other guises.
Ways need to be found to prevent terrorist support groups from carrying out what are still regarded as legal acts in our countries, such as recruiting, indoctrinating, broadcasting and fund-raising in order to sustain illegal acts elsewhere.
Henceforth, the European Union must stipulate the upholding of human rights and the implementation of democracy as firm conditions in all its external relations.
The European Union must encourage respect for every religious faith and, at the same time, it must require all faiths to condemn and abhor terrorist acts, to make a clear distinction between civil society, which is free to practise any religion, and terrorism, which cannot claim to have any religious justification.
Finally, Europol and Eurojust must, together, become effective European tools, concentrating on enhancing the European corpus juris and thereby creating a basic legal reference framework which will serve as the basis for European civil, penal and administrative law.
Mr President, I share and express my sympathy for the United States and for the other victims of this terrible incident.
We must not overreact, exacerbating the understandable fears of the traveller and threatening their civil liberties, but we must get it right and we must do so immediately.
We must act alongside our friends and allies within the United States of America and in international organisations such as the ICAO.
As many of you have already stated, it is true that we will need to take decisive action in future in order to remove the inconsistencies between the first, second and third pillars of integration, in other words the second and third pillars within the entire European construction.
As far as our cooperation with the United States is concerned, I have, on behalf of the Council, said that this must be stepped up and will need to go beyond the usual forms of cooperation.
As some of you have already stated, I would, on behalf of the Council, like to underline that it would be a terrible mistake to view the events of the past week as a kind of conflict between two civilisations, or worse, a conflict between philosophical-religious world visions.
As I already stated in my first speech, the European Union is growing into a global power quicker than many had envisaged and slower than many would wish.
I shall certainly convey to President Prodi and to my colleague Christopher Patten the questions for which they are directly responsible within the Commission.
We cannot ignore the deep-rooted causes of terrorism, but we cannot allow the slightest ambiguity to remain and we therefore state that no cause justifies the use of terrorism and violence that sacrifices innocent lives.
These are many ways of proving, within the framework of the United Nations, that the people who died on 11 September did not die in vain.
The effectiveness of the framework decisions also depends on their being implemented uniformly in all the States of the Union without exception, because we do not want a single haven for terrorist or criminal activities to exist within the European Union.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Vitorino.
During this 2000-2006 programming period, the Commission adopted, on 31 January, the second report on economic and social cohesion in accordance with Article 159, subparagraph 2, of the Treaty.
Economic and social cohesion is a real issue that we should be concerned with from now on, for we have to provide answers for the next programming period starting 1 January 2007, a time when enlargement to include new Member States will be a reality.
In relative terms, regions that are lagging behind in their development and those which are having problems with restructuring will be greater in number and this effect will be multiplied when we are 27 Member States.
In addition, due to a simple mechanical reality, a certain number of regions in the current European Union will no longer find themselves on the list of problem regions although their true economic situation has not really improved.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our attention needs to be focused on two crucial questions.
The second question is how the policy on economic and social cohesion should in future continue to focus on regions that lag behind current Member States developmentally, and what are the objectives that need to be met.
Both questions were extensively dealt with during the informal Regional Policy Council which was held recently in Namur on 13 July last.
With regard to the first question, everyone has accepted that enlargement will bring with it a substantial increase in needs in terms of social and economic cohesion.
The figures in the report speak for themselves.
Secondly, discrepancies will increase in extent.
Today' s average Gross Domestic Product per capita in the underprivileged regions stands at 66% of the EU average.
Even if the candidate countries were to grow faster than the amalgamated countries have done in the past ten years, even then, the current level of the Gross Domestic Product per capita would imply a convergence process spanning at least two generations.
The present objectives pertaining to the underprivileged regions, both in the Member States and in the candidate countries, must be supported in a fair manner.
Furthermore, requests for additional assessments, particularly on the efficiency of the current system, have been drawn up by certain Member States before they are prepared to advance further in the determination of procedures and mechanisms that will govern the future of economic and social cohesion policy.
These procedures and mechanisms will be the subject of a global proposal from the Commission in 2004, in its third report on economic and social cohesion.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission, by publishing the second report on economic and social cohesion, has paved the way for an important debate on the future of the European Union' s structural operations policy.
The Council, during the informal meeting on regional policy that took place in Namur, listened very carefully to the presentation made by Commissioner Barnier.
To do this, the questions asked in the second report need to be looked at in much greater detail.
I am thinking in particular of the Cohesion Forum of 21 and 22 May, organised right here thanks to the European Parliament, in agreement with your President and with the support of my colleagues Anna Diamantopoulou and Franz Fischler.
At the same time, enlargement negotiations are progressing with all candidate countries.
Enlargement, as you know, is one of the main themes of this debate.
I would like to thank you, therefore, for this opportunity and thus quickly mention certain points.
Firstly, the forum we held on 21 and 22 May was an opportunity for genuine debate, paving the way for other such moments.
Since 31 January, the presentation of conclusions from the cohesion report has been, for both myself and my colleagues from the Directorate-General on Regional Policy, a priority.
In this way, the debate should spread, should move away from the political centre in such a way that it provides firstly the Member States and then Brussels with a certain number of ideas, requests, proof and guidelines.
Firstly, the interest the future of this policy after 2006 arouses in all Member States and candidate countries, and the insistence of many on the truly political dimension of European solidarity.
It is also the expression, as you very clearly stated, Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck, on behalf of the Presidency, of possibly the most concrete, the most precise and visible of the values upon which the European Union is founded.
There is concern, of course, but also a sense of the European Union' s historic obligation and interest in both new and old Member States in assisting in the long-lasting and balanced development of the whole European continent.
Thirdly, I have also measured the importance, in order for this debate to succeed, of not forgetting the needs of regions in States that are current members of the EU.
I would like once again to state my conviction: we are not of the opinion that by admitting very poor regions in Eastern Europe - Estonia, Slovenia, Poland, Bulgaria and others - into the European Union, that regions that are poor or that are experiencing difficulties in the north, the centre, the south, not to mention the outermost regions, will become rich as if by waving a magic wand.
My second point concerns procedures for the future.
As you know, the Commission has committed itself, following requests from the Council in June, to provide it with a regular report on the development of its work on future cohesion policy.
I would like to point out that these new statistics, supplied by Eurostat, will involve, for example, the GDP per capita in 1999, and unemployment statistics for the year 2000.
I can give more details regarding the additional studies commissioned: we have commissioned a study of the situation of the islands, as well as a study on the macroeconomic impact of Structural Funds.
With regard to this macroeconomic study, I shall be very eager to provide you with information on the impact of these Structural Funds in terms of the direct impact of the use of these funds in net contributing countries.
In order to stimulate this debate, seminars will be organised during the first half of 2002 on each of the ten Community priorities that have been identified in the cohesion report, with the participation of experts from the Member States and regions who we shall invite in accordance with the various issues.
I do not think that a form of unravelling or renationalisation of regional policy should be the way to respond to this requirement, to this need for cohesion in an enlarged EU where there will be - and the figures speak for themselves - more disparities than today.
But I am equally resolutely in favour, while reaffirming this need for cohesion and planning these new cohesion and regional policies, to find, with your help, a way to achieve more decentralisation, simplification, and less bureaucracy.
My second conviction is financial in nature.
In conclusion, Mr President, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the report we shall put forward at the beginning of next year will take its inspiration from the results of the great debates held in the second half of this year.
It is in this frame of mind that I shall be entirely available today and in the forthcoming weeks to listen to your suggestions, your recommendations and your criticisms.
In all events, given that many of the Members are interested in this particular subject and given that regional policy accounts yet again for 35% of the budget, this confirms, I think, just how important it is to the European Union and, in this sense, there is perhaps some point to the debate.
The second point I wish to make is that perhaps it would be a good idea at some point - and this is certainly the intention of the Committee on Regional Policy - to discuss the state of progress of projects and programmes under the Community Support Framework in individual countries, because I personally am not at all convinced that everything is going swimmingly in every country, not through any fault of the Commission's, but through the fault of certain Member States.
I do not wish to speak of dramatic delays but I am sure that certain countries are having problems.
As far as I can see, the conclusions are more or less obvious.
Mr President, Commissioner, you will be aware that the Regional and Transport Committee has started its deliberations on social and economic cohesion via the second cohesion report and that this report launches the debate on how we face up to the challenges of regional funding and structural policy in an enlarged Europe.
Commissioner Barnier referred to the meeting in May in which many Members participated, but again nothing concrete seems to have come out of that meeting.
On our side of the political divide, we recognised at an early stage how sensitive this issue could be and indeed our experience of Agenda 2000 was the catalyst that told us this.
But then Commissioner Wulf-Matthies facilitated a common position with Parliament and so we feel that the time is now right for us to start work with the Commission as it becomes more active, positive and decisive.
The main points emanating from our discussion revolve around the principle of keeping the concept of social and economic cohesion and its most representative instrument, namely the Cohesion Fund.
But a thorough discussion is required on implementing the goals of the cohesion policy before we make any decisions on the future financing of structural aid.
At the moment, we are facing a number of great challenges and any discussion on the implementation of Cohesion Fund has to include other areas under the umbrella of sustainable development, such as employment and agriculture.
At the moment, we are left with a series of questionnaires, but we can give the Commissioner a guarantee that our group will be fully involved in discussions in the coming months.
Mr President, the debate on the future of the cohesion policy is a very timely one.
My concern is not just how regional policy can be made to work effectively both in the present Member States and in the countries that have applied for membership but also the continuation of structural policy in the present Member States in the next Structural Funds period.
Structural Funds policy is currently managed in too cumbersome a manner.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy is indeed the greatest challenge facing the Community in the context of enlargement.
Clearly, this must change from 2006 onwards!
The second report on cohesion contains some good proposals, but it perpetuates many of the cohesion policy's errors and is no radical programme of reform.
Phasing-in the acceding countries into a decentralised structural policy as early as 2002 is also necessary in order to pool experience.
Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I consider the policy of economic and social cohesion to be one of the European Union's undoubted achievements, attesting as it does the principle of solidarity between the highly-developed regions and the weak ones.
Fifthly: You yourselves can see that the commitment appropriations yet to be settled totalled almost EUR 42 billion at the end of 1999, in other words the Structural Fund's input for specific projects is inefficient!
All the Member States said more or less the same thing at the informal meeting in Namur, and proposals were submitted.
Perhaps we will have to give some thought to doing something similar... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, Commissioner, the Cohesion Fund was created in order to prepare the structurally weak countries of the EU for economic and monetary union.
The cohesion countries have substantially caught up over the past few years and they all participate in EMU.
Despite this, Agenda 2000 decided that the Cohesion Fund should continue.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I too will take up your suggestion that this issue should be discussed without taboos.
I do not believe that there is actually anybody in this House who is opposed to a cohesion policy.
The question we must ask ourselves is whether a cohesion policy would not be better conducted without a Cohesion Fund.
You cannot say that there is a regional policy for all, a Cohesion Fund for four countries and all the rest can fit in somewhere else!
We must, in my view, come to a quick decision about the substance, as the acceding States have a right to be told before 2002/2003 what the cohesion policy situation is going to be if they are Members by then.
The question now arises: by what criteria should support actually be given in future?
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I wish to express my support for those who have said that this debate must not be about the safeguarding of possession, but about aid for those who need it most.
I also want to say frankly that, in my considered opinion, nobody must close his eyes to the fact that enlargement is going to present us all with great challenges, those of a financial nature among them.
If there is not to be a rude awakening, we must explore the possibilities of full support for the candidate countries in building up their infrastructure and, at the same time, concern ourselves with continuing to bring the weakest regions of the Fifteen up to the average.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I would firstly like to say that I am in favour of the two reports, which provide us with a good analysis of the application of both the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds in 1999.
On the basis of the analysis contained in these two reports, I would like to refer to three points.
The first is obvious: the cohesion policy comes within European Union policy and a fundamental element of that cohesion policy is the funds which we are discussing here.
The regions which are at a lower level than the European Union average cannot do without these funds, with or without enlargement.
Thirdly, we must bear in mind that the series of statistics analysed and the studies done on the long-term application of the funds in the European Union, with very few exceptions, demonstrate that in the least-favoured regions the level of imbalance in relation to the European Union average has been reduced.
Therefore, since we are talking about the future application of these funds, this must be taken into account in the Union' s new policies in this field.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like all of you, I am very pleased that both the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commissioner responsible for territorial policy have agreed firstly that it will be necessary in the future, with enlargement, to have a dual cohesion policy, although it is of a minority nature: the cohesion policy for the regions belonging to the fifteen current Members and the supplementary cohesion policy for the enlargement countries.
I also note that they agreed on an issue which seems to me essential and in no way hypocritical: there can be no political Europe without an economic Europe, there can be no political Europe without a cohesion policy.
The application has been different, and as such Ireland has made extraordinary progress and Portugal has taken better advantage of the Structural Funds than many other States.
This has not been the case with Spain, Italy or Greece, where, while State income has come closer to the Community average, this has not been the case in their internal regions, which indicates that the Funds are being badly applied, possibly because the State has taken advantage of the funds intended for the regions or because the policy of additionality has not been applied in the State.
Mr Barnier, you have said, and you had said previously, that the Structural and Cohesion Funds cannot be below 0.46% of Community GDP.
If in 1999, in view of the result, we had not managed to eliminate differences between the regions of Europe by means of these Funds, we must therefore be much more ambitious than you are proposing, although you have done so in a very positive way.
Mr President, Commissioner, the question before us is what line our cohesion policy should follow in the new perspective that is opening up with enlargement.
There are two parts to the response: on the one hand, the principles on which cohesion policies are to be based from 2006 onwards must be established and, on the other hand, the priorities must be set.
The achievement of these goals certainly requires a different type of statistic on the state of the economies, at both local and national and Community level.
Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the cohesion policy is an integral component of the European Union.
This has been a frequent topic in the Committee on Budgets, and even the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has taken it up and will continue to discuss it.
I call upon the Commission - which has already submitted proposals on this - but also upon the Council, to follow up words with actions, for cohesion is only any good as and when it actually reaches people, and that needs to be as soon as possible!
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I will first address a word of thanks to you, Commissioner, for your lucid words and your declaration that, in the context of economic and social cohesion, both the new problems of the candidates for accession and the continuing problems of the present 15 Member States are being appropriately taken into account in various regions.
Holding 27 countries together economically and socially is a quite different matter from maintaining the cohesion of 15 of them.
However, regions must not lose their Objective 1 status after 2006 solely on the grounds that enlargement has brought an improvement in their relative position and without their having achieved sustainable development.
I see the cohesion policy as being credible only if the financial means are apportioned on the basis of objective criteria applicable to all, with the criteria of national and regional prosperity forming the bases.
The pending review of European regional policy must therefore throw up some solutions, and that is the whole point of the discussion process that is now beginning - to treat on an equal footing the situations both in the new Member States and in the Objective 1 regions of the present Member States.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, in view of what one Member said, I believe that this is a very appropriate time to discuss economic and social cohesion.
While it is true that this is a good time for the debate, I must also recognise that, at least in my opinion, the responses from the Council and the Commission are unsatisfactory.
Firstly, I find it difficult to believe that we can talk about social and economic cohesion without making the least reference to the single market and all the policies of the European Union.
Mr President, honourable Members, as we all know, the European Union considers that economic and social cohesion between the regions is quintessential to life and has quantified this objective by setting a minimum cohesion target of 75% of the average per capita income of the 15 Member States.
At the same time, and quite rightly too, our European Union has decided to integrate new Member States whose per capita income is demonstrably lower.
It therefore makes sense, it is obvious in my book, to retain the first objective even for the enlarged European Union.
money, without it nothing we need to do can be done." And if the decisions have already been taken, well decisions are made to be revised.
Please understand me: I am not trying to call into question the pertinence of enlargement, which, of course, means the consolidation of peace on our continent, which in these difficult times, is a noble and fragile objective.
On the contrary, I am thinking about the conditions in which it can succeed.
In concrete terms, Commissioner, I hope that the eligibility criteria of Objectives 1 and 2 will be very carefully revised in order that the poverty of some does not lead to the end of hope and the impoverishment of others.
Mr President, the statements we have heard from the Council and from Commissioner Barnier and the speeches of all the Members have confirmed without a shadow of a doubt that cohesion policies are one of the fundamental pillars of the Union and that enlargement requires us not only to continue to pursue these policies but also to consolidate them.
Is the idea, put forward in recent days by Mr Giuliano Amato, the former Italian Prime Minister, of far-reaching innovation leaving the European Commission power over major strategic investments and decentralising regional development actions really so unrealistic and impossible?
In fact, there can be no political cohesion in the European Union without economic and social cohesion, despite what some of the federalists may think.
Cohesion policy, which has played a key role in recent years, will have an even more crucial role to play in future, as a result of enlargement.
Nevertheless, Mr President, there are certain paradoxes inherent in enlargement: by making the European Union poorer in terms of average per capita income, we will be making the countries that are currently the least favoured richer as if by some form of numerical magic.
What my country, Portugal, and other cohesion countries cannot accept is, as a consequence of enlargement, being relegated to the margins of cohesion policy and becoming the victims of the statistical machinery that automatically places them over the critical threshold of 75%.
If I had worked to the same timetable, it is not in January 2001 that I would have set the date for the start of the debate, it would be in two years time, in 2003.
But do not ask me today to conclude a debate that has only just started, two years in advance in relation to normal procedures.
But allow me to tell you that in order to succeed with this challenge in 2004 or 2005, I need true political debate beforehand.
If we do not provide this proof, then we should fear the ultimate financial decisions when they are made.
But I have not observed in the reports from the Court of Auditors and the Parliament' s own Committee on Budgets and Committee on Budgetary Control, that they have revealed many cases of fraud in relation to the management of Structural Funds.
For each of these priorities, there could be a financial instrument in service, several financial instruments for the various major objectives that you have hoped and prayed for: assisting regions that have long-lasting natural handicaps, assisting urban policy, assisting cross-border cooperation.
Mr Korakas, you also called for more confidence and regionalisation.
Mr Berend, like others, has made a criticism, which I accept or at least understand, on the current criteria for per capita GDP.
Mrs Darras, let me make it clear that when the time is right, I will put forward a regional and cohesion policy that will involve all EU countries.
I will therefore, when the time is right, propose a policy that will involve, with different degrees of intensity depending on the level of development, all regions in Europe and all countries in Europe, while endeavouring - I am responding here to Mr.
Lage - to treat all of these regions even-handedly, in particular so as to avoid, Mr Lage, the mechanical effect that I myself raised in the cohesion report and the statistical effect that could, if applied without due care and attention, penalise regions currently within the EU.
Mr President, I would like to make a short personal statement in relation to the Commissioner' s comment, which I think was inappropriate and particularly unworthy of a Commissioner who normally deals with Parliament and each of its Members in an excellent way.
In January, in the second report on cohesion, you asked Parliament which of the four criteria it thought we should adopt.
Secondly, Commissioner, we have enlargement to deal with.
As it is, I can only say that the Commissioner has replied very well to all our questions and that we are very grateful to him.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission report dealing with the activities of the Cohesion Fund in 1999 proves that, as in previous years, it is continuing to pursue the most immediate objectives for which it was created, which are to provide the so-called cohesion countries, Portugal, Spain, Greece and Ireland, with economic infrastructures in the areas of the environment and transport.
In these two areas, for example, the Cohesion Fund has been crucial to the creation of infrastructures that are essential to the development of my region.
We have further grounds to be satisfied with the activity of the Cohesion Fund in 1999.
Furthermore, no situation involving fraud or duplication of funding between the Cohesion Fund and any other Community fund was uncovered.
In June 1999, however, when the Heads of State and Government had to decide at the Berlin Summit on the Structural Funds to be allocated for the 2000-2006 period under what came to be known as Agenda 2000, there were no further duplications.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, however, the proximity of enlargement and the need to correct the enormous regional imbalances we will see as a consequence make it imperative that we give new impetus to economic and social cohesion policy.
We must also consider the fact that giving new impetus to cohesion policy is necessary, not only to deal with the countries that are expected to join the European Union in the near future, but also, even following enlargement, to maintain the fight against the lack of cohesion that still exists in the current European Union of fifteen countries.
The Cohesion Fund, we can now say, has been a major factor for real convergence, and has provided a strong incentive for the beneficiary countries to comply with the nominal convergence criteria laid down at Maastricht.
We must, therefore, oppose any attempt to abolish the Cohesion Fund.
We must also draw the lessons of this first period of operation to improve the effectiveness of the Cohesion Fund even further.
Mr President, Commissioner, the figures provided by the Commission in its 11th Annual Report on the Structural Funds - confirmed by the Second Report on economic and social cohesion - show that, despite the budgetary effort made in the 1994-1999 period, the considerable social and territorial inequalities that existed prior to 1994 still remain.
On the contrary, we are talking about a fundamental issue, in that the direction of political Europe depends to a large extent on positive developments in cohesion policy both with regard to Objective 1 territories in the current EU that still need it and to the new Member States that will require budgetary funds that must not be additional or supplementary funds.
Unless this is precisely the decision we take, we will see the unacceptable paradox of the much-needed cohesion policy for the new States being paid for with money taken from the budget that is today earmarked for the least developed countries of the Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow the European Union to take a step backwards in territorial and social development policy.
In this context, I think that we cannot delay taking a decision that will ensure an increase in the Union' s budget for the next programming period that is considerably higher than 1.27% of the Community GDP.
It was a fully justified and important instrument, not only of economic and social cohesion, but also of support for the countries which had the greatest difficulties in fulfilling the stability and convergence programmes which lead to the introduction of the single currency.
That fund has been an important factor in terms of real convergence and a strong incentive for compliance with the Maastricht criteria.
We feel it will be very important in the future to consider a breakdown by gender, which would permit specific actions aimed at the promotion of women.
The financial contribution is lower than that contained in the proposal of the Commission and the European Parliament.
It is regrettable that this will hinder the achievement of the employment objectives, particularly in view of the fact that all the Member States and European institutions are committed to decisive action in favour of employment, agreed at the Lisbon Summit.
It is a positive thing to include amongst the objectives the achievement of equality between men and women in employment programmes, since it is one of the fields in which women clearly participate less than men.
It is therefore satisfactory that the Commission has decided, in accordance with Articles 2 and 141 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, in the future to integrate gender into all Community policies and actions with a view to adopting horizontal positive action measures.
This 11th Annual Report on the Structural Funds relates to a year which is undoubtedly very important for the development of the European Union's cohesion policies.
In fact, there will always be a discrepancy between living conditions in the rich and poor regions of the EU, and even within Member States.
My second point of criticism is that despite all the significance of 1999, the 11th Report is an annual report and not a storehouse catalogue in which all the concerns and problems faced by the European Union in the past, present and future have to be rolled out yet again.
As I said, the rapporteur's conclusions are not necessarily wrong, but much of what is included in the report really does not need to be there.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the reports we are discussing confirm some of my concerns regarding the execution of the Structural Funds for the 1993-1999 period but, alas, also regarding the new programming period which will end in 2006.
The most striking example is the vast sum of resources which were not spent during the 1993-1999 period and must be used before 31 December this year.
This is a well-known saying but many appear to have forgotten it.
We must therefore work shoulder to shoulder - Commission, Parliament, Council and regional and local players - to bring about rapid acceleration and to finalise the payments to projects which enhance the competitiveness of regions, particularly those which are most disadvantaged and underdeveloped.
Mr President, the first thing that the annual reports on cohesion policy for 1999 point out is that the results have been very poor.
During the eleven and seven years, respectively, which these Community Funds have been operating, the average per capita income in Spain, Greece and Portugal, which in 1988 stood at 68%, has risen to 79% of the European average in 1999.
I have serious doubts about the political will to eliminate the differences and the genuine solidarity of the governments of the Union.
Mr President, if we are really committed to equal opportunities, solidarity and a genuine united Europe, we must stop being miserly and we must all give more money, especially the richest amongst us, for the benefit of the poorest.
Linked to this is the point that it would be beneficial if the Commission were to provide clearer, more comprehensive information of an essentially social and economic rather than accounting nature on the evaluation of projects, highlighting whether the aim of reducing disparities between the levels of development of the various regions has been achieved; the European Parliament needs to receive this information in due time, not - as has happened this time with regard to the Cohesion Fund - two years late, for that clearly makes it impossible to correct shortcomings and reprogramme operations in useful time.
The fund was set up to help Member States meet the convergence criteria with the EMU in mind.
Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteurs, I would briefly like to point out, in relation to the reports that we are currently debating, and as we have seen previously, that we are holding a great debate with an important future in terms of the construction of Europe and also the construction of an enlarged Europe.
I would say rather that it means that the policy is not only successful for the cohesion countries, for the poorest regions which are receiving significant aid, but also for other regions, in the wealthy countries, which do not receive the aid.
In the end there is widespread movement throughout Europe and, by means of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, those regions of the richer countries end up benefiting from the aid, because technologies are being bought, because investments are being made by those countries in which technological progress is being made.
I believe that this is currently the great challenge for the Commissioner and for Parliament.
We must make an effort to ensure that the enlargement countries also become economic motors which will allow this policy of economic and social cohesion to eventually lead to a much more just and free Europe.
We would like to make some very specific comments in relation to these two reports on the application of the Funds during the years in question.
What these reports lack is more of a qualitative character: we want to know what qualitative economic and political effect these investments are having; to what extent is the metabolism of these regions being changed; to what extent are the governments correctly applying the investments, directly towards productive investments, as the structural policy demands.
Next year we will have to examine the reports on the application of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund in 2000 and 2001.
The data will not be good, but I do not want to condemn it in advance because, if the Commission demonstrates that they have been well used in terms of programming, this will be a qualitative element which Parliament will have to take into account.
It is vital that all of us, beginning with the Commission, try to work more closely with all our fellow-citizens.
With regard to Mr Marques' report, relating to 1999, it did indeed arrive rather late, in January 2001.
It is true that not all the payment appropriations for 1999 were used in full; only 91.6% of available payment appropriations were implemented.
Our Directorate-General is now responsible for carrying out on-the-spot checks of Cohesion Fund measures but also of all the actions cofinanced under the Structural Funds.
Fourthly, Mr Marques, coordination between the Cohesion Fund and the Structural Funds has been given real impetus with the new regulations for the period 2000-2006 and, within the Directorate-General, with the integrated management of the various departments concerned with the Cohesion Fund and the other Structural Funds.
Turning now to the report by Mr Nogueira Romn, while thanking him too for his fine report, I would again like to make four comments.
Firstly, regarding the implementation of the funds in 1999, 99% of appropriations for the period 1994-1999 were committed and 75% were paid.
As you know, on-site payments can be made up to 31 December this year, in accordance with the regulations.
The payment appropriations will, I think, be implemented in full and for the last two years - this was a job that began before my arrival - I have been working with the Member States to ensure that they are taken up as fully as possible.
The delays in the start-up of some programmes in 1994 and 1995 have, therefore, been overcome for most of the actions under the on-going programme.
It is true, as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, that many outstanding commitments still remained to be paid at the end of 1999.
But let me point out that the situation quite clearly improved in 2000, since the commitments remaining to be paid at the end of 1999 were reduced by 47%.
In order to keep Parliament more fully informed on the subject, at the end of June 2001 the Commission drew up a full report on the unexpected commitments remaining to be paid for all categories of expenditure.
Secondly, the rapporteur welcomed the fact that the horizontal theme of 1999 was equality between women and men in the Structural Funds programmes.
For the period 1994-1999, however, Member States did not have to provide information on the access of women to the Structural Funds.
On this point I can confirm that the Commission has carefully checked for compliance with this principle during the ex-ante review of new programmes for the period 2000-2006.
On the subject of evaluation and monitoring, as you know the mid-term ex-ante or ex-post review was fully integrated into the programming for this new 2000-2006 period.
The Commission has just launched the ex-post evaluation for Objectives 1 and 2 for the 1994-1999 period, together with thematic evaluations of the information society, sustainable development and small and medium-sized enterprises.
Lastly, let me emphasise that the number of these checks also rose in 1999, reaching the figure of 120 compared with 100 in 1998.
That is the year when the new programming will start, together with some new rules.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
We have tried to work on the basis of consensus with all political groups in producing this report.
It is not possible, on behalf of any tradition, to accept that women should be seriously and irreversibly mutilated for the rest of their lives.
We have produced a report which asks the Commission, the Council and the Member States to create an integral strategy, which does not only involve penalties, but which deals with the areas affected by this issue: public health, judicial, legal, political, etc.
We view female genital mutilation as a serious attack on human rights, and on the basis of this view we request something which is a logical consequence of it: that the right to asylum be granted to women who wish to flee from this situation, that we take them in so that they may escape from something which will be irreversible for the rest of their lives.
I believe that the directive currently being presented by the Commission, on the rules relating to the conditions to be fulfilled by residents of third countries requesting refugee status, moves in this direction, and it will be very important.
For us, this is a question of principle and we cannot abandon this demand.
The report also calls for the promotion of external aid to those African countries which have adopted legislative and administrative measures that prohibit and penalise this practice.
We also urge the European Commission to work closely with non-governmental organisations that make an enormous effort on the ground, very often with scant resources.
We also ask for recourse to the human rights clause in order to make combating genital mutilation a priority action in terms of relations with third countries, in particular with the countries which have close relations with the European Union within the framework of the Cotonou agreement.
Ladies and gentlemen, many women, thousands of African women, are waiting to hear what we have to say in this regard.
It is a problem for all of us, women and men, because it is a problem of fundamental human rights.
I would like to draw Members' attention to two other points, aside from the unanimous vote, given that this unanimity is rather inconsistent with the debate that is still on-going in some political groups.
The first is the right of asylum.
That is most important.
We asked for EUR 10 million to finance all the measures aimed at helping these countries escape from this trap.
In addition to the various education and information, humanitarian, social and health initiatives and initiatives supporting non-governmental organisations, in particular, our committee feels that it must single out one in particular: the appeal to the Member States to ensure that female genital mutilation is prosecuted through the rigorous application of existing provisions laying down the right to health and personal integrity as a fundamental right, and the rigorous application of the provisions of the penal code which ban any deliberate action violating this right.
Thank you very much, Mr Turco.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
In serious cases, some countries envisage the right to asylum, as contemplated in the directive under the heading of the right to asylum for reasons of sexual discrimination.
This is regrettable, because the report has many positive elements, particularly the need for the commitment to include the fight against genital mutilations in all cooperation programmes and to provide them with adequate financial aid, and the demand that the governments of the states where they are practiced commit themselves effectively to their eradication.
We in the Group of the European Peoples' Party unreservedly condemn genital mutilation and we defend the full physical rights of all women, their full sexual rights and their right to decide on their future even though that decision may be at odds with their people' s traditional past.
We defend the rights of women as human beings, fully safeguarding their lives where ever they may be, and we are committed to continuing the work to eradicate this horrendous practice regardless of what may happen in relation to this report.
Various reasons are given to justify this human rights violation in the name of traditional culture or religion.
It was only the Fourth UN World Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995 which initiated a global debate and solidarity process and called for the international community to take joint action.
Although FGM is punishable in many countries, the media and self-help organisations report that there are an estimated 5000 cases in Germany alone, and around four times as many cases involving girls being sent back to their countries of origin to be mutilated.
The fight against ignorance and oppression must be fought at international level, and the Socialist International has therefore launched a worldwide campaign against violence against women.
Fifteen states have already banned FGM, including nine African countries.
My government in Germany has already allocated DM 3.8 million for education work and projects.
The EU is helping with DAPHNE.
The genital mutilation of women and girls is a terrible violation of fundamental human rights.
Europe should therefore pull out all the stops to combat this phenomenon, wherever it appears.
I too understand that some Members are considering voting against this report on account of the sections on asylum and extraterritoriality.
For this is the only way to prevent EU citizens, for example from Somalian extraction, from taking their daughters to Somalia during the summer holidays to have them mutilated.
In all countries where genital mutilation is practised, local groups are running campaigns to abolish it.
No, it is precisely these women whom we need to support by showing our solidarity tomorrow during the vote.
By far the majority of women who have undergone genital mutilation - reference is made to 130 million - live in Africa.
Indeed, while emphasising in the report that female genital mutilation is a crime, which must therefore be prosecuted, she proposes a raft of pro-active measures which it will also be our responsibility and the responsibility of the other institutions - Commission and Council - to implement.
This, I believe, is what we are trying to say in our report tomorrow: we want to say that we are for a world in which human beings are all equal.
I am convinced that, if such a brutal form of mutilation as this had been forced upon our male fellow Members, the issue would have been resolved long ago.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am very pleased that this report has been presented.
I am thinking today of the 130 million women and girls who have been subjected to female genital mutilation, and each year some two million more are affected.
For me, genital mutilation is a human rights violation which I cannot accept under any circumstances or from anyone.
A public debate on this issue is needed to raise awareness both in the EU and in the developing countries and spare future generations of women this dreadful mutilation.
I ask everyone to work together with a genuine will to stop this practice.
It is high time that we took strong measures to save the two million girls around the world who, each year, are at risk of genital mutilation.
This would provide a clear signal that female genital mutilation is illegal at home and illegal abroad and that such mutilation constitutes a violation of human rights.
Mr President, the use of genital mutilation is an extreme form of female repression which, in some countries, is as old as time itself.
A number of women have sent the European Parliament a petition in the same vein.
Respect for the human being must be judged the same for men and women alike: women' s rights are human rights.
The sexual mutilation of girls must be considered a punishable offence in every country and every society, as demanded in various international agreements.
A positive development is that, in any event, an increasing number of countries have prohibited genital mutilation in women.
I too appeal to all Members of Parliament to show their unanimous support for the report in tomorrow' s vote.
Regrettably, female genital mutilation has been found to have taken place and to be taking place in immigrant communities in the EU also, although this practice is prohibited in the criminal legislation of Member States and it is clearly in breach of the principles of the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I support the report' s positive measures that aim to end these crimes in EU Member States.
Personally, I am also prepared to adopt the principle of extraterritoriality in this connection.
I urge authorities in the Member States, and, as a Finnish member, obviously those in my native country of Finland in particular, to implement all necessary measures as soon as possible to bring to an end these inhuman violations of human rights, which are something out of the Middle Ages.
The absence of any alternative and a complete lack of information are one of the most serious problems for women who suffer this degrading mutilation, which is one of the worse forms of suppression, terrorism and exploitation of women, a criminal practice which violates their personal freedom, their physical integrity, their freedom of conscience and their right to health by causing serious physical injury and mental side effects, not to mention the impact on their sexual identity and ability to bear children.
Unfortunately, this horrible practice has also been introduced into the European Union.
According to a statement by the British Medical Association, three thousand women are mutilated in the United Kingdom every year and naturally the fundamentalists, even within the European Union, have no hesitation in applying mediaeval practices in order to subjugate women and control their sexuality.
Every human being is entitled to protection under the law when fundamental freedoms and rights are at risk, as is the case with mutilation.
Finally, I should like to call on the PPE-DE, for us to unite in demonstrating our solidarity with the thousands of women who have undergone this horrible procedure and for you to change your decision by tomorrow.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, female genital mutilation inflicts endless pain and suffering on women and girls in at least 25 African countries, most of them ACP countries.
Women are the victims of violent and life-threatening cultural traditions which must be ended, for a tradition which violates individual rights - in this case women's rights - in a truly horrific way must not be allowed to continue in the twenty-first century.
Thankfully, the ACP countries in Africa are increasingly recognising this fact.
It is gratifying that Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Uganda, Senegal, Tanzania, Togo, Burkina Faso, the Central African Republic and the Cte d' Ivoire have legislated against female genital mutilation.
In this context, a resolution adopted by the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly at its last meeting in Libreville (Gabon), Ms Bonino, should be emphasised in positive terms.
This report will give momentum both to the Commission's work and, more importantly, to the women's organisations in Europe and Africa trying to combat this barbaric practice.
This is a problem which, as several Members of Parliament have said, does not only exist in Africa.
I think, therefore, that it is worth examining this Commission proposal, which could provide a basis for an agreement which would be very important to all the groups in the European Parliament.
However, over and above the legislative framework, current European Union programmes can be used as a basis for supporting action and campaigns to recognise the problem, mobilise society and increase public awareness and, of course, to inform and educate hospital staff.
Medical and health workers in at least five countries in the European Union often come into contact with such cases and they must be specially trained and specially qualified to help these people.
We can support them and integrate them into the labour market and fund information and public awareness campaigns through existing programmes which we have already debated in Parliament and we are waiting for proposals from non-governmental organisations on these issues.
As far as our relations with the third world are concerned, we have already made a serious effort to ensure that development aid is predicated on respect for human rights by governments, especially in this area, and to take account of governments' efforts to apply policies to educate, train, raise awareness and support women and families.
We already intend, in collaboration with the development sector and the Commissioner responsible, to increase financial support to countries intent on wiping out this practice.
Finally, we appreciate that non-governmental organisations can act as a catalyst both in the European Union and in Africa, which is why they are the Commission's main contacts, our main partners in this endeavour.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, despite all the judicial instruments at European level and in the Member States banning wage discrimination, there are still considerable and persistent wage differences between men and women.
The figures that are available to us from - indeed very interesting - European studies, show that there is a wage gap of 25 to 28% and in some countries as high as 30%.
For example, the wage gap is greater in the private sector than in the public sector, the industrial and agricultural sectors have greater wage differentials than the service sector, and the gap seems to be widest in those sectors where women are underrepresented.
But it is generally accepted that the different career patterns of men and women account for about half of the wage gap - for example, women interrupt their careers more easily than men, with slower career progress as a result - the lower qualifications especially of older working women, the fact that working women are on average younger than working men - in other words, the objective, structural differences.
For this purpose, an initiative could be launched, for example to supplement the Directive of 1975 which deals with equal pay, with an annexe in which a number of rules and criteria are laid down which guarantee a gender-neutral evaluation system.
The social partners should commit in the same way to involving more women in wage negotiations, particularly to removing discrimination and at long last making wage discrimination No 1 on their agenda, for that never happens.
The problem is therefore, clearly a deeply rooted one and cannot be solved without concerted action by all parties.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is appreciative of the extent to which the Commission is already addressing the issue through its proposals for the employment guidelines in 2002.
The emphasis on gender mainstreaming and the strengthening of guideline 17 are particularly welcome.
We also look forward to the proposals the Commission may have for a revision and updating of the 1975 equal pay directive.
In the meantime, we call on both the Member States and the social partners to involve themselves actively in developing measures of the kind urgently needed to eliminate the gender pay gap.
But despite the fact that it is a very good report which attempts to study each of the points relating to inequality of pay between men and women, today we are facing a deep-seated problem to which we see no solution.
It is more difficult for women to find work than it is for men, they have more difficulties in terms of training and professional promotion and they have lower salaries than men.
But this does not only affect women who have been in the labour market for some time, but it also affects young women who are very well prepared, in many cases better prepared than men, who do brilliant work and who receive lower salaries than their male colleagues.
There is no justification for it whatsoever, there is no legislation which allows it in any of the countries of the European Union but, despite all this, it is a reality which we are facing and which we have no idea how to solve.
Social partners, both company organisations and unions, probably have a large role to play in resolving this problem.
It is very regrettable that, while we are combating many other types of discrimination which are sometimes difficult to demonstrate, we have still not been able to resolve this one which is so obvious, which is reflected in the figures which appear on everybody' s payslips every month.
If in a Member State of the European Union somebody suffering discrimination presents a case and wins it, if they work in the public sector, their greatest problem will be confronting the dirty looks of their colleagues, but if they work in the private sector, sooner or later it will lead to them leaving their job.
Mr President, this is a very important issue because this is discrimination which faces all women, not only in the EU, but across the world.
It shows, as the rapporteur said, that there is a 20-25% difference between male and female earnings on average in the European Union and that in some Member States the situation is much worse.
This report is a very practical one, putting forward measures which actually suggest very concrete things which can be done to address this very difficult issue.
So we support the measures set out in the report and call for this action to be taken sooner rather than later, because this is discrimination that women have faced for a very long time.
I certainly support all calls for this to become a priority for the EU and for the Commission.
I would particularly like to draw attention to the fact that there are three Member States mentioned in the report in which the situation is significantly worse, worse enough for them to be singled out in the report.
This applies to all age groups, except for the 16 to 18 group.
The situation is the same regarding consumer goods.
I would like to point to three difficulties but first of all I want to make one thing clear: when we refer to a 25% wage gap, this covers all occupations taken together.
The situation is extremely difficult and the solutions are not very visible or effective.
Firstly, in France, for example, women only occupy 10% of all jobs.
Of every 300 jobs, only 30 are filled by women.
Women therefore have access to 10% of all the jobs on offer.
Secondly, in this report we refer to atypical work.
Thirdly, we need equal representation in the social partners' decision-making bodies.
But there are no social partners in the case of these jobs, which poses serious problems.
I think it is quite essential if there is to be any point to this revision of the 1976 directive.
If we are once again to talk about equal pay, even if it is a principle that has already been introduced by the Treaty of Rome, it must be time for us to ask ourselves whether other strategies might not be necessary to abolish the wage gap between men and women when the EU' s overall efforts have proved a failure.
We must take account of the fact that there are differences between collective agreements and wage agreement systems in the Member States.
Instead of direct EU legislation in this area, the EU must provide guidelines and recommendations, and the principle must be incorporated, more than it has been so far, into national action plans for employment and non-discrimination.
In the years to come, the labour market will have a need for a larger workforce, and it is therefore important for us to expend more energy on creating better conditions for women.
Mr President, efforts to equalise pay for male and female workers for work of equal value have been made at European level since 1951.
As stated before, they too play a significant role.
It is also important to involve women more in wage negotiations and in the decision-making process in general, and to recruit more women in decision-making bodies.
I am also expecting the campaign on this topic in the year 2002 to provide a boost for it.
The report we are discussing is an initiative report.
Even in Scandinavian countries, where women have achieved equality, even in political life, it is proving difficult for them to enter decision-making positions in privately owned companies, where salaries are higher.
We therefore have a situation that is out of kilter, in that the laws impose equality but society continues to accept a model that fails to value work undertaken by women.
The laws that have been adopted and the proposals in this area are quite telling.
In Portugal, for example, the government recently presented Parliament with a proposal for a law making parental leave mandatory for a period of at least five days.
The fact that society continues to accept men' s abdication of duties in their home lives constitutes a genuine form of unfair competition to which women are subjected in their professional lives.
If we want to change the situation of disadvantage that women continue to experience in the workplace, we need to change people's attitudes and the practices of the social partners.
And here, the European Union must continue to play a key role.
At the Lisbon Summit, Europe acknowledged that only by increasing the rate of employment for women will it be able to achieve, within ten years, the economic and social development that it wants to see.
To this end, the Commission proposed and the Council accepted equal pay as one of the priorities for 2001 in its programme for equality.
The European Trade Union Confederation has also decided to make this issue its priority for this year.
Mr President, the report's estimated 28% pay differential between men and women is particularly revolting because in many cases even men are not paid nearly enough to make a decent living in the twenty-first century.
But it is not enough simply to make this statement; if Parliament really wanted to put an end to this injustice it would take binding measures and force all employers without exception to respect the principle of equal treatment for men and women on pain of heavy penalties.
But judging by the woolly proposals in the report, there is no question of adopting coercive measures towards employers.
Under these circumstances, even if the European Parliament votes in favour this will be a complete waste of time.
The last report on employment tell us that most of the Member States have given up trying to right this wrong and that this issue is missing from the social dialogue agenda in most countries.
However, there is also genuine discrimination, direct discrimination - in some cases there is unequal pay for equal work - but, above all, value discrimination: women' s work is still considered to be of less value than men' s, even when they have the same qualifications and responsibilities.
I feel that this is a tangible example of an issue which was only resolved in Italy in the mid-80s and which still remains unresolved today in a great many other situations.
The rapporteur has made numerous proposals and, in my opinion, we should follow her recommendations.
In spite of the many initiatives taken over the years and in spite of the positive action taken by the Commission, the pay gap between the women and men of the European Union remains.
Not only do women on average earn 28% less than men for a job of equal value, often their jobs are also more precarious and unpleasant, an issue that is not raised often enough.
Of course we have to take action, and in several directions.
Indeed, at a time when we are entering a new world and facing terrible challenges, those who govern us must realise that this situation is not just discriminatory and unjust, it is not just counterproductive; it is a daily contradiction of the values we believe in and the model of society that Europe must uphold.
We need a statistical analysis of the ratio between men and women as regards the hourly wage for paid employees working longer than 15 hours.
In some Member States, there is a huge gap between the date on which data is collected and the date on which the final results are published.
The second basic point concerns the guidelines for 2002.
I appreciate that this is a very clear strategy which calls on the Member States to set specific targets to reduce the wage differential between men and women.
A few days ago, on 13 September, the Belgian Presidency and the Commission held a major conference on the question of equal pay.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Mr President, the subject of this own-initiative report is certainly not a new problem, but a problem only recently highlighted.
Well, harassment in the workplace is a problem common to all Member States, but it receives very different attention in different places.
Paragraph 24 of the report urges the Commission to publish a Green Paper on the situation regarding harassment in the workplace and then to present an action programme.
Some members of my group reject the report because they believe that this is not a European issue.
Bullying exists in every country of the European Union, in all sectors, and even in the EU institutions themselves.
The dignity of every individual should not be upheld solely on paper and in the Basic Law, but also in our social relations.
A little more respect and fairness and a little less egotism would probably make our debate about harassment unnecessary.
I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation and for including my ideas in his report.
It is in companies' own interests to ensure that these incidents do not occur within their organisations.
Due to the difficulties in arriving at a precise definition, the Commission will not find it easy to draft its proposed Green Paper.
I want first of all on behalf of my group to thank the rapporteur for this report.
It is a sad fact that the Dublin Foundation has found that over 15 million people have reported violence, sexual harassment or bullying in the workplace.
Legislation is in place in Ireland, as part of the health and safety legislation, to ensure that large companies put in place codes of practice to deal with bullying.
The level of stress caused by bullying and harassment in a workplace is tremendous.
But can I turn quickly to the reason for the split votes that the ELDR has asked for on paragraphs 8 and 13.
As has already been said, we should not underestimate the effect that harassment in all its forms has on people's lives and health and the long-term mental and psychological problems we have heard about.
Up to now, very little has really been done to address the problem of harassment generally, so this report is especially welcome as it allows an open debate on an issue that has all too often been ignored.
I would like to express my solidarity with, and sympathy for, Mrs Lynne, who has just told us of a new form of harassment.
Furthermore, there remains much to do in order to eliminate risks to health, both of a physical and chemical origin.
Above all, moral harassment, pestering - which is one possible name for it - seems to me incompatible with Article 1 of the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights: 'Human dignity is inviolable.
Harassment therefore constitutes a risk to health but above all an attack on the person' s dignity.
I therefore welcome this initiative aimed at preventing harassment in the workplace and at preventing workers suffering the pain of helplessness.
Mr President, the question of harassment in the workplace relates directly to respect for fundamental personal rights, the right to dignity and the right to participate in economic and social life on equal terms.
Only once all employees feel safe in the workplace from harassment from colleagues and superiors, once all employees, rather than being ridiculed for their disadvantages, feel comfortable in the work environment, then the groups - and there are a lot of them - which fall victim to harassment will choose to enter the labour market and the fruits of their labour will far exceed any weaknesses they may have.
If we bear in mind that, according to the statistics, the number of people which make up these vulnerable groups is over 8%, the political dimension is easy to see.
In addition to measures to ban harassment, the action plan must require employers to foster a climate of non-harassment between colleagues, accompanied by mutual encouragement between colleagues in the workplace.
Mr President, the report we are discussing today concerns 12 to 15 million people in Europe, that is, between 8% and 10% of European workers.
That is why this report, which is well documented and rigorous, provides a highly encouraging response and sends out a strong signal to the working environment.
In paragraph 12, among the envisaged measures, it emphasises the need for more serious dialogue on this subject between all the social partners and the appointment of an independent external mediator, as also advocated in the amendment I tabled, which I regard as an important guarantee of real progress in this field.
I therefore welcome the rapporteur's proposal to call on the Commission to publish a Green Paper and to present a Community action programme by next year.
On behalf of my group I also support the inclusion of these matters in the Green Paper discussions on corporate social responsibility.
Mr President, around 12 million people in the EU are reported to have been subjected to bullying at work.
Ms Diamantopoulou, we firmly expect the Commission to submit a Green Paper next year on the issue of bullying at work so that we can develop an action programme which will have a sustained impact.
This committee completed its work yesterday and we now have a general definition of violence in the workplace.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
Mr President, it is nearly three years since the Commission tabled a proposal for a directive amending the rules on the emission of pollutants from large combustion plants.
We have met with a great deal of opposition, not only on the part of a number of Member States, but also among some fellow MEPs.
We as the European Parliament have collectively given real significance to the environmental policy, and I should once again like to extend a warm thanks to all the fellow MEPs who contributed to this.
If I compare this with the regulations which currently apply in Japan and the United States, we, who all want things to be done just so, would have cut a very poor figure with the Council' s emission regulations during the discussions on Kyoto.
At the trilogue, agreement was reached provisionally on the Commission' s obligation to extend monitoring - for which we have Mr Hans Blokland to thank - to include emissions of heavy metals.
That was important because those old plants are often least efficient in terms of energy, and also emit a disproportionate amount of greenhouse gases.
By means of the compromise achieved by conciliation, the European Parliament managed to tighten the proposed limits for SO2 and NOx.
The Council agreed, straight away in fact, to a considerable reduction in SO2, especially for the medium-size and large combustion plants, for that is where it matters most.
With regard to NOx emissions, we as Parliament upheld the reduction of NOx limits for large combustion plants between 650 mg per cubic metre and 200 mg for those plants which run on solid fuels.
These limits, however, only apply from 2016 to new and existing plants.
That is, in fact, too late.
All in all, I am therefore of the opinion that conciliation produced a satisfactory agreement and that we went much further than we deemed possible at second reading.
It seems only reasonable to examine these problems together, as in that way we could succeed in reducing emissions in the most cost-effective way.
During conciliation the Commission' s and Parliament' s stricter emission limits were approved as indicative values and the Council' s common position was recognised as binding on Member States.
It was really most significant that the directive on large combustion plants was dealt with so successfully, as it will be a key instrument in helping to carry through this directive on emissions ceilings.
Nor did they give us an accurate assessment or help us assess the impact of what the European Parliament was proposing.
We were therefore faced with the possibility of voting for amendments and voting for reports from our own committee which would have had a very serious economic impact in our own Member State.
Finally though, despite all the difficulties and even the final conciliation, we have a workable and practical proposal.
It is going, in fact, to be extremely hard with regard to some of the requirements, but it strikes a satisfactory balance between the protection of the environment on the one hand and society's need for a reliable and secure source of power at an affordable price, which is something we cannot ignore.
It will not be easy to put all these measures into place.
Mr President, I would like to welcome both the directives and congratulate both rapporteurs as other Members have done.
I have particularly followed the debate on the limitation of emissions of large combustion plants.
These plants are one of the biggest emitters of air pollutants in Europe after transport emissions and therefore it is very important we have stringent legislation to control this.
Again, as other Members have said, we can reassure people that because of the various derogations and allowances for lower standards, which were built into the final compromise text, current power stations such as Aberthaw in my own constituency are under no threat.
My group also supports the compromise which tightens the limit values for sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide and introduces generally stronger standards.
Mr President, I will confine myself to air pollution caused by large combustion plants.
These amendments are still visible in this directive even after conciliation and, among other things, make possible combined heat and power production, which is essential from the point of view of sustainable development.
National limits for emissions and emissions from large energy plants are matters in which Member States have traditionally looked after their own interests and tried to prevent the setting of targets that could jeopardise the competitiveness of Member States themselves or that of the EU as a whole.
The two reports now to be decided on promise good results.
In this instance, it is quite obvious that upgrading existing plants to meet the standards in modern installations presents no problems from a technical point of view.
The proposals on national emission ceilings (NECs) and large combustion plants (LCPs) represent a major advance in Community legislation on air pollution.
The first stage sets legally binding emissions ceilings which Member States will have to meet by 2010.
It provides for a series of periodic reviews - in 2004, 2008 and 2012 - in order to reduce emissions ceilings more in the future: this review system has been strengthened a great deal in response to Parliament's concerns.
The first reviews will try to make up the shortfall by 2010 taking into account total emissions for the Community as a whole as set out in the Commission original proposal.
All reviews will look at how we can achieve our long-term goals of staying below critical environmental levels after 2010.
The year 2020 will then be taken as a benchmark.
In subsequent reviews, the Commission will report, in particular, on progress towards attaining our long-term goals and, with these aims in mind, will consider what further measures are necessary to achieve these goals, as the rapporteur has said, "preferably by 2020".
At the same time, with the large combustion plant proposal, new and tougher emissions standards will apply in the power generation sector, in particular for older power plants which are a major cause of acidification and ozone pollution.
The Commission's analysis of the common position on large combustion plants shows that both sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from this sector will fall substantially as a result of this legislation.
The compromise on the LCP proposal will provide medium-term flexibility to take account of differing circumstances in the Member States as well as substantial environmental benefits in the long term in an enlarged Community.
Parliament has achieved a great deal in this debate and should be very proud of its contribution.
