The people who installed the system have been here for some time trying to find out where the problem is.
Mr President, on page 27 of the annex to the Minutes my vote is recorded as having been cast in favour of Amendment No 20 to the Morillon report.
We want to be registered as voting in favour of the release of Leyla Zana and the other Kurdish prisoners.
My aim throughout the report has been to produce a proposal which is politically mature, eminently reasonable and practical for both the institutions and the citizen.
This report is even more urgent in light of the rules which were adopted by the Council in August, the so-called 'Solana Decision' .
As a collection of 15 Member States we approach the issue of public access to documents differently, but I am glad to see that, largely, the European Parliament stands as a bulwark against the forces which seek to keep the doors of the institutions closed to the public.
Access to documents and information regarding the activities of the institutions enables citizens to hold the EU governing bodies accountable and stimulates greater efficiency.
It is clear that Article 255 of the Treaty permits a broader interpretation of citizens' access to documents of the institutions, so allow me to outline some of the changes in my report.
All the institutions and bodies covered by Article 255 should be expressly stated in the regulation and should include not only committees and working groups, but all agencies created by the institutions.
The classification system outlined in my report is intended to make the process of access to documents easier.
What we must ensure is that the existing or future interinstitutional agreements, referred to in my report, have as their legal basis the Article 255 rule in order to ensure that a coherent framework is agreed between the institutions, with the maximum right of access for the citizen.
Mr President, it was a long time before the European Commission submitted a proposal in the field of openness of government.
There has been a fair amount of criticism on the part of the journalist organisations, the NGOs, a number of Member States and also Parliament.
It therefore comes as no surprise that there is a broad package of amendments, so broad in fact that the regulation is being adapted to a quite considerable extent.
So there is a huge number of amendments and I would like to thank the rapporteur for the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, Michael Cashman, for his cooperation with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and with myself.
Another important amendment is the proposal to have not just the Council, the Commission and Parliament fall within the scope of the regulation, but also all the external bodies.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the right to become acquainted with the contents of the documents of the European Union' s institutions is a precondition of the public' s ability to monitor decision-making generally and influence it.
At the moment in the European Union there already exists the practice of public access to documentation, and we should remember that brave citizens and many progressive Member States have been fighting for increased transparency for many years.
The report we are now examining in many respects takes the situation in a better direction.
This is a vague area, and it is possible that more restrictive provisions may also remain in force, and this is one point in respect of which we have tabled amendments.
Mr President, the right of Members of Parliament to confidential documents is a very important issue, but it cannot replace the direct right of access to information on the part of the public.
In this sphere, too, every document must be examined individually.
The Cashman report is the first step on a long road towards increased openness, democracy and confidence on the part of our citizens.
We are glad that the report repeats a crucial principle that we in the Committee on Budgetary Control also vehemently support.
I also hope that the Council and the Commission can give us a commitment today to continuing to deal with this issue in a positive way so that we might, as quickly as possible, start making the necessary changes to the business procedures in such a way as to benefit people and the image of the institutions.
The Committee would like all documents to be included, irrespective of whether they have been drawn up by the institutions or whether the institutions have them in their possession.
Time is power in our society.
We would also like to emphasis the important role the Ombudsman has played in the progress that has, nevertheless, been made.
Mr President, the Cashman report can be summarised in four words: citizens' power over bureaucracy.
The general public's right of access to the EU institutions' documents is one of the mainstays in the establishment of an open and democratic EU.
The principle of access to documents must of course include all the institutions and bodies of the EU.
The document should then be made available.
The basic principle of the proposal on our table now is that all documents must be made public.
The doctrine of political responsibility must not be confused with the citizens' rights to openness.
Mr President, Mr Cashman, let there be no mistake, my group also feels that your report is a major step forwards in comparison with the Commission' s report.
In other words, as I see it, a link has been established - erroneously so - between the rights of parliamentarians and the rights of the public.
Mr President, we have talked such a lot in Parliament about bringing the Union closer to the people, and I think then, if this is what we really want, that this project is crucial.
I should like to emphasise that we shall, in any case, vote in favour of as broad a definition as we possibly can of what the documents in question are.
There is a multiplicity of documents nowadays, and we should like to ensure that there is a high degree of access to as many different types of document in as many different forms as is humanly possible.
I cannot understand how it can be accepted that citizens of the European Union should have poorer rights of access to documents than citizens in some individual Member States.
I cannot understand why it should be more important or dangerous if something were to be leaked from this 'Community' , as it is called, than if something similar were to be leaked from the Swedish, or possibly Danish, government.
The third concern relates to the limited access to examination scripts from the Union's recruitment competitions.
Our vote will therefore be targeted at finding the right balance between the two extremes.
Mr President, the Commission' s attitude to the right of access to documents may be seen from the internal handbook sent on 11 October to employees of the Commission to tell them how to deal with requests from MEPs for access to documents.
On 13 October, it was sent to Parliament, but I have only just seen it tonight.
There is only one person - the Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control - who is in a position to request information in connection with the discharge procedure.
This internal handbook for employees goes on to state that, if an MEP finds an interesting piece of information in a newspaper and would like to see the document concerned, then there is only one Member of Parliament who can submit such a request, and that is the President of Parliament.
All MEPs are therefore justified in going to their groups... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, transparency ensures greater participation by the citizens in the decision-making process together with greater legitimacy, efficiency and responsibility on the part of the administration in a democratic system.
If it is applied extensively, the list of exceptions in Article 4 could totally destroy the object of this regulation.
The purpose of this regulation is to optimise access to documents while adhering as far as possible to the principle of openness.
The proposed regulation can only achieve that aim if the list of exceptions in Article 4 is toned down, to say the least.
Openness in legislative work and in public administration is, of course, crucial to our democracies being able to function.
But once this report is voted on today, Parliament will stand ready to negotiate with the Commission and the Council a code which will cause citizens to blink in the bright Strasbourg sunshine.
The freedom of information act foreseen in Article 255 will rip it asunder.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur and everyone else involved in this work.
Included in this, apart from this draft legislation which regulates citizens' right of access to documents, are the framework agreement between the Commission and Parliament and other agreements such as the Solana Decision.
The Cashman report constitutes an improvement on the Commission's proposal, but in my opinion the improvement is not sufficient.
The latest report by the Court of Auditors shows how urgently we need changes here.
One thing is for sure, now that unanimity is no longer required in the Council, the only possibility of redressing the balance rests with Parliament.
Furthermore, I feel that, as the Committee on Petitions and the Ombudsman have requested, we also need to endeavour to outline clearly the institutional and bureaucratic stages in the process, defining the responsibilities which - rightly - still lie with the institutions, therefore without separating the different responsibilities within the organisation.
Until now, transparency has been little more than a much-misused slogan when applied to the activities of the EU institutions.
It is not just a matter of the principle of unrestricted access to all documents but also, of course, of finally managing to open the doors of Council meetings, so that in future the Council can no longer take lonely decisions in camera à la Metternich and then go in for cheap 'Brussels bashing' .
The model for us all is the American Freedom of Information Act and the living practice of transparency in Sweden.
I am glad that they have been able to work in close and successful cooperation in this matter.
Naturally, the documents these bodies hold must unambiguously be included within the scope of provisions on accessibility.
It would be better to create provisions in the paragraphs themselves, which would oblige all bodies to publish their documents and create registers on them.
The provision of derogations is a very delicate matter, and what is otherwise an excellent report and a huge increase in transparency will very easily be overshadowed in the minds of the public by any clumsy set of provisions on derogations.
Transparency must become a founding pillar of all the work of the European Union, but the right to access documents is still not enough in itself to establish transparency.
Mr President, there is a yawning gap between Parliament' s position and those of the Council and the Commission.
This gap is symbolic of the distance between the European Union and its citizens.
That is why Parliament is calling for European security and defence policy to be embedded in the structures of the European Commission in future.
Mr President, I would firstly like to express my satisfaction at being able to explain to you the Commission' s position with regard to the amendments tabled by the various committees on the proposal for a regulation, a regulation which we all consider to be of great importance to the reality of democracy and progress in our society.
In accordance with Article 255 of the Treaty, the proposed regulation must be adopted before 1 May 2001, that is to say, two years after the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Before presenting the Commission' s position, I would like to point out that, in drawing up its proposal, the Commission based its work, on the one hand, on the experience and functioning of the voluntary code of the last six years and, on the other, on a study of the legislation of the Member States, some of which have a great deal of experience in providing their citizens access to documents.
The Treaty recognises the citizens' right to have access to the documents of the European institutions in accordance with certain principles and conditions.
When President Prodi addressed Parliament on 3 October, he referred to the institutional triangle and stated that, in a European system based on checks and balances, the efficient functioning of each institution contributes to the common interest.
We are therefore unable to agree to some of the amendments without prejudging a future negotiation and a definitive position in relation to it.
We must go further in relation to the ways in which the regulation will be applied and implemented, because openness, transparency and the provision of access to documents is an attitude which must be strengthened in our respective administrations and which must become a reality.
One of them is the need to achieve a fair balance between openness and efficiency.
I am referring in particular to texts for internal use and to initial drafts and preparatory study documents for exclusively internal use by the institutions.
All national legislation in this field excludes these documents.
Forcing institutions to publish these internal notes could, in many cases, simply lead to confusion amongst the citizens.
The institutions lack experience in this field, since the current system only deals with documents presented by the institutions themselves.
The Commission' s proposal on third-party documents takes account of what was agreed at the last Intergovernmental Conference - in Declaration No 35 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which we cannot ignore - which gives them, both the institutions and the third parties, the final word on whether to publish these documents.
Parliament' s amendments completely reverse this approach and we therefore believe that greater consideration is required and that the proposal for a new Article 4c, Amendment No 36, is not yet sufficiently mature to be accepted favourably by the Commission.
I include here amendments such as those tabled on measures which must be agreed by means of an interinstitutional agreement: Amendments Nos 34, 45, and 48.
As I pointed out previously, in certain cases we can agree in principle to the amendments, but we have to work together from a technical and administrative point of view, for example with regard to the amendments referring to the classification of documents and the register.
The relationships established by the amendments between rules on classification and rules on the content of the register therefore prevent us from accepting at this stage Amendment No 46 relating to the register.
I would like to highlight that, at the right time, the Commission could accept practically all the amendments, such as Amendments Nos 9, 18, 21 in part, 23, 25, 26.1, 28(f), 35, 38, 40.1, 40.6, 41.1, 42, 43.1, 47, 49 and 52.
Furthermore, the Commission believes that we will be able to reach agreement, with some modifications, on Amendments Nos 11, 12, 40.4, 40.7, 43.2, 47, 48.4, 50.1 and 50.2.
I would like to highlight the fact that, although the Commission is only able today to express certain global and positive approaches in certain respects, and with regard to other amendments we are making no comment or only doing so cautiously, this does not mean that we do not want to go ahead with the debate, the negotiation and the search for common ground between the three institutions.
Nobody had time to note down the amendments the Commissioner listed.
I am making this comment because as a rule the Commissioner present gives the Commission' s voting recommendations orally.
But precisely because the Commission - I see the Commissioner is nodding - is unable to give a definitive answer as yet, it is in fact a little risky to get everything down in black and white at this early stage, because then we will lose control of the situation.
So what I would actually like to ask now, is whether Parliament can pursue its own decision-making process, in a sense independently of the Commission' s position, and then we can explore how the rapporteurs can engage in further consultations with the Commission in order to reach a definitive viewpoint.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
The Joint Parliamentary Committee was informed about the most recent developments by the European Commission, the incumbent President of the Council of the European Union, and by the government of the Republic of Malta.
We make a number of political demands in our report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
The rules should be as easy as possible for these institutions to use.
Lastly, and most controversially, the committee strongly called for the use of a fast-track procedure to implement this legislation.
That was not only three years when EU banks were at a severe competitive disadvantage - and there is evidence that they suffered severely - but also three years when European consumers were denied a modern, state-of-the-art regulatory framework.
That is what we will be doing unless we review our procedures.
These amendments replace various other proposals in the report that will probably be rejected in the vote and which will then be replaced by the new amendments arising from this consensus (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President, we have just voted, in the absence of a number of Members, on a declaration on BSE.
Mr Bourlanges, I am afraid that this is a serious illness.
We are dealing with a very important piece of legislation and with important articles.
It so happens that the report has not yet been debated, and will not be until after the voting this evening.
Not only does it raise the financial services issue, it could have far-reaching implications in terms of our procedure, in terms of the codecision procedure and in terms of our relationship with the Commission.
Mr President, a vote has just been taken in favour of postponing my report.
I will go along with this, but had you gone down the list in the right order and not had the vote on the Cashman report first, because a number of people are absent this evening - for that is the reason - then there would still have been time to vote on the Smet report.
Mr President, I find, somewhat to my consternation, that the vote on the report I was to present in plenary and which is on this morning' s agenda has been postponed inadvertently without anyone noticing.
Resolution on BSE (B5-0880/2000) Mr President, I should like to give an explanation of vote on the BSE feed resolution.
I also voted against Amendment No 7 because I do not believe it is possible, but I did vote for the resolution as a whole, especially the ban on the mammalian meat-and-bone meal feed for all farm animals, as we have had in the UK since 1996.
Mr President, I voted for the report on our great Parliament's initiative on the serious crisis in we which find ourselves due to the spread of this epidemic amongst cattle.
I would like to point out that my intention in voting for the motion was, inter alia, to support point 7 of the report.
Cases of BSE have been identified in France because it was the only country in the European Union which took the initiative to apply a system of extensive controls.
Yesterday' s debate in this Chamber on mad cow disease and the safety of animal feed displayed, above all, the extreme confusion in regard to the allocation of responsibilities and in people' s minds.
That is why we want to learn four major lessons which should be borne in mind for the future.
Moreover, the ambiguous wording of Paragraph 4 is bound to raise questions about the resolve of the authorities to oppose, by all possible means, the fraud and swindling of the agri-food trusts, when it would have been so much simpler to say in a few words that the production and use of meat-and-bone meal are totally forbidden. - (FR) We voted in favour of this joint resolution.
The European Parliament must exert pressure on the Commission, which was overly cautious in the proposals it made during the debate.
Finally, this unprecedented crisis emphasises the limitations of the common agricultural policy, which we have seen for many years now.
It is therefore necessary to establish as soon as possible the procedures to prevent the use of anatomical parts liable to lead to the transmission of the virus.
The Commission's proposals contained in the White Paper on food safety and, in particular, the establishment of the authority which is to guarantee this safety, must be implemented as soon as possible - over a year has passed and the authority is not yet operative - in order to avoid the confusion of actions carried out by the governments on the subject causing damage such as that which we are witnessing now.
Above all, yesterday' s debate highlighted the differences of opinion on how to deal with the crisis: differences between Member States, differences of political approach, differences between the Community institutions.
So we are now facing an absolutely fundamental safety problem affecting the public health of our peoples and the very future of an entire industry that plays a decisive role in the social balance in some of our Member States.
The debate has shown that the Council Presidency and the Commission are very much at sea on this issue.
It decided it was a good idea to pour derision on the protective measures adopted by some Member States, in particular with its reference to 'magic' in regard to the total ban on meat-and-bone meal.
The Commission is clearly envisaging no more than half-way measures, which will take away from and not add to the countries with the most stringent safety, whereas, in line with the principle of subsidiarity, it should be giving Member States back the freedom of action they need to protect their people effectively, to ensure their safety, taking account of public opinion in their country, the political resolve there, the scale of the epidemic in their country and the place of the sectors involved in that country' s economy and their society.
The Commission proposal goes back to 1998, but, because of the many points of disagreement between Parliament and the Council, the Conciliation Committee had to be convened on 11 October.
These two treatment methods must form part of a global strategy that covers the prevention, re-use and recycling of waste, a strategy that is coordinated at European level.
In the course of the debates that marked the two readings by the European Parliament, I expressed my doubts and fears about lumping hazardous and non-hazardous waste together in the same directive.
It managed to get this point through during the conciliation procedure.
The European Parliament has been to the forefront in devising new waste management strategies in recent years.
All these measures reflect changing public opinions on the issue of waste management.
Figueiredo report (A5-0307/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Figuereido report on the eradication of social exclusion and poverty, to quote the actual text of the report.
The main reason we did not vote against it is because its author set out a few good intentions.
This figure of 65 million poor is not the effect of some misfortune that has come out of the blue; it is the result of the greed of a privileged capitalist class intent on boosting company profits and stock exchange rates, which therefore makes people redundant, closes down factories, reducing 15 million women and men to unemployment, and puts such pressure on all wages that the lowest wages are not enough to live on.
The report proposes a budget of EUR 100 million over five years to combat poverty.
We realise that no report and no vote, even by the European Parliament, can alter this situation.
Let me remind you that Lisbon defined a common strategy of social inclusion.
Social exclusion is a very real phenomenon, as the Eurostat statistics show: some 18% of the population of the European Union lives on less than 60% of the average national income - this is the low-income threshold taken to measure relative poverty - which means that 65 million people live on low incomes.
Even though the unemployment rate has fallen, there are still 16 million unemployed in the European Union.
I unreservedly support the proposal to implement a second Luxembourg process to deal with social exclusion, containing guidelines and national action programmes.
The Lisbon European Council set the European Union the objective of becoming a knowledge-based, competitive and inclusive society.
Universal service has a prime role to play in this regard.
The primary purpose of the report is to support a programme of Community action to encourage cooperation between Member States of the EU to combat social exclusion.
The fact of the matter is that long-term unemployment and youth unemployment are quite concentrated in particular areas within the European Union.
Devising initiatives to defeat the problems of social exclusion and to give hope and opportunities to the disadvantaged in our society must be a central core policy of all governments within the EU at this time.
I believe that the rapporteur is right when he calls for greater participation of public authorities, social partners and civil society in measures to defeat poverty and social exclusion at this time.
Since Europe cannot be economically strong without social justice, we can only welcome this progress.
That is why I have no option but to vote in favour of this report by our colleague, which not only endorses the Commission' s proposal but also enhances its content.
Moreover, the report calls on the Member States to be more proactive and set precise objectives when they draw up their national action plans.
In conclusion, our Committee on Social Affairs, is proposing a budget of EUR 100 million instead of the EUR 70 proposed by the Commission.
That is why we will vote in favour of the report on combating exclusion.
Yet the Members who will be endorsing this text today did not show the same surge of solidarity when they voted for a Charter without social rights which, in reducing measures to combat exclusion to the level of measures of assistance, constitutes a step backward in relation to much of the legislation now in force.
In submitting its proposal for a programme to combat social exclusion, the Commission is complying with the Council' s call to present "by June 2000" an "initiative for cooperation in this field".
According to Eurostat figures, some 18% of the population of the EU live on less than 60% of the average national income (taking the low-income threshold as a measure of relative poverty).
Cooperation between Member States is crucial for tackling these deep rooted problems that exist all across the EU, but particularly in my own constituency in the North-West of England.
Moss Side and Salford are amongst the most deprived inner city areas in the whole of Europe.
The British Labour Government has been leading the fight against poverty and social exclusion.
This is a great example of the Labour Government delivering concrete benefits to ordinary people.
Rothe report (A5-0320/2000) Mr President, I abstained from the vote for one specific reason: in my opinion, this report has not made the environmental progress that I hoped and called for.
What the report seeks is precisely the opposite.
Mr President, I voted for the report on the promotion of electricity from renewable energy sources.
These projections, which are dramatic in the very short term, should convince us of the need to adopt clear, proactive measures at European level targeted at checking this process of degradation in the quality of the environment.
The Commission proposal and the Rothe report we voted for today follow that line in calling for the promotion of renewable energy sources, which are alternative sources that respect the environment in the production of electricity.
The Member States must now pursue the same line and respect the environmental objectives they endorsed both at European level and at international level, but they must also ensure their independence as regards energy and security of supplies.
At present, the Union is dependent on outside supplies for about 50% of its energy, and that figure may well rise to 70% by the year 2020 unless we develop renewable energy sources.
It is the European Commission' s aim to double the share of renewable energy sources in the total consumption of energy by the year 2010.
In Finland peat is an important renewable energy source, and accounts for 6% of all fuel used.
The importance of nuclear energy is increasing constantly, for this very reason.
Obviously we have to observe more progressive and effective safety and security rules when using nuclear energy and when storing nuclear waste.
Yesterday, 15 November, the Finnish energy company, Teollisuuden Voima, requested the Finnish Council of State to give a decision, in principle, on the construction of a fifth nuclear reactor.
I hope our government and parliament will take a positive view of this request.
A first step here is consistently to break down all obstacles to the use of renewables.
Everyone wants a method of electricity production that is as environmentally-friendly as possible, but they also want it as cheaply as possible.
If clean energy remains an expensive option then it will also remain an elite form of energy for some time to come.
Clean energy must be available to all and affordable to all.
ASEM III resolution (B5-0811/2000) - (FR) In Seoul we saw the blatant contrast between the official summit of the Heads of State and Government and the citizens' and popular movements in which I took part.
The alternative forum also encouraged interparliamentary contacts, punctuated by a meeting at the South Korean National Assembly on 18 October.
Mr President, as we all know, the European Union has, through the Commission, the Council and, particularly, the European Parliament, for a long time maintained excellent relations with Central America, its institutions and, specifically, the countries that comprise it.
In Central America, there is already a Secretariat for Regional Integration, a Central American Bank, a Central American Upper House and a Central American Parliament.
We received a delegation from that parliament and made a commitment to improving the political profile not only of its role in that part of the world but also of relations between our Parliament and the Central American Parliament.
This resolution, therefore, means giving political support to the Central American Parliament, to the democratic stage par excellence, which must strive to be the focus of pluralist debate in that part of the world, and, at the same time, it means sending the message that Europe is in favour of regional integration in that part of the world.
Mr President, Commissioner, the resolution being tabled in this House today on the situation in Central America is timely given the recent visit of a delegation from the Central American Parliament to Brussels.
It is timely for three important reasons that affect this special American region, not to mention the importance and political appropriateness of strengthening the dialogue between the European Parliament and the Central American Parliament.
Thirdly, because it also coincides with the current philosophy of the European Commission in favour of redirecting Union external action towards the countries of Latin America with the potential impact that this may have.
In this regard, we hope and trust that the necessary amounts will be allocated to provide impetus for the process of regional integration in Central America, where dialogue is becoming necessary and essential as a permanent political exercise.
We are therefore pleased with this political declaration by our Parliament in relation to the Central American Parliament, because it recognises the role that this institution plays in the process of integrating the countries of this area, situated between the north and south of America.
I remember very well that throughout these years this delegation has maintained extraordinary relations with Parlacen and with the other Latin American parliaments.
We believe that, not only now but since Parlacen was born, there are people who wish it to have fewer competences and less of a presence, because a parliament always creates discomfort, but I believe that the vocation of Parlacen, and of this and other parliaments, is to be of benefit to the people it represents, even if this may make the established powers feel uncomfortable.
Mr President, in this debate, we wish to express - as many previous speakers have done very effectively - this Parliament' s solidarity with, and support for, the Central American Parliament at a time when we are fighting to continue to prioritise the European Union' s external relations with the countries of Latin America.
Mr President, parliaments - as you and all of us in Parliament know very well - have today, more than ever, the difficult task, amongst others, of showing leadership in the development of our societies, of leading the quest for solutions to the many problems facing us by strengthening the values of democracy and social justice which we stand for.
In the case of the Central American Parliament, this task is, if possible, even more important given the enormous challenge of the integration and structural development of these societies on the basis of peace, dialogue and reconciliation.
I believe that the European Parliament is capable of demonstrating, through its actions, that it has a very positive view of the work of Parlacen by offering it its support and experience.
Within the framework of our respective integration processes, it is clear that both the European Parliament and the Central American Parliament are required to play an increasingly important role.
The Central American Parliament will continue on its own course and will take a political path in a Central America which, I believe, wishes to and must regain possession of itself in a full union of diversity.
The Central American Parliament, like the European Parliament, must gain prestige, credibility and legitimacy on the basis of the activity of its political groups, because the life of the parties is, or at least should be, a faithful reflection of the societies they represent.
Mr President, through this resolution we therefore wish to express our support for, and solidarity with, the Central American Parliament and also to ask the Commission to decisively support the multiannual programme which Parlacen has presented to the Commission, since we believe that, as an institution, it legitimises the process of integration in Central America and serves as a symbol of a new era of dialogue and peace.
I agree with the words of the honourable Member from the Canary Islands Coalition insofar as we show our support for Parlacen because of its importance in terms of the consolidation of democratic structures and, therefore, we, as the European Parliament, must stand united with an institution such as that.
I believe that on these issues we have to continue to preach at home what we want to happen throughout the world, without averting our eyes when human rights are trampled underfoot in other parts of the world.
Mr President, the Commission takes note of the proposals for resolutions tabled by Parliament on respect for human rights in Central America, the process of democratisation and regional integration, and on the special importance which you attach to the role of the Central American Parliament.
The Commission follows the situation in the region with great interest and our priority objectives in our relations with the region focus on the three points which you have highlighted: respect for human rights, the consolidation of the democratic process and the strengthening of regional integration.
With regard to human rights, we have, since 1990, been supporting the cooperation programmes in favour of respect for human rights by means of education and raising awareness in this area.
You are well aware that between 1990 and 2000 EUR 65 million has been spent on this activity, which we continue to support with a view to the future.
For the next multiannual programme, which will begin soon, we are considering an additional contribution of more than EUR 10 million in order to continue this activity.
Within our framework of cooperation with the area, we have paid special attention to all those institutions which support regional integration, the general secretariat of the Central American Integration System, the Court of Justice and especially Parlacen, which is one of our priority objectives.
Finally, in the dialogue with the Central American authorities, the Commission is also reiterating the importance which must be attached to the process of regional integration as an instrument to consolidate democratisation and development in the region.
On this issue, we are also working on the definition of a new cooperation programme which should allow us to concentrate on these three fundamental elements: economic integration - the implementation of common policies - the strengthening of the institutions and the strengthening of civil society.
These points seem to us to be essential and should be the key elements of our multiannual programme between 2000 and 2006.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, for a long time Côte d'Ivoire stood out as a pillar of stability and relative prosperity in the tormented life of West Africa.
In this way he has brought Côte d'Ivoire to the brink of civil and ethnic war.
Now this process needs to be confirmed rapidly by the organisation of free, transparent and pluralist legislative elections in which all the political forces can take part.
We must take note of this return to a democratic process that may indeed be incomplete, but that we must continue to support.
The extreme confusion that has characterised the electoral process over recent weeks in Côte d'Ivoire, which had looked like a model economy until now, is symptomatic of a country in crisis, reflected by an economy in crisis, social despair and, consequently, political chaos.
Similarly, this democratic process can only become more credible if a national reconciliation committee is created, together with a national electoral committee to prepare and guarantee future elections, especially the elections of 10 December.
We as a European Union, must be prepared to continue to provide assistance, but this will only be possible if the country is run properly and democratisation really takes shape.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe the first question that arises in Côte d' Ivoire is that of democracy.
For almost a year now, a few of us in this House, in particular most of my colleagues, have been alerted to the situation in Côte d' Ivoire, which I really believe offers a perfect example of how not to do things.
Everybody just let it happen, as though they had not learned any lessons from Rwanda or former Yugoslavia.
And now they are surprised to see General Gueï end up rigging the elections.
First of all, I believe the European Union should welcome the fact that the new president, Laurent Gbagbo, is setting up a national reconciliation committee.
And indeed that is why President Gbagbo must not dismiss the possibility of holding presidential elections, as the direct follow-up to these legislative elections.
But above all, we must, in my view, insist much more firmly on this racist constitution being declared null and void.
In the same way, I believe that the 14 parties that have been excluded must be reintegrated and play a full part in these elections.
The European Union must also make sure that none of its members establishes relations with its former colonies - and let me emphasise this - that are based solely on economic interests or geostrategic location.
It was on the basis of such considerations that Hubert Védrine, the head of the French diplomatic service, actually went so far as to explain that from a certain point of view these elections were legal because they were founded on a constitution.
The European Union, and also this Parliament, made an important contribution to this by demanding that democratic elections take place and instituting the suspension procedure.
At least 170 people died and 350 were wounded.
It would not be illogical for the European Union to immediately demand new presidential elections, in which all candidates would be able to participate this time round.
But I recognise that there are a number of reasons for not doing so.
After all, against this background, he offered his opponents various ministerial posts and declared 9 November a national day of mourning.
As some delegates have already said, this must inevitably lead to the parliamentary elections on 10 December, which all parties must be able to take part in.
But the real test for Gbagdo will be on 10 December.
But we must also say that the day of reconciliation on 9 November will send out new signals in regard to establishing democracy and the rule of law and taking seriously the demand for national reconciliation.
The European Union has been asked, and has declared itself prepared, to help ensure that the elections in December, as well as the local elections in January, are conducted in a peaceful, fair, free and transparent manner.
We know that millions of people living in Côte d'Ivoire come from one of its neighbouring countries.
Conversely, we refuse to associate ourselves with the representatives of political parties who were or are involved in France' s Africa policy.
Mr President, by means of various recent declarations, the European Union has condemned the abuses of General Gueï' s regime; it has also expressed its regret at the outright exclusion of the main opposition candidates from the election of 22 October, which has to a large extent limited the credibility of that very electoral process.
The Union has condemned General Gueï' s attempt to confiscate the election results and subsequently the army' s violent repression of the demonstrations in favour of Laurent Gbagbo and, above all, the bloody inter-ethnic massacres which have been perpetrated on the native people of the north of Côte d' Ivoire.
The Commission believes that in the current circumstances the priority should be for the legislative elections that are scheduled to be held on 10 December to be open and transparent.
These elections must enable the political parties that were excluded from the presidential election to be represented at national level and thereby compensate, though only partially, for the defects of that first election.
These elections should make up one of the key elements of the national reconciliation that we all wish to see and are calling for.
The European Community will provide financial support for these elections to be held, and we will also cooperate by providing some one hundred observers.
Once these elections have taken place and depending on the way they are carried out, we will be able to consider holding in-depth discussions with the new Ivoirian authorities in order to determine the conditions in which we can re-establish our cooperation.
The Commission recognises other priorities with regard to emergencies, which are closely related to issues such as health or education, especially in rural areas, and this is fundamental to this process being carried out in an open and democratic manner.
The joint debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 5.30 p.m.
Burma/Myanmar: Mr President, I am very glad that there has been such strong support across the House for the powerful statement we have in this resolution condemning the military junta in Burma.
The forthcoming EU/ASEAN meeting in Laos in December offers us a crucial opportunity to demonstrate our condemnation of this regime in the strongest terms.
We are calling for the Council and the Commission to postpone that meeting, to call it off, until the Burmese junta releases all political prisoners without conditions and allows freedom of movement for Aung San Suu Kyi and her party members and until the Burmese junta enters into a meaningful dialogue with the election-winning NLD and the ethnic minorities.
The opportunity to call off and to postpone this meeting that is due next month in Laos offers us the opportunity to make the statement in the strongest terms, to send the strongest possible signal that we condemn this illegal regime.
Aung San Suu Kyi must be released and allowed to travel freely and a troika must be allowed to go to Burma and to go anywhere and meet anyone they like.
Aung San Suu Kyi has reiterated recently that constructive engagement with Rangoon is not working and she and the NLD have asked for the meeting to be postponed.
If the EU goes ahead, the junta would be encouraged and heartened by the decision to sit our foreign ministers from democratic European governments around a table which includes the military junta of Burma.
Mr President, there are several reasons as to why we are once again discussing Burma - in fact this is the second time since the summer - and nor is this the first time this year that this country has been on the agenda.
It is true that James Mawdsley, the activist we talked about two months ago, has been released since then.
The military regime in Burma claims to be able to maintain order and stability in a country where ethnic rivalries are never far away.
Its sad inheritance of colonialism and neo-colonialism obliges the European Union to take a firm, very brave and decisive stance, in order to aid the re-establishment of democracy in various parts of the world, such as Latin America, which currently faces the problem of Guatemala with its fight against the impunity of military figures, Africa or, in this case, Burma.
We therefore reaffirm the importance of this resolution and the firm commitment of the Commission and the Council in this direction.
As we sit here in our climate-controlled comfort, the democratically elected parliamentarians of Burma are under house arrest, in hiding and under the gravest possible threat.
Twice since last September we have passed resolutions deploring the administration in Burma and despite our clear and heartfelt views on this matter, we know that the EU countries will be sending foreign ministers to meet their ASEAN counterparts in Laos next month.
Yesterday Mr James Mawdsley, who was released from Burma, sent me a message which I want to read out to you.
The regime also boasts that they will kill all Karen and they are committing genocide among the Karen, Karenni and Shan ethnic groups of Burma.
The regime's hatred of the ethnic groups and for the NLD cannot be checked by appeals to reason or morality.
Mr President, for many years I have had a poster on the wall of my office of Aung San Suu Kyi when she was awarded the Sakharov Prize by this Parliament.
But, as has been said by many of the excellent speeches this afternoon, there remains still nothing but despair about this wonderful, gentle, charming and immensely brave woman and her attempts to keep the flag of freedom flying in her own country.
ASEAN has become, in every sense of the word, a paper tiger in its failure to deal with the awful events in Burma.
However, I do believe that the international community needs to move on from rhetoric to real action and, as a member of Parliament's Delegation for relations with the Member States of ASEAN, South-east Asia and the Republic of Korea, I am disappointed and concerned like others before me that the EU has decided to enter into dialogue with ASEAN in Laos next month at ministerial level.
I know the arguments that the ASEAN Member States have put to our delegation about including Burma in this group.
Burma has been a Member of ASEAN for a number of years and there is absolutely no evidence to date that shows any improvement or an end to forced labour or executions or suppression of free speech and free movement.
The list of human rights violations by this regime continues to get longer and longer each year.
The junta should also enter into dialogue with the NLD and the ethnic nationalities.
Mr President, the human rights situation in Burma continues to deteriorate under the not-so-gentle control of the military junta.
But it not just Aung San Suu Kyi, it is not just the military, it is not just the NLD - there are almost 3 000 political prisoners who are suffering from hard labour and torture.
Vietnam Mr President, I am delighted that Vietnam is on the agenda at last.
So I believe this is an important resolution.
Mr President, I agree in many important respects with the previous speakers, because much of what is happening in Vietnam today is unacceptable.
I myself once travelled in this country and came to know its vitality, beauty and wealth of resources.
If you are now more or less announcing that you will vote against these amendments, then unfortunately I must announce that we will probably abstain from the vote on this resolution.
The war between these two countries has not led to lasting bitterness.
Contrary to Amendment No 1 tabled by the PSE Group, I noted in a document published on 10 November, that Human Rights Watch regards the human rights situation as being grave on quite a number of counts.
The most recent edition of the Asian weekly 'Far East and Economic Review' today refers to the existence of top secret documents originating from Vietnam.
President Clinton would do well to raise this matter during his present visit to Hanoi.
Firstly, with regard to Myanmar, my colleague Chris Patten has already condemned before this House the constant violations of human rights by the military regime in Burma: executions without trial, the widespread imposition of forced labour, the enforced uprooting of local populations, hundreds of political prisoners in the country' s prisons and the clear hindering of the free functioning of political parties.
He also expressed his concern about the detention and harassment of Aung San Suu Kyi and the members of the National League for Democracy.
However, the Commission remains convinced that a lasting solution to the current situation can only be found by means of dialogue between the military regime, the democratically elected opposition and the representatives of the ethnic minorities.
The General Affairs Council has tried to persuade the military regime of the value of this argument in favour of political dialogue and to exert pressure so that there might be changes and it will continue to do so.
Despite everything, we are convinced that we must not allow the situation prevailing in Myanmar to hijack the dialogue between the European Union and ASEAN.
Three years have passed since we held a ministerial meeting with our ASEAN partners, which is far too long a time in our relations with a region that is important for the European Union from the political and economic points of view.
However, that does not mean that, either now or in December, we should behave as if the accession of Myanmar to ASEAN had not affected our relations, because it has.
Our ASEAN partners know this very well and are concerned to repair this damage; on the other hand, they know that encouraging Burma to make a genuine effort and to put an end to its appalling behaviour in the field of human rights is the best way to revive relations between the Union and ASEAN.
I believe that the European Union-ASEAN ministerial meeting should be taken as a new opportunity to clearly and firmly express our opinions on the situation prevailing in Burma, both to the regime itself as well as to the members of ASEAN.
We will therefore exert pressure on the military regime to put an end to the violations of human rights and begin a dialogue with the democratically elected opposition and the representatives of the ethnic minorities.
With regard to the issue of Vietnam and the human rights situation, I would like to point out the following: we must remember that Vietnam is a country in transition, that its government initiated a process which led to the adoption in 1986 of a reform programme that embraced external relations and political and economic change.
Furthermore, the process has led to the signing of a cooperation agreement between the Commission and Vietnam in 1995.
During this time, Vietnam has made advances towards a market economy, which has, in particular, led to its presentation of a request to join the World Trade Organisation.
Furthermore - and I think this should be highlighted today - within the framework of the new constitution adopted in 1992, Vietnam has an elected national parliament, which has the duty of adopting legislation and to which the government must answer in relation to its policies.
The circumstances surrounding the execution at the beginning of this year of a Vietnamese-Canadian citizen undoubtedly support our convictions in this regard.
Along with the Member States, the Commission participates in all the initiatives adopted by the European Union directed at the Vietnamese Government in relation to human rights and I can assure you that, within this process, we will continue to raise specific problems and cases and to promote a steady improvement in the human rights situation in Vietnam.
Mr President, I just want to ask Commissioner Solbes Mira whether he can give a few details of this revolutionary development, namely the elections of a democratic parliament in Vietnam, to which he referred in his statement.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
The EU has a wonderful opportunity to really take a lead in this change to an ecologically sustainable society where we will not have to deal with floods partly caused by our own inability to face up to the consequences of our own actions.
Two major roads were cut for a number of days: the A38 north of Gloucester and the A417 west of Gloucester.
In Devon, the River Taw had the highest level since records began.
In Somerset, we had tidal flooding across the coastline.
In Dorchester, the River Frome was so high that a major-incident plan was invoked to deal with the possible consequences.
The resolution calls on the Commission and the Member States to waste no time in expressing their support in practical ways by marshalling workers and equipment under the five-year plan establishing a Community action programme in the field of civil protection which was adopted on 9 December 1999.
However, this resolution tabled right across Parliament, including by my colleagues from England, deals with a very real and short-term problem faced by thousands and thousands of people in Britain and across Europe.
There is a question as to whether some of these people who have been flooded will be able to be reinsured and whether the insurance companies will take this on again.
I ask you all to support our resolution.
In my own constituency the towns of Clonmel, Fermoy and Mallow were the worst affected.
It is very regrettable that we, the European Union, do not have a budget line to assist those who face these particular difficulties, despite my attempts and attempts by others over many years to get such a budget line instated.
Mr President, Commissioner, the floods which have affected various areas of northern Italy and other European countries such as the United Kingdom, Spain, Ireland and France in recent weeks once again raise the issue for Parliament both of an extraordinary, urgent intervention to alleviate the distress of the people, communities and companies affected, and a longer term policy to prevent the repetition of natural disasters of this scale.
Certain regions of Italy have suffered particularly badly for the second time in less than a month.
The damage is considerable this time as well, people have died and the material damage has been enormous.
And given the remarkable scale of the disaster, the request made in the resolution which we tabled together with other groups is totally justified, despite the fact that these issues have been debated recently in this House - on 26 October to be precise - and that a Parliamentary resolution was adopted on that occasion as well.
Mr President, throughout their various interventions, MEPs have concentrated on two quite different points: in the first place, the problem of climate change and, in the second place, what the Commission or the European Union can do in a situation like the present one, with the extremely serious floods that have occurred.
With regard to the first subject, I should like to point out that, as Parliament also does, we attach great importance to the problem of climate change and to the conference that is at this moment taking place in The Hague.
The energy and transport sectors produce 85% of the total emissions of greenhouse gases in the European Union.
On this basis, the Commission is shortly going to be proposing two strategic documents: a combination of policies and measures designed to provide a response to the Kyoto commitments and to the objectives regarding transport and energy.
The Commission has taken two initiatives along these lines.
The Commission' s proposal, which Commissioner Wallström explained in detail in this Parliament, is therefore to use the currently existing EAGGF funds, or the structural funds of the Interreg funds.
As we said just now, we are entirely sympathetic to these practical projects, and I want to insist upon this point today, but it is absolutely essential to be able to rely on these proposals if we are to be able to take action.
The article does not relate to Community aid, but relates to the compatibility of national aid with Community legislation.
What this article says is that, in the case of natural catastrophes, national aid may be compatible.
The vote will take place today at 5.30 p.m.
Mr President, I regard this a relatively important report, because it concerns a policy that accounts for a significant share of public expenditure, both at European Union level and at the level of its component Member States.
So we should now be voting on this highly important text in the presence of only 171 MEPs, which is the number just counted.
Postponing the vote would mean postponing the task we entrust to the Commission.
But if you would permit me please, I should like to say that, whatever the view of the House on this issue, I do not appreciate the fact that almost constantly today various colleagues, in various groups, for various reasons - which may be sound - have removed our right to vote here in Strasbourg on Thursday, let alone Friday.
As a general principle, this is a very bad way to proceed.
I would urge caution on all colleagues in all of the committees and groups who choose now progressively to undermine the dignity and substance of the work of this House. (Applause) Thank you Mr Cox.
Amendment 1: Mr President, on behalf of rapporteur Rocard, I would like, in any case, to table an oral amendment to Amendment No 1.
There was a large crowd of pensioners and elderly people and they said to me: "Mr Fatuzzo, we were not able to vote for your Pensioners' Party because, as you see, we are here in the afterlife.
The economic and social policy of the ÅU, which has resulted in the reduced purchasing power of and facilities available to workers, as regards the payment of contributions, the emergence of new diseases and the unaccountability of pharmaceutical companies, have caused health costs to spiral.
Differences between insurance systems in individual Member States and obstacles to the free movement of people and freedom of residence in another Member State cannot be used as a pretext for privatising a large part - and later all - of the health care system.
This is a serious problem if it means that people are to be treated differently on the basis of their financial circumstances and health situation.
Michel Rocard' s report emphasises that health insurance is primarily a concern for the Member States and that the proximity principle should apply.
Because that is so, I think it is premature to incorporate in this resolution a long and very detailed list of points to be included in a proposal for a Commission directive.
Instead of regarding health insurance as part of remuneration for work or as part of payments replacing wages, increasingly, this provision is being made dependent on savings and investments.
These national provisions are life-saving measures.
However, if we are to have an effective system that can cope with increasing pressure on existing national services, and that makes Europe a healthier place for our citizens, then we should also recognise the importance of supplementary insurance providers.
The health of our citizens is extremely precious.
In effect, we are having a first reading before the proposals have been tabled.
Some people in this House think that it fatally undermines Parliament's powers.
We are here to use our powers in the interests of European businesses and our constituents, and we shall not be forgiven if we fail to do so.
I appeal to all colleagues and particularly to the Socialist Group, to re-examine their views on this matter and look at what safeguards they would like to see in primary legislation to enable the delegation of powers.
The report refers to a growing consensus that the present framework fails adequately to capture the changes in the financial sector over the past ten years.
Given that the phrase "growing consensus" - I am quoting from the report - in fact implies that there is no consensus on the subject as yet, we are justified in asking whether the institution promoting this reform, the chosen instrument and the chosen time are really appropriate.
One cannot help feeling that Parliament, following the Commission, feels obliged to align its activities with those of the Basel committee, which, let me remind you, has no legitimate right to impose its views on the Member States.
Yet this report does have some merits, ladies and gentlemen, including the fact that it represents real progress in relation both to the first Basel text and to the Commission text.
Our rapporteur, Mrs Villiers, who has been responsible for some excellent work, mentioned in her report the possibility of applying a fast track method.
Let me briefly address the problem that in Basel we are creating a framework for systems that are not necessarily compatible, systems in the USA and systems in Europe, and here we must ensure that we do not ride roughshod over a particular area.
We know that the large banks are no longer interested in them.
During the procedure we must not think about whether we are surrendering rights, but about the degree of detail to which we regulate matters in Europe in future, or where we should simply establish the framework and pass on certain instruments of adjustment to other institutions, such as the Commission, but also Basel.
Today we in the European Parliament must also send out the signal that we will not allow our established systems to be put at risk and that the large banks will also face problems if a legal framework is created in Europe.
We also think that this report makes an important and satisfactory contribution to the whole process.
The reaction to the two consultation documents on this subject - that of the European Commission and that of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision - has been positive, and I should like to comment on the latter document.
It has no legislative power, but nor should it be forgotten that it is a matter of actual fact that the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision belongs to the Group of the Ten and that, even though it is not a legislative body, its standards apply in 130 countries and are used by a multiplicity of international organisations, including the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and, obviously, third countries.
The report coincides, to a large degree, with the ideas of the Commission and the objectives we are trying to achieve.
The Commission will continue to be especially vigilant in ensuring that the potentially most vulnerable sectors are taken into account.
We all know that, on this point, Mr Lamfalussy has prepared a very clear and enormously useful report which may help us produce legislation that is more effective, more efficient and, so to speak, better adjusted to the changes occurring in the market.
It is at present far too soon to speak of the Commission' s adopting a formal position on these subjects, but perhaps we can define a number of outline features of the possible approach.
A first level would include the basic principles, or codes principals, to be included in certain norms such as directives.
In the second place, there would be a level of technical detail covering that area which will be most subject to change if we want the regulations to reflect best practice.
We would be talking about a second level of decision-making.
Turning to the points in the specific amendments which are to be made and which have been included in the report, I should like to make two comments.
With regard to Amendment No 12 on the supervisory review system, I should like to point out that it is already within the powers of the supervisors to request or establish levels in excess of the minimum capital requirements.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Mr President, we are here today to debate the first of two reports on modifying the statute and general conditions governing the performance of the Ombudsman' s duties.
We therefore now need to adapt its statute to the Financial Regulation and propose that two articles be deleted - Article 12 and Article 16 of Parliament' s 1994 decision - which, as we all know, approved the general conditions of the performance of the European Ombudsman' s duties.
Given that we will soon have to apply ourselves in this Parliament to fundamental changes to the statute of the European Ombudsman, which are still being discussed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to whose report I have been given access and which addresses the issue of extending the Ombudsman' s powers of investigation, we will wait until then for a complete, qualitative revision of the text of that statute.
Mr President, I hope the rapporteur will not mind if I say that this is a relatively obscure report that we are taking fairly late on a Thursday evening and that it goes right to the very heart of democracy in the European Union: How do we protect the rights of European citizens?
The Ombudsman has a distinctive role and position in the framework of the European institution, but it is a role that requires autonomy.
That is why the Ombudsman needs to be financially autonomous and as independent as possible so that we in this Parliament cannot be accused of calling the tune.
The public need to have the utmost confidence that the Ombudsman is completely impartial in his investigations.
It is perhaps also worth pointing out to European citizens that the Ombudsman's office - not him personally - costs something like EUR 3.9 million a year or less than one cent per person in the European Union.
As a result of this, the Petitions Committee, in the González Álvarez report, said that the procedure to amend the Ombudsman's statute should be seen in the light of Article 195 of the European Communities Treaty.
Let us never forget that the role of the Ombudsman is one that is enshrined in the European treaties.
The EPP/ED Group supports the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the Ombudsman's competences should be enlarged and the sooner the better, especially in the fields of the Ombudsman's investigative powers laid down in Article 3 of the 1994 decision.
We in my group appreciate the Ombudsman's support for the Petitions Committee, the committee that is responsible for relations between the Ombudsman and Parliament.
In this respect the EPP/ED Group encourages the Ombudsman to continue his work through his special reports which we are always ready to consider in a positive spirit of cooperation with the Ombudsman.
The EPP/ED Group supports this report therefore and hopes that this, along with the Bösch report on the Ombudsman's report on recruitment procedures, is a sign of the European Parliament's continued commitment to increasing transparency and accountability.
We do not need extra work and we do not want to see examples of maladministration, but it is important that we remind European citizens that the office of Ombudsman is there to help them if problems of maladministration arise.
Mr President, the Commission can be very brief on this matter.
The Commission has already signalled its agreement on this matter in the past, both for technical budgetary reasons and for reasons to do with the independence of the Ombudsman' s duties.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the report we are debating this evening fits very well into today's agenda, because around midday today we already adopted an important report on access to documents, and I believe what we are discussing now and will have to decide tomorrow is very closely related to that.
In relation to the Ombudsman, a matter we have just been discussing, there were several complaints in the past about the lack of transparency in regard to recruitment, and that is a very crucial point, because we entirely agree with the Ombudsman's view that recruitment procedures are many young EU citizens' first contact with the European institutions.
Mr President, speaking both as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and on behalf of my own group, I, too, very much welcome this.
We particularly welcome the reforms and changes which we believe ought to be and, Commission-willing, will be introduced as a result of this report.
After all, access to documentation is a fundamental civil right and no documentation is more important to a candidate than documentation in relation to examinations.
Not only the Commission but the other institutions and bodies of the Community ought to comply with the Ombudsman's recommendations, even in the case of recruitment procedures which have already been initiated.
It is regrettable that the Commission agreed to apply the Ombudsman's recommendation only for recruitment procedures launched after June 2000.
We would also like to draw attention to the point about temporary and auxiliary posts in the institutions, offices and bodies of the Community and the Union.
Our group was very satisfied with the vote in the Committee on Petitions.
We studied them and we can accept three of them, which are in line with the way we voted in committee.
We think the others are difficult to implement, or even rather out of context.
The Ombudsman looks after the public interest in the direction of the administration.
In addition, the report urges all the institutions and bodies of the European Communities to allow applicants to have access to their corrected examination papers in future recruitment competitions, if they so request.
Having good staff and officials is obviously in itself essential for well-functioning institutions and this can only be assured if the recruitment procedure is impartial and as objective as possible.
Allowing the candidates to see their marked tests is a simple means of increasing transparency and confidence in the procedure for the recruitment of European civil servants.
The Ombudsman's initiative and recommendations can therefore be warmly welcomed, as can the decision by the Commission to follow them.
I therefore thank the Ombudsman for his report, which I fully support.
However, between the fine words and noble principles expressed by the European Ombudsman and practice, things are not always so cut and dried.
I congratulate the Commission on accepting the four recommendations made in the special report on the Ombudsman.
The fact that applicants for Community institution jobs should see their marked scripts shows that institutions are confident in the way they run their application and selection procedures.
Mr President, I too should like to congratulate both the rapporteur and the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
The President of the Commission himself has repeatedly assured us that transparency in the administration of European affairs is an absolute priority.
Allow me to finish by saying that the Commission has a obligation to comply with the recommendations of the European Ombudsman and to design a full system of objective examinations for two reasons: first, because it is legally obliged to do so under Article 255 of the Treaty, as revised by the Treaty of Amsterdam introducing the principle of transparency.
And the something new in this case is that it must apply best practices and avoid anything which experience tells us will damage its credibility within the Member States.
For example, candidates are already allowed to take the examination questions away with them, the general evaluation criteria can be made known to those candidates who request them, the list of passes can be published in the Official Journal and the composition of the selection board may be published in the Official Journal (in the case of general public entrance examinations) or on the Commission' s web site (in the case of internal or restricted examinations).
The Commission endeavours to be as objective as possible, and I should like to make two comments on a couple of questions which have arisen in the debate.
The Commission' s commitment regarding this matter is absolute and we hope that, as soon as these measures have been implemented, they will be applied generally.
Finally, the Commission can obviously make a commitment on its own behalf.
With regard to other institutions, it is they themselves who will decide whether the procedures proposed in this report or in the requests by the Ombudsman are adopted.
That was a very satisfactory finish to a very satisfactory debate.
Mr President, this is not a question - clearly the matter does not fall within Commissioner Solbes' remit - but I take note of the statement that the examination scripts will be available as of July 2002.
Obviously, I was talking about July 2000.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 9 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 7.12 p.m.)
