in writing. (PL) I am voting in favour of the report on Decision No 804/2004/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 establishing a Community action programme to promote activities in the field of the protection of the Community's financial interests (Hercule II programme).
Allocating an additional EUR 67 million to the Hercule II programme annually will have a significant effect on combating smuggling and fraud.
The type of fraud combated under the programme must be tackled in order to retain the tax base of Member States.
in writing. (PL) I am voting for the report on the proposal on the Commission Regulation (EC, Euratom) amending Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2342/2002 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities.
It also goes without saying that we have to do more about recycling, and that the EU and its Member States need to set us a good example in this respect.
The report proposes priorities regarding, on the one hand, waste management, with the emphasis on prevention, reuse, recycling and other recovery operations, and, on the other, regarding waste disposal.
in writing. - (EL) In Greece, there are now 3 500 uncontrolled dumps.
I voted in favour of this report as I believe we should create a waste management policy that will reduce waste and protect our environment.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by Mrs Bozkurt on women's role in social, economic and political life in Turkey.
Although the legal framework for women's rights appears to be generally satisfactory, its actual implementation is still deficient, in my opinion: violence against women - and, in particular, honour crimes and forced marriages - must be systematically condemned.
I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Bozkurt because it reinforces the idea that the Turkish Government must adopt measures enabling women to play a more prominent role in Turkey's social, economic and political life, despite progress that has already been made.
We also join in calling on the Turkish Government to guarantee women from the Kurdish minority equal involvement in women's rights programmes.
in writing. (SV) We fully share the view that Turkey, like other candidate countries, must establish a democratic constitutional state with full human rights and gender equality.
Moreover, it is, in the end, for individual countries to decide what type of measures are to be taken to strengthen the role of women in society.
We MEPs of the New Democracy party voted in favour of the Bozkurt report, which refers not only to the problematic situation of women in Turkey in all sectors, but also to the measures that need to be taken in order for the acquis communautaire to be adopted and applied in the candidate country.
We should not forget that there is already leverage in this direction at the current stage of negotiations.
We would remind the House that opening negotiations on Chapter 19 on social policy and employment, which relates directly to discrimination against women, requires compulsory developments in and compliance by Turkey, with specific targets to promote equality.
in writing. (SV) In the vote on Mrs Bozkurt's report on women's role in social, economic and political life in Turkey, I chose to vote in favour of the amendment designed to delete paragraph 41 on the subject of a quota system.
In the UK, it will take 200 years before women are equally represented in the House of Commons.
It is therefore important for the EU to continue to put political pressure on Turkey with a view to the country's constructive development.
