Green Paper on market-based instruments for environment and related policy purposes (debate) The next item is the report by Anne Ferreira, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Green Paper on market-based instruments for environment and related policy purposes.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank Parliament and, in particular, its rapporteurs for its very constructive reaction to the Commission's Green Paper on market-based instruments.
The Commission will take account of the numerous comments and requests made by Parliament in the context of its work on the various issues mentioned in the Green Paper and on further specific initiatives.
In my view, it is very important to provide for the best possible synergies between the revised EU Emissions Trading Scheme and energy taxation in such a way as to ensure that the EU meets its climate change and energy goals in the least costly way.
In conclusion, I would like to thank Parliament for its constructive contribution to the debate about the further use of market-based instruments, which is of use to all policymakers, whether here in Strasbourg, in Brussels or in the national capitals.
For this reason, we find paragraph 26 of the report inconsistent with the overall message of giving priority to the Emissions Trading Scheme.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, this is, as already has been said, an important report and I want to congratulate Ms Ferreira.
This report is very important.
on behalf of the PSE group. - (HU) 'Let's make the world different,' say the people on the left who think our world should be changed.
The environmental basis of the 'green tax' and the whole tax policy can help create a better world to live in by providing a market economy and sustainable instruments.
A reduction in energy consumption would enhance the competitiveness of our goods.
If there is one thing on which we, the European representatives of 27 countries, can all agree, it is green taxation.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs Ferreira for her excellent work.
The Member States can encourage, or make it easier for, people to choose ecological products through market-based instruments.
It is a pity that 16 countries representing the planet's largest economies, meeting in Paris on 16 and 18 April, did not manage to reach agreement on a joint resolution aiming to cut global greenhouse gas emissions by 50% by 2050.
The European Union has to foster the dissemination in the Member States of market-based instruments that make it possible to internalise the environmental costs of products and to promote energy efficiency and the thermal insulation of buildings.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DA) Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Ferreira for a good report on an important subject and for enjoyable and excellent cooperation.
Consumption taxes usually have a fair impact, as the richest are also those who consume the most and who therefore pay the most.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) We will shortly be reaching a decision on the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and Anne Ferreira on the Green Paper on market-based instruments for environment and related policy purposes.
It is high time that more countries did the same.
In paragraph 26 of this report we call for precisely such a CO2 tax.
I believe today that there is an entirely unique opportunity to push for a CO2 tax and other environmental taxes.
In the report we also state that the Member States themselves determine this area.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, my compliments to Mrs Anne Ferreira on her report on market-related instruments for environmental purposes.
Lastly, I would like to express my support for two specific paragraphs in her report, paragraphs 58 and 59, on internalising environmental factors in the pricing of water and, secondly, a legislative framework to reduce the level of waste generated in the medium term. (PL) Mr President, the threat to the world's environmental balance requires us to take steps that will result in changes to our models of growth and a new lifestyle in our societies.
Economic taxes in the European Union could play a very significant role in achieving environmental protection objectives within the EU.
It is very important that income from ecological taxes should be used to prevent negative impacts on the environment and on human health.
Finally, I would like to point out that the European Union is a leader in the area of environmental protection and I believe it has a responsibility to set an example to the rest of the world. (PL) Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent approach to the issue of environmental protection.
I would also remind you that we have known since the UN report entitled 'Our Common Future', which was prepared by Margot Wallström, that it is our responsibility to future generations, to our children and grandchildren, to leave the natural environment in the best possible condition.
I think that the green bonds referred to in paragraph 67 would be very good for this purpose.
A conference was held on this topic in Parliament earlier this year and I look forward to the Commission's report in the autumn. (SV) Mr President, environmental issues have justifiably become one of the biggest political issues of our time and they have also, justifiably, become one of the most important areas for EU cooperation.
These instruments can help to reduce the damaging effects that environmental taxes could have on competitiveness in some sectors.
Environmental economics has its social dimensions and we should not wait until 2010 or 2013 before we act.
Mr President, I would like to stress that tackling climate change requires more extensive actions than those focusing on transport and energy.
The trade in emission certificates, the Directive on Fuel Quality, the EURO standards for vehicles, the Directive on Purchases of Clean and Energy-efficient Road Vehicles, the EURO 6 standard for vehicles are only some of the Commission's initiatives.
Consequently, I fully support the idea of an EU environmental taxation system, which will inevitably have to be uniform amongst the Member States.
Mrs Ferreira's report raises this issue. (CS) As we heard in many previous speeches, carbon dioxide is an important and perhaps a key player in so-called ecological price determination, and is presented as the cause of climate change.
Of course, I am not against a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions caused by human activity but I think that we have to accept our responsibility for pollution that has health-related and other consequences, rather than responsibility for climate change.
However, let us not forget that many European Union countries, such as Bulgaria and Poland, lived for many decades under a different system.
However, over-emphasis on taxation - with the frequent calling on the Commission to come forward with legislation for the same throughout this report, for example, paragraph 26, which 'calls on the Commission to put forward a legislative proposal for a Community minimum tax on CO2 before the end of 2008' - makes the report as a whole unacceptable to me, despite the excellent work and the many recommendations I can support.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their comments and the views they expressed during the debate.
Ms Ferreira commented on the lack of information about the replies to our debate.
I would like to inform you that we received 170 replies, which are being analysed at the moment, and we hope to have a summary of these replies by the end of the summer, in which case we shall, of course, provide you with this summary.
