Freedom of movement and residence for EU citizens The next item is the report (A5-0009/2003) by Mr Santini, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States [COM(2001) 257 - C5-0336/2001 - 2001/0111(COD)].
This proposal lays down the conditions governing the exercise of the fundamental right of free movement and residence, which is conferred directly to every EU citizen by the Treaty and enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
In this respect the proposal represents a first step towards defining a strong concept of citizenship of the European Union, as confirmed by the basic aim of the proposal.
EU citizens should mutatis mutandis be able to move between Member States on similar terms as nationals of a Member State moving around or changing their place of residence in their own country.
In particular the directive should facilitate the exercise of the right to free movement by reducing administrative formalities to what is absolutely necessary, by better defining the situation of family members, by introducing a permanent right of residence after four years of uninterrupted residence in the host Member State, and by further restricting the scope for refusing or terminating residence on grounds of public order.
The proposal also introduces important innovations by comparison to the existing acquis.
In particular it extends from three to six months the period during which citizens are not subject to any formalities other than the possession of a valid identity card or passport.
It suppresses the obligation to obtain a residence permit for European Union citizens, replacing it with straightforward registration with the competent authorities, which is already the case in some Member States.
It establishes a system in which the European Union citizen has simply to declare that he fulfils the conditions linked to the exercise of the right of residence.
Finally, it introduces after four years of uninterrupted residence a permanent right of residence which is no longer subject to any conditions.
Indeed, the directive we are discussing represents a genuine leap forward in the debate on citizenship of the Union and the free movement of persons.
For the first time, the citizen is recognised as having rights not just as an economic entity but as a person, as the holder of individual rights which, together with general rights, make up European citizenship.
Indeed, one might say that this directive lays the foundations of dual citizenship - national and European citizenship - as formulated in the draft Treaty discussed in the Convention too.
It must be made clear from the outset that this directive does not apply to the citizens of third countries or, in any case, not to those who are not related to Community citizens, even if they are living in a Member State or enjoy free movement within the Union.
The great merit of this directive is that it combines all the previous provisions on the subject in a single text.
The registration procedures must be straightforward and direct and, in any case, the principle of self-certification must be applied, as it already is in some Member States.
In short, each Member State can regulate family issues on the basis of its own legislation and concerns.
Madam President, the Commission proposal for a directive on the right of citizens to move freely is, without doubt, an important step in removing the unjustified technical obstacles that persist even in united Europe.
Unfortunately, Commissioner, your ambition to allow European citizens to exercise their right of residence freely and without impediment has not resulted in a text that is gender neutral and takes account of the specific problems faced by women.
The main problem concerns women who are economically dependent on their husbands and who, in the event of death or separation, have no prospects of extending their right or continuing to reside in another European country.
In other words, they are automatically deprived of any legal rights derived from their residing in another Member State of the Union.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities also emphasises the importance of protecting all interpersonal relations by giving live-in partners of either sex the same rights as a spouse.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the draft directive put before us today marks a great leap forwards in the realisation of our European Community, for it will be through EU citizens enjoying freedom of movement that we will achieve our objective.
Although this is just a small part of the whole, and needs to be discussed, we should bid farewell to the view that a select few know what is meant by 'family', and that their definition should be imposed on all other Members of this House or on the Member States.
What we should not be doing is allowing the few to take it upon themselves to impose their concept and definition of the family on all the other states.
If we can manage to stand back and arrive at consensus by accepting individual Member States' diverse arrangements, this proposal will win acceptance by a broad majority.
In the interests of EU citizens' freedom of movement, I appeal to all those who have introduced these proposals to follow where reason leads.
Madam President, on behalf of my colleague, Carmen Cerdeira, who has been shadow rapporteur for this report, and who unfortunately cannot be here, I will try as far as possible to speak on behalf of my political group.
Citizenship of the Union - institutionalised and created as such by the Treaty of Maastricht and later modified by the Treaty of Amsterdam - confers a series of rights and duties on the nationals of all the Member States.
The intention is to associate the citizens with the process of European integration, giving them more involvement, strengthening the protection of their rights and promoting the idea of a European identity by means of the creation of a sense of belonging amongst the citizens of the Union.
The citizenship rights and the Union as a whole will only have credibility amongst the citizens if they can be applied in practice in their everyday lives.
Within the context of citizenship of the Union, one of the fundamental rights that citizenship confers is laid down in Article 18(1) of the Treaty, which gives every citizen of the Union the right to enter, move and reside freely in the territory of the Member States.
The same right, with a similar wording, is conferred on the European citizen by Article 45(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and this seems to us very significant.
The movement of the Union's citizens amongst the Member States should be carried out mutatis mutandis in conditions similar to those of the citizens of a particular State.
In reality, Madam President, the Union's citizens have taken this principle on board much more quickly and thoroughly than their governments.
I can assure you that in my part of the Union, on the coast where I spend several days, there are many European citizens residing illegally who simply come and go between their two houses, one in their country of origin and one in my country, whenever they want and without filling out any papers.
Therefore, my group has presented amendments that intend, once and for all, to end the consideration of the economic situation of people, giving priority to the condition of citizen, and to recognise that at this moment the citizens and their families are already exercising the right to free movement within the European Union.
The purpose of the directive is to give more content to EU citizenship and to increase people's freedom of movement within the Community.
The proposal would mean a consolidation of the present multiplicity of regulations, directives and judgments in this area.
This directive is a step in the right direction.
The discussion surrounding the definition of the family ought not therefore to distract attention from the purpose of the proposal and the positive consequences of the directive's being adopted, namely a strengthening of the basis of the rule governing freedom of movement, an increase in the mobility of the labour force and, of course, the preservation of family unity.
Then the amendments adopted in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs have improved the original text considerably, providing greater legal certainty for workers and protecting them from the dangers of illegal immigration.
We are convinced that, just as rights such as the right to divorce or to have an abortion are ingrained in the psyche of the majority of Europeans, so there is also a clear need to make effective the right of those who wish to live in a country other than their own, who wish to live alone or with a same-sex partner or to build a family without being forced to marry.
Madam President, my group is also very happy with the proposed directive as well as with the report.
While we often hear that the European Union wants to proceed with integration too quickly in other areas, this is typically a matter that people think should have been settled long ago.
It is mainly about the free movement of EU citizens and only concerns people from third countries if they are married to or are in long-term relationships with EU citizens.
An important part of this is naturally the fact that many people wanting to travel within the EU or who want to go and live in another country will not want to do this on their own but with their families or their partners.
A great deal has been said about this in the report, the definition has been broadened and my group is satisfied with that.
From a practical point of view it is a good and even modernising proposal.
I think that there are two points on which I believe the Commission is encroaching too far on the Member States' decision-making authority.
Then in article 30, paragraph 2, which states that a person may resubmit a request for admission no more than two years after expulsion.
Madam President, we have been waiting for this directive on the free movement of persons for many, maybe too many years, and now it is here at last, we support it, it has our backing.
What we are trying to do is not impose a single family model unduly but ensure that, with regard to the free movement of persons, with regard to European legislation, therefore, there is no difference in treatment, no discrimination on the basis of the fact that some couples are recognised to take a particular form, to be same-sex or heterosexual couples.
If it then proves to be superfluous, so much the better.
There are, nevertheless, two areas that have already been mentioned in this debate, which still pose problems.
They concern the definition of the family, an excessively broad definition, which appears to seek to force national legislation to recognise the definition of an unmarried partner as a family member.
Madam President, I thank the rapporteur and the Commission for bringing forward this important report, dealing as it does in a sound way with significant matters.
We in this Parliament must endeavour to do all we can to make it easier for European citizens to move freely around the Union.
If the European Union is to move closer to the citizen, we have to make it much more of a common market for people than it is at the moment.
If we are to meet our target of making the European Union the most competitive economy in the world by 2010, and make it as easy for EU citizens to move from one Member State to another, as it is for US citizens to move from one state to another in the United States, then we need a free flow of European nationals moving between countries to live and work.
However, there are aspects of this report which could be misinterpreted or abused.
My own government is concerned to ensure that our efforts to facilitate freedom of movement for legitimate EU nationals do not open new channels that could be exploited by criminal gangs and others.
The Treaty guarantees the right of all citizens to family life and we, as a Parliament, are empowered to uphold this.
Legitimate and lasting partnerships should never be put under threat.
It is about free movement for people and freedom to live their lives as they wish: a free market for people, a common market for EU citizens and their families.
But to listen to some, including 'conservatives' in the British Labour Government, you would think it was all about facilitating illegal immigration and terrorism.
There are sufficient safeguards in this measure and in EU law.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on the right of EU citizens and their family members to move freely and reside within the territory of the Member States results from the new legal and political state of affairs created by the introduction of citizenship of the European Union.
Here we find that the legal position varies from one Member State to another, and this, in my view, is where the Member States' subsidiarity must prevail.
As I see it, a family exists when someone takes on the responsibility for educating someone else, providing for them, and caring for them.
Madam President, I agree with the Commissioner that this is about citizenship of the European Union and it is crucial for the facilitation of the free movement of our citizens.
As you rightly say, Commissioner, everything else being equal, EU citizens should be able to move between Member States and the administrative burden should be reduced to that which is absolutely necessary.
I welcome in this report the wider definition of 'family' and the importance given to the consideration of humanitarian grounds in the application of this directive.
However, the wider definition of family will not be welcomed by all, and I do not share the UK Government's - my own Labour Government's - analysis of this directive.
I am asked to pay the same taxes, to live by the same laws, but both I and my relationship - which cannot be recognised in the United Kingdom - are denied equality.
There should be a principle of mutual recognition here.
I ask the PPE-DE Group to join with us, to explore the possibilities and reach a sensible compromise with the Council, recognising the modern world and affording equal rights to all of our citizens, not equal rights for some.
The free movement of persons that we are discussing here is one of the core principles of the European Union, and it is odd that we are still having all manner of differences of opinion about it.
The present labour market and the opportunities for study and enjoying your retirement in a country other than the one you come from call for Europe to have flexible rules.
It nevertheless looks as if the Commission wants to exclude a significant group of citizens from this right, namely those citizens who want to take their families with them to another country but who are unmarried or in a registered partnership that is not recognised in the other country.
In the Commission's proposal, family members can only accompany people going to another country if they are spouses in a heterosexual marriage or if they are unmarried partners and the host country equates these couples with married partners.
A number of fellow MEPs and myself have therefore submitted amendments to introduce the system of mutual recognition in this area, and these have also been accepted in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
Incidentally, we are not only talking about same-sex couples; a growing number of men and women choose not to marry and prefer to cohabit but without losing all their rights.
Fortunately there are already eight Member States who enable their citizens to do so.
Following enlargement, it will be still more important for the rules governing freedom of movement to be clear and simple so that all EU citizens, both new and old, are aware of their rights and of the rules that apply.
I am therefore pleased that the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has proposed rules that facilitate the freedom of movement of different family members.
People who do not live in what, from a legal point of view, are traditional family structures must have the same right as married couples to live together in the countries of the EU.
We must nonetheless accept that challenge and the opportunity it provides, precisely because we live in a common union and wish to create a common EU citizenship.
Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur once again for his excellent report and confirm that the Commission will be able to incorporate the vast majority of the proposed amendments into our amended proposal, which we will present shortly.
First of all, concerning Article 2 and the concept of family, one has to recognise that harmonising the conditions of residence for European Union citizens must not result in our imposing modifications on Member State legislation defining family status.
I understand this debate and the difficulty of, on the one hand, ensuring compatibility with Article 13 of the Treaty, which is the legal basis for combating discrimination, including discrimination against unmarried couples or same sex couples when, on the other hand, the Treaty excludes Family law from the scope of competences of the European Union.
In this very sensitive field, the Community must respect the developments introduced in Member State legislation and must be flexible in this.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we should not exaggerate the extent of the practical difficulties that unmarried couples or same-sex couples encounter in exercising the right of residence.
In fact, when the two people are citizens of the European Union, they both enjoy the right of residence by virtue of Article 18 of the Treaty, independently of the nature of their relationship.
In fact, at present, the legislation of only two Member States recognises union between persons of the same sex as marriage.
The recognition for the purpose of residence of unmarried partners on the basis of the legislation of Member States of origin could pose problems to those Member States whose family legislation does not recognise these possibilities.
In addition, the principle of non-discrimination requires that the host Member State treat unmarried couples of other Member States in the same way as its own nationals.
I am sure that all of you are aware of the difficulty of this debate and the different approaches of the Member States.
The rapporteur has suggested an amendment to Article 21 concerning equal treatment which aims to exclude inactive people from social assistance during the first six months rather, than the first four years of residence, until they acquire permanent rights of residence, as provided for in the Commission's proposals.
I am aware that the Commission's text needs to be adapted in the light of the recent judgment of the Court of Justice in this field, which stated that any citizen residing legally in another Member State must enjoy equal treatment with its nationals in matters of social welfare.
The Commission considers it preferable to reconsider the proposal and to better scrutinise the content of the Court of Justice judgment.
We will bring forward an amended proposal as soon as possible.
That is true, but what they lose is the status of registered partnership and the tax or social rights that go with that - for instance, the right to be recognised as next of kin if one of them is in hospital.
I respect your opinion, Mrs Ludford, and I look forward to the discussion with the Council under the co-decision and qualified majority voting procedures, with which you are much more familiar than I am.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at midday.
WRITTEN DECLARATION (ARTICLE 120) This report and proposal for a directive constitute an important step towards giving practical shape to a basic feature of European citizenship, that of people's effective freedom of movement within the European Union.
In fact, inequality still exists between those resident in a Member State of which they are nationals and those from another Member State whose residence in the former is on a long-term basis but who apparently enjoy a permanent right of residence, confirmed by the issue of a residence permit.
The next item is the report (A5-0010/2003) by Mrs Terrón I Cusi, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Commission proposal for adoption of a Council directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of paid employment and self-employed economic activities [COM(2001) 386 - C5-0447/2001 - 2001/0154(CNS)].
By way of the proposed directive, we put forward a framework which, once approved, will lead Member States to be open and transparent about their immigration policies.
The proposal further helps to streamline cumbersome procedures and to bring about clarity and legal security.
However, as we clearly stated in our communication on migration policy of November 2000, we do not intend to decide by directive the number of immigrants that our economies and societies are prepared to absorb.
The proposed directive leaves that decision to the Member States who, together with their civil societies and, above all, their local and regional authorities, know how many they are capable of integrating.
I therefore emphasise that, as I have always said, this proposal does not allow one single entry of one single immigrant into the labour market of the European Union.
All the more so as we mostly live in a border-free area where decisions affect our neighbours.
The European Union must primarily mobilise its existing human resources, including migrant workers currently residing legally in the European Union.
There is, therefore, no incompatibility between the fight against unemployment and the proposal.
As I have said before, even if Member States were to face labour market shortages, they would be free to cap the total number of migrants they are ready to admit, if they consider, for instance, that their society is already facing too much of an integration burden.
Immigration numbers are one of our citizens' priorities, and one of the areas where they clearly expect us to tackle the problem at European level.
We are today discussing a proposed directive which would constitute the cornerstone of this policy, a directive on which the Council, of course, has not made much progress.
I have chosen this moment to present my report because, for the first time in a long time, the Greek Presidency has included the issue of legal immigration on the political agenda, something which I am glad about.
The Commission's proposed directive is intended to harmonise the conditions for entry and residence for nationals of third countries who intend to enter a Member State for employment reasons.
It allows the entry of workers from a third country in the event that the post cannot be filled by a national worker or a worker from another Member State of the Union or by a resident of a third country with the right to access the labour market.
The residence permit and the work permit would be combined as one single document.
The adoption of this directive would involved the recognition of the need for legal channels for immigration and would create a more transparent framework with simpler procedures, which would provide economic actors with more facilities and also reinforce the rights of immigrants.
For my part, I welcome the Commission's proposal.
Firstly, a strong will and a strong signal in favour of a European immigration policy.
If we accept that the possibility of performing a job of work is what legitimises entry and residence in the Union, we must then ensure that this system works.
By requiring that the immigrant has a contract or a firm offer while still in the country of origin, we are thereby regulating access in accordance with the labour market.
Other elements we have introduced are the strengthening of equal conditions amongst workers, with a view to preventing all types of discrimination and the creation of a second-class labour market to which both immigrants and native workers would fall victim.
Madam President, I thank the rapporteur.
I too am pleased to see that certain amendments that were put forward by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs - but not accepted by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs - have been tabled by a variety of the political groups in the House.
The majority position of my committee is that we need to simplify and clarify the procedures.
We have heard from a number of reputable companies about the length of time it could take to get work permits for their employees, which pushed some towards using tourist visas to get their employees into the country in order to fulfil contract obligations, and others to lose business.
We heard from individuals about what a frustrating and ridiculous process it can be when an application is halted for a minor technical reason and nobody has the responsibility to inform the person concerned of what that reason is.
We also heard about the issues of having to return to one's country of origin, at great expense and inconvenience, in order to apply for a new work permit attached to a new job.
Hence we support the amendments about tightening up timetables and response times on work permits, about the requirement to inform the applicant of problems in an application and about moving away from the employer having to demonstrate the need, yet again, for a third-country national to fill a job if one becomes vacant within 12 months - although, from some of the horror stories we have heard about the length of time it can take to get permits, perhaps we should extend that even further.
We supported the ECOSOC proposal to look at the idea of a job-seeker's permit, which could be of great assistance to small- and medium-sized enterprises.
Commissioner Vitorino, you are also right to say that, following this directive's entry into force, it will be left to the Member States to decide whether they want immigration, and if so, how much of it.
Or, to put the question another way, are there schools in Portugal in which half the children do not understand Portuguese?
This reminds me of a motor race in a James Dean film, in which the contest is to see who will be the last to jump out of a car heading for a precipice.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the directive presented by Commissioner Vitorino will be the foundational European draft law on immigration into Europe.
In presenting it, he is taking a quite specifically systematic approach in generally opening up European labour markets to immigrants, whilst, by way of derogation, giving the Member States the option of taking their own absorption capacity into account and reducing the number of immigrants, right down to zero if need be.
This is happening at a time when we have 15 million unemployed in Europe, and when, in my own country, the figure is nearing 5 million.
They are needed in certain sectors, in certain lines of business, in certain regions and on a temporary basis, but, in principle and in general, there is no need for them.
What this means is that, in the event of this directive becoming law, there will be increased pressure on Europe's labour markets, to the detriment of those who are already unemployed, and not least to the detriment of the third-country nationals who are in the European Union legally and who, in any case, are more likely to be unemployed than are EU citizens.
Madam President, I would like to thank the Commissioner and the rapporteur for her report.
It is a major step towards a common European immigration policy.
Without legal migration, we will struggle to meet our target of making Europe the most competitive economy in the world by 2010.
He has highlighted that 50 million of those may be unemployed, 5 million of them in Germany.
But then neither, on the other hand, do we want to say to third country nationals: 'you can come to the EU but the only jobs you can do are the low-level, manual, nasty jobs that we don't want to do'.
So we have got to have a properly balanced scheme, with legal migration that respects individuals and respects their position, supporting both third countries and the EU.
The UK may not have chosen to opt into this measure at the moment, but I am contributing to this debate and participating in it as other British Members are because we want to make certain that we have sound legislation laying down sensible provisions, so that the UK will be able to opt into it in the future.
It is an important and necessary report.
Adoption of the directive would lead to common rules being laid down governing the rights and duties of third-country nationals.
The directive would also ensure that the existing rules were enforced equitably.
At the same time, the directive contains safety clauses worded strongly enough to restrict economic migration.
I believe that adoption of this report would entail some clear benefits.
For one thing, procedural clarity and much needed harmonisation of the rules governing this group of third-country nationals would be created within the EU area.
Finally, what is proposed would give the Member States a tool ensuring their ability to respond quickly to changes in the economic and demographic conditions in the labour market.
The proposal has been passed around between the institutions for a long time, and it is therefore important that the Council should not place obstacles in the way of this important area.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal being examined today is aimed at establishing a harmonised legal framework for the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals.
While all countries see development aid as a means of combating illegal immigration, cooperation budgets are reduced and, with not one bit of responsibility accepted for training, there are no qualms about participating in the brain drain.
Yes, Mrs Terrón i Cusí is right.
The immigration issue must be part of an overall, long-term vision of the EU's policy as a community.
Although one of the Tampere conclusions is about ensuring equitable treatment for third-country nationals, this objective proves to be far from having been achieved when closer attention is given not only to the conditions of entry and residence but also to citizens' rights, particularly freedom of movement, the right to live as part of a family and those rights that should be linked to residence rather than nationality.
If European legislation enables workers from third countries to be turned into cheap labour or a kind of cannon fodder on the field of insecure employment, the European Union will lose all the credibility that it has built up over many years through its programmes to combat forms of discrimination, programmes that it is duty-bound to defend on the basis of its ideals of justice and freedom.
It is therefore our responsibility to work for a humanitarian and Community-based policy on immigration, and one that respects fundamental rights and reaffirms immigration as an opportunity for Europe.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive that we are examining today is aimed at harmonising, at European level, the rules according to which work permits are granted to third-country nationals.
The explanatory memorandum gives three reasons for it.
First of all, current rules relating to the admission of third-country workers apparently differ from one Member State to another.
Rather, it is good and in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity that each state should be able to adapt the rules for accepting foreign workers on the basis of its social needs and its labour market.
The third reason cited is that the regulations governing the immigration of third-country workers is apparently a cornerstone of general immigration policy.
What is more, Commissioner, it is, rather, the fight against illegal immigration and not the granting of work permits that, in my opinion, is the cornerstone.
All things considered, such Community harmonisation of work permits is not justified.
For example, I would cite this surprising provision in Article 29, paragraph 4 of the proposal, specifying that a refusal by a Member State to grant a work permit to a third-country national should contain - and I quote - 'a statement of reasons based upon objective and verifiable criteria'.
I believe that the granting of work permits to third-country nationals is a regalian right and that the Member States should not be hampered in this area, especially in the current economic situation in which they need to safeguard their basic interests.
Moreover, this proposal for a directive would lay the foundations for still greater centralisation in the future.
Our Assembly's Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has understood this so well that it is falling over itself to propose removing other powers from the Member States, for example the right to break off issuing permits for reasons connected with there being insufficient capacity to receive immigrants.
It can be seen where all that would lead us if this directive were to be adopted.
So overtly, however, does it violate the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, with which we are deluded every day, that someone in the Council will, I hope, be able to stop it in its tracks.
I also take a favourable view of much of the detailed proposals, such as the - obvious - possibility of limitation by the Member States, which would make it possible to stipulate how many of which types of workers should be allowed to enter the European Union, or the deportation of offenders, the proof of financial resources and so on.
Whilst the Treaty establishing the European Communities provides specific rules on immigration, the attempt is made here to lay down a general rule of the European Union.
Such a thing exists nowhere on earth, and we do not want to have it in future either.
And when this proposal is developed by the addition of proposals originating in the committee, the report goes so far that we cannot vote in favour of it.
Mr President, in order to achieve legislation in the field of immigration at Community level we should pay particular attention to the positive effects of immigration, something we are debating here today.
However, as other rapporteurs from my group have said, we must maintain the Member States' competence to regulate how many immigrants they can receive to cover the work possibilities.
The admission of immigrants into our labour market may become a problem in the future when the situations of each of our countries change and our labour markets have higher unemployment rates than the current ones.
We cannot provide direct access to the labour market for illegal immigrants, particularly those who entered legally, but who are now in our territory illegally, people desperate to find work.
We must improve all the possible mechanisms for the employment of immigrants from their countries of origin.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all agree that we in the European Union urgently need immigration, since our economy's labour requirements simply cannot be met by the numbers as they are at present.
It is also evident that any such immigration has to be managed in the best way available in order to meet the needs of the labour market at the same time as those of the population and also of the immigrants themselves.
It is for this reason that I can well imagine that we could adopt a much more generous approach in this area.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of an increasingly global labour market, the European Union has been the target of constant migratory pressure, which must be properly managed.
I agree with the need to draw up a new common immigration policy, but this policy must always take account of the real needs of the labour market and of the economy itself in each Member State.
I wish to highlight two points: firstly, this proposal for a directive seeks to establish a common legal framework for conditions of admission and residence of immigrants for the purpose of employment.
Consequently, on the basis of this directive, immigration for the purpose of employment in the European Union will be permitted if certain conditions are met.
It is the responsibility of each Member State to assess and decide whether or not it needs to increase its labour force, by how much and in what sectors, taking account of their real needs as well as - and I think we all agree on this - their ability to receive and integrate third-country nationals.
Secondly, the Terrón i Cusí report criticises the fact that the Commission's initial proposal only addresses the situation of individuals who are legally present on Union territory.
Mr President, as in other areas of human immigration, we must always be prudent.
This is not simply a matter of protecting Member State nationals.
In these areas, excessively generous solutions create more problems than they are intended to resolve.
In view of our history, I am perhaps a little more liberal in my thinking about these particular issues.
It is a serious problem in a small country such as my own.
Mr President, for the purpose of correction, I refer to Amendment No 17, which amended Mr Vitorino's original draft to indicate that application may be made by anyone who 'is legally present or already present there and has entered legally in order to reside there.' The justification states that 'individuals who are illegally present in the country should, however, also be offered the opportunity' to obtain a contract of employment.
I accept the criticisms, I can even admit that I can be wrong.
However, what I find difficult to accept is being criticised for things that I have never said and that are not written in my proposal.
Our proposal states that very clearly.
The decision on admission is exclusively that of the government of each Member State or even of the regional or local authorities of the Member States - Brussels does not decide on one single entry.
I recognise that the link between migration and unemployment is very complex.
The first victims of new waves of migrants, as far as the functioning of our Member States' labour market is concerned, are previous waves of migrants, because there is direct competition between newcomers and the earlier migrants.
There the connection is much more complex, because in certain cases the difficulty of re-entering the labour market is more connected with the specific characteristics of the welfare state and social security systems that benefit our own citizens.
It is unfair to say that migration policies are the reason why European Union citizens have difficulty re-entering the labour market.
As far as the report is concerned, the Commission welcomes and fully agrees with Amendments 6, 11, 8 and 12, but we cannot make any commitment today on those amendments concerning rules on intra-corporate transfers and contractual service suppliers.
Those rules are very interesting and we will bear them in mind.
However, they are closely linked to international trade issues and we have to wait for the ongoing World Trade Organisation negotiations to see what the impact of those negotiations will be on migration policy, above all as far as services are concerned.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Vitorino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Taking into account these two aspects, the Commission proposed transferring Ecuador to Annex 1 of Regulation 539/2001 which lists the third countries whose nationals are subject to the visa obligation.
In addition, we propose to submit a report to the Council and the European Parliament on the implications of reciprocity as regards visas.
The European Union therefore reached the conclusion that it was necessary to establish an objective list of countries whose nationals would require a visa to enter European territory, thereby making a start on the harmonisation of the Member States in the field of visas.
Subsequently, the global plan to combat illegal immigration set as an objective, ratified by the Seville European Council, a review by the end of 2000 of this list of third countries, as the Commissioner has just pointed out.
It responds to the data provided by the Member States which demonstrate the increase in the number of Ecuadorian immigrants in an illegal situation and which lead to the need to include Ecuador on the list of countries whose nationals require visas.
Finally, Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this measure will require, on the one hand, that the Republic of Ecuador fulfil its responsibility to properly manage its own emigration and, on the other, that the European Union prioritise the policy of cooperation in the field of emigration with the countries of Latin America.
We cannot take pleasure in the restriction of the right to free movement, which - as we pointed out this morning - is an essential factor in the Europeans' world view.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists, however, despite the irresponsible inclinations in favour of illegal immigration I am accused of by certain Members from the PPE-DE Group, will vote in favour of the inclusion of Ecuador in the list of countries whose nationals require a Schengen visa.
In any event, I would like to call on the European Commission to see this as a serious alarm call with regard to a country which is reaching very serious levels of poverty and, in accordance with its own statements on the Union's immigration policy, to treat this country as a priority objective, in terms of development cooperation and co-development measures.
Mr President, ever since the Tampere Summit of European Union leaders in 1999, the issue of formulating common policies in Europe to tackle illegal immigration has been high on the agenda of our institutions.
The European Union, as we all know, has a population of 370 million and, with enlargement, the Union's population will rise to 500 million.
The attempts that have been made at European level to tackle this problem are inadequate.
We have also sadly witnessed many tragedies in recent times, as persons seeking to enter the European Union have died in awful circumstances.
On a separate but related matter, it is certainly the case that the working group on freedom, security and justice at the European Convention has brought forward some interesting proposals in this area.
There are certainly many people who believe that qualified majority voting and codecision procedures should be used to tackle immigration issues.
There is also a belief that the objective of a common policy on immigration should be enshrined in the proposed new treaty.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and support.
The Commission cannot accept one of the amendments on purely legal grounds.
The Commission views this amendment as a sign of support for the efforts it is already making, within the appropriate legal framework, to ensure proper application of the procedures for the granting of visas and to evaluate the adequacy of these measures, a matter it will subsequently report on to Parliament.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Vitorino.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
It is therefore a great challenge for the European Union to do the right thing in terms of how relations with these countries develop.
So much so that the three European institutions which have monitored the development of events in Belarus, the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the European Union - the parliamentary troika - has had no hesitation in describing these events as incompatible with minimum democratic requirements and has suspended its relations with that Republic until those requirements are met.
The presentation of this resolution has been delayed considerably as a result of having to convert an initial draft report on the European Union's relations with Belarus into an own-initiative resolution by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy due to the deterioration of the situation in terms of the exercise of democracy and respect for human rights in that country.
The various elections held since 1996 have been described by the parliamentary troika as lacking in effective democratic guarantees.
Awareness of the need for democracy is increasing within Belarusian society and there are increasing numbers of members of the current Parliament of Belarus in favour of democratic reforms which bring the legal framework for freedoms closer to the requirements of the European Union.
We must not forget the important role Russia can play in this process.
It is a very sad reality that, as on the many previous occasions when we have discussed Belarus, the focus is on a number of very difficult subjects: on the whole question of the cases of disappeared persons; on the harassment of the media; on the limitations on the freedom of speech and the freedom of religion; on the recent open confrontation by the authorities in Belarus with the OSCE Assistance and Monitoring Group in Minsk.
Alas, we have never been in a position to conclude a partnership and cooperation agreement with Belarus.
That country is the only European successor of the former Soviet Union without a privileged contractual relationship with the European Union, including a clear mutual commitment to the common values of democracy and human rights.
It is obvious that the current state of relations between the European Union and Belarus is profoundly unsatisfactory for both sides.
The Commission has been invited by the Copenhagen European Council to submit proposals on the EU's future relations with its neighbours, including Belarus.
I am very grateful for the clear message that this debate and Parliament's resolution will send in this respect.
However, I fully agree with the elements in the resolution - and I am sure this will be followed up in a number of speeches today - which recalled the importance Belarus has, not only for the European Union, but also for the stability and prosperity of the whole region.
The European Parliament and its Delegation for relations with Belarus, Moldova and Ukraine, has been very active in the framework of the Parliamentary Troika with the Parliamentary Assemblies of the OSCE and the Council of Europe.
While the European Union has limited its official contacts with Belarus to a strict minimum, this alternative form of political dialogue is very useful and demonstrates that in terms of minimum standards of democracy and human rights, the elected representatives of all three organisations speak with one voice to Belarus.
The Commission strongly agrees with the emphasis in the resolution on strengthening dialogue with civil society, NGOs, democratic forces, the media and with the universities in Belarus.
However, as to the call to the Commission in Article 9 of the draft resolution, to: '?develop a strategy for Belarus within the proposal 'Wider Europe' for the democratisation and the development of a social market economy' in Belarus, it seems obvious to me that any assistance or help from the Commission could only be in support of a comprehensive government strategy.
The driving force for this sort of change would need to come from Belarus.
We had some joint projects with the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights in Belarus.
Only after the 19 November 2002 decision of 14 EU Member States to impose a visa ban on President Lukashenko and seven other leading personalities in Belarus was a compromise finally reached to establish a new OSCE Minsk office as of 1 January 2003.
The coming weeks and months will demonstrate whether the authorities in Belarus are finally committed to take the path towards freedom, democracy and an improvement in human rights.
I am very grateful to the rapporteur for the work he has done to make these things possible - we all hope - in the future.
It is also a question of the European Union's now adopting a structured approach to instituting discussions and of its putting pressure on the Belorusian authorities, not by isolating them but through active engagement and discussions with them.
Especially in view of the fact that the European Union is so divided in its view of Iraq, it is perhaps a matter of additional urgency that the common foreign and security policy, which was set out in the Treaty of Maastricht and which is now in pieces, be given a dimension relating to Belarus.
These include a leader who is quite consciously governing his country dictatorially; the disappearance of opposition politicians and others of whose fate we are unaware, such as Victor Gonchar, Anatoly Krasovksy and Yuri Zaharenko.
We must nonetheless apply a strategy towards the Belorusian authorities that involves our saying: 'we are not going to isolate you but, rather, conduct a dialogue with you'.
Anyone who reads the report as it has been adopted in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy will find it hard to imagine that it is about a European country that will be a neighbouring state from next May.
Despite all the efforts in that regard, including on the part of the European Parliament via the parliamentary troika with the OSCE and the Council of Europe, the situation for democracy has not improved at all since 1997.
The most important conclusion must therefore be that there is no reason to change the policy of more or less frozen relations with the current regime as long as President Lukashenko continues his policy of isolation.
This is most deplorable as far as the 10 million inhabitants of that country are concerned, for they deserve better.
The politics of that country stand in the way of improvements in relations and are therefore also hindering the desired cooperation in numerous areas, including in the humanitarian sphere.
Without internal dynamics there, without an internal democratic movement, the situation is not going to change in the near future.
Mr Marset Campos' report also includes an implicit call to the Russian Federation to be more concerned about the democratic credentials of the regime in Belarus.
More than once I have watched the Russians congratulate President Lukashenko on an election result after the entire Council of Europe and the EU had rejected it.
I therefore ask the Council and the Commission in particular to be more emphatic about this point in consultations with the Russian Federation.
The joint economic and political pressure exerted by the European Union and Russia and the need for greater internal dynamics which I have already referred to will ultimately turn out to be deciding factors.
It is to be hoped that this concept will be reflected in the coming communication about an enlarged Europe.
In the meantime, we must make do with the channel that we ourselves helped to create, the parliamentary troika, in order to maintain a minimal dialogue with the country.
It does, however, remain depressing and very frustrating.
Moreover, Belarus is both a country of origin and country of transit when it comes to extensive trafficking in women and children, and a vast number of illegal weapons circulate there.
However, it is important, just as Commissioner Patten said, to strengthen the limited and courageous opposition that exists: opposition parties, human rights organisations, voluntary organisations and journalists who desperately need our help and who are fighting against extreme odds.
This support would be best provided in cooperation with the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the UN.
The troika, of which the European Parliament is a part, would also fulfil a very important function.
It is apparent from this report that many things are required if, as I hope it one day will, Belarus is ever to reach the point at which it can become a member of the EU.
First and foremost, democratic developments are required, and I think that, if it wishes to do so, the EU can play a decisive role in this area.
This makes it a very important document in the discussions on the subject of Belarus.
We are a long way from being able to take up normal relations with this country.
On that, Commissioner, I agree with you entirely.
Despite that, the reality is that Belarus is our neighbour, and we must have an interest in overcoming its self-imposed isolation.
If that cannot be done in the context of normal relations, the need still remains for the European Union to develop a strategy for dealing with Belarus.
To do so would of course result in consideration of where we should have recourse to such important diplomatic instruments as the carrot and the stick, or what sort of instruments we should apply, where we should impose sanctions and where we should offer support.
The instruments we have had up to now are inappropriate, so we must modify them to our purposes as regards Belarus.
I hope that this is where we can enjoy very good strategic cooperation with the Commission.
Mr President, the importance of Belarus to the European Union is beyond question.
The role assigned to the Russian Federation in the present resolution is right.
Observance of this important fundamental right also furthers the normalisation of relations between the EU and Belarus.
Lack of funding prevents people over the age of 45 being treated.
Parliament's attempt, by means of a report, at exerting some influence, is therefore to be welcomed, even if only because it sends out a signal to encourage the democratic opposition forces, which, although weak, are nonetheless still there, to show signs of life in the forthcoming local elections in March.
Any country excluding itself in this way from European development cannot do other than become a security problem for the European Union.
A structured dialogue - as soon as circumstances permit - is thus very much to be desired.
Although we may wonder to what extent some countries can become part of Europe, that problem does not exist where Belarus is concerned, for it is in Europe.
However, the last assessment of the situation carried out by the Council of Europe a few months ago excludes the possibility of inviting Belarus to join its Parliamentary Assembly.
It is true that there are many reasons why Belarus might want to attach itself to Russia, but it would be in its national interest to maintain a certain balance.
The next local elections will, in any case, be measurable evidence of whether any progress has been made in the area of fundamental rights.
Mr President, the European Union is trying in any way it can to put pressure on Belarus to respect human rights and bring about democratic reform.
After the enlargement of the EU Belarus will be our neighbour, sharing a common border with no fewer than three new Member States: Latvia, Lithuania and Poland.
We must encourage Belarus to maintain its independence as a state and orientate itself towards European cooperation.
Multilateral cooperation will provide us with a good forum for cooperation with Belarus.
Positions in the Council of Baltic Sea States will alter when the Baltic countries and Poland go from being neighbours to members of the EU.
With Union enlargement the importance of cross-border cooperation will increase.
In the future the Union must be prepared to finance projects in connection with this.
There must be more conspicuous channelling of funds on the part of the Union than there has been until now towards development in our neighbouring countries, especially those neighbouring regions across our borders.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen representing the Member States, although we approve of the general objective of the Marset-Campos report, aimed at strengthening links with Belarus, as ought moreover to be done in the case of Russia, we are unable to approve either the conditions it sets for doing so or the ways and means to which it intends giving preference.
In other words, our aim is to choose regimes rather than recognise states.
That being said, my stay in Minsk, to which I was sent by Parliament, enabled me to observe that, in spite of everything, democracy is making real progress there, that the word pluralism is not completely out of place and, above all, that President Lukashenko enjoys a certain legitimacy.
This is explained by the fact that, following the collapse of the Soviet regime, he has replaced a succession of ephemeral governments which had exasperated the Belorusian population by, firstly, privatising everything left, right and centre, including even essential public services which thereupon came under the control of Western firms and, secondly and above all, by attempting to detach Belarus from Russia, something to which the Belorusian people could not consent.
Nor is it up to us, as advocated by the report, either to encourage the opposition or any political party whatsoever or, in fact, to turn NGOs into instruments for use in subversion operations.
Nor is it up to us to choose this or that economic model for Belarus.
Ladies and gentlemen, these are extremely dangerous routes to go down, for there is no way in which international society can live in peace if, by virtue of being rich and strong, a state or states claim the right to overthrow those governments they do not like and, in their place, to designate governments after their own fashion.
There could be no peace under these conditions.
Whatever may happen, Belarus is a part of Europe and has been so for centuries.
It will at any event be an important partner for our countries and, of course, very much so in the case of France.
It is now politically important, as, in 2004, it will become a neighbouring country of the European Union.
It is also rather surprisingly still enjoying an economic growth rate of 4%.
The forthcoming municipal elections in March 2003 will be a test of the potential for favourable political developments in Belarus, and we hope that observers from this Parliament will be invited.
The European Union should await the election results and respond towards Belarus accordingly, in line with a step-by-step policy.
Finally, if the people of Belarus so wish, we must also offer them the prospect of possible EU membership in the longer term.
But since there have been a number of references to the 'Wider Europe' debate, perhaps I could keep Members informed about how our thinking is developing on that.
I finish with a telegram of what I said at the outset: we wish to hold out the hand of friendship and cooperation to Belarus, but that demands of Belarus a sea change in its attitude to the political and, frankly, economic values that we hold dear.
I hope that there will be sufficient change in Belarus for us to develop a warmer relationship with that important country.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon. (The sitting was suspended for a few minutes until voting time) The next item is the vote.
My report is a considerable improvement on the original proposal, because it protects citizens' individual rights and personal data, using the Schengen provisions on which the regulation is based.
The report therefore proposes that short group visas should be issued to groups of between five and fifty seamen, even if they are not all of the same nationality.
The Commission presented a first report two years ago in 2001.
In particular, it concluded that consumption by children of a series of additives should be better evaluated by the Member States, for example, sulphites and benzoates.
Even if all Member States do not submit such information, it will be possible to evaluate on this basis whether the current use pattern of some additives has to be modified.
Mr President, I recommend my fellow MEPs to vote against Amendments Nos 1 and 3, to vote in favour of Amendment No 2 and, of course, to vote in favour in the final vote.
Before the vote on Amendment No 3: Mr President, I have tabled Amendment No 6 which will become null and void if Amendment No 3 is voted for.
Through my amendment, I wanted to ask for a dialogue to be opened immediately between the European Union and Belarus in the context of the fight against crime and the trade in human beings.
As a prior condition of such a dialogue, Amendment No 3 would have Belarus fulfil all the conditions set out in the report, meaning that this collaboration in the fight against crime would not begin for several years, whereas it needs to begin right away.
I propose that you either vote on my amendment before voting on Amendment No 3 or hold a split vote and vote separately on the part of the sentence reading 'as soon as the basic conditions are fulfilled'.
I ask you to vote against this part of the sentence because I think that cooperation of this kind, focused on the fight against crime, must begin immediately, whatever the conditions prevailing in the country concerned.
The voting list shows that Amendment No 3 should be voted first.
Amendment No 6 rests on that.
Mr President, Amendment No 3 has not been lodged with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy.
We have valid amendments before us, the first of which is Amendment No 3.
Those who would like to vote for Amendment No 6 now know what the consequences will be. (Parliament adopted the resolution) President.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE - (FR) For any normal person, freedom of movement means that any individual who is a citizen of an EU country or who has come from outside the European Union and now lives within it may move and reside within the EU as he sees fit.
Spain's indignation has been aroused, not from the human rights point of view but because the situation 'causes valuable time to be lost and inflicts serious losses on seamen, shipping companies and airlines, since it frequently causes flights or flight connections to be missed'.
Hence, a number of measures to make it easier to obtain certain categories of visa.
The major legislative innovation consists of the possibility, provided that certain conditions are met, of issuing collective transit visas to seamen from the same vessel who are travelling in a group of between five and fifty people, provided that the period of transit is limited.
On the one hand, I acknowledge the clear need to promote the harmonisation of the divergent legislation in this field, an essential requirement for making the Schengen acquis intelligible and accessible.
To conclude, I welcome the integration into the Common Manual of practices applicable to seamen in transit and would highlight the importance of the collective visa which, as the rapporteur quite rightly observed, could become unenforceable if it were only issued to nationals of the same State.
Although we support its fundamental objectives, which serve a sound purpose, we are concerned that, as the report stands, the provisions designed to reach this valuable goal do not include sufficient guarantees against potential exploitation by criminal gangs and those seeking to enter the EU illegally.
Furthermore, whilst we wish to protect the rights of unmarried and same-sex partners, we cannot allow a situation to arise where the unmarried partners of EU nationals could have greater rights to enter a Member State than the nationals of that country.
Finally, we do not accept the provision in Article 26(2) which would prevent Member States from expelling permanent residents in exceptional circumstances.
Now that the definition of the family has been extended to same sex or unmarried partners, the directive reflects the diversity of family relationships in today's society more closely.
In fact, according to the Treaty, it means that the citizens of each Member State may in principle move or reside in the territory of other Member States, but it does not mean that the States of residence have no right of control or right of justified refusal.
The directive proposed by the Commission, however, switches from one meaning to the other, taking the case-law of the Court of Justice as a basis but going beyond it, without the necessary adjustments being made in the Treaty after democratic debate.
This text would take power away from the Member States and make them lose a little more of the control of their territory, which we refuse to accept.
Even the French Government, although it is generally indulgent towards the Community institutions, has protested in particular against the suppression, laid down by the directive, of the right to expel a Community national after a permanent stay of four years.
On these grounds, we voted against this text. . (FR) The right to free movement within the territory of the Member States was in principle decided when the Treaty of Rome was signed in 1957 and was due to enter into force at the same time as the Treaty.
The simple fact that, 45 years later, we still need to vote on resolutions so that this right can come into play is truly a sign that, for those taking the decisions on European unity, the only thing that counts is free movement of capital and goods, not citizens' rights.
Even in the proposal for a directive, this right is partial and its limits carefully defined.
On the basis of the proposal for a directive put forward by the European Commission, it will now be possible for an EU citizen to remain on the territory of another Member State without having to comply with any formalities, for a period of six months and not only three months, which is the current requirement.
For stays of more than six months, if a Union citizen is engaged in a gainful activity, he is simply required to make a declaration to that effect.
The right to permanent residence at the end of these four years is the major innovation introduced by the directive and consists of the fact that this right is granted to the European citizen and to the members of his/her family.
These proposals come at a time of increased terror risk in the EU when Member States are already struggling to cope with the weight of the movement of people across the continent.
In the consciousness of the inhabitants of the 15 Member States, every citizen of a Member State is free to visit the territory of another Member State and to stay there for a long period of time or even undertake paid work there.
What we seem to be doing today is restricting freedoms that already exist instead of broadening them, mainly in order to exclude people from social security for the first four years.
The fact is that the solutions adopted in these nuclear definitions both in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and in plenary, have all had the majority support of the parliamentary left.
In fact, with regard to the definition of the term 'family', most of the solutions were adopted in a sense that does not match the values that I hold dear, especially Amendment No 53: the 'spouse', regardless of their sex, the 'unmarried partner' and/or 'person with whom they live', regardless of their sex, 'in a de facto union', 'with whom the applicant has a durable relationship' and 'registered' under the terms of the relevant national legislation, the 'partner' and/or 'person with whom they live' from third countries or without a residence permit and lastly, direct descendents and direct relatives in the ascendant line and those of the spouse or registered partner with whom they live.
Together with the whole of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I have voted against the report, which was nonetheless approved by 269 votes in favour, 225 against and 46 abstentions.
We Christian Democrats cannot go along with the watered down definition of 'marriage' or 'the family' that the majority of Parliament supports by wanting the definition also to include partners of the same sex, unmarried cohabiting partners and registered partners, irrespective of sex, in circumstances where, by law or in practice, the country of origin or the recipient country puts such people on an equal footing with married couples.
Instead, we fully support the Commission's proposal, based upon time-honoured definitions of marriage and the family that our western Christian civilisation has used throughout the centuries, such as its definition of a married couple as husband and wife.
The conditions governing freedom of movement and residence within the EU for persons without EU citizenship must be clear and simple to apply legally.
Today's adoption of Amendments Nos 14 to 16 (262 votes in favour, 238 against and 30 abstentions) shows that a majority wishes to move in the opposite direction.
Now you are discussing the Hernández Mollar report which seeks to prevent us Mafiosi from moving freely throughout Europe.
Visas are necessary and useful tools in providing controls.
British Conservatives cannot, therefore, accept this proposal. . (NL) Visas are a way for governments to torment people.
The second lesson is that you must never send people back to a distant embassy in a capital city or even in their country of origin to get a visa.
I understand the need to re-examine the list of third countries subject to visa requirements, due to the necessary and urgent fight against crime and illegal immigration, I welcome the possibility of reassessing the impact of making visas mandatory, particularly with regard to journeys undertaken for business, leisure and research purposes.
Mr Lukashenko, I see from page 13 of the Marset Campos report that you have stopped paying pensioners their pensions: you are paying them extremely late.
In Italy, for example, a law is passed stating that a certain category of citizens will no longer receive pensions.
Belarus needs to start democratising if it is going to be in a position to ratify the partnership and cooperation agreement between the ?U and Belarus in the not too distant future.
Implying that swifter progress on the road to a market economy would be a source of hope for the Belarusian people, however, is to ignore the many dozens of poor countries throughout the world, such as Haiti and almost all of Africa, which are thoroughly integrated into the market economy and some of which, nonetheless, live in even greater poverty, under the yoke of equally despicable dictatorships.
Furthermore, the report compares an undemocratic Belarus with a Russia that is portrayed as democratic.
The most vehement eulogisers of the change in the Russian regime are nonetheless forced to recognise the extensive corruption among the clans that run the country, the reign of official or criminal mafias and the appalling monetary gain of some through pillaging as the population in general grows poorer, not to mention the horrors of the war in Chechnya.
The MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece voted against the report on Belarus because it represents monumental intervention by the ?U in the internal affairs of an independent country.
The problem for the EU is not one of democracy; it is the fact that Belarus insists on respect for international law, territorial integrity and national sovereignty and is against selling out to the multinationals.
The report - and this is pure blackmail - makes future relations with Belarus dependent on its immediate transition to a market economy and even calls for cooperation with the USA in a bid to make its intervention - which nowadays can mean anything and everything, including military intervention - more effective.
There is a problem in Belarus with respect for human rights and democratic freedoms.
All this is illustrated by the fact that the amendment proposed by the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece, calling on the ?U to cooperate directly with Belarus in combating trafficking in human beings, was rejected in favour of an amendment requiring Belarus to toe the EU line.
and resumed at 3 p.m.) The next item is the recommendation by Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra (A5-0017/2003) on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy on the conclusion of an Association Agreement between the European Community and its Member States of the one part, and the Republic of Chile, of the other part [13767/2002 - COM(2002) 536 - C5-0589/2002 - 2002/0239(AVC)].
We have both had the pleasure in the past of addressing conferences on this subject, speaking on this subject in Santiago and elsewhere.
This agreement is not only crucial for European Union-Chile relations, it is also extremely important in the context of Latin America as a whole.
Indeed, the agreement is a very tangible expression of the European Union's willingness to establish a strategic partnership with that continent, despite its present economic problems and its political turbulence and the violence which some countries in the region are still suffering, not least from terrorism - a subject about which the honourable Member has understandably expressed considerable concern.
It is more important than ever for us to send a positive signal of support to the region - from the European Union to Latin America.
Parliament has played an active and supportive role throughout the negotiation of this agreement.
I am pleased that Chile is keen on closer political relations with the European Union.
This is shown in the almost unanimous support that the Chilean Congress gave to the agreement in January, less than two months after the agreement was signed in Brussels.
The European Union-Chile Agreement is also a comprehensive free trade agreement which, according to the very important sustainable impact assessment study carried out by the Commission, should generate additional growth for Chile's GDP of about 0.5% and which should contribute to raising the standard of living of the Chilean people.
The European Union has been for a long time Chile's first trade partner; this agreement should further consolidate and increase our trade relations.
Not only did Chile and the European Union agree to liberalise gradually over 97% of our bilateral trade in goods, but we also agreed on a whole set of rules to facilitate trade, on the establishment of a free trade area in services, on the liberalisation of investment and on the reciprocal opening of government procurement markets.
However, the EU-Chile partnership will extend well beyond politics and trade: it will intensify our cooperation in a number of areas and stimulate social, economic and environmental development.
The cooperation strategy devised jointly for the period 2000-2006 with the Chilean authorities may need to be adapted so as to take into account rather better the recommendations of the sustainable impact assessment study and to accompany the implementation of the agreement.
The agreement singles out the need for an increased involvement of civil society - this should materialise through regular meetings of representatives of Chilean and European civil societies so as to allow an exchange of views on the implementation of the different parts of the agreement.
Secondly, I would congratulate the Commission on its impeccable negotiation of this association agreement with Chile - as Commissioner Patten has pointed out - taking up the suggestions of the European Parliament in relation to the timetable and overcoming the difficulties caused by the negotiation guidelines.
Commissioner Patten asked us to trust in his judgment in order to overcome the problems relating to the timetable and he has been proved right.
The result, Mr President, is that we have the most innovative, ambitious and global agreement the European Union has ever concluded with a third country which is not a candidate for accession.
I believe we must be pleased that this agreement has been concluded with a country such as Chile, since in a way this agreement is a recognition of the great civil maturity of the citizens of that country and their decisive desire for openness and trade.
As Commissioner Patten said to us a moment ago, this agreement also represents a message of hope to a region which is currently experiencing a difficult situation: instability in Venezuela, crisis in Argentina, the hopes and challenges arising from the election of President Lula da Silva in Brazil, poverty on the subcontinent and the phenomenon of violence in Colombia.
I would like to highlight an aspect which I believe to be particularly important, and that is that Chile has concluded this association agreement with the European Union before concluding its agreement with the United States.
I would also stress that the Commission has stated that this agreement goes beyond mere commercial thinking, since association agreements try to establish a strategic partnership based on the principles and rights contained in the democratic clause for both parties.
It involves almost 100% of products, not just agricultural products, but products of every type, it establishes stipulations relating to agreements and technical clauses, it lays down the greatest degree of liberalisation ever to have been created in an agreement on the services sector and also establishes, Mr President, the most generous treatment Chile has ever given to a third country, and, for the first time in negotiations with the European Union, it lays down accessibility for foreign investors in an agreement of this nature.
Within the framework of the liberalisation of the markets, the benefits in terms of economic growth and sustainable development which may result from reciprocal economic and trade relations is unquestionable, as are the benefits of a political dialogue aimed at promoting democracy and the formulation of common responses to the great challenges of this millennium.
My principal interest is in the political dimension, and there are two points I would like to address at this point.
The second point is that Chile is currently a member of the Security Council.
In these very difficult times, it will be very important that Chile should, in consultation and coordination with the relevant Member States of the European Union, help to achieve a peaceful solution to the present conflict.
It is a very broad agreement which will undoubtedly increase commercial transactions between the European Union and Chile and this is positive at a time when many countries in Latin America are in a particularly difficult situation.
It should be stressed that the total of tariffs on imports from Chile, relating to industrial products, will be restricted in 2006 and that in the agricultural field this will take place in 2012.
Of these populations, the Mapuche people, in percentage terms, are the most significant.
We must remember that these problems were exacerbated enormously during the dictatorship of Pinochet.
We are glad that the report contains explicit references to the protection of human rights and specifically mentions the rights of indigenous minorities.
We hope that this Agreement will create greater transparency and mutual understanding, and that it will also recognise the rights of the indigenous peoples.
Finally, while on the subject of Chile, as a citizen of Catalonia, I must acknowledge Chile's reception in former times of Catalan exiles fleeing the Franco dictatorship.
Such intense dialogue should, of course, be encouraged with the greatest possible number of third countries in order to support economic development and emphasise the ecological values and democratic clauses of the European Union.
Furthermore, we feel this far-reaching agreement has taken place too quickly, in particular given the impact assessment unveiled at the same time.
The European Union negotiations, which are very strong with regard to trade and, in our opinion, excessive with regard to liberalisation, should now also be based, in a balanced manner, around human rights and the environment.
Although the agreement is interesting because it integrates the human rights dimension and consultation of civil society, it nevertheless deserved a more extensive debate on its possible impact, both positive and negative.
We submitted an oral question in this regard to allow a debate worthy of the agreement, but the proposal was dismissed.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would like this twenty-first century agreement to become a beacon for a new kind of trade based on fair trade, respect for the environment and human rights.
Mr President, according to the Commission, the new Association Agreement between Chile and the European Union is the most ambitious, most innovative, most far-reaching agreement ever negotiated with a non-candidate country.
These grandiose perspectives are, however, more cause for concern than for celebration.
Many of our industries have already paid the cost of customs disarmament.
Of course, there is still natural solidarity between our nations and those of Latin America.
Just as we want a Europe of free nations, however, rather than an antinational, antisocial Europe, we want the nations of Europe to base their cooperation with the nations of Latin America on the principle of national sovereignty and economic realism.
The problem we now have is not with the treaty.
Let me, by the way, remind you of the fact that we also have a scientific agreement with Chile.
What I hope at the end of the day is that this Agreement, whose objective is also very strongly political, will contribute to Latin America growing together, will contribute to stronger relationships between Europe and Latin America, and, above all, that cooperation with Chile will help to overcome the conflicts in certain Latin American countries, some of which conflicts - in Colombia, for example - are raging openly.
Mr President, most of the previous speakers have sung the praises of this agreement, first and foremost the rapporteur.
I would like to be able to add my voice to this almost unanimous choir, but I must admit to being perplexed.
First of all, the Chilean Government has not yet ratified International Labour Organisation Convention 169 on indigenous peoples.
Lastly, I am not convinced that the wholesale liberalism of the agreement allows for harmonious development of the economies of this State.
There are several aspects of concern for Chile's coastal communities: unfair competition with the local artisanal sector and the unknown impact on marine resources, for example.
EU companies will be able to buy up Chilean fish quotas on fully exploited fish stocks; they will also have free access rights to Chile's under-exploited fisheries resources.
The opportunities provided by this protocol for EU fisheries companies, combined with the process of privatisation in Chilean fisheries, threaten the sustainability of the artisanal fisheries sector.
It seems to have been used as a bargaining chip, and it has taken no account of a sector that employs more than 60 000 fisherman and provides for some 400 000 jobs in the industry in that area.
The artisanal fisheries contribute over 90% of fish consumed locally and provide 25% of export earnings for the fisheries market.
On 22 January last year the Chilean Chamber of Deputies approved the text with a large majority, but the Senate asked for the opinion of the Constitutional Court in Chile.
However, ratification of the Treaty remains high on the political agenda of the Chilean Government, since it is entirely consistent with its external policy of promotion of respect for human rights.
He also said that he hoped that as a member of the Security Council the Chilean Government would try to coordinate its response to the crisis in Iraq with European Member States.
I hope he does not regard it as lèse-majesté on my part to say that I hope the Member States of the European Union will try to coordinate their policy in the Security Council in dealing with this terrible crisis in Iraq.
There is Article 19 of the Treaty and there is the Maastricht Treaty, but perhaps I should not be drawn down these boulevards.
It is interesting that in the Convention we are discussing how much further we can go in coordinating a common foreign and security policy when we are not even using and implementing the provisions of the Maastricht Treaty.
In any case, I am using what he said about Chile merely as a trigger to fire off some of my thoughts on this subject.
Difficult as these issues are, the Chilean Government is trying to handle them in a sensitive and democratic way.
They have set up a public agency to try to handle some of these challenges.
They have taken at least 16 concrete measures to help deal with some of the problems, of which Members have been informed.
My view is that we can help with the efforts that the Chilean Government is already taking through, for example, co-operation projects that are paid for by the funds voted by this Parliament.
On the question of fisheries - and I realise what a controversial issue this can be - I should like to remind Members who have spoken that the association agreement does not include a fisheries agreement, although we would be interested in concluding one.
There is an elaborate regulatory framework in Chile to address the issue of stock depletion since a serious decline in catch levels of certain species, mostly due to over-fishing, was registered toward the end of the 1990s.
It is not right to say that the implementation of the agreement will lead to over-exploitation of fishing resources.
The current dynamism of the artisanal fishing sector in Chile is something all of us should recognise, and it needs to be underlined in debating these matters.
If there is to be a loss of artisanal fishing employment in the long term - and this may well happen since artisanal fishing is a highly labour intensive, but not capital intensive business - it would probably occur with or without the agreement we are discussing today.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
However, the Commission does not believe that the system of ecopoints is a valid long-term system for resolving the problems of traffic associated with sensitive regions.
The text we will present contains certain significant elements, such as the removal of the 108% clause, which imposes an annual limit on the number of transit journeys by Community lorries through Austria.
On the other hand, the proposal maintains the system in force throughout Austrian territory and also the number of ecopoints available for 2003.
In fact, in 2003 the objective of the system will be achieved, which is to reduce pollution by 60% over the last twelve years.
This proposal therefore responds to the desire of the Heads of State and Government and implies an extension for a limited period - one year renewable for two further consecutive years, that is up to a maximum of three years - but under no circumstances can it be the definitive proposal, but simply a transitional solution until we can implement other solutions.
Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter for the whole of the European Union, although the majority of speakers on the list are Italian or Austrian.
Above all, through the amendments we are tabling before the House, we have endeavoured to find a solution which gets away from the ecopoints system, in any case to find a solution for the period stretching from now until 2006 based on the need, as I said, to take into consideration the provisions of the Alpine Convention and, I would say, more generally, the sensitive areas of the Alps.
It is not by chance that Amendment No 15 refers to other areas such as Fréjus in the Alps to the north-west of Italy, to the Mont Blanc region and to the Austrian Alps, in other words to the whole of the Alps, for I believe that this is the overall picture which we must consider.
Particularly in Article 13, we have taken great care to achieve the phasing out of heavy goods vehicles, introducing a quota system for 2004, 2005 and 2006, which in 2005 - 2006 will lead to a ban on EURO 0 and EURO 1 lorries, a quota system for EURO 2 lorries and free transit for EURO 3 lorries.
I can accept Amendment No 19 tabled by the Greens, which calls for further debate.
I will end, Mr President, by saying that, as Committee Chairman and rapporteur, it was my duty to find a balance.
A new regulation is being proposed to replace the old eco points system.
The present regulation provides a good balance between protection of the vulnerable Alpine region on the one hand and the wishes of the Austrian population and the absolutely fundamental principle of the free movement of goods on the other.
The concerns about environmental pollution and public health are understandable.
Geographically speaking, Austria is, after all, a transit country, which is why we suggested excluding from the area the lorries that produce the most pollution.
It must also be crystal clear to all parties concerned that it will really be over after 2006.
Only 10% of the ton-kilometres driven on Austrian territory relate to transit traffic through Austria, while there are absolutely no requirements for national transport to tackle hazardous NOx emissions.
The entry into force of the directive on infrastructure charging and the end of the points system will therefore be linked only if the charging directive enters into force before the end of 2006.
The first is that the Commission should make it possible for the Council to put forward a supporting regulation for EURO-4 to Parliament without the risk of accusations of state support.
Finally, get a move on with the Brenner Base Tunnel: 2021 is absolutely unacceptable.
We are also uncomfortable with the decision to offer two countries, Greece and Portugal, a free exemption for some categories of lorry, as if we were still at the very beginning of the integration process and it were necessary to proceed by means of derogations and exemptions.
My unease, Mr President, is also due to the great contradiction which this ecopoints system represents without resolving the issue which Commissioner de Palacio also mentioned.
Lastly, Mr President, our unease is also due to the heavy-handed attempt to make a rather over-simplistic distinction between those in Parliament who uphold and wish to safeguard respect for the environment and the quality of the environment and those who are concerned for the interests of road haulage companies.
The ecopoint system for the Alps, which aims to protect the local environment, sets the unjust local Austrian special position against the right of free movement of goods, and means that I am no champion of the current system.
France and Italy also have Alps, and the Pyrenees are also very vulnerable.
The polluter must pay and the most environmentally friendly lorries must continue to be excluded from the full impact of the ecopoints.
If Austria seriously wants to tackle transit traffic that pollutes the environment, she will have to invest in infrastructure, invest in railways, and invest in tunnels.
Austria would probably like to do the same for north-south traffic, but membership of the European Union puts obstacles in the way of this.
When Austria joined the European Union, a compromise was reached on a distribution arrangement.
As a result, anyone wanting to protect those living in the area and their environment against the air and noise pollution from large flows of lorries now has cause to mistrust the motives for each new arrangement.
This is a matter of concern for us all, and both the Austrian Greens and their counterparts in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance in this European Parliament regard this as an area in which more information is needed.
We should not be playing off the free movement of goods against the balance of the ecosystem.
Austria is open to accusations of not having done its homework, of not having found or even sought out allies.
We need an effective solution until such time - the sooner, the better - as a directive on transport infrastructure costs enters into force.
I ask you to consider our proposals within the complex framework of a common European transport policy, which, if it were to be along the lines of the Alpine Convention, could be a model not only for the Austrian - or any other - Alps, but for all of Europe's sensitive areas.
I therefore ask you to support Amendment No 18, which has been tabled by a number of Austrian Members from all parties and builds on the Danish Presidency's compromise proposal.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the heavy goods vehicles that travel through Austria are seen by all Austrians as an important issue in home affairs policy.
It was important when what was known as the Transit Agreement was being negotiated between 1992 and 1994, a time when we even made our consent to membership of the Community conditional upon the finding of a sound and forward-looking solution to this problem.
In its Transport White Paper, which we shall soon be discussing, it promises that the planned new transport infrastructure costs directive will include provisions on the imposition of charges for the use of the infrastructure as well as on the integration of the external costs, with such provisions reflecting serious consideration of the use of cross-subsidies to benefit more environmentally friendly means of transport.
It is not, though, as an Austrian that I am disappointed by what we have in front of us, but as someone who has an especial concern for the environment.
We know all too well that an environmentally-focussed transport policy is one of the essential instruments for bringing about sustainable development in Europe.
It is a tool in the hands of sustainable development in European transport policy.
We are unable to endorse this report until a solution is found in the medium term for the Alpine region as a whole.
Mr President, the Ninth Protocol to the Act on Austria's accession to the EU stipulated that, between 1 January 1992 and 31 December 2003, the pollutants produced by heavy goods vehicles in transit were to be reduced by 60% on a long-term and sustainable basis.
Adoption of this report would have the opposite effect, that is, a dramatic increase in the levels of emissions from transit traffic.
Secondly, the report entirely ignores the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which that body adopted by a large majority.
Thirdly, it goes counter to the objectives of the Kyoto Protocol and of the Alpine Convention, as well as to the European Union's environmental goals in general.
After all, they should be satisfied with the way in which the Caveri report gives them another sensible transitional regulation.
I want to remind you of one thing, something previously approved by the Council and endorsed by the Commission, and that is the fact that this special arrangement for Austria applies just as much to those parts of the country that are not in the Alps and from which, indeed, the Alps are not even visible, parts that are quite simply flat.
We are not here to represent the interests of Austrian citizens, but the interests of the European Union's, all 370 million of whom also have a right to avail themselves of the free movement of services.
This is not just about the Austrians' unilateral rights; the other 360 million citizens are also entitled to see Community law adhered to.
The Caveri report proposed a sound compromise between the interests of 360 million citizens of the EU and those of fewer than 10 million other EU citizens.
I too am convinced that the outcome of the deliberations of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism is the right solution, unlike that presented to us by the Council, and it is a good solution precisely because it reconciles two things which are difficult to reconcile: on the one hand, respect for and enhancement and stepping up of all the efforts to preserve the environment on both sides of the Alps - for there is an Italian side of the Alps as well as an Austrian side - and, on the other, respect for one of the fundamental principles of the European Union, if we really do believe in a European Union, in other words the internal market, the free movement of persons and goods, which are the minimum conditions necessary if there is to be a community of people as well as a community of economic principles.
It is therefore a balance which settles once and for all - and it could not be otherwise if we were to avoid making a mockery of the Treaties and the law - once and for all the question of ecopoints, while recognising that a transitional period is still needed, introducing a time frame which we feel to be preferable to that proposed by the Commission and which we would ask the Commission to evaluate.
Ladies and gentlemen, as part of our responsibility as Members of the European Parliament at such a difficult time for the European Union - in terms of this and other matters - we have to explain to our citizens that belonging to a Union brings advantages and benefits but that it sometimes brings problems too.
I feel that, for the good of Europe, your attitude should be more tempered and more conciliatory.
I cannot accept that a certain segment of Europe's population is being treated as being worth more.
Mr President, always supposing it is possible, I too would like to try and go back in time and start this debate again here in this Parliamentary Chamber, with rather a different tone from that which has characterised some of the speeches.
If we all decide to uphold responsibilities of this kind that the national governments have disregarded for too long and the committee's related proposals, I believe that the next debate on this matter will be more worthy of the collective role we have to play.
The fact is that journeys undertaken by HGVs travelling through Austrian territory have gone up by 50%.
On the contrary, the tonnage on the road over the Brenner has increased from 15 million tonnes of freight to 26 million.
The ecopoint system should therefore apply only, as was originally intended, to transit through the Alps and not also to journeys in the rest of Austria; the alternative would be that the ecopoint system would constitute an arbitrary measure, and other Member States would be able to claim the right to impose their own.
Secondly, the system of ecopoints must definitely come to an end in 2006.
Thirdly, the state of technological development means that HGVs in emission categories 3 and 4 should lose their ecopoint liability altogether.
In addition, I demand, specifically for what I will call 'Hörbrenz-Transit', which particularly affects my electoral district - that is, traffic passing over a connecting stretch, only 16 kilometres long, between the German A 96 and the Swiss A 14 - special treatment in the form of the provision of an adequate number of ecopoints.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget that, although we are talking about the specific case of Austria, our perspective must be much wider, covering the entire network of Alpine passes, if we want to be objective and make decisions which suit everybody to some degree.
I would point out that, apart from its natural appeal as a direct vertical line connecting Northern Europe to the Mediterranean, just recently, traffic going to the Brenner tunnel - in Austria, therefore, but in Italy too - has increased immeasurably for very long periods because of the closure of first the Mont Blanc tunnel and then the St Gotthard tunnel and because of the acute crises at the Fréjus pass and the Swiss passes.
I have therefore reached the conclusion that the solution proposed by the Caveri report is fair.
There are a range of interests, all of them legitimate but entirely contradictory, which are in opposition to each other.
Thirdly, we must be aware that the other fourteen countries of the European Union are accepting the idea of making an effort and an exception in order to satisfy Austria with regard to what is one of the essential freedoms of European integration - initially of the Common Market and now of the European Union - which is freedom of transit for people.
On this basis, the Commission presented a proposal which suggested an extension for a maximum of three years - year by year - of the current system, in order to allow time to seek general rules which of course will not mean for Austria or anybody the maintenance of the ecopoints system or any similar system.
This represents a compromise and I am happy that there is agreement, for example, on the idea of banning the most polluting lorries; on the idea of freeing the least polluting lorries from the ecopoints system; on establishing an annual duration of a transitional system up to a maximum of three years.
Margarethen, which involves a stretch of road of less than 15 kilometres, a very short distance.
That would also raise problems.
Therefore, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can accept six amendments, one of them a fundamental issue and, if necessary, with some modifications to the wording of the text, Amendments Nos 1, 5, 11, 12 and the first sentence of No 15 and of No 18.
And the perfect is always the enemy of the good.
We must seek a response and achieve a result which allows progress to be made, while we present proposals which serve to provide a more rational system of charging for infrastructures throughout the European Union.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
However, I must say that we have made good use of this time, thorough use I believe, to debate and bring together positions between the different groups in the House.
I am sure that the Commission has held many contacts with all the sectors before producing the White Paper, but I must say that Parliament has not been left behind and that practically all the European associations representing the different modes of transport have been heard by Parliament and that many of their proposals have been incorporated into the approach we have been working on.
On the contrary, it is demonstrating willingness and carrying out a positive analysis of the Commission's proposal, of the proposals in the White Paper, and we believe that the enormous majority of its offers and analysis can be perfectly endorsed by this Parliament.
This is a crucial and decisive time for transport.
It is true that in 1992, in the last White Paper on Transport, certain objectives were set which have been fulfilled practically in their entirety.
We could say that the liberalisation of transport was the strategic and fundamental objective of that White Paper: the incorporation of technologies, the reduction in transport costs, the increase in competitiveness, objective achieved, but in this war, we have lost the battle of sustainability, and I am glad that the Commission is the first to clearly acknowledge the seriousness of this problem, and the fact that we cannot afford to delay decision making if we want to be operative.
And therefore competitiveness is being seriously harmed.
There is a proposal from Parliament on the creation of the European safety agency for roads - the only one missing from the White Paper on Transport - and I hope that it is received well, as well as other problems relating to safety at sea, on the railways, etc.
Commissioner, the time has come for us to say very clearly that the European Union's transport policy cannot work without a consistent budgetary policy, and hence Parliament's proposal on the European transport fund that we need and on the financial instrument for transport.
It is therefore a question of rebalancing modes of transport, removing bottlenecks, having a policy of safe transport - safety is an essential point when it comes to serving the users - and also tackling the globalisation which is today being experienced by many modes of transport, in particular air and sea transport.
Izquierdo Collado has mentioned - including initiatives on working time in the road transport sector or the recent agreement in the Council on the single European sky and the Marco Polo programme.
However, other important proposals are still at a preparatory stage, such as the trans-European networks.
As you know, despite the fact that this Parliament had expressed its support for the partial reform proposed by the Commission, the Council preferred to delay it and simply to go ahead with a more general revision.
Secondly, a system for incentivising public-private partnerships in the creation of infrastructures.
We need to incorporate private capital into the development of new infrastructures in order to speed up the implementation of these new infrastructures in a Europe of twenty-five - and soon of twenty-seven.
Thirdly, a European system of electronic pricing which furthermore will be accompanied by compatibility, in other words interoperability of practical, technical systems in the different countries of the European Union, with the medium-term aim of creating uniformity, establishing a single system based on the satellite control systems, that is, the Galileo system.
With regard to road safety, I am pleased to note that the honourable Members share the objective we have set of reducing the number of fatal road accidents by 50% by 2010.
The Commission has just adopted a proposal for a directive on the safety of tunnels and we will shortly present a global action plan in the field of road safety.
In this field, we will also present important proposals on the control of road transport in relation to the identification of motorway black spots.
I hope that these new measures will contribute to achieving this objective and they must be supplemented by measures established at national and local level, because here there is a very significant margin for subsidiarity.
We must insist on the maximum level of compensation funds in the event of pollution or in the proposals to promote with the countries of the Union modifications in the field of international maritime law, which is based on completely obsolete principles from the nineteenth century rather than the twenty-first century.
With regard to air transport, in 2003 we will concentrate our action on external relations, including the mandates for renegotiation of open skies agreements, which is an extremely urgent matter, beginning with the agreements with the United States.
I believe we are working in the same spirit.
I hope that the approval of this Parliament, with the amendments it considers appropriate in a report on the White Paper, will help to speed up the measures being discussed, both in Parliament and in the Council, and that those yet to come will clarify the possibilities, the margins and the limits and will above all allow the discussion with this Parliament within this same mandate to be speeded up.
What was urgent in a Union of Fifteen now becomes an imperative before a Union of Twenty-five, and any transport policy that failed to include the sustainable development aspect would be entirely ineffective.
The threats to our lifestyle are forcing us to instigate a genuine revolution in transport culture.
We have certainly realised this rather late, but now we are, at last, able to separate increases in transport volume from economic growth.
Far from previous traditions, this new transport deal should include environmental requirements first and foremost in its studies, place the transport-using citizen at the heart of its definitions and liase with NGOs in all of its deliberations.
Increasing urbanisation must go hand in hand with improving public transport.
For each new project, opportunities for intermodal connections between networks that already exist or are planned should be prioritised.
Furthermore, we must not oppose this new deal on transport in 2010 with financial quibbling.
An ambitious Community research and development programme must be carried out to counter noise pollution and harmful emissions in the transport sector and achieve the objectives of the Kyoto protocol.
Far from giving up, Commissioner, in the face of the ecological disaster that is forecast, the Union must change direction with regard to transport and require all agreements and programmes, and heaven knows there are many of them, to comply with environmental criteria.
The new Member States will participate to an increased extent in the research programmes, and in everything else - programmes to promote energy and the environment, student exchanges and the youth programme.
What resulted from the Copenhagen negotiations was a balanced compromise between different interests.
The financial framework for enlargement remains within the framework fixed in 1999 by the Inter-institutional Agreement for the period 2000-2006.
In it, the results of the Copenhagen negotiations are allotted to the individual headings.
At the same time, the Financial Perspective is adjusted in line with the prices current in 2004.
We propose that this category should similar in every respect to the adjustment of the Financial Perspective that was made when the EU was last enlarged by the accession of Finland, Sweden and Austria, when lump sums were also agreed on, thus requiring the insertion of a new category into the Financial Perspective as it stood at the time.
The significance of this in concrete terms is that, in the event of a political solution being found for Northern Cyprus, the whole process will not have to go back to the beginning and start again; instead, the adjusted table, with EUR 273 million more than that without Northern Cyprus, can become effective at once.
In accordance with item 25 of the Inter-Institutional Agreement of 1999, this Commission proposal will now be debated and processed by both Parliament and the Council, as the Inter-Institutional Agreement states quite clearly that adjustment of the Financial Perspective in the course of any enlargement is a matter for a joint resolution by Parliament and the European Council.
The next trilogue is to be held as soon as next Thursday, when we will have the first opportunity to do interinstitutional work on the basis of the Commission proposal, in order to be able to create in good time the framework for the first Budget for a 25-Member European Union.
That being so, your question relates to category 3 of the Financial Perspective, that of internal policies, including many individual programmes in support of the Lisbon process.
According to the Copenhagen resolution and the Commission proposal, the increase for internal policies will amount, in 2004, to a total of EUR 1.6 billion, then EUR 1.5 billion, then EUR 1.5 billion again, all at current prices.
Commissioner, the Copenhagen figures, as I understand it, are budget figures, while what we are discussing now, in relation to your presentation, are financial perspective figures.
If that is the case, what about Article 25 of the Interinstitutional Agreement and what role will Parliament have in renegotiating or reassessing the financial perspective?
Today, the Commission has also, at the same time, decided on the adjustment of the Financial Perspective in 2004 prices, so this results in a difference.
Even the programme specifically for supporting the decommissioning of atomic power stations is a new one.
In future, all the new Member States will of course be able to participate in the existing programmes - as indeed some of them already do - and approximately EUR 1 billion per annum has been allocated to the adaptation of these.
Further to your question about what is to be done in a situation where we have the Copenhagen resolutions on the one hand, the accession treaties on the other, and then, of course, the Inter-Institutional Agreement, which emphasises the need for a joint decision on the adjustment of the Financial Perspective, the Commission has constantly been committed to stressing this point to the Council.
This is again stated in the Copenhagen resolutions.
We now know that the results of the negotiations were not easily achieved.
It was for this reason, for example, that the Commission took on board these proposals and negotiation results as regards the amount of the Structural Funds in comparison with the lump sum transfers.
Commissioner, this is where I must again add something, as the fact of the matter will be that, when it comes to the accession treaties, this Parliament will have an approval procedure preventing us from saying anything more than yes or no.
These accession treaties are, of course, binding in international law, and they also stipulate sums of money that would ordinarily, had we dealt with them together and subject to the conditions of the Financial Perspective, have been decided on in the codecision procedure, so that we could have gained some influence over the negotiations.
If it is now assumed that the Copenhagen figures will be incorporated into the treaties and will be definitively laid down only in an approval procedure that is to take place very soon, there is, as you said, the de facto possibility of influencing the Financial Perspective in a codecision procedure involving the interested parties in the budgetary authority, or are we being thrown back on the 'do or die' position, in which we can only accept or reject?
Bulgaria and Romania have for the past ten years already been going through a quite specific process covering individual aspects such as the implementation of the acquis communautaire and other such things.
I would, though, like to re-emphasise the fact that the judicial issue is of crucial importance as regards the significance of the approval of the accession treaties with their figures, as against the negotiations on the Inter-Institutional Agreement.
What has to be said about Turkey is that the Council has this year also adopted the proposal that Turkey should be included in category 7, thus becoming entitled to pre-accession aid.
Of course it is not very logical for the Copenhagen European Council to say that an evaluation will take place in 2004 as to whether or not Turkey can become a member, and whether or not the negotiations can begin, while at the same time saying that Turkey can be put in Category 7: the pre-accession category.
My second question is as follows: there was always a monetary reserve, which had to do with the CAP, and especially with those countries which were not members of the euro zone.
Turning now to Mr Mulder's question about the monetary reserve, a decision was made in 1999 - and this is also laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement - to abolish the monetary reserve, which is why it no longer exists.
Once the accession countries are Member States it will no longer be necessary to make the relevant guarantees available in the budget.
The debate is closed.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0010/2003).
The FIA explains how Formula 1 races can be organised in France and the United Kingdom, even though these two countries have banned sponsorship by the tobacco industry.
In terms of competition law, it is important for all the parties involved in the complex process of setting the Formula 1 championship calendar to stick to their own roles and responsibilities.
The Directive of the European Parliament and Council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the advertising and sponsorship of tobacco products, which was the subject of a political Council agreement in December 2002, provides for a ban as of 31 July 2005 on the sponsorship of events involving or taking place in more than one Member State or having other cross-border effects, including, of course, Formula 1.
The directive takes into account the fact that the laws of the different Member States on sponsorship linked to the promotion of tobacco products differ among themselves and that this could lead to distortion of competition.
The directive seeks to eliminate these problems and approximate the provisions on the subject.
We raised this question, which we consider to be important, because although today it concerns the circuit at Spa-Francorchamps, it will of course also concern others likewise affected by this directive on tobacco.
We feel it is very important for health problems to take precedence over the problems raised by banning tobacco advertising and we are extremely concerned about the International Automobile Federation's position in this regard.
As you emphasised, and as already discussed with Commissioner Byrne, the latter is currently examining the possibility of extending the ban on tobacco advertising worldwide, in other words, working with the WHO on this issue.
Naturally, the measures currently taken by the automobile federations are extremely worrying for those who are trying to limit any encouragement of smoking, which we all know is extremely harmful to health.
Furthermore, the automobile federations' measures will lead to distortions with regard to employment, and, in particular, in the field of sport, which will also be extremely damaging.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the decision in principle to ban advertising for a product that is legally traded raises the question of what will happen in the future in competition law.
What the Commission should do in terms of competition policy, on a case by case basis and in the situation you have imagined, Mr Rübig, is see whether there have been specific violations of competition rules.
She is a French citizen of Moroccan extraction, who has been held against her will in Dubai since 15 October 2002.
I have read the papers myself and I can well understand why the honourable Member has raised this issue.
As far as the Commission knows, the French Government is doing everything possible to put an end to this unfortunate situation.
The ruling was returned on 26 January; unless I am mistaken, that was a fortnight ago today and we are waiting to see if her passport will be returned so that she can leave the country.
I should like to ask you, Commissioner, if you intend to collaborate with the French Government and the French embassy in the United Arab Emirates and exercise the authority and powers you have as Commissioner of the European Union to put an end to the nightmare this French woman has been put through.
I can assure the honourable Member that it does not in any way detract from our concern about this case for me to describe once again the position we find ourselves in.
It is the competence of the French Government to decide how to handle an issue like this.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the next questioner and the next Commissioner are not now in the Chamber and I am therefore going to stop the clock for 3 or 4 minutes so that Question Time can then continue.
It must be said that my colleague, Commissioner Solbes Mira, is also very grateful that the honourable Member is with us since it gives him a couple of minutes to get down from the Commission meeting, which is still continuing.
Let me turn to the honourable Member's important question.
The Commission recognises the importance of enhancing the role of women in economic life in the partner countries around the Mediterranean.
Only about 10% of the MEDA programme is available for regional activities and this has to cover everything from supporting the rule of law and good governance to activities to promote regional integration and trade, plans for infrastructure interconnection and regulatory harmonisation, the dialogue of cultures and civilisations, support for judicial cooperation, the fight against organised crime and terrorism and activities related to migration.
In these circumstances, the programme on 'The role of women in economic life' has been programmed for the year 2004 within the Regional Indicative Programme, with funding of EUR 5 million.
In order to speed up the effective implementation of the programme, a call for proposals with a suspension clause will be published during the second half of 2003 on the basis of the results of that workshop.
The regional financing plan for 2004 should be presented to the Med Committee before the end of 2003 in order to permit the financing of the selected projects in the following year.
I get the impression that, once again, you have said nothing new.
The honourable Member may recall that the UNDP, under the direction of their distinguished regional director who is, as it happens, a woman, has drawn up a report trying to answer the question of why Arab League countries have not prospered as much as other comparable societies.
Yes, there were problems about education, but there was also a very substantial problem of undervaluing women and the gender issue as a whole in economic, as well as social life in those countries.
They have given us an important wake-up call to look at these issues more seriously.
We will begin the second part of this Question Time, during which Commissioner Solbes will be replying.
It increased up until the middle of the 1990s, reaching a peak of over 110% of GDP in 1996.
The stabilisation efforts with a view to participation in Monetary Union and the improvement in the main macroeconomic indicators have contributed to reducing the ratio of debt, although at a very slow rate.
The debt still represents 107% of GDP in 2001.
Three factors have influenced this development: the level of primary balance, that is, excluding financial payments, the nominal rate of growth of GDP and other autonomous or residual factors.
In fact, the high rate of adjustment of the volume of debt, which reached 7.1% of GDP in 2001 - and is estimated as 4% of GDP in 2002 - meant that the evolution of the debt ratio does not entirely reflect the evolution of the budgetary situation of the public administrations, the achievement of increasingly high primary surpluses or the growth in GDP.
That review was carried out in accordance with the system established by Eurostat in order to comply with the conditions set in the ESA 95, in our European system of national accounts.
The statistical review which was carried out in 2002 led to an increase in Greece's debt ratio in 2001, which rose to 7% of GDP higher than the figure previously estimated.
Bearing in mind the new budgetary perspective arising from this review, the updated stability programme foresees a reduction in the debt ratio equivalent to 1.7% in 2002, forecasting an acceleration of this reduction after 2003, with a reduction of approximately 0.4% until the end of 2006.
In fact, from 2003, the modification of the debt ratio will correspond better to the level of primary surplus.
In accordance with the Commission's economic forecasts of last autumn, Greece's ratio of debt should decrease until the end of 2004, although at a slower rate than that forecast in the 2002 stability programme.
The strategy naturally anticipates an increase in the primary surplus and, to put it another way, using growth potential essentially in order to reduce taxes.
The problem of war is viewed in completely different terms.
Would this type of transfer from the Central Bank to the Treasury have been possible if Sweden had been taking part fully in the third stage of EMU at that time?
It should be observed that the comments of the Commission contained in its report stress the absence of detailed legislation on the financial transfers of the Central Bank to the Swedish Treasury, particularly in relation to the allocation of extraordinary benefits and payments.
It should also be observed that the relevant requirements within the framework of the Treaty appear in Article 108 - the independence of the Central Bank - and in Article 109 - the compatibility of national legislation with the Treaty.
These articles apply both to the participating Member States and to the Member States with exceptions.
I would thank the Commissioner for that answer.
I interpret the answer as saying that the Commission cannot accept, or considers incompatible with membership of the third stage of EMU, a situation in which large funds are transferred from the Swedish Central Bank's profits to the Swedish Treasury, as has been done by the Swedish Government.
We are talking here about a total of SEK 40 billion over two years.
The problem you raise goes a step further.
I think we are all aware of the impact of these price changes on coffee-growers, which, as we have known for a long time, is only one stage of a general problem, namely the dependency of poor countries on a few basic products.
We have carefully noted the figures sent to us by Oxfam, which address in particular this vast difference between the retail price in supermarkets and the sum paid to growers.
We have not assessed all this and we are not in a position to say whether the trade margins applied by one company or another are reasonable, taking account of processing costs, transport costs and retailers' profit margins, amongst other factors.
In the long term, however, diversification is probably the key that will make it possible to reduce dependency and vulnerability among these countries and peoples in the face of fluctuations in basic products.
For example, we began with the 'Everything but arms' initiative, which allows a number of countries among the poorest in the world to diversify their exports.
In any case, that is an example that should give pause for thought to those who advocate the total liberalisation of all agricultural markets.
I shall convey this to the NGO Intermon-Oxfam in the terms in which the Commissioner has expressed it to Parliament.
These economic partnership agreements are part of an initial discussion stage.
This situation, roughly speaking, is as follows: we gave them - or granted them, as we used to say - significant trade preferences, which, moreover, are causing problems for other countries as we have seen within the WTO, and they are not taking enough advantage of these preferences.
Throughout this process, therefore, what is guiding us is the development aspect and we clearly intend, in this matter, to make trade considerations dependent on developmental considerations, taking account of the fact that this is our priority with the ACP countries as a whole.
Many ACP countries are indeed asking us questions, for example on the degree of liberalisation or reciprocity we intend to achieve, as if that were the main objective of these agreements.
I will repeat, as many times as necessary, that the main objective of these agreements is not to open up the ACP markets further to Community products.
These economic partnership agreements are not, to our minds, simply free-trade zones that are nothing more than instruments for trade.
We want to make this a business, a process, a partnership to serve the development of these countries themselves, in particular in allowing us to address the problem of the many internal barriers to trade that still exist both in Africa and in the Caribbean and the Pacific, and also in allowing us to address the restrictions affecting the competitiveness of these regions, in order to turn them into poles of economic development.
We have also launched relevant studies on this point - we call them impact and sustainability assessments - to analyse the social, economic and environmental effects of these agreements which - I would remind you - are, first and foremost, agreements between these countries themselves, and we shall ensure that the results of these studies are taken into consideration throughout the negotiations.
That is where we are up to in the negotiation process, which is in its initial stage, which we would like to extend to a second stage from September this year.
We have established various contacts with various ACP regions and we all know that some of them are more prepared to liase with us than others.
They could be based upon the fact that your representative said in a recent meeting that the EPA negotiations were not about development, but about negotiating new trading arrangements, and that was the mandate.
The South Africans managed to get agreement that their trade negotiations would be renamed 'trade and development' negotiations.
I do not want to go into detail here, but I know some regions within the ACP group that are ready to start negotiations tomorrow.
The objective of these negotiations must be sufficiently clear in their minds if this does not pose a problem for them.
The relationship between trade and development is not that simple: in particular, the ACP countries must work together to create markets that are large enough to interest investors.
In any case, I assure you, this is a trade negotiation in which our objective is to make a better, more active contribution to development in these countries than we have in the past.
As the authors are not present, Question No 43 lapses.
Very roughly, in summary, we apply to the ACP countries preferences that are not applied to Thailand and the Philippines, and these two countries considered it appropriate, at a time when we were trying to obtain WTO agreement for a general derogation concerning all these preferences, to make their own agreement conditional upon negotiations with us.
We undertook to hold discussions with Thailand and the Philippines and, if necessary, to enter into a mediation procedure.
The demands regarding access to our market made by these countries seemed excessive to us at the time, and the offers we made seemed insufficient to them at the time.
In December, the mediator ruled and recommended that the Community open up a quota of 25 000 tonnes of canned tuna at an import duty rate of 12%, given that the normal rate, if I may say so, is 24% and the ACP rate is 0%.
So, ACP 0%, normal rate 24%, mediator's proposal 25 000 tonnes at 12%.
The Commission is in favour of the adoption of these recommendations.
We believe that recourse to mediation in this type of case is an honest procedure, that, in a way, it places on an equal footing mammoths such as the European Union and smaller creatures such as Thailand or the Philippines, and that this is part of our way of viewing our trade relations with a number of countries, in particular developing world countries.
We have analysed the mediator's recommendations and our analysis is that the quota of 25 000 tonnes in question will not have a significant impact on imports from the ACP countries or on imports from other countries which also benefit from generalised preferences.
I am thinking in particular of a number of Latin American countries.
This quota would represent approximately 9% of total imports of canned tuna in the Union and 4% of the total consumption of the Union.
Community imports of canned tuna from the ACP countries have undergone a significant rise over the past few years.
They currently represent approximately 60% of global imports and, given the very close, and often very welcome links between the industry in the ACP countries and certain sectors of the Community industry, we do not consider that imports from the ACP countries are seriously threatened by this mediation.
That is why we are supporting it and we have proposed the adoption of the mediator's opinion in the Council of Ministers.
Depending on the result of this consultation, we will shortly present a draft regulation to implement this quota.
I should like to thank Commissioner Lamy for that full answer.
I have three supplementary questions.
With Senegal responsible for 8 000 tonnes of imports and Ivory Coast 41 000 tonnes, the ACP believe they can be very seriously affected.
In response to your three questions, Mr Howitt, I shall begin with the timetable.
We are currently in contact with our Member States on a technical level.
If that were not the case, I would have to decide whether or not to take it further.
The ACP countries were well aware, when we were together at Doha, why and how this derogation had to be obtained in order to cover our preference system, including on delicate issues such as bananas.
With regard to the impact on trade with the ACP countries, the reason why we consider that the impact would be minor is that this concerns canned tuna and, as you are no doubt aware, there is a slight difference between canned tuna and tuna not in cans: it lies in the industrial process, which takes place in networks and according to methods that closely involve our Community industry.
That said, if any of the ACP countries wishes to discuss these technical aspects with us, we are fully prepared to do so.
That is what is behind this matter, and we should all remember this in order to evaluate fairly the results that are on the table today.
Despite these difficulties, the Commission has carried out a qualitative analysis of the possible impact of the Directive, based on all available information.
The following conclusions are very important in this respect.
Firstly, on the whole, the actual changes required by the directive should be very limited because it mostly codifies rules which are already common practice and are enshrined in national legislation, collective agreements or codes of conduct.
Secondly, even in cases where some changes may be required, the actual effect will be mitigated by the flexibility offered by the directive.
Thirdly, any cost induced by the directive would therefore remain very limited, and the proposed directive will be an important factor in the creation of an appropriate legal framework for the continued expansion of the agency sector.
In conclusion, the Commission considers that the proposal will help to realise the full employment potential of the sector in Europe.
This point has also been underlined by the CIETT in its own study.
The availability, in particular, of workers with higher qualifications and more diversified skills will encourage more enterprises to employ temporary workers.
Lastly, as regards the United Kingdom, it is important to mention the regulatory impact assessment by the Department of Trade and Industry in the UK.
It estimates that the directive will have a positive effect on total employment and on temporary agency workers' productivity.
It also recognises that it could result in greater job security for agency workers and an increase in the attractiveness of agency work.
I should like to thank the Commissioner for that interesting reply.
However, I would like to put to her that in the real world, a Confederation of British Industry survey of over 200 companies in the United Kingdom, which has more temporary agency workers than any other country, indicates that her directive will result in 60% of these companies employing fewer temporary workers.
I also want to put to her the results of that survey which show that 40% of people entering temporary work come from the pool of long-term unemployed and 40% get permanent jobs within a year.
This particular market, the agency work sector, is a law unto itself, but we can see from our analysis of each country that, in countries such as Holland which use exactly the same system as in the directive, not only are there no problems; the sector is becoming more and more dynamic.
There is no interference whatsoever on our part in workers' take-home pay; all we are doing is securing their minimum rights and we can see that, so far, this model has been a success in the two countries in Europe which have applied it.
However, what is important is that it introduces a framework which secures minimum workers' rights for the future development of this sector.
Our research shows that this sector has a very poor reputation in the labour market because often the workers used do not enjoy even basic rights; they have no protection, they have no pension rights and they have no insurance rights.
If minimum rights - no more and no less - were protected, it would become a dynamic sector.
As I said at the beginning, the CIETT has surveyed these agencies, which believe that a broad legislative framework will give better results and enlarge the market.
My information is that the temporary work sector in the Netherlands has declined since their domestic law changed.
As you know Mr Bushill-Matthews, before the Commission made this particular proposal, this directive was the subject of discussion between the trades union and employers.
Neither the trades union nor employers are happy with the present directive, because it tries to strike a balance between creating a real incentive to employ temporary workers while abiding by the basic European principles and minimum protection for workers enshrined in the Treaty.
But apart from that, as far as payment is concerned, the directive does not interfere at all, it does not call for any sort of equivalence, except where the worker replacing the person off work has exactly the same qualifications, exactly the same seniority and exactly the same number of years' experience.
Question No 46 by Lennart Sacrédeus (H-0902/02): Subject: The demographic challenge, families and work In Sweden, the number of people written off sick has soared in recent years and there are also signs of a disturbing trend in other Member States.
At the same time, the birth rate in Europe is at a record low.
Meeting the demographic challenge is one of the main problems facing the countries of Europe.
It includes legislation, especially legislation to support parents with young children and basically help them reconcile working and family life, policies on gender equality and women's access to the job market - remember families often have serious financial problems - and of course social policies, especially social infrastructures.
Social infrastructures are the responsibility of the Member States, but I would remind you that, first, they receive a great deal of funding under the Community Support Framework in connection with employment and, secondly, the first specific targets were set in Barcelona a year ago, when all the Member States undertook to provide 95% of children between the age of 3 and 6 with a place in a state or private nursery by 2010.
Yes, we are concerned here with economic needs, but we are also in actual fact concerned with joie de vivre and the spirit of the future within the EU.
This report, which maps the situation in Europe in the form of highly detailed statistics, refers to the indicators you mentioned on the number of births in each country, the number of births in each region and the ratio between immigrants and the population in each country.
I am afraid, Mr Fatuzzo, that if we link the number of new jobs to the number of births, we shall be in for some very unpleasant surprises.
All I need say is that, even if the birth rate increases significantly in Europe and even if the number of immigrants doubles, Europe's population will still not stabilise and its numbers will continue to fall.
Consequently, the demographic problem really is a burning issue for governments; as far as the labour market is concerned, a larger population obviously also makes for a more dynamic economy.
The example of the United States, where the population is expanding fast as immigrants integrate, is an important example.
So it is vital for us to realise that the situation as it is today will create serious problems on the existing job market, where we look set to have a shortage of workers under 30 from 2030 onwards.
Consequently, irrespective of how intensively we need to act on the problem of employment, and you are quite right that we need to create more and more jobs, we also need to act directly to increase the population of Europe.
I hope you will agree with one of the recommendations I made in the report, which is that there are many older people who have retired at 55-plus who would be delighted to return to employment if there was some financial incentive for them to do so.
My recommendation would provide a quick solution.
I agree that, at the moment, we urgently need to integrate workers over 55 years old into the European labour market.
Only 37% of people over 55 are still in work in Europe.
It has put a large number of people out of work and of course, as the information society restructures, older workers are the first to go.
Every country also undertook to include a percentage of over-55s in training and in training and lifelong learning policy; in other words, there will be incentives in the form of tax relief or subsidies to encourage these people to go back to work.
The new directive reinforces protection for victims of discrimination based on sex with specific provisions reflecting the case-law of the Court.
Member States should guarantee by this date that all necessary measures have been taken to eliminate discrimination on the basis of sex in all matters covered by this directive.
There is a serious legal vacuum, however, because these sexual assaults are dealt with within military jurisdiction as abuses of authority and not as violations of human rights, which is what they are.
Perhaps a letter addressed to you which could be communicated to the Spanish Minister for Defence so that he may deal with this case of soldier Quiñoa could have an effect, because for more than two years the victim has had no posting, relegated within the armed forces, while her rapist, lieutenant Iván Moriano, is in the army, he is a persistent offender, and no measures have been taken.
I believe that it is very important to tell the minister about a very specific instrument that he can use before the implementation of the legislation.
This instrument is the code of practice of the Commission, annexed to the Commission's 1991 recommendation.
It is a code of practice concerning the need to prevent sexual harassment or harassment in the workplace.
They can put in place these first steps to prepare the armed forces for the implementation of the directive.
Mr President, together with the rapporteur, all the groups have done their best - indeed they have already come a long way - to reach a firm measure of agreement in this dossier, and my thanks to the rapporteur for his cooperation.
As we said this afternoon, it might have taken a long time, Commissioner, but, when all is said and done, we have still been much quicker than the Council.
A general point to begin with: the White Paper outlining the policy lines for European transport policy up to 2010 has one major shortcoming, in my opinion: it lays too much emphasis on rail transport, as if that were the only real means of transport of the future.
Conversely, road transport, and, above all, water and air transport, quite unjustifiably receive scant attention in the White Paper.
The large degree of flexibility, efficiency and reliability that road transport offers have led to tremendous growth in that sector.
A competitive economy for Europe stands or falls on a healthy European transport sector.
I am pleased, therefore, that Parliament, in its reaction to the White Paper, does consider the importance of inland waterway transport as an innovative, environmentally friendly and relatively cheap mode of transport that will soon connect Eastern and Western Europe with each another.
The scope for growth in this sector is still very great.
Funding the transport infrastructure for all modes of transport seems to be a major problem throughout Europe.
Cross-subsidising, as proposed by the Commission, is only acceptable in specific areas, such as the Alps and the Pyrenees.
We are not against this, therefore, Mr Swoboda.
This goes against the principle of the free market economy, whereby all means of transport must enjoy the same conditions of competition.
I disagree, because in context, all modes of transport must be treated equally, at the same time.
We never promised that there were politicians who were going to impose even more duties on the trains.
Mr President, I should now like to take up two important points: the European Road Safety Agency and the establishment of a European transport fund.
The majority of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is absolutely not rejoicing at the prospect of these two initiatives.
It goes without saying that it is very important to increase road safety in Europe: every victim of a traffic accident is one too many.
Mr President, it seems to me that the transport fund is altogether too much for countries that cannot pay for their own roads and do not want to do so in other countries either.
Mr President, I should first like to thank the rapporteur for his work and also for his efforts to reconcile diverse positions, about which we have heard today.
The analysis is harsh and cruel and, Mrs Peijs, we have to take it on board: every day there are 7 500 km of traffic jams on Europe's roads; between 1990 and 1998, CO2 emissions increased by 15%; the amount of freight transported by rail has declined in recent years from 21% to 8.5% and between 1990 and 1996 alone, ten football fields' worth of new motorways were constructed every day.
We simply cannot go on like this and a sea change in transport policy is the only answer.
In my view the White Paper tends to neglect this aspect.
That is why I hope that a serious proposal will be forthcoming from the Commission very soon - that we will then discuss in detail - so that we can guarantee that all modes of transport bear a fair cost burden, based on true and transparent costs.
My final point, Commissioner, is one that you addressed in your speech earlier.
Enlargement is nearly upon us and I think that we need to do all we can to avoid repeating the same mistakes or again adopting the same unfortunate transport policies that we have seen implemented in the Member States over the last 30 or 40 years.
We must not repeat these mistakes with the new Member States.
Sections to quicken liberal hearts are those in the area of infrastructure charging, the passing on of external costs of the different modes of transport, the relative separation of economic growth and transport growth, greater attention to multimodal transport developments and attention to inland navigation.
The methodology of cross-taxation with a view to transferring the pressure away from road transport to the other modes of transport must not be allowed to lead to distortion of competition in the transport market.
Only a small, privileged group was able to buy goods that were produced a long way away.
Raw materials and semifinished and finished products are moved enormous distances from places where production is cheapest to other places where many buyers willing to pay high prices are expected.
The existence of the European Union has further reinforced this trend, in part through the introduction of a common currency, great freedom for tax-free aviation and the construction of cross-border motorways.
The opinion leaders would rather not admit that growing traffic flows lead to a growing pressure on space, to air pollution, to noise pollution and to road traffic accidents.
Which is, coincidentally, the title of the European Commission's White Paper on transport for 2010 that we must evaluate today.
No one is against the growth of transport by train or by ship, but people were seeking equal treatment for air transport and road transport, in other words scope for them to grow at least as fast.
This would mean that workers, especially those on the railways and in the ports, would be less certain of keeping their jobs and maintaining their incomes.
All kinds of liberalisation proposals may turn out to have a negative impact on people and their living environment.
In short, I think that the problem is accurately described in the White Paper.
What we are in principle seeking of course, for environmental reasons, for example, but also for a number of other reasons, is the separation of economic growth and transport and related problems.
I think that it is indeed necessary, but I also think that there is an absolute need for the emission problems of rail compared with the other modes to be tackled seriously.
If we look at the pricing discussions to date, then I find it disappointing that, after the four years that I have been in this Parliament, after a group has worked on this subject at high level, after we have drafted the Costa report, we have still not made any advances at that level.
Within it, the environment is in our view the most important aspect.
It is only with rigorous measures that we can eradicate the area of tension between growing transport flows and increasing environmental pollution.
Even though they must develop their own infrastructure policy, the EU must provide a strong incentive to give durable modes (water, rail, pipeline) a fair chance, to avoid the constrictive situation in which the EU currently finds itself.
Mr President, we have a comprehensive resolution before us.
With some good and some not so good points.
Mr President, the whole approach of the White Paper on European transport policy is inconsistent, though we recognise the fine work of the rapporteur.
We must welcome the Commission's determination for responsibility-sharing in the field of transport policy, as well as its sensitivity to the principle of involving local and regional authorities, labour unions, relevant associations and transport-users in this policy-making process.
We must also pay tribute to the rapporteur where, in a comprehensive view of the overall economic, social and environmental impact, he calls on the Commission to promote best practice for transport reduction through the implementation of new production processes that will diminish the need for transport.
But it is contradictory to propose, at the same time, the liberalisation and opening of markets in the railway sector, totally abandoning public services.
Furthermore, we cannot accept your stand on maintaining in the public sector the burden of transport infrastructure costs for safety reasons - which are absolutely obvious - abandoning financial gain to private companies.
Transport is crucial to economic sustainability and internal balance in any community, be it the European Union as a whole or a small country like my own.
I should like to draw your attention to the issue of the high-speed rail link connecting Paris to Madrid through the western European corridor with its junction in the Basque country.
Instead of revitalising the railway network, taking into account the clear will of the Basques, priority has been given to the high-speed rail line, promoting the environmentally unfriendly attitude already apparent in motorways policy, regardless of the external costs related to the use of this mode of transport.
May I also thank the rapporteur, Mr Izquierdo Collado, on his report.
I should like to qualify these principles by making a few comments on some of the individual issues.
First of all, the debate on trans-European networks must at some point stop being a debate and must be fleshed out, by which I mean that the trans-European networks will need to be promoted in practice and this will require political will on the part of the Member States on the one hand and both national and Community funding on the other.
We therefore need to increase funding under the Community budget specifically for trans-European networks.
The Council needs to push the second railways package through as quickly as possible on the basis of Parliament's proposals, so that the European Union has something to show for itself in the railway sector.
This is vital, especially in certain areas of the European Union, and of course helps to protect the environment.
Fourthly, our debate must include the special role which outlying regions of the European Union and island regions need to play if there is to be a balanced development of transport networks within the Union.
Fifthly, road safety.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is not united on this issue.
Finally, two brief comments on measures to promote safety at sea and charging for infrastructures.
Mr President, I should first like to thank the Commissioner very much for the White Paper that she has presented.
paragraph 9 states that there should be some degree of shift to rail, but that under no circumstances should this negatively affect the competitiveness of road transport.
I believe that it is right to refer in paragraph 75 to the fact that what the Commission is proposing is the right way forward.
Once again, I hope that this report, if it is adopted now, will be of genuine help to the Commission in implementing the proposals in the White Paper.
The rapporteur has introduced notable improvements to the Commission proposal.
I would like to remind everyone of the transport needs in outlying and remote districts and regions, and geographically problematic areas.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the White Paper on European transport policy for 2010 is clearly in favour, and I welcome the fact, of shifting the balance between modes of transport towards rail and waterways.
Like all the directives issued in this field, however, it is always the pursuit of liberalisation in all transport sectors that is emphasised, as if this were the only viable solution.
I believe, however, that we should also strengthen public services by modernising them.
I believe that public services or services of general interest must be at the heart of the Union's transport policy and must, as such, be incorporated into future Treaties.
I think we genuinely need to shift the balance in transport towards rail, but we still need to make far more progress on the matter of distortion of competition, which remains significant, and, in particular, we should be far more resolute in demanding a reduction in driving time for lorry drivers, which is also a condition for increased safety.
My group also considers that the report should be more concerned with social issues.
A series of amendments has been tabled by my group, moreover, relating to the key issue of harmonisation of social standards from the top for all modes of transport.
Transport naturally also includes maritime transport and, at a time when the Prestige disaster is still at the forefront of our minds, I would like to draw your attention to the amendment tabled by my group inviting the Commission to present a legislative proposal forcing polluters - oil companies, classification companies, ship owners and charterers - to pay for all damage caused by disasters in which they are involved.
I would also like to point out that the European Parliament has requested a ban on flags of convenience and I would like the Commission to take swift measures in this regard.
For all these reasons, you will understand that my group will wait in order to be able to take account of any progress due to the adoption of amendments before taking up a final position on this report.
Andalusia - as you know - is one of the most extensive territories of the European Union, with almost 8 million inhabitants and in 2002 it received 21 million visitors who generated EUR 13 200 million.
The report itself talks of the substantial impact of transport on European tourism and the need to create north-south corridors in order to facilitate the free trade area between Europe and the Mediterranean, as well as the development of the outermost regions.
Well, between them is located the province of Granada, which has the lowest income in Spain and in Europe.
I am glad that this report has not forgotten users of two-wheeled vehicles, who are extremely important in terms of individual transport and its sustainability in cities, which, thanks to them, are more human places to be.
One death costs us EUR 1 million and we have 40 000 deaths a year on the roads.
The report does not mention non-transport.
Mr Izquierdo Collado, Commissioner de Palacio has rightly stated in her White Paper that we do not want to have any legislation on road safety in the next five years.
If there is no European legislation, what do we need a new road safety agency for?
I say to previous speakers: it is your region and your Member State that will have to improve local public transport in your cities.
If you take a look at what we have achieved with the Essen projects, which we agreed together in 1996, you will see that not even all 14 projects have been implemented, and we do not have enough money for them.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after almost one and a half years of debate on the White Paper and therefore on our transport policy strategy, we now have a report that is by and large capable of winning a majority.
The White Paper itself certainly deserves the epithet strategic, because it keeps in view the idea of optimising European transport as a whole and because it underpins its objective of achieving a balanced distribution of transport needs across transport modes with around 60 specific individual measures.
The exact same number - exactly 60 - of specific legislative proposals are still gathering dust in the Council.
Purely arithmetically speaking we are therefore practically back in 1992, at the beginning of the process of implementing the last White Paper.
There is a danger that the deadlock will call into question one of our flagship projects in transport and industrial policy.
Secondly, there is a lot of movement in the European skies and this is now reflected in our legislation.
One more point to finish with: we actually ought not to have debates on transport policy every ten years, but on a continuous basis, including here in the plenary and, as we are doing today, at a reasonable hour.
Mr President, Commissioner, the White Paper has been the catalyst for a stimulating debate which has produced a strategic vision allowing us to focus on the goal of creating the conditions for free movement of goods and persons, which are essential if we are to achieve the genuine integration of the enlarged Europe and pursue territorial cohesion, avoiding any land wastage and reducing undesirable effects on the environment, security or public health.
This is a hugely ambitious goal and 2010 seems a long way away but, considering the time frames for the various changes to structure and infrastructure, we can say that we are already extremely behind.
It is equally important that we help to balance the choice of mode of transport by internationalising external costs and exploiting the differences in internal charges and costs for coordination of more compatible modes of transport too.
These are pressing, problematic matters and we are in danger of getting bogged down in them, but they are crucial and decisive for the issues we are addressing.
I hope that, as has been said, the Commission communication on the methodology for charging for external costs which will allow us to establish a system of apportioning transport costs which is fairer than at present, replacing the generic charges we are currently paying with appropriate, specific charges, will not be long in coming.
All because a market logic, founded in 1992 in a White Paper behind directives on competitiveness and liberalisation, has led to our neglecting safety, the environment, social aspects and land use planning.
The senseless belief that liberalisation is effective, not to say perfect, has created short-sightedness with regard to the future, devalued public action and public services, condemned those who believe in the need for long-term public investment and divided funding, excluding general interest and the positive or negative effects of decisions taken in the short term.
I also support him, of course, when he says that transport is a strategic sector for land use planning and for economic and social cohesion, and when he speaks of the serious consequences for the environment.
He tells us that sustainable development must comprise the basis for a European transport policy, and I agree.
Our rapporteur speaks of the need for greater balance between modes of transport, which is good, but this is not sufficient, far from it.
If Europe does not want to limit itself to a list of good intentions, it must now, as of 2003, redirect all its investments and all its choices in this area by providing itself with new legislative instruments and financial resources equal to what is at stake.
The key to very many of the objectives that the Commission is setting itself is the fair price of modes of transport and infrastructures.
The Commission has been talking about it for a long time and there is a loud clamour for this document, not only in this Chamber, from the people who are sympathetic towards the environment and traffic safety, but also in the Member States, who are keen for the real polluter to pay.
The Commission must move in this area.
The White Paper makes it possible to make a powerful response to questions of this kind.
It is now up to the Commission to work faster on the proposals that must follow this White Paper.
Frankly, I am not really convinced that our Parliamentary work benefits from the House being tied for over a year and a half to working on a document, even a document as authoritative as the White Paper - with over 400 amendments and who knows what other complications - not least in that the result is this, of necessity very brief, concise debate, in which it is difficult to address a subject of this kind.
I am proposing this for the very reason that it is extremely difficult to know what to say in two minutes on such a huge subject.
As Mr Jarzembowski has rightly said, if we want to concentrate the Union's efforts, including its economic resources, then let us look in that direction, in the direction of projects which are of genuine European importance.
Your idea of indicating the European interest of some of these projects was brilliant, but it has not been carried through.
I will end, Commissioner, by saying that there is a general need to focus more on the basic goals, concentrating particularly on matters of European Union infrastructure, urging the Member States to work to this end but directing the work and resources of our committee towards this area too.
We are now emphasising even more clearly what we want to achieve in terms of the environment and safety.
We must, however, remember that roads are of very great importance in certain parts of the EU, for example in the sparsely populated and peripheral regions.
It is a great challenge to create a transport system in the EU because Europe does not constitute a homogeneous geographical area.
The rapporteur has very clearly succeeded in emphasising the importance of the peripheral regions and the regions characterised by long distances.
I agree that we have great investment needs and that we must use trans-European networks.
When it comes to item 79, I am able to accept the proposal that the Commission conduct a study concerning the development of new methods of funding major infrastructure projects.
With regard to the proposal for a road safety authority, I take it that such an authority would have the task of encouraging constructive schemes, have a bottom-up perspective and promote cooperation at different levels.
We must improve road safety in the EU.
In fact, when thinking about and outlining a transport policy it must be realised that this is a sector of strategic importance and a service of public interest that must serve basic objectives.
No less importantly, account must be taken of people's right to mobility that is safe, affordable and of high quality.
Giving priority to modes of transport that are compatible with the environment also warrants our agreement although we must immediately highlight the contradiction between this statement of principle and the way in which the report favours roads.
In particular, we do not agree with and even reject the leap forwards represented by the constant support for liberalisation, for opening up the markets in the transport sector, as if this were a panacea that could resolve all the difficult situations that have been building up over the years and which have led to the subordination of public transport to private transport and to the degradation of that service.
This is why we have these railway and aviation accidents, which are basically caused by the lack of investment in equipment and in safety, or because of redundancies and the deterioration of employees' social conditions.
The current discussion with regard to the air transport sector is enlightening on this matter.
Despite that, unfortunately, our view has not changed.
Not only is the paper almost totally focused on rail to the detriment of all other modes of transport, but it completely fails to alleviate the precarious situation in which the aviation industry has unfortunately found itself, particularly since 11 September.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think there are a few areas in which the European Union should make a commitment.
The idea of a European fund is therefore not a bad idea.
Beyond this financial aspect, I would like to draw your attention to three other aspects.
First of all, Europe is enlarging eastwards, and our territory is therefore becoming unbalanced.
I believe the Commission should keep an eye on all the outermost areas of Europe, whose geographic makeup is complex, composed of islands, mountains and peninsulas, and that we need to ensure that enlargement does not displace Europe too far towards the East.
Regional policy might comprise tripartite contracts in future and, from that point of view, transport is a good subject associating States, regions and Europe as a whole.
I believe that this White Paper and this task provide a good opportunity for the Commission to build all these links.
In an earlier intervention, the rapporteur said that the European Union's transport policy was still lacking in one respect: he thought that we had lost the battle for sustainability.
I should like to consider this issue by referring to one specific aspect of transport policy.
Charges and funding instruments are, quite rightly, addressed specifically in paragraph 75 and those following it in Mr Izquierdo Collado's report.
Where transport is concerned, the key question is always what the transport service costs.
My request to you is therefore for some serious proposals on transport in particularly sensitive areas, and as soon as possible.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and Karla Peijs, our shadow rapporteur, since she has made enormous contributions to this document.
I will move on to the issues in the report.
Finally, we also support the creation of the transport fund, with objectives and considerations other than the trans-European networks and the Structural Funds in the field of transport.
We will support these two ideas which we consider to be positive.
In other words, I would like to make it clear that these are regions which have severe structural difficulties and deficiencies caused by inappropriate decisions and policies.
I hope that the increasing liberalisation of transport will be accompanied by development guarantees for the disadvantaged regions.
Roads are, and always will be, the cornerstone of our transport industry, allowing us to reach every corner of our respective countries and the whole of our continent.
Combining roads with other modes of transport is essential.
I have no doubt that better public transport has a vital part to play in this transport strategy.
However, road transport, quite rightly, remains the main choice for the majority, due to its ease and flexibility.
Only a small proportion of that tax revenue is spent on improving transport.
This is certainly the case in the United Kingdom.
Yet this report goes deeper than just imposing direct charges on the public.
Even basic trade, however, would not be possible without an efficient transport system which is available to all.
Mr President, there is no doubt that liberalisation of the transport market has delivered positive benefits for the mobility of goods and people, but this is in the context of a continuing predominance of road traffic, growing congestion and harmful effects on the environment and public health.
The White Paper proposes to tackle this situation by gradually breaking the link between transport growth and economic growth or an increase in GDP, while recognising that economic growth will generate greater needs for mobility.
Road traffic in Dublin has grown exponentially in the last decade, as we have experienced record growth levels in our economy.
Here, we are talking about balance and the need to get it right.
Similarly, enlargement will also generate additional road transport.
Infrastructure upgrading in candidate countries will require massive investment.
The action proposed by the White Paper involves rebalancing the different modes of transport; developing high quality rail services; promoting short sea crossings; inland waterways and combined transport; and promoting fair competition between the sectors.
Road transport will continue to be the dominant mode of transport for Member States for which alternative modes are not possible and not realistic.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, amongst its main objectives, the White Paper proposes giving priority to sustainable development, relaunching maritime and rail transport, fostering intermodality, anticipating the impact of traffic flow generated by enlargement and improving accessibility in peripheral regions.
I fully support modal rebalancing, which should be achieved by means of a series of measures combining a review of the charging system with the revitalisation of alternatives to road transport and targeted investment in the trans-European network.
We must, however, at all costs not lose sight of the fact that, pursuant to the Maastricht Treaty, transport policies must be designed to serve cohesion and that, in this regard, the trans-European transport network must be an instrument of economic, social and territorial cohesion within the Union.
Extremely specific analyses must be carried out on service provision to the peripheral regions, in particular the island regions and outermost regions with, in particular, the establishment of a public service obligation relating to the need to guarantee the principle of territorial continuity and to ensure the best possible operating conditions.
There is a genuine lack of decision when the role of transport in the regional development of the peripheral and, a fortiori, the outermost regions is raised, even though the Treaties recognise in this case the need for treatment that can derogate from common transport market rules.
Reducing deaths on the road by 50% is in particular an aim that deserves all our support.
The Commission wants to break the link between economic growth and transport growth.
New vehicles will produce up to 90% fewer emissions than those manufactured before 1970.
Another odd proposal is that of freezing the share of the market enjoyed by the different transport modes at 1998 levels.
The third error relates to the harmonisation of labour and social legislation.
The disintegration of the Soviet Union was the result of its own impossible situation, but our splendid European project deserves better.
A few months ago, Commissioner, this House and the Council approved the sixth framework research programme.
This programme established the single European area of research.
It is necessary to create a single European area of research so that all research capacity and effort is focussed on the same projects, has the same objectives and the same territory so that we are not therefore inventing the wheel fifteen times.
Therefore, the European research area is the key to understanding all the speeches which this afternoon may have sounded like a rainbow of views which would be difficult to unite.
You are fortunate, Commissioner, since this Parliament is saying: go ahead, you have the support of Parliament to formulate into directives the issues you have presented to us in the report on the White Paper, and you have certain additional contributions from the European Parliament which may be useful.
Many doors are therefore being opened, and the Council cannot turn a deaf ear to the fundamental demands and the appeal represented by the Transport White Paper that the time has come to take decisions, to create a genuinely European policy, because, in view of this European policy, the effect will be a synergy which will respond to the reticence of those who say that the European Safety Agency will cost money, that the European Transport Fund will not be well used, of those who do not believe that intermodality in one port will benefit the whole of Europe, that investments and corridors, in any area, will benefit around 400 million Europeans once the Union has been enlarged.
Therefore, Commissioner, although there is apparently a rainbow of diversity in this House, I can guarantee that we are very close together.
If we do not create a competitive transport system in Europe, the whole of our industrial fabric, the whole of our productive sector, will suffer.
You have taken your time, but, ladies and gentlemen, the Council is not moving any more quickly - let me make this very clear - in expressing its support for modal change, for the opening up of the railways, for the creation of the single sky, for the launch of the Galileo programme, on which it is really urgent that decisions and actions are taken.
Like us, your priorities include safety and the need to respond to the investment needs of the trans-European networks, in particular through charging, where necessary, for the use of infrastructures.
I am also glad that the report insists on the aspects relating to connection with outermost regions, on the economic importance of roads, on the need to reduce traffic - when I talk about the outermost regions I am talking about islands situated several thousand kilometres from continental Europe.
I believe that all these points are very interesting and worthy of our attention and they deserve to be highlighted in this report.
However, I would like to make a few comments with regard to the important points which have been raised here and in the report.
I fully understand this idea, because it stems from the need to create means of promoting responsibility at all levels to react against the lack of safety on the roads while respecting the principle of subsidiarity and the Commission's right of initiative.
I hope to be able to provide more detail in the communication on road safety which I will present to you in the near future, but there is little difference between an observatory and an agency.
Paragraph 9 states that the transfer of goods transport by road to other modes of transport should be promoted by improving the quality of service of these other modes of transport which are more respectful and under no circumstances having a negative impact on the competitiveness of road transport.
Europe cannot afford to make road transport less competitive, since it forms the basis of its economic development, its growth and its international competitiveness.
I believe we should try to take other routes which have provided good results in other sectors of transport, but I would like to stress this phrase: it is not a question of penalising but of improving the quality of other systems.
The honourable Members also propose the creation of great axes (east-west, north-south) of roads and railways, as laid out in paragraph 36 and others.
This is a fundamental point and we cannot ignore it.
Paragraph 36 and others refer to this aspect.
I am aware that it also involves promoting inland waterways, the maritime sector, but in some cases we cannot avoid building new roads because there are areas which still lack road infrastructures.
We must therefore not be dogmatic, but we must have a practical appreciation of the reality of European transport needs.
The funds currently allocated to the trans-European networks are insufficient and we must make progress in this field, because these networks are of benefit and interest to Europe as a whole, regardless of the specific countries they link or cross.
They are of interest at European level because they promote - I would insist - the creation of the internal markets and the integration of the European area itself.
This issue of the EIB: other formulae to bring us closer, of course, and we must also promote public-private participation in funding.
I will shortly present all these issues in that infrastructures package, including charging.
Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with this approach, with one exception, and that is that cross funding must be restricted to exceptional cases in alternative routes and under no circumstances must cross funding or tolls or charging become a form of generating income from the geographical situation of a country within the European area.
That is what we must do, establish charging which covers costs, which is destined for infrastructures, the improvement of infrastructures, improvements in road safety, the improvement of the locations where they are collected, and that in certain cases cross funding may be allowed, since it is clearly a good instrument and has led to good results, as for example in the case of the Swiss system.
Before 2004, the Commission will draw up a communication on the transport situation in the candidate countries.
We do not believe that a specific communication is necessary in 2003 because we are going to produce two reports.
Firstly, a complete follow-up report, six months prior to the date of accession, that is, more or less in November 2003, which will examine the degree of preparedness of the candidate countries in all sectors, including transport, and a communication in 2003 on cooperation with the candidate countries and neighbouring countries in the field of trans-European transport networks.
All of this in addition to the report by the van Miert group, which draws up the networks within the context of twenty-seven countries: the pan-European network.
Ladies and gentlemen, the mid-term assessment report in 2005, laid down in the White Paper, will be the perfect opportunity to deal with these concerns and integrate all this information.
In the end, I hope that tomorrow, following what I have heard throughout today's debates, it is clearly established that the key guidelines for transport policy in the European Union for the next ten years is fully reflected in the vote in Parliament.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
I must, however, say something about the re-use and the commercial exploitation of public information and, in the first place, it is worth stressing once again that the sole purpose of this directive is to bring about minimum harmonisation.
This is especially true for the very small businesses, the SMEs, which as a result can create a significant number of jobs, and that is precisely what we want.
And the first political question of course is why are we not doing the same in Europe?
We all know that the so-called 3G sector, third generation mobile communication, is in serious difficulty and that we have seldom been in a position to transfer so much money from the private sector to the public sector.
This basic information is information that every citizen needs to be able to function in a normal constitutional state.
You really must be able to make this information available to the citizen free of charge so that this citizen can exercise his normal rights as a citizen.
First of all I want to thank both rapporteurs very much for their work, their sharing of responsibility and above all their effort in producing such an excellent report.
We are thinking of measures that are aimed at restoring the confidence of the citizens, but also of the investors so that people know what is going to happen in that field.
I think for example that it would be useful to work towards a situation in which the Member States not only, as at the moment, permit network sharing and thanks to the Commissioner for dedicating himself so much to this but in which it is also realised that 3G is quite a different product from 2G.
I therefore make an urgent appeal to the Commissioner to use guidelines to make collaboration between the operators and competition between the services that the operators are going to provide possible.
We must not look to the US, we must look at our great setbacks in the field of competition with Japan.
Mr President March 2002, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is effectively eEurope that is in the hot seat this evening, if I may say so, and I shall in particular address the full roll-out of third-generation mobile communications.
All in all, therefore, it is perfectly normal for us to have this kind of joint debate.
It should perhaps be pointed out that the March 2002 Barcelona Council stated: 'Technological convergence affords all business and citizens new opportunities for access to the Information Society.
Digital television and third-generation mobile communications (3G) will play a key role in providing widespread access to interactive services'.
Perhaps, in order to avoid the digital divide and to avoid breaking the continuity of eEurope, it should be said that 3G services must be established within a global framework, but we must also add the important issues of consumer health and environmental quality.
One key aspect of mobile telephony development is the interoperability of terminals.
In this area, the Commission would point out that progress was made in the development of 3G terminals in 2002.
Furthermore, the existing 2G networks have been modernised to make them 2.5G.
Some technical problems may persist, but we can say that everything is working.
With regard to regulatory issues, the Commission would point out that the procedure for granting 3G licences has begun in all the countries of the European Union.
Following discussions with the parties concerned with the introduction of 3G mobile communications, a consensus was reached on three points.
Three factors have therefore been identified: a stable, harmonised, transparent regulatory environment, taking account of consumer interests; the proactive supporting role that the Union can play and, thirdly, long-term initiatives, taking account of what has happened in the 3G communications sector, in particular with a view to enlargement.
We therefore need to increase coordination of all these decisions.
The Commission believes that no changes will be required in the granting of licences and that the period of validity of licences will not be altered in the short term.
This technology is expensive and could be rivalled, for example, by WiFi, which means that today, it is not clear whether 3G communications will take over part of what information technology is currently doing or if, on the contrary, information technology will gradually replace what GSMs are doing.
Generally speaking, access to 3G services must be clear to all and users with difficulties must be protected; for example, children and people with disabilities might need specific packages.
The Member States will ensure that authorisations from the land use planning departments are subject to a clear procedure and a public enquiry.
The information society sector is a major employer and a factor which unites us all in Europe as a whole in a completely new way.
Although digitalisation and networking offer a wide variety of opportunities for development, they have also led to a worldwide gulf between the people of prosperous countries and developing countries.
Furthermore, the gender divide, for example with regard to students, is huge and is particularly pronounced in the rural areas of the Union and in the developing countries.
Furthermore, those groups which are in a weaker position are at risk of becoming doubly discriminated against.
The network has also become a political implement.
I am pleased with the Commission's eEurope 2005 Action Plan, as with it we will increase investment, aim to create jobs, and give everyone the opportunity to participate in the information society.
I also urge the Commission to speed up the introduction of third generation mobile communications and eliminate the technical and administrative barriers there are in the sector.
The Member States should offer their citizens sufficient Internet time, which is to say participation in the information society.
These will shortly be available and will make it easier for all of us to use the Internet.
It is now three years since the Lisbon strategy was created and it has met with political and economic uncertainty.
Mr President, first of all thank you to Commissioner Liikanen, it is a pleasure to see you here.
Secondly, they do not understand the scope and function of new technology in increasing productivity and expanding sales.
My report has analysed the problems facing SMEs and offers a programme of action to stimulate them, so that they can compete globally.
Use benchmarking to promote and establish best practice, to integrate SMEs in the e-economy.
One of the most important aspects is to offer financial incentives to the unemployed and the elderly, those who are retired.
I am not asking Member States to change their rules on retirement, but I am asking for the EU to consider that people who are already retired should have financial incentives to train and acquire skills.
Mr President, I am happy to see everyone with an interest in this field here tonight.
Information and communication technologies are a powerful source of growth and productivity gains, which contribute to improving our living standards.
These reports also contribute to the process of building confidence in the ICT sector.
Let me reiterate our common commitment to an efficient and timely implementation of the new regulatory framework.
With the recommendation on relevant markets we aim to give legal certainty and to help restore confidence to the sector.
In today's communication on the situation in the telecoms sector, the Commission calls for a series of actions to overcome barriers to 3G deployment.
Amongst these is the clarification of network infrastructure sharing, the importance of which was also emphasised in the report.
Information to the citizens on the health aspects related to mobile communications and continued research are important.
Finally, I would like to stress the importance of 3G in the context of access to open and interoperable platforms.
This is to increase consumers' choice and thus to contribute to the establishment of an information society for all.
The Commission is committed to pursuing action toward openness and interoperability of platforms, as so clearly requested by Parliament.
Let me briefly reiterate the main objectives of the eEurope 2005 action plan.
Mr Paasilinna asked how we could accelerate access for the Member States.
We will nominate these best practices and ensure they are widely diffused among the public authorities in all Member States.
As Mr Khanbhai's report on the impact of eEconomy notes, SMEs are key drivers of economic growth and should be encouraged actively to engage in the eEconomy.
I broadly share the views presented in Mr Khanbhai's report, for example, the need for SMEs to have easy access to legal advice on applicable law and on ICT and eBusiness skills.
The Commission is currently working together with the Member States to set a new policy framework for eBusiness policies for SMEs, including potential quantitative targets.
Network security has become a major policy concern and therefore a central issue in the eEurope 2005 action plan.
The Commission is also committed, through eEurope 2005, to promote a wider access to and greater participation in the benefits of the information society, particularly for disadvantaged groups.
In addition to the specific measures foreseen by the MODINIS programme itself, the Commission intends to promote and sustain several initiatives which will be organised in the context of the European Year for Disabled and which will follow from its earlier communication on website accessibility.
eEurope 2005 will be implemented in part through MODINIS and, though it is not part of our debate today, I would like also to thank Parliament for the support given to the Commission proposal, in particular as far as the budget is concerned.
The message here is clear and it comes at a time when the financial constraints in the sector bring attention to the fact that public sector information is a key content resource throughout information society services.
The key elements are transparency of procedures and of conditions for re-use, non-discrimination and fair competition.
The directive will stimulate the creation of information services based upon, or incorporating, public sector information.
I too hope that the debate will take place during the day next time.
In fact, if we make the documents available in a format not linked to the use of specific computer programs involving payment, we reduce the discrimination relating to the wealth of the users.
It is important to promote the use of the information by people with diminished sensory capacity, for example through a textual description of the graphs and pictures contained in the documents.
Furthermore, the advertising of all generally accessible documents, including those relating to judicial and administrative procedures, must reach the public sector.
This is a fundamental instrument for the development of the right of citizens to knowledge and a fundamental principle of democracy.
This objective is applicable to institutions at all levels, local, national and international, and furthermore it is necessary for the public administrations, whatever their institutional level, to promote and support the reuse of the information provided.
I would end by stressing that we naturally believe that all these principles should also apply to the European institutions.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first to make a few remarks on the Auroi report.
We must also do all we can at European level to support this sector.
Against this background, a broad majority of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy supported this report and the promotion of 3G.
I should now like to offer a few thoughts on the Van Velzen report on the re-use and exploitation of public-sector documents.
He has displayed a great deal of commitment to his report and once again this has borne fruit in the form of a good report.
The authorities in the Member States have huge quantities of information that has been collected over long periods of time.
Members of the public and businesses should also benefit from this treasure trove of information, whose commercial value is difficult to put a figure on.
I am confident that general access to public information will give a significant boost to growth, competitiveness and employment within the European Union.
For my part, I do not see that there is any legal basis for harmonisation in this field.
If we are always going to have such little regard for the competences issue here in the committees and in our day-to-day parliamentary work then I do not think that this bodes well.
Mr President, I congratulate all four rapporteurs, who have worked long and hard on their dossiers.
We in this Parliament should be ashamed that the signal sent out to those few who are listening at this time of night is one of a lack of seriousness on our part.
We need to join together and make serious protests in the future.
I should like, first of all, to comment on Mr Van Velzen's report on reuse of public information.
Secondly, it is important to support the exemptions included in the Commission proposal for universities, libraries and museums across the European Union.
Mr Khanbhai, who does not seem to be here, ended his speech by saying that he wanted to have fun.
That has not always been the case on a global scale.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Liberal Group I congratulate all the rapporteurs on reports that in my view are relevant for the development of eEurope and an information society for all.
With regard to the Van Velzen report there are two things I would like to stress.
Re-use and commercial exploitation of public information, as proposed by the rapporteur, will lead to a real information society for all.
In my opinion we as a Parliament must fight hard for the rights of the citizens.
Public information must therefore be made available to the citizens free of charge or at marginal cost for reproduction and distribution.
It is also important that the same conditions prevail in all the Member States.
This is because we need a level playing field, only then can the internal market for public information be achieved.
To go through that last point: this directive must promote the reuse and the exploitation of public information.
We cannot have a situation in which France gives discounts on licences and other Member States renew licences.
I think that the Commission must bring forward clear measures to guarantee that level playing field.
Finally, a word about the Khanbhai and Paasilinna reports, because they make a contribution to the eEurope that we here in the Parliament favour, to ensure that citizens and businesses can profit fully from the information society.
It is true that in Lisbon in 2000 we agreed that we must be the most competitive and dynamic knowledge economy in 2010, but these appear to be nothing more than fine words that require urgent conversion into deeds.
Consequently, the slump in investment in third generation mobile communications continues, and the pious hopes for the ambitious targets set in Feira, Lisbon, Barcelona and Seville are not realised.
This democracy must be promoted through public investment.
Basic information services must be free of charge or at least inexpensive, but historical investment must also be taken into account in the production costs involved in the re-use of, for example, land register, museum, university and research institute databases.
It is not by chance that following the action plan eEurope 2002, we are already looking towards eEurope 2005, specifically in order to fulfil the Lisbon and Feira European Councils, held under the presidency of my country and later on, those of Barcelona and Seville.
Mr President, despite the late hour it has been a refreshing debate.
I thank them all for tackling different aspects of the subject.
However, it is worth reflecting on the fact that within weeks we will have the first commercial third generation services in a major country.
None of us know how and in what ways that technology is going to develop.
But I think we can make one certain prediction: in a few years' time - about the most accurate forecast - we can expect that more people across Europe and the world will be connected to the Internet through a wireless device than through any other mechanism.
That is the importance of third generation.
In Japan I have been to the research laboratories of DoCoMo, the Japanese telecoms company, where they have people inventing third generation commercial applications.
That is what will be successful in third generation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we can but welcome the convergence of these reports, which seek to further Europe's progress towards a new phase of technological development, in a highly specific manner.
The Information Society towards which we are moving is, without a doubt, a society that makes intensive use of information technology networks and produces a large amount of innovative communication services and information.
It is essential, however, for the European Union's public policy to keep pace with the development of these markets and harness the benefits of this development.
First and foremost, therefore, we must ensure that no citizen is excluded from the Information Society, since, to some extent, taking action with regard to public services and the public interest, in a way, involves using information technology in community and spatial development.
By making available to all the means for active participation and considering access to it as a citizens' right and an obligation of general interest for the Member States, we can ensure that this Information Society is actually created for the citizens and around the citizens.
Under these circumstances, the positive points in the Paasilinna report are of little practical value to disadvantaged social groups in danger of remaining excluded from the information society.
In the European Union, where everything is bought and sold, where a radio frequency market and even a market in atmospheric pollutants and polluting rights have been created, we now have a public records market.
Mr President, I would like to join with my colleagues in congratulating the four rapporteurs for their work on these reports.
For a lot of people, that one click is like trying to climb Everest because they have not been brought up in the information technology age and they have no access to education or training to ensure that they can make use of this wonderful new tool.
I speak in particular of people with disabilities, those who have hearing difficulties who could have text messages brought to them, or those who are blind who should have access to voice-activated messages.
A lot of these new technologies are too expensive for ordinary users to get access to.
When we look at the overall context of this new vista of the knowledge economy and at the opportunities it presents, there are opportunities, but the risk that we run is, because of the huge amounts of money required in investment and infrastructure, unless governments and other agencies are involved, along with private financing, then peripheral and rural areas will lose out on access to these opportunities.
We have one computer for every 12 pupils and every pupil has email access, Internet access and knowledge-based education in their school curriculum every day.
This particularly applies to islands, where it is not simple or easy to get the kind of technology or the kind of expertise that linking up with the nearest major hospital - with a consultant at one end and the local doctor or nurse at the other end - can provide.
The last point that I would like to make is with regard to 3G.
Mr President, I think this is an exciting debate, and I think our rapporteurs have done a quite outstanding piece of work that has also been duly recognised.
For two reasons.
Data can be made available free of charge, moreover, because the public savings are as substantial as they are.
I too have been a mayor and I am therefore curious to know whether this was a specific case or whether all the mayors were in this situation.
I am not, however, asking you to respond now.
Mr President, I congratulate all the rapporteurs for their work on these reports.
However, for this to take place, all Member States need to come together to ensure universally interactive public services, hopefully thereby facilitating the information society and guaranteeing equal public access to information.
The objective of creating a competitive economy based on information will have a significant impact on growth, productivity, employment and social cohesion in Europe.
However, we need to recognise that progress in this area has been far too slow.
We need to explore how we can have greater participation and ensure that we do not have a two-speed Europe nor an information underclass.
In my area, the West Midlands, many SMEs are looking for this kind of information.
We must help the troubled third generation mobile communications business, not restrain it.
The GSM communications business, which has grown considerably in five years, is the cornerstone of our competitiveness and virtually the only thing driving the Lisbon strategy along.
Public documents must be made available in electronic form.
Five minutes before the witching hour we have a topic that is obviously pulling the crowds in, or I might put it this way: we know that we want Europe and need it, so please allow me to use the 90 seconds that I have left to talk about how we can achieve it.
We say to our dear friends in the Council and our dear friends in the Commission - whose web site looks like something out of 'The White Horse', which was a cult operetta in Fifties' Austria - use the money that we could save by for example not holding meetings like this in this form and spend EUR 50 000, 60 000 or 100 000 on producing an up-to-date website that is more use than what is there at the moment.
We do not know how many people are watching this in their offices and we do not know how many people would watch if we could broadcast this sitting on the Internet.
We need more competition in the postal services sector.
We need secure payment systems, we need a system of damages that protects customers from fraud, and we need e-money that enables us to pay as if paying with cash.
Community legislation on transparency and accessibility of public information already provides a highly comprehensive framework, but in some sectors, a few clarifications should be made in order to prevent any distortion of competition caused by a possible legislative void.
I would congratulate the European Commission on this proposal concerning the reuse and handling of public sector documents.
I nevertheless lament the lack of precision in certain points in the text.
I am thinking, for example, of the documents referred to which, in my opinion, are not the subject of a clear, specific definition.
I am not referring to harmonisation, but simply to an appropriate definition to allow all citizens to know exactly which public documents are considered to fall within the scope of the directive.
On the other hand, I am pleased that the proposals on the unilateral order on information production and the proposals on the conditions governing the implementation of this order have been adopted, in particular the reasonable period of notice.
The rapporteur has successfully supplemented the Commission's basic proposal with a comprehensive report, which has been intelligently negotiated between the various political groups to which we belong.
Mr President, there is no need to insist on the importance today of the information society for everybody, both for the public sector and for companies and citizens.
With regard to the Commission's initiative on the reuse of public sector documents, there are more and more companies in Europe who make use of information from the public sector and who reuse it.
We must guarantee that the conditions for access to this information are the same throughout Europe.
The price for this information must be proportional - without question - to the cost of production, but on the other hand we cannot oblige the administration - as the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has said - to produce all that information if it is not relevant or necessary.
I would like to congratulate the Commission on its initiative today to present a single system for security of the networks.
It is clear that our work and our economies are increasingly based on the information society and it is therefore important to reduce the risk of insecurity on networks.
We must guarantee both safe access and the protection of the privacy of the data of those who access the public sector and the networks in general.
In order to promote an electronic economy in the field of enterprises, it is also essential to promote a culture based on the entrepreneurial spirit and to stimulate greater participation by companies in the information society.
While in Lisbon, as other Members have said, the strategic objective was set on turning the knowledge-based economy into the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world, the objective of the information society is undoubtedly an important and essential driving force.
I would prefer to submit the Commission position on the amendments in writing because the safety at work directive starts with the limits on our working hours!
The vote will take place today, Wednesday, at 12 noon.
The Commission's proposal for a directive on the entry and residence of third-country nationals again places the emphasis on legal or illegal immigration and raises the issue of employment as a prior sine qua non condition for granting stable status.
I welcome the improvements contributed by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs to the proposal for a directive, but I would also like to stress that the rapporteur has shown great lucidity and has dealt with the issue without demagoguery.
I regret that these proposals have not been backed up with real figures and that the report has not placed more emphasis on access to citizenship.
We must all work to guarantee the principle of free movement, to increase the opportunities for workers to find work and enrich their professional experience and to promote mobility with a view to creating a closer union between peoples. (Written statement abbreviated in accordance with Rule 120(7) of the Rules of Procedure)
