Thank you, Madam President. (Applause) Thank you.
This situation, recently described by Minister Hubert Védrine as 'monstrous and revolting' , is naturally giving rise to grave concerns about stability in a region that is on our doorstep.
Using combat aircraft in residential areas, launching missiles to systematically destroy buildings housing police and security services of the Palestinian Authority, and assassinating Palestinian activists are hardly convincing components in a strategy geared towards achieving peace and security.
The closure of Palestinian institutions in East Jerusalem, especially Orient House, and the seizure of files are political measures that are not very likely to appease Palestinians.
This assassination led to extremely violent clashes in South Jerusalem, where the Jewish settlement of Gilo is located, as well as in the Beit Jalla and Bethlehem districts, located in the border region of the Palestinian West Bank.
Fortunately, UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan has personally been able to win the respect and trust of Israel, with his much more measured approach.
Next, still on the subject of impartiality, how could the European Union justify its preference for one of the parties in the conflict, when it is involved in a partnership with both Israel and with the Palestinian authorities?
The European Union is, in addition, working with Syria and Lebanon within the Barcelona process, one of the aims of which is precisely to establish an area of stability, peace and prosperity in the Euro-Mediterranean region.
Having mentioned the aims of the Belgian Presidency, let us now consider progress in the recent efforts made by the European Union.
The European Union backed the report of the 'fact-finding commission' , widely referred to as the Mitchell Commission, whose recommendations were published in New York on 21 May 2001 and accepted by both parties.
The European Union also lent its support for the Tenet cease-fire plan that came into force on 13 June 2001 with the agreement of both parties.
In spite of this, the plan aims to increase security cooperation between the Israeli and Palestinian security services.
In the run-up to the Belgian Presidency, Foreign Affairs Minister Louis Michel personally visited the six countries most directly concerned, during a six-day tour from 18 to 25 April 2001.
Despite having a very busy agenda, the Belgian Presidency hopes to be able to return to the region shortly, in early November, for example, if circumstances allow.
Madam President, I would have failed in my duty to acknowledge the efforts made by several institutions and key figures within the European Union if I also failed to highlight the extremely active role played by Commissioner Patten to ensure not only the financial survival of the Palestinian authorities but much more besides.
Clearly - and I cannot stress this enough - the European Union has hereto been the most important donor for the region and the Palestinian Authority and, without our financial assistance, without the imagination and ingeniousness that we have to use to continue to supply the authorities with adequate funding to enable it to function, the situation would be infinitely more difficult.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the General Affairs Council meeting of 16 July 2001, the European Union clearly set out what it expects of the parties involved.
So as to ensure that peace returns to the region, the European Union said that it was particularly in favour of the principle of establishing an impartial monitoring mechanism, considering that such a mechanism would be in the interests of both parties.
This proposal was included in the brief statement made by the Heads of State on 21 July 2001, at the end of the G8 Summit in Genoa, which I should mention at this point.
The serious deterioration in the security situation and the complete lack of trust between the two parties probably render unlikely any prospect of seeing the protagonists putting an end to their conflict by themselves.
On the one hand, the Palestinian Authority must adopt measures to stem the flow of violence and terrorism, without which any attempts to relaunch a political process would fail.
The so far very local cease-fire which the parties agreed upon on 28 August for the Beit Jalla/Bethlehem-Gilo sector and which is being complied with must be consolidated and extended to include other hotspots of conflict and tension in the Gaza Strip and on the West Bank.
The creation of direct dialogue must allow the parties - provided that the situation on the ground becomes stable -to gradually make the transition from a crisis management scenario to a crisis resolution scenario.
Alongside this, it should also be possible to offer a political perspective very promptly.
Only a political process - one which finally results in the exchange of land for peace, puts an end to the occupation and allows the emergence of a sovereign, viable, democratic and peaceful Palestinian state that is committed to coexisting alongside Israel, and is therefore also willing, of course, to acknowledge this right to coexist with Israel - only this situation can finally give Israel and, more importantly, the region as a whole the security, stability and peace, to which their people aspire.
The continuing violence - according to the news this morning there has been another suicide bombing in Jerusalem - and the endless recriminations and refusal of the parties to rise above their grievances and choose the path of peace is not only profoundly regrettable but also frustrating for everyone in the international community who is trying to find a way out of the current impasse.
Both parties, as the Minister said earlier, have failed to seize the opportunity offered by the recommendations of the Mitchell report, offered again in the Tenet plan.
So what can the European Union do in these circumstances?
The Minister has explained, very clearly the extremely important role the Presidency has been playing, trying to mobilise international opinion around proposals which offer a way forward.
The Minister has also noted the efforts made by all the European Union foreign ministers and, of course, Javier Solana, who has been attempting to bring Israelis and Palestinians together and to get them to return to the negotiating table.
They must reaffirm their commitment to the fundamental long-term goals of the Middle East peace process, secure borders for Israel through the negotiated establishment of a viable Palestinian state on the basis of the relevant UN resolutions.
It is sometimes suggested by critics that we in the European Union have not been sufficiently strong in our condemnation of terrorism.
For example, in its statement after the attack in Jerusalem on 9 August the Presidency unreservedly condemned the bombing of a Jerusalem shopping centre and it abhorred that cowardly attack, which mainly claimed the lives of innocent civilians.
Palestinians need to be able to see a real prospect of an improvement in their daily lives.
This should include the implementation of existing agreements between Israel and the Palestinians.
We must go on reiterating the point that trying to do so much damage, putting such a tough squeeze on the Palestinian territories, is not to restore security or the way to lay the foundations for a future in which both parties can live happily and amicably together. (Applause)Third-party monitoring of the proper implementation of those agreements and a functioning dispute settlement mechanism would obviously help to address Palestinian frustration with the current non-implementation of existing agreements.
These efforts need to be supported by a range of confidence-building measures to overcome the current deep distrust, not only between the leading politicians, but also between the two peoples.
These programmes promote peace through joint projects and awareness campaigns for tolerance and peace.
We have an important role to play in supporting the voices of moderation wherever they exist.
Our package of support for the Palestinian authority is a successful example of how the European Union can deliver assistance in a sensible, fast and effective manner and I am extremely grateful to Parliament for its support in our work.
European support for the Palestinian Authority budget is secured until November and the Arab states are currently considering extending their budgetary support until the end of the year.
Palestinian needs in 2002, and the contributions of other donors will have to be looked at in the context of an assessment of the economic situation in the Palestinian territories currently being carried out by the World Bank.
Of course, we will keep in the closest touch with Parliament about our assessment of the financial requirements of the Palestinian authority and about our continuing determination to ensure that even in the present appalling circumstances our financial assistance depends, as far as the Palestinian side is concerned, on transparency, proper budgetary prudence and a commitment on the Palestinian side to fight corruption.
Those are all points that have all been made to us by Members of this House and they underlie our determination to secure a proper agreement between ourselves and the Palestinians before we started releasing money in budgetary support.
Madam President, it is true that the situation seems to have settled into a horrendous vicious circle in which there are threats and acts of violence from both sides, such as the attack just a few hours ago in West Jerusalem.
We should all be wondering how we have been able to get into this situation, when, in January of this year, the then Labour Government of Israel put forward a peace proposal which today seems almost unimaginable.
Yasser Arafat could also be asking himself whether his people are living better or worse than eleven months ago when the Intifada began.
In Israel this has meant that broad sections of the left in that country, above all those who were most involved in the negotiations at Sharm El Sheik, Camp David and Taba, are deeply disappointed in the Palestinian leader.
My group, Madam President, believes that this attitude is profoundly mistaken and that it in no way contributes to a recovery of the peace process.
But now more than ever the Palestinian Authority should demonstrate that it is prepared to comply with, and ensure compliance with, a peace agreement which in no way is going to fulfil all their aspirations.
Despite the pessimism reigning on both sides, or perhaps because of it, the role of the international community is now essential.
The European Union now has a broader margin for action, which it must exploit through specific contributions, using its economic influence in the area for political ends, ensuring that its development aid is applied to projects which bring specific benefits to the population and that, of course, it is coherent with the respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and creating better and closer coordination with the negotiating forces of the US Government.
I do believe that we Europeans should consider ourselves committed to and involved in this process.
I prefer to talk about this than about equidistances, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, because there is no total equidistance between a consolidated, sovereign and democratic State such as Israel, and a possible embryonic State for a people which do not yet have a homeland.
Furthermore, economic and human asphyxia is not the way to resolve the conflict and a policy of this type only serves to reinforce the extremists on both sides.
Secondly, Madam President, for the first time we Europeans are signatories of an agreement.
I must remind you that, as President of the European Parliament, I had the opportunity to visit Orient House.
Lastly, Madam President, in the middle of this dramatic crisis, it is cause for hope that there are Israeli and Palestinian voices which have the civic and political courage to sign a joint manifesto.
Therefore, our obligation is not only to resolve the problem but, of course, to prevent it getting any worse.
However, apart from the fact that we are trying to put an end to the violence by means of dialogue, I believe that I should add certain aspects, directly related to human rights, to what previous speakers have said.
I believe that the European Parliament should currently be sensitive to the fact, condemned by certain NGOs, that four Palestinians may be executed if Yasser Arafat does not commute the sentences handed down for internal activities within the Palestinian area or for collaboration.
I believe that this Parliament should try to prevent these executions.
I believe that impartiality is a necessary concept, but in politics impartiality is often not achieved without equidistance.
I believe that it is urgent and important to recover impartiality towards everybody, in particular towards Israel.
The debate on the Middle East threatens to become something of a ritual debate.
We too, in Parliament, are always asking for the European Union to play a more active role.
If the European Union wishes to adopt the same policy, that should be made clear, and we should then no longer talk about the European Union' s playing an active role in the Middle East.
In this debate, I should like to make a fresh attempt to break the deadlock, in this case the ritual debate, by invoking the European Union' s economic role.
I support the comments made by Commissioner Patten.
There is an urgent need for a third-party monitoring system to be appointed in an effort firstly to end the violence which is taking place now on a daily basis, and secondly to resume peace talks.
It is also time that the obstacles to the implementation of the Mitchell report were removed.
We should recall for a moment that the key findings of this fact-finding committee include the following recommendations: the government of Israel and the Palestinian Authority should reaffirm existing agreements and immediately cease violence; there should be a resumption of security cooperation; there should be establishment of a meaningful cooling-off period and incitement in all forms should be discouraged.
Perhaps he was thinking of all the women in Saudi Arabia and other countries, who have absolutely no rights in their own countries.
This is the Middle East that we encourage to reject democracy, to reject the rule of law, and we continue to consider and propose a policy of impartiality for Israel.
Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck, I think that it is impossible in politics - and even less so in this particular case - to propose a policy of impartiality.
The European Union' s policy must, of course, be a policy to promote peace, but, most importantly and primarily, it must be a policy to promote democracy.
Instead of continuing to advance reluctantly with regard to enlargement, the European Union has no choice but to propose that Israel, with its population of five million people, becomes a full member of the European Union.
Meanwhile, the German Foreign Minister, Mr Fischer, is attempting to round up the EU Member States in order to revive the Middle East peace process.
This meeting should be the cautious beginning of a gradual peace process.
If the Council and the Commission are to avoid this elementary question, then all well-intended mediation attempts will irrevocably fail.
Madam President, the latest attacks and actions clearly demonstrate that, at the beginning of this academic year, the spiral of violence is unfortunately not coming to an end.
This violence has cost the lives of more than 150 Palestinian children and adolescents and dozens of Israeli children.
Following the statements we have heard this morning from the Presidency-in-Office of the Council and from the Commission, it is clear that the European Union is not remaining, must not remain, impassive in the face of this situation and that the objective of sitting down at the negotiating table - although many of us are longing for another Madrid Conference - seems practically utopian compared to the objective of an immediate halt to the violence.
Secondly, the international community must act: the United States, Russia - where the Israeli Prime Minister is today - and the European Union, which must hold all the cards so that it can play its rightful role on the basis of two undeniable premises.
And, secondly, the European Union must have a single commitment and that commitment is the cause of peace.
But two things must be taken into account: that peace must be the fruit of justice, Madam President, and that moderation becomes a vice when it rejects a commitment to a just cause such as the cause of peace.
Madam President, the Israeli Internal Security Minister has just said: 'Palestinian terrorism is trying to demoralise the citizens of Israel, change their daily life and impose fear with a view to the government granting political concessions' .
The Sharon government is mistaken in assuming philosophies such as that expressed by Minister Landau, because the Palestinians are not looking for the Israeli Government to grant political concessions.
I believe that, before it is too late, the European Union is morally obliged to find a system which will lead the occupier to respect international law.
Mr Sharon speaks and acts clearly, and he says when he speaks in parliament that his intention is to bomb and kill, targeting, in particular, the Palestinian leaders, and to raise houses to the ground, not just in order to destroy the houses but as part of a clear plan.
When I was in Palestine and Israel between 23 July and 22 August, I saw houses raised to the ground in the settlement areas to gain more territory for Israel; I witnessed the taking of Orient House and saw the Israeli flag hoisted immediately - a totally colonialist gesture.
Therefore, Mr Sharon is going ahead with his plan, which is to restore only 42% of the territories to the Palestinians, who are forced to live in bantustans, without a State or borders.
Together with Mr Hanan Ashrawi, Mr Yaser Abed Rabbo, Mr Yossi Beilin and Mrs Galia Golan, I signed the document presented at Ramallah: they demand peace, a fair peace.
Just as those courageous Israelis who are defending the rights of all and who, together with me and many others, have been sleeping in the Palestinian houses bombed at Beit Jala demand it.
Madam President, some decades after the Holocaust and the extermination of the Jews in the Soviet Union, Durban is evidence that anti-Semitism is still alive in the political world of the third millennium.
In the light of recent events, we request a detailed report on this point and we call upon Europe to play a useful part and to demand from both Israel and Mr Arafat a genuine peace process, not just the words or terrorist bombs of recent years and months.
After all, that was our experience in Europe, too, when in 1950 we united coal and steel to put an end to a thousand years of warfare between the Germans and the French.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the historian Léon Poliakov quite rightly said that anti-Semitism is to refuse a human being the right to exist because he is Jewish and anti-Zionism is to refuse a State the right to exist because it is Jewish.
We had conversations with Foreign Minister Peres and Chairman Arafat and other very senior people there.
In the past the European Union has been seen merely as a supporter of the Palestinians.
On the Palestinian side, the danger is that intransigence will be fuelled by events such as the UN racism conference in South Africa, through the influence of radical Arab forces in the region and by the breakdown of liaison between Israeli and Palestinian security agencies.
Instead of suppressing Hamas, Islamic Jihad and other extremist elements, the Palestinian agencies are now too often in bed with the extremists.
The most likely form of increased international presence on the ground is a resuscitation of the liaison between the Israeli and Palestinian security services reinforced by American and European elements.
This might not catch the headlines but through removal of misunderstanding and more effective action against extremists, it may actually help create some of the conditions for peace.
If both we and the US work together in common cause, there is just a possibility that we could halt the continuing slide into regional conflict and restore peace negotiations once again on the basis of the Mitchell recommendations.
I would like to endorse the comments of those Members who have reiterated that the European Union' s role in a region of the world so close to our own is today much more important than it was several years ago.
However, very many of you have also said that a solution cannot be found without much more active and dynamic support than is currently being given by the US administration and other bodies or other governments.
Over the last two years I have had the great pleasure and privilege of listening to hundreds of speeches in this Chamber, probably more than any other Commissioner.
Most Members of this Parliament are aware of the Commission's efforts to make sure that the European support for the Palestinian authority is money that is properly spent, well spent and spent in ways that help to promote pluralism, the rule of law and clean government in the Palestinian territories.
I would be delighted to come back to this subject again in the future, but I want to underline that point today because I do not think it is helpful when Members of this House give the impression we are not spending European taxpayers' money sensibly.
Perhaps if I talk about it once more today, I will be able to save one or two honourable Members who have not yet got the point from raising it in correspondence and in speeches in Parliament in the future.
I want to be very clear on this.
None of the projects in support of the Palestinian authority, none of the projects in support of UNRWA financed by the European Commission, include the production or distribution of school textbooks.
The largest contributor is the United States and I do not think anybody is suggesting that by contributing to the education budget of UNRWA the United States is guilty of the things with which we are charged in the Commission.
Furthermore, no request has ever been made to us by the Palestinian authority to finance curricula or textbooks.
We reject any attempt to use the educational system as a vehicle to promote intolerance and to hinder the efforts by the parties still committed to peace in the Middle East.
It is particularly regrettable in this context that school children may be exposed to intolerance by the parties involved in the conflict.
The Commission has always and will always continue to focus its assistance on promoting a culture of peace, tolerance and human rights in the Middle East.
Recent studies of Palestinian books have shown that anti-Semitic language contained in old Egyptian and Jordanian textbooks used by the Palestine authority and UNWRA, particularly before 1994 and 1995, is being removed.
These new books, rightly or wrongly, have been criticised for not conveying a clear message of peace and friendship with the Israeli people.
It is important that UNWRA is running a substantial tolerance and awareness programme in its schools to counteract any negative influence on the pupils, but it cannot be very easy for a teacher in the camps to be teaching children about tolerance and awareness when they go out of the camp in the evening and see tanks and guns and stone throwing.
Teaching a tolerance and awareness programme in those camps must be one of the most difficult jobs in the world.
I beg honourable Members who take up rather partisan positions on these matters to think of those who are working day after day in the camps and elsewhere in the Middle East to promote decency, to promote the sort of values which we share in this chamber.
Of course, we all have the ambition to take steps on behalf of the European Union that would make a bad situation in the Middle East better.
Since it is an important question and the lack of a response could give rise to misunderstandings, I shall pass on to the House the details that the Council secretariat has just given me.
The meeting will, therefore, take place tomorrow.
Madam President, I have personally been taken to task by Commissioner Patten, as have several Members, which is why I think we at least have the right to respond.
I maintain all that I said about education in Palestine.
The debate is closed.
We should all create our internal prerequisites, institutional and otherwise, so that the candidate countries do not become hostages to our own reform process.
We should make clear that all candidate countries are treated as equals and that countries like Hungary and the Czech Republic will therefore get the number of mandates in the European Parliament to which they are entitled.
It is a matter for the European Union and the candidate countries alone.
Of course, we understand that in some cases there will have to be transitional arrangements, both in the interests of the Union in individual cases and also in the interests of particular candidate countries.
From our point of view, we are deliberately not mentioning any favourites for accession to the European Union, because we know from experience that wrong decisions and mistakes in domestic policy next year may mean that a country that is perhaps fairly well ahead today is not actually ready when the time comes.
We should not demand more from the candidate countries than the Member States of the European Union themselves are already doing today and we should not seek to cram into the negotiating package everything we might wish for.
The appeal is so great that the European Union is currently preparing to double its number of members.
From now on, the future of Europe and enlargement of the Union are inextricably linked.
Enlargement is the future of Europe.
In addition to the genuine historical challenge, enlargement is also a political project.
This project brings us, European leaders and elected Members, face to face with our responsibilities.
We must henceforth make every effort to ensure a stable, secure and prosperous future for our fellow citizens in an enlarged Europe.
The unfortunate events in the Balkans in the last ten years have shown that a region cannot be stabilised without introducing and consolidating the enlargement or association process.
In some of the countries of the former Yugoslavia, destabilisation has led to a deterioration in the rule of law and to the emergence of new hotbeds of international crime.
In Central and Eastern Europe, stable governments have been established which have adopted the common values, or the values which they have in common with us, such as democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and the protection of minorities.
The enlarged Europe will consist of 500 million citizens and, in economic terms, these are 500 million consumers.
Ladies and gentlemen, in the candidate countries, enlargement has become a strong incentive to take the measures needed to make the transition to a market economy.
Malta still lacks the chapter on agriculture and Bulgaria still has eight chapters that must be examined.
By this, I mean that the number of chapters which have already been negotiated, and for which provisional agreements have been reached, is such that the question now becoming increasingly specific and, therefore, increasingly urgent concerns the differentiation in treatment of candidate countries, each according to its merits, as well as the question of knowing how the negotiations will end.
The Belgian Presidency is striving to maintain the intensive pace of negotiations.
In addition to chapters on the free movement of workers and the environment, we tackled issues involving justice and home affairs, competition, transport, energy, fisheries, agriculture and taxation.
In some of these areas, considerable progress was made.
However, the pace of negotiations does not depend on the efforts of the Commission, the Council or the Presidency alone.
I am thinking, for example, of the beginning of the election campaign in Poland, or of the new Bulgarian government that has come into power.
Although enlargement on a purely legal plane is feasible without ratification of the Treaty by all the Member States, it must nevertheless be underlined that non-ratification of the Treaty would send an entirely wrong political signal to the candidate countries at a time when a segment of public opinion in those countries is starting to question the merits of this process, which is perceived as a restriction on their newly regained sovereignty.
To combat this will require courage and determination from the Member States and therefore from all of us.
Enlargement also requires that we adopt an ambitious attitude in terms of devising new common policies.
The Union must acquire the resources in order to deal with a destabilising crisis on the borders of an enlarged Europe - the Europe of tomorrow, in other words.
By way of conclusion, I should like to say that enlargement remains a political project.
The Belgian Presidency has pledged to maintain the intensive pace of negotiations.
We can now also start telling all the candidate countries with which we have begun negotiations that they are future Member States.
It is evident that this will also happen when new Member States join.
The adventure which we started around ten years ago - at least the concept of it - is thus reaching successful completion, but that success will only be achieved if we all make the efforts needed.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for your extremely detailed speech and I shall now give the floor to Commissioner Verheugen.
You have all done a great deal to give this historic project political credibility and to give democratic legitimacy to the enlargement process.
I do not want to reawaken the controversy surrounding the Treaty of Nice, but I would like to point out that this Treaty contains essential political conditions for the conclusion of the accession treaties.
But I fear there will always be differences of opinion over the best possible solution to this problem.
The Commission is therefore pressing for ratification of the Treaty of Nice here in the European Parliament and in the parliaments of the Member States.
Enlargement must not be sacrificed to growing alienation between Europe' s citizens and the European institutions and decision-making processes.
Perhaps Europe' s citizens are looking for a more fundamental and more complex answer.
The 'road map' presented by the Commission and approved by the Heads of State and Government is more than a timetable for negotiations.
At heart it is a commitment by the 15 Member States to find common positions by particular deadlines, even in areas where interests are widely divergent.
The treatment of the free movement of workers issue is an instructive example of this.
On the one hand, the progress in negotiations made it possible to define the finishing line for those applicant countries that are adequately prepared; on the other hand, the Göteborg decision gives the parliaments and governments of the candidate countries the necessary political tailwind to mobilise all their forces and respond to the doubters that most certainly exist.
Making the 2004 European elections the point of reference for the accessions is an idea that originated here in the European Parliament a year ago.
If we stick to these principles, we shall arrive at a natural and real accession scenario that is justified by the results of negotiations alone.
The Commission will not propose the conclusion of an accession treaty for each individual applicant until it is convinced that the applicant is well enough prepared and satisfies all the conditions.
All I can say today is that 10 of the 12 countries we are negotiating with have decided that they want to use the Göteborg time frame.
It would be a serious breach of trust if we were now to say to individual candidates: "You are in, in any event" or "Whatever happens, you are going to have to wait a little longer" .
We shall therefore have to prepare ourselves for the possibility that we might have to accept an initial accession group of as many as 10 applicants.
That sounds more drastic that it actually is, because those 10 together represent around 75 million citizens, while all 13 candidate countries together make up a population of 185 million.
It is quite possible that countries which have concluded fewer chapters than others are nevertheless further on in their preparations.
The compromise based on the Commission proposal will bring the most liberal and most flexible solution to the problem yet seen.
It is in the interests of the Union as a whole that enlargement should not demand more of any Member State than it is actually able to give.
On the other hand, at the end of this round of enlargement we will have an eastern border extending almost from the North Cape almost to the Bosporus.
On the one hand, this concerns the functioning of the internal market, but on the other also the matter of social cohesion in the countries undergoing transformation.
We shall have to decide how much flexibility the Union is able to show so that enlargement is not experienced as a social shock in the future new Member States the day after accession.
As regards the financing of enlargement, the Commission will ensure that the budgetary effects of its proposals for negotiating positions are fully in line with the expenditure ceilings agreed in Berlin for the period up until 2006.
Account must, of course, be taken of the necessary adjustments for the number of new Member States provided for in Agenda 2000.
I want to turn now to the situation in the candidate countries themselves.
The instruments deployed, in particular twinning and interparliamentary cooperation, have also proved their worth.
The Commission will be describing the progress made in meeting the Copenhagen criteria in the progress reports for the year 2001.
These reports will be discussed by the Commission and adopted in early November.
It is symptomatic that national minorities in the applicant states are particularly keen on rapid accession because they see membership of the European Union as their most effective form of protection.
While the situation of the Russian minorities in the Baltic countries continues to improve, the integration of the Roma remains a thorny and substantial issue.
I want to be cautious because we have already experienced many disappointments, and in the past many fine words have not been matched by deeds.
At this point I should like to mention that the European Parliament' s rapporteur for Romania, Baroness Nicholson, has personally done the greatest service in uncovering an incredibly corrupt system and that the progress we can now see would not have come about without her persistence. (Applause) So far as the economic criteria are concerned, even when we apply the necessarily strict yardsticks we can see that here, too, the positive trend is continuing.
Free-market reforms have not yet been completed everywhere, but the market economy has been established everywhere.
This means that, even after the accessions, enlargement will not have a drastic economic effect on the present Member States.
There will be a sustained improvement in EU growth in the long term.
The European Union' s roll in international competition will be strengthened.
The balance of payments in some candidate countries has structural weaknesses.
At present, there are clear priorities: first the Copenhagen criteria for accession, then the Maastricht criteria for the euro.
I can already say that the Commission' s next strategy paper will focus on the assessment of the third Copenhagen criterion, namely the complete application of EU law.
Our strategic objective is still to receive a united Cyprus as a new member.
While fully recognising Russian sovereignty over the Kaliningrad territory, we have made proposals to Russia about how Kaliningrad can benefit from its position as a kind of island within the EU in future.
In Russia' s case in particular I am absolutely convinced that Russia will benefit once the political and economic dynamics of the enlarged Union on Russia' s borders show their full effects.
The answers to these questions must be found in another debate, but that debate has already begun.
And I would also like to say a word of recognition to the accession countries, which have embarked on tremendous reforms after 50 years of communism.
What they are doing is not a simple matter and instead of only ever giving voice, in the countries of the European Union, to certain fears about the dangers we should also say a word of recognition for the people in the accession countries for making this tremendous effort. (Applause)The accession countries also have dignity.
I cannot understand why heads of government in the countries of the European Union tell the heads of government in the accession countries: Yes, we must demand a long period for freedom of movement because we have national elections.
I have the figures for the Federal Republic of Germany: in the last ten years, 900 000 people came to the Federal Republic of Germany from Poland, but 700 000 of them went back again.
Commissioner, you are quite right: If the countries have the prospect of becoming members of the European Union, their citizens will not migrate but will prefer to stay at home.
Let us say that enlargement presents no risk to environmental protection, on the contrary that in a few years' time EU standards will apply in the whole of Europe and not just in the western part.
That in Europe together we will have more chance of meeting the challenges of globalisation than if we in Europe diverge into east and west or north and south.
Its price is economic, social, ecological and political stability in Europe, above all else its price is trust.
What is at stake is not merely one or other transitional period, not that this or that project or programme or fund will work better or worse.
Neither is it only about this or that advantage for one country or another.
After the failure of Nice we are also setting great hopes on the Belgian Presidency.
This debate about the future of Europe must not be conducted only in the Member States, it must also be conducted in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and in Cyprus and Malta.
Mr President, since our debate last year on enlargement, there has been very considerable and commendable progress.
I welcome the fact that the European Council, with the encouragement of the European Commission, adopted the date of the next European election as a target timetable, all the while emphasising and respecting the fact that we should continue with a case by case analysis based on differentiation.
The Commissioner is right in that we should not get carried away excessively by following every poll but when they are so consistent, underneath it there is a message.
I am bound to say on behalf of my own group that the Liberal Democrats here in this House are unhappy at the pace with which the thought of having a systematic ban on the free movement of labour became the politique acquise.
But inside this there is another real issue.
The frontline border regions are the regions of our European integration process.
We here in this House must express our concern for an enhancement of regional policy focus in those places because these regions will carry the most immediate consequence of enlargement.
This solidarity is something we must inject into this debate, as Europeans, with greater vigour and not simply leave it to local or national interests to make the case.
On the question of the current state of the enlargement debate, I meet many friends in the candidate states in politics and diplomacy who worry about various tensions that have emerged.
Secondly, I welcome what the Commissioner had to say on Cyprus and Kaliningrad.
Finally, on the question of the Irish referendum, the message given both by the Council and the Commission today is an important one.
Yes there may be legal means to get us over the legal niceties but there is within this a political signal and message and the signal must be, that however we may criticise the Nice Treaty, and we all do, we must get over that hurdle as a precondition politically not to do with enlargement but to do it ourselves.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner, first of all I would like to say on behalf of my group that we are extremely pleased that during the year now ended negotiations have truly made rapid progress and it has been possible to close one chapter after another.
My group truly regards 2004 as a target timetable by which it is possible - not certain, but possible - that as many as ten new countries may join the European Union.
Simultaneous accession by such a large group would,, of course, bring the advantage that we would avoid new division lines between the applicant countries, and in my opinion this is something which we must earnestly strive towards.
Those resources which are freed on account of this fact could be deployed, even in the pre-accession period, as tools of agricultural and structural policy in order to strengthen this positive dynamic.
We would like to see the common agricultural policy strongly reformed in such a direction that, instead of making direct aid payments to large farmers in the European Union or in the applicant countries, these resources would be firmly shifted to rural development and quality-oriented food production.
We would like to take part in serious consideration of how we could increase the participation of ordinary citizens in the enlargement process also in the applicant countries, since at the moment what is happening is that it is only the narrow élites of society who find enlargement to their advantage, and it is these people who are pushing enlargement.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, on behalf of my group I should like to say that we - at least the vast majority - consider the accession of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe to the European Union to be of strategic importance and we strongly support this accession process.
I would like to highlight five questions: Firstly, in my opinion the involvement of the citizens has been minimal.
Fourthly, I have to say clearly that the Commission' s recent decision on funding for border regions is irresponsible.
Fifthly, I find it totally unsatisfactory that the number of Czech and Hungarian members of this Parliament was decided undemocratically in Nice and that that has still not been changed.
Mr Hänsch, I was also surprised that the amendment I tabled in the matter to the report on the Czech Republic was supported by the European People' s Party and others in the Committee on Foreign Affairs but was not supported by the majority of the Social Democrats.
At any rate we should agree that Parliament will in this matter be calling uncompromisingly for a change.
But NATO expansion, especially under the conditions of current US and NATO policy, is in my view fraught with serious and in part incalculable risks.
The conclusions of the Göteborg Summit of EU leaders with regard to the enlargement negotiations and the accession process stated that the road map should make it possible for those countries that are ready to complete negotiations by the end of 2002.
I am confident that, under the Belgian Presidency of the European Union, extensive progress will be made with regard to the enlargement negotiations.
The aim of concluding the enlargement negotiations with the more advanced countries by the end of 2002 is an achievable objective.
The leading candidates are provisionally closing chapters at an impressive rate and the leading candidate country, Cyprus, now has 23 chapters concluded.
But it is equally important that the European Union and the applicant countries get down to negotiating the more difficult chapters of talks, which to date have remained closed.
It is in the interests of all contracting parties that the bottom line issues that remain outstanding are debated, resolved and finalised.
We must all continue to play an active and constructive role in the enlargement process.
The enlargement of the Union is an economic and political opportunity for Europe.
The expansion of the single market should be of real and tangible interest to European exporters and to indigenous European companies seeking investment abroad.
On a continental level, the enlargement of the European Union will contribute to further stability.
An enlarged Union will be able to play a more positive and influential role internationally, both politically and economically.
Our input into organisations such as the World Trade Organisation would be very much strengthened by the enlargement of the European Union.
As an Irish Member of the European Parliament, I would like to take this opportunity of restating that the result of the Nice Treaty referendum in Ireland should not be interpreted or construed as a vote against the enlargement of the European Union.
Irish public opinion is strongly in favour of the enlargement process, as indicated by a recent Eurobarometer poll which found that 59% of the Irish people were in favour of the enlargement of the Union.
Hopefully this Eurobarometer poll will be reflected when the Irish electorate next have an opportunity of making a decision on the issue.
Progress of the 12 candidate countries in 2000 (continuation) Mr President, Commissioner, this morning' s debate on enlargement has revealed considerable convergence of approaches and methods as well.
Moreover, it was observed on several occasions that enlargement is not just a matter of extending the Union geographically, economically and politically, of integrating 10, 12 or maybe 13 countries, mainly in Central and Eastern Europe, which have survived the tragic experience of 50 years of communism, but that, in enlargement, the Union itself is at stake.
This does not, of course, simply mean that we must monitor carefully the candidate countries' respect for the three Copenhagen criteria: freedom, democracy and human rights, a competitive market economy able to cope with competitive pressure and market forces within the Union, and gradual incorporation of the Community acquis which, as Commissioner Verheugen pointed out this morning, also requires full incorporation of European law, which has proved to be maybe the most difficult part of the process for the candidate countries.
As both Commissioner Barnier and Commissioner Lamy rightly observed, we cannot discuss the institutional reforms if we do not first define a political project.
A Europe which has a federal currency, an intergovernmental defence policy and an open economic market area clearly has considerable potential, but also areas of considerable confusion.
Some are of the opinion that these areas of confusion can be resolved by drawing up another document following on from the Charter of Fundamental Rights, in other words a genuine Constitution; others wonder whether we really need a European Constitution, a form of constitutional patriotism based on the German model which is supposed to provide patriotism which would not otherwise exist.
For others, at the heart of the project lies enhancing and increasing economic cooperation around the euro, and, more then any other characteristic, this would make Europe' s relationship with globalisation clear and would indicate our ability to be a genuinely global force, at least at European level.
Commissioner Patten rightly said, this morning, that we feel that we have been frustrated in our desire to contribute to the peace process or, to be more accurate, the resumption of negotiations or, more precisely still, cease-fires in Palestine, by the events which have been repeated during the last few hours.
The Czech Republic's stance, that it does not wish to repeal them, amounts to a disregard for fundamental basic values and human rights which the EU expressly upholds.
The Commission's report on the safety of Temelin also confirms that Austria's misgivings about the reactor are justified.
Commissioner Verheugen, you described Temelin as the safest nuclear power station in Europe.
His services told me that the report had actually been sent to Parliament yesterday for distribution to Members.
In the defence industries in the last few years we have had considerable cross-border cooperation and consolidation but we have not helped those companies because we have not provided them with a single company structure.
The call for a unified statutory framework for European limited companies, which disregards diversity in national law, is an old federalist demand that is nearly as old as the Community itself, given that the first discussions on this subject were launched in 1959, and the first concrete proposal from the Commission dates back to 1970.
We have been discussing this issue for 30 years without making any progress, and everyone was resigned to being unable to move it forward, which may mean, in other words, that a solution is not as urgent as we believe and that we could manage to live without it.
In fact, in a letter dated 24 August 2001 to Members of Parliament, European businessmen wrote to reiterate their position, in other words, that a Statute for a European Company will offer no significant economic benefits, unless it is backed up by an agreement on an appropriate fiscal regime.
Yet, this agreement does not currently exist.
Given these circumstances, it seems that the European Company Statute, for which there is not much appetite at the present time, is being pursued mainly because of the chain of events it could give rise to, leading to the destabilisation of national laws by a supranational statute that the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs would even like to see applied to small businesses.
Over the past decade, Ireland has been progressively reducing its taxation which has been led to an increase in employment, an increase in budget surplus and continued sustainable growth.
The fundamental aim of the European Company is to eliminate any obstacles to the mobility and functioning of companies that operate on a European scale, enabling them to merge and allowing multinational companies to extend their business activities to other countries in the European Union, thereby increasing the benefits of the Euro and the internal market.
It is not by chance that the rapporteur mainly focuses on the issues of harmonising tax provisions and creating a uniform framework in other areas, such as competition, worker participation and insolvency.
I know the problem.
They always have something else to do.
These so-called rights are simply the participation of workers' representatives in 'the SE' s administrative or supervisory body' .
I believe that it is important to mention the background to this proposal for a directive, which seeks to supplement the regulation on the European Company with regard to the involvement of workers.
A great deal more negotiating was needed before the Nice European Council reached agreement on 20 December 2000.
The proposal for a directive governing information and consultation of workers specifies that the scale of participation will be decided through free negotiations between the companies concerned and the workers represented by a special negotiating body.
The purpose of the amendments made by the European Parliament is to establish minimum requirements for information, participation and consultation of employees; to harmonise the national implementing provisions of the Member States, since acquired rights are not called into question; to ensure that even in the case of substantial structural changes after an SE has been created, negotiations on employee participation are planned to take place at a later date; to lay down clear rules on management' s obligation to provide information, specifying areas to which this obligation applies; to ensure that the election or appointment of workers' representatives to the SE' s administrative or surveillance body shall take place according to the legal provisions of the Member States.
In this scenario, it would be an obvious advantage for all the ultra-liberals to have a workforce, which is also globalised and has the least amount of rights possible.
However, that should not lead us to overlook the fact that businesses can also form a threat to society.
The report talks of 'competitive needs' but disregards the need to provide workers with the right to live and earn a wage.
Over-prescriptive legislation can turn them into a barrier.
Approximately 650 works councils have thus been set up in companies that employ at least 1000 people, with at least 150 of these in two Member States.
Furthermore, the recent large-scale restructuring operations and redundancies that have highlighted the gaps in European legislation are still fresh in everyone' s minds.
It is unacceptable for employees to find out about decisions affecting their company through the media.
It is exactly this that the report from the Parliamentary Committee on Employment and Social Affairs sets out to do, for, on the occasion of this application report, it outlines the direction to be taken by the European Commission when it drafts a proposal for an amendment to the European Works Council Directive (scheduled for 2002).
This will be a matter of implementing the following improvements: precise definition of the concepts of information and consultation of workers; a general obligation to call extraordinary meetings of the European Works Council, as quickly as is possible and at an opportune time; the implementation of a consolidated consultation procedure on particular questions, specifically involving workers; the lowering of the threshold relating to the number of employees in companies affected by the directive from 1000 to 500 employees for a whole company and from 150 to 100 per establishment in at least two Member States; the establishment of penalties, at national and European level, to be applied in cases where the Directive is not respected.
The latest redundancy programmes drawn up by the management at AOM, Marks &amp; Spencer, Lu-Danone and even Moulinex have, once again, shown that the interests of managers and small investors are completely opposed to those of employees and the needs of the population.
Thousands of people are asked to leave because another product requiring other skills is deemed more profitable, because production is shifted to a country where wages are lower or even because the business wants to penalise the workers for wanting better working conditions.
Unfortunately, the rapporteur is not suggesting that workers should be given the right to free access to information and to suspensive veto.
This is one way in which they have shown their incapacity to follow a policy in this field that is capable of limiting environmental pollution and preventing environmental disasters now or in the future.
Neither wants to clash with the private interests of large industrial groups or to impose upon them draconian measures that could reduce their profits, in order to preserve society' s environmental interests.
The solutions put forward intermittently in the European Parliament' s or Commission' s reports consist of increasing supranationality, increasing penalties and facilitating a swifter and more direct application of Community Law by increasingly bypassing national Parliaments.
These methods, which dispense with the fundamental role of national Parliaments, can only aggravate this gap between Community Law and the situations of Member States.
On the other hand, the only solution is to restore the role of nations and national Parliaments in the European decision-making process.
I am very disappointed that this does not seem to be the case.
Progress of the 12 candidate countries in 2000 (continuation) Mrs Schroedter, you have been a little too hasty in your remarks.
The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on the progress of the 12 candidate countries in 2000.
After the fall of the Berlin Wall, the world has become more secure, and our European home is now more dynamic and inspires more hope.
In many respects, developments in Estonia constitute a success story in which an incredible amount has happened during the last ten years.
In this respect too, Estonia is on the right road.
More fainthearted talk of delay not only harms the project but also Europe as a whole.
This also means that not just one Baltic country but all three will be involved.
Mr Verheugen, you mentioned the positive attitude of the national minorities towards enlargement.
No debate of any kind is taking place in society about the successes achieved and problems experienced either in the accession process or with enlargement; neither is it a joint process.
The communication strategy is to have separate projects for East and West and as such is ill-conceived even in terms of structure.
It would be beneficial not only to Latvia but also to consumer protection and thus to the entire population of the EU and the accession countries.
Mr President, in debating the twelve reports on the twelve candidate countries today, we are making a positive contribution to a development without, as yet, any understanding of what the results of that development will be.
I hope and pray that Parliament and the Commission, the term of office of which expires at the start of 2005, will have the joy and honour of making these twelve countries members of the European Union in a new European configuration, the aim of which is obviously not to create new borders, but to create a community of states and nations working towards common objectives of peace, social prosperity and global collaboration.
I am the third rapporteur for the Baltic states.
What is special about these countries is that, until recently, the enlargement of the European Union only involved countries with similar social and economic systems.
As far as Kaliningrad is concerned, it is indeed here in this Russian enclave that the policies which give us the opportunity to create a new Europe will be judged and, even if it is not integrated into the same economic and political system, it will work with us, exist alongside us and share a common future with us rather than clashing with us.
He has proven as much in other difficult cases because - let us not deceive ourselves - the real political problems will be numerous.
From this point of view, I hope and trust that Commissioner Verheugen will do his very best.
A certain alarming scepticism is becoming rife which is in danger of threatening consensus on accession to the Union.
Commissioner Verheugen mentioned this phenomenon this morning, and this is why we have tabled an amendment which I hope will be adopted tomorrow, calling upon the Commission to increase its commitment to European Union information and promotion campaigns in order to convince the Poles that their presence in Europe is essential for both us and them.
The left, the postcommunists, the current opposition - which will have the majority at the elections on 23 September, that is in a few days - are certainly not helping to calm things down and are tending to throw oil on the fire and present a picture of Poland which is not particularly reassuring so that they can then set themselves up as the saviours of the homeland.
There is no doubt that the left is committed to taking this path because all the Polish parties - both right and left - signed an explicit agreement a few days ago committing themselves to working together to this end.
For Poland, 26% of whose population lives in country areas, the restructuring of agriculture affects and involves many other sectors, starting with the need to create new jobs.
Commissioner Verheugen talked about that as well this morning.
To sum up, we are sure that Poland will enter Europe as soon as possible, in 2004, and we are pleased to note that the Belgian Presidency - as we heard this morning - wants to give fresh impetus and new dynamism to the negotiations.
Mr President, I do not wish to say anything about the content of my report on the Czech Republic.
With your permission, Mr President, I should like to analyse these three erroneously employed concepts.
Since the Fifties, the European Community has been constantly changing and today we are even facing the possibility and necessity of enlarging this Union once more.
The decision-making process is certainly lengthy in the European Union and it is sometimes tedious as well, but what do you actually expect in a Community of 15 sovereign states, where each state - and, incidentally, not least the small ones - is asked what its position is?
The third argument, that it is costly, is actually the least accurate because the countries which freed themselves from communism would have had to undergo reform and a process of transformation anyway, regardless of accession to the European Union.
There is a further point: there are two possibilities in the European Union, either you receive money or you contribute money.
Those who contribute money have also shown over the last few decades that they fare very well when they pay money into the European Community or Union because somehow they always get it back again.
This is something which up until now has prevented wars and, by the way, expulsion.
Finally, allow me to make one further comment which I already made last year in my report.
The support for EU Membership remains as high as ever, and it is fair to say that there is political consensus surrounding this issue in Slovakia.
If Slovakia is to keep up with the frontrunners, an extra effort will need to be made in this connection.
I have therefore adopted in my report many of the critical observations which my fellow MEPs have made in the various committees.
Slovakia is transposing EU legislation at a rate of knots, which, in fact, as in other candidate countries, begs the question of whether all these new laws can actually be implemented and whether sufficient, qualified staff are available for this task.
This decentralisation is important from an EU point of view, because the country' s administration will become more efficient and democratic control will improve as a result.
It will be an exciting year for Slovakia, a year of hard toil in order to maintain the momentum of the negotiations, and we hope we will be able to pass a verdict on the end result next year.
Mr President, whereas the debate on enlargement held last year happened to take place on the day commemorating the tenth anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, today' s debate, although it does not have the same symbolic importance, is nonetheless taking place in the wake of two very important events.
Firstly, the Nice Summit, at which the European Heads of State and Government undertook to reform the Community institutions so that these could accommodate a Europe enlarged by a further twelve countries.
In their conclusions, Europe' s leaders categorically stated that the process of enlargement was irreversible, having for the first time set a deadline at the end of 2002 for concluding negotiations with applicant countries that are ready, with the stated aim of these countries already being able to participate as Members in the 2004 European Parliamentary elections.
To this political commitment we must add the emphasis placed on the principle of differentiation, according to which the applicant countries will continue to be assessed solely on the basis of their merits.
It is in this context that we should consider the report on Hungary' s accession to the European Union and developments in its application process over the last year.
Hungary' s integration into the European Union is a truly national ambition for that country.
Tangible proof of this is the agreement reached by all the political parties represented in the Hungarian Parliament in favour of accession and by the consensus obtained on first holding a referendum on this decisive step for their shared future.
By channelling all of its energies into fulfilling this national objective, Hungary has already been able to conclude negotiations with the Commission on a substantial number of chapters, (22 out of a total of 30), which gives us hope that negotiations on welcoming Hungary into the European Union within the 2002 deadline set at Göteborg can be concluded.
Consumption, employment and foreign investment have also achieved very healthy figures.
We can conclude that today, Hungary has a solidly developing market economy and if it continues to make progress in the field of structural reforms and in consolidating public auditing, it will be able to withstand the pressure of competition and market forces within the European Union, without having to jump through any hoops.
Nevertheless, inflation remains high, at around 10%, and the government must keep a close eye on this by implementing the appropriate measures for reducing pressure for price increases.
We are aware of the difficult situation inherited by countries in similar areas and with similar recent histories to that of Hungary, and we know that this battle must be fought throughout the European Union and beyond.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Hungary recently approved a law on protecting Hungarian minorities living in neighbouring countries, which evoked various reactions and controversies, particularly in Romania and Slovakia, where the largest of these minorities live and work.
The fact that this law contains a provision - Article 27 - laying down the supremacy of Community legislation over its national laws and the fact that the Hungarian government has demonstrated willingness to hold bilateral discussions with its neighbours on issues of the law' s interpretation and implementation give me grounds for optimism about the resolution of any potential problems that it may raise.
Mr President, in the short speaking time granted to me as rapporteur, I can only present the main conclusions of this report.
In the elections some 60% of the electorate preferred to vote for parties that were not represented in the previous parliament.
The previous UDF administration faced enormous difficulties and I wish to acknowledge its success in many areas.
It took forward Bulgaria's application for European Union membership and put Bulgaria in a position formally to open accession negotiations in February 2000.
As a result, 11 negotiating chapters have now been successfully closed.
Only four chapters therefore will remain to be opened by the beginning of next year.
Bulgaria has acted throughout in a manner supportive of European Union and NATO policies, but the regional instability has inevitably had an impact on the Bulgarian economy and on investor confidence in the region.
Certainly the Bulgarian political system has confirmed its democratic stability.
Certainly structures have begun to be put in place to deal with the fundamental problems of weak administrative capacity, of corruption and of excluded minorities.
My report is in effect a final report on the performance of the last government and an indicator as to the problems that need to be addressed by the new administration.
The challenge for the new government is to maintain its coherence and to translate its aspirations, its ambitious programme, into concrete reality.
The new government team, particularly concerning the economy, balances its vitality and enthusiasm with professional competence and a degree of modesty in view of the tasks ahead.
It has a clear agenda and is willing to consider novel solutions drawing on sound experience from other countries.
It will be judged by the quality, rather than quantity, of its legislation, by its ability to implement its policies and by its determination to bring about real reform that will benefit the population at large in a tangible manner.
It is time to build the widest possible consensus for reform in Bulgaria.
Bulgaria previously set itself the target of concluding negotiations by 2004 with a view to European Union membership by 2007.
Of course each candidate country should be judged on its own progress towards accession, without any hidden political barriers and without having to follow the course of any other candidate country.
The accession process is continuing.
The number of chapters is increasing and I am pleased to announce that the Commission could receive all the position papers from the Ministry by Christmas, if it is able to do so.
President Iliescu announced in Gothenburg that he hoped and believed that all chapters could be fulfilled during his period of office.
It has already done excellent foreign affairs work through Romania's chairmanship of the OSCE and made excellent progress in its relationships with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
But Romania's destiny remains in Europe and her future lies with NATO and the European Union.
Romania is an integral part of that process and social change in the last few months has been rapid.
Gay rights are now part of law, an anti-trafficking law has recently been passed and domestic violence law has gone through.
A children's act, on children's rights, which will incorporate adoption law, both local and international, is now being prepared.
The high-level group for Romanian children is moving towards registration.
Local adoptions have doubled in the last few months and 20 000 children are leaving special schools this week and will be going back into normal schools and normal life.
In conclusion, Romania has much to offer the European Union and the world.
The Slovenians have been diligent in closing the chapters of the acquis, and they have succeeded in resolving some very complex issues, a prime example being the environment, for which they received recognition from the European visitors to Ljubljana.
As usually happens in the last stage of the entry of a country into Europe, the sceptics come out of the woodwork, but it is often a matter of internal political tactics.
The privatisation rules have finally been fixed with the large banks as well, in which the State will continue to hold - for a certain period of time at least - a sort of golden share or what is known as the 'veto' holding.
Foreign interest exists in this sector and negotiations are in progress.
There are psychological reserves in this field: "We have not yet set foot in Europe" reflect some observers, "and already international capital is threatening to restrict our sovereignty" .
The Commission' s report bewails the sluggishness of the administrative system: laws have been adopted in this area too.
On the one hand, it underlines Cyprus' excellent performance in relation to the adoption of the acquis: 23 chapters have already been closed and the remaining chapters do not present insurmountable difficulties.
This withdrawal has been supported by Turkey to this day.
Although precious time has been wasted in the process of trying to find a solution to the political problem before accession, I can only recommend that the European Parliament adhere firmly to its previous position founded on International Law and justice.
This position, which is also that of the United Nations, the Council of Europe and all the other European institutions, including the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, was confirmed on 10 May 2001 by the European Court of Human Rights.
The political solution we seek cannot include the persistence of a de facto situation created by force.
The Secretary-General of the United Nations made a proposal to both the Greek and the Turkish Cypriots for a federal system based upon a democratic model that would respect the distinct characteristics of each of the parties.
Such models work in many European countries - Germany, Belgium and Switzerland among others - where they have proven both their viability and their vitality.
Solutions to all longstanding issues can be found through the negotiation process, whether these issues be the reciprocal wrongs which have accumulated since 1960 (the problem of refugees, property, the retreat of troops, for example), with the support, as the need arises, of the International Community.
Both communities on the island - and recent opinion polls are proof of this - want to be part of the European Union.
Should this happen, the European Union can only honour its engagement made at the highest level at Helsinki in December 1999, being conscious of the fact that a political settlement does not constitute a prerequisite for the accession of Cyprus to the European Union.
In the meantime, I can only call on the legitimate government of Cyprus to contribute steadfastly to the removal of obstacles to remaining problems so that accession negotiations can be settled before the end of 2002.
The European Parliament without doubt views the accession process of Malta, this small Mediterranean island at the interface between the European Union and Africa, positively and is supporting it constructively.
The report is, on the one hand, guided by the Copenhagen criteria, which apply equally to all of the accession countries, and on the other hand, it examines Malta's special characteristics, which result from its island position and from its economic and social structure.
In terms of the economy, Malta is a functioning market economy and is in a position to withstand competition from the EU in the medium term, provided that it carries out the structural reforms that are still pending.
The reduction of the budget deficit from 11.8% of GDP in 1998 to 5% this year is a positive and significant result, as are the positive developments in the economic data.
Despite oil prices, inflation stood at 2.4% in November 2000 and, after rising slightly in 1999, the unemployment rate fell to 5.3% of those capable of gainful employment.
The favourable progress that Malta has made towards joining the EU is also reflected in the stage that it has reached in the accession negotiations.
With 17 chapters, Malta heads the list of those candidates which were able to open negotiations only in 2000.
This shows that Malta has made up the time lost through the 22-month suspension of negotiations and is therefore well placed to be in the first round of new Member States.
As far as Malta's general political situation is concerned, namely the different positions of the government on EU accession on the one hand, and the opposition on the other, not only has nothing changed but the views of the government and the Labour opposition have if anything become more polarised.
Of course this does not mean that the European Parliament should ignore the position of the Labour Party, which would like Malta to follow in Switzerland's footsteps.
The matters of particular concern to the European Parliament in relation to Malta's accession process, of course, include issues related to internal security and maritime safety.
The Commission's concession on the free movement of persons takes account of this rather psychologically conditioned fear.
Malta's position on the agricultural chapter should, I hope, also soon be on the table. (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, during the Copenhagen Summit, it was rightly stated that the political criteria are central to the assessment of whether a candidate country can be admitted to the Union.
That is why we are devoting a great deal of attention to the establishment of democratic institutions in the candidate countries, something in which the Council of Europe too, with its own expertise, is involved in an extremely constructive manner.
We appreciate the difficulties involved in heightening democratic awareness in countries which have for many decades suffered under totalitarian regimes which brought them to political, social and economic ruin.
European integration is multifaceted and embraces all levels of society.
That Centre too could play a role in integration and in solving problems in the candidate countries.
Moreover, I share the Commissioner' s view that, where minorities and non-discrimination are concerned, the social integration of the Roma population - not just in Slovakia or Romania, but in Europe as a whole - is a very difficult task which requires an explicitly European approach.
If the Cypriot Government continues to do what it can in order to restore unity, the division will not be so much of an obstacle to the Government as it will be in the negotiations with Turkey.
However, I would like to insist on two points that have not been forgotten but which, in our opinion, should be emphasised.
In the first instance, I am thinking of the social repercussions of enlargement.
The second point I want to stress concerns contact with public opinion, both in candidate countries and Member States.
Mr President, it is great to hear the Commission, the Council and Parliament commit themselves so strongly to enlargement, as has happened here today.
An agreement is only sound if both parties are satisfied.
The European Union should be more than a market.
It is also a community of citizens and, in addition, a collection of peoples and of smaller and larger cultural communities.
The way in which human rights and the rights of minorities are guaranteed still leads to problems in some countries.
Everything seems to run more smoothly on paper but, in practice, we see, for example, that, in most countries, the Roma are still really being treated like second-class citizens and that we are still being confronted with third-world situations which are on a par with the worst slums in Africa and in third-world cities.
I would, for example, like to refer to the treatment of the Hungarian minority both in Slovakia and in Romania.
Communication with the population is a major problem because people have substituted a spontaneous enthusiasm for Europe with a more critical stance.
If no promises are made or promises remain unfulfilled, this critical attitude will naturally increase.
We must not ignore the fact that there are to be referendums in quite a lot of the candidate countries.
I hope, however, that they do not read the part concerning the common foreign and security policy and, in particular, NATO membership.
We all know that a common European defence would cost a fair amount of money.
As one of the leaders and front runners for enlargement, it has proved itself capable of throwing off the yoke of totalitarian communism and building a new market-based economy, creating new opportunities in education, improving its infrastructure and industrial capacity and developing its tourism and agriculture.
It has already completed 22 of its 31 chapters of accession to the European Union.
I welcome the implementation of the SAPARD programme to help further rural development and community development within Hungary.
It now requires a sequel, namely our aid to the candidate countries, to enable them to join the European Union and, in that way, actually return to Europe.
It encourages both Member States and candidate countries to provide their populations with more and better information.
Whatever the case, the incentive in the resolution is mainly aimed at the Member States.
The extent of their initiatives, private or church-based, since time immemorial, and often long before the fall of the Berlin Wall, speak for themselves.
Members of the Council and the Commission: make sure you definitely involve these allies in your information campaigns on enlargement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following today' s debate on enlargement, we will have to reach a verdict on an overall motion for a resolution formulated by our fellow member, Mr Brok.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and political benefits of enlargement will undoubtedly be far greater than its probable cost to the budget.
Nevertheless, it is our task precisely as one arm of the budgetary authority to discuss and engage in some serious and sober preliminary budgetary planning - at the same time allaying our emotions and fears - and to approach the figures in a rational way.
On the basis of our experience with the pre-accession programme and given the take-up capacities and administrative structures in the new Member States, we can also assume that in respect of both agricultural policy and the Structural Funds integration into the Community programmes will be gradual.
On this basis, even if ten new countries join before 2006 in a big bang, we will be able to meet the financial requirements of enlargement up until then within the financial perspective, as agreed in Agenda 2000: EUR 7 billion in the final stage for agricultural policy given gradual integration and from EUR 6.1 billion in 2004 to around EUR 10.9 billion for structural policy, and this compared with a current Commission preliminary draft budget of around EUR 100 billion for 2002 to put it in context.
There is no doubt, however, that for the period after 2006, even taking into account compliance with future world trade obligations, we will very probably have to discuss the issue of revenue and expenditure in the European budget because in the final stages in 2013 these comparative figures could amount to EUR 17 billion and EUR 26 billion respectively.
Let us not confine ourselves to looking at these two areas of budgetary policy.
I have grave concerns about whether the Commission's reflections on how Europe is to be governed or the practical plans in this House to overcome the languages problem really do take sufficient account of the requirements which will need to be met if we really are to safeguard European national identities and preserve the ability of the European institutions to act in the interests of the citizens of a larger European Union.
We shall then be able to unite in solving the problems that exist and in creating good conditions of life for the citizens of Europe, and not before time.
Integration is a mutual process that requires efforts on the part both of ourselves and of the future Member States.
However, we together have a huge task in convincing the population in all the countries of the practical benefits of a united Europe.
Mrs President, Commissioner, in the current political situation there is no political alternative to enlargement supported by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, as our group chairman has already stated.
The future of the European Union is not and should not be enlargement, contrary to what the President-in-Office of the Council said in his introductory speech.
The future after 2004 of an enlarged Union is uncharted territory.
If we fight for this second option, then the next Intergovernmental Conference in 2003-2004 will be the last chance for the Fifteen to correct the failures of Nice and assume their responsibilities so that a Union of 27 Member States can be governed democratically and effectively.
If a policy of solidarity between the Member States is pursued, this means that, in the future, the Union' s financial resources will have to be increased for, in economic terms, the integration of the markets of the candidate countries with those of the Union has been taking place for 10 years at the cost of increasing territorial and social inequalities in the candidate countries.
Current European aid is essential and alleviates the cost of the transition, but if we really want to preserve a model of European society based upon solidarity and negotiation between all players in a 27-State European Union, there needs to be a clear commitment from both sides to this objective that exceeds the commitment to incorporating the Community acquis and will oblige each of the 15 current members to provide additional aid.
If we want enlargement to be a success whilst preserving our chances of an interdependent Europe, we must not, as Mr Verheugen rightly said, bury our heads in the sand.
Mr President, I am pleased to participate in this important debate on the enlargement of the European Union and in particular to acknowledge progress on Malta's application for membership.
I look forward to the participation of Malta and other applicant countries in the Europe of the new millennium.
It is worth noting that by June 2001 Malta had closed negotiations on over 17 different chapters, including important issues ranging from education and training to telecommunications, fisheries and consumer protection.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make five points from the point of view of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Economic growth in Central and Eastern Europe continues to be above the EU average.
EU exports to the accession countries are on the up and the accession countries are already benefiting now from the accession negotiations because under this process they are also being given orientation aid for necessary reforms, which would have had to be implemented anyway after 50 years of Communist dictatorship, even if they did not have the prospect of joining the EU.
The economic indicators are positive, but they are only a means to an end and not an end in themselves.
It is, of course, the countries themselves that must hold the debates on membership, but it is also our task to ensure that the conditions are of such a kind that this development is perceived as progress by the populations of the candidate countries too and that they are not given the feeling that it is a case of the strong riding roughshod over the weak.
Their starting points are not always the same as ours, and it is precisely that fact which can also be a source of enrichment for us.
The key to the enlarged community has to be the integrity of the single market.
If it is not the case, then there will be considerable resistance to enlargement from businesses in the Community and from the workers in the Community who feel themselves disadvantaged.
There appears to have been some use of state aids to support the position of the CSOB in order to support the position of a private sector rival to the IPB.
Ladies and gentlemen, it will not come as a surprise to anyone that I, as a member of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, will be broaching the subject of women, for a not inconsiderable majority of the population of the candidate countries consists of women.
In that way, Europe stands a better chance of being accepted, and the situation for women will improve considerably.
Finally, I should like to point out that, in his speech this morning, Commissioner Verheugen failed altogether to mention the situation of women in the candidate countries, something which I deeply regret.
As far as social policy is concerned, I should like to talk mainly about two points.
These people compare the situation with the previous one and feel that they are worse off now than in the past.
It is true that I work closely with Minister Michel, but full metamorphosis has not yet taken place.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, many of you have referred either during this morning' s speeches or in the (incidentally very interesting) reports that you have introduced - usually with much pleasure and sympathy - to the contacts you have had with people in the candidate countries, the visits you have made, and so on.
I have been visiting the capitals of all candidate countries with which we have entered into negotiations at least once and, in certain cases, twice, three times or more.
I find it almost touching to see how you, in your progress reports, are concerned almost like godparents with the welfare of the candidate countries on which you have to report.
I should, by the way, like to emphasise that this Parliament, in its successive constituent forms, has been one of the great engines of enlargement.
At present, they are conducting over 300 different sets of negotiations.
You have only to multiply the number of headings by the number of Member States.
Of course I know that there are parallels, but two cases are never entirely similar.
That problem will, of course, become even more complex, but all the institutions will have discuss this too in good time.
I said this morning that enlargement is the future of the Union.
I repeat what I said this morning.
I said it because I am firmly convinced that it is true, although I am just as prepared to say that the future will not be limited to enlargement, but that is the first great challenge that we have to meet in the near future.
My country' s Prime Minister shares this view, and in fact will undoubtedly be providing, and I say this to you very definitely, a role for candidate countries in his proposals for the preparation for the IGC.
This is in answer to a concern expressed this morning by group chairman, Mr Poettering.
During the so-called "Gymnich meeting" at the end of this week, the candidate countries will be taking part in the discussions on the future of Europe.
During the informal Council of Ghent and, of course, during the European Council of Laeken, enlargement will be discussed at length.
It will be approached in the spirit that Commissioner Verheugen and I myself set out and also in the spirit which you have supported almost without exception in your respective speeches.
This should not, however, blind us to the fact that there are still a number of problems which need to be resolved in the process or that enlargement in itself will also create problems which we will need to overcome, and which must not be a reason to delay or abandon the process.
One of these problem areas is, without a doubt, the social issue, which has already been mentioned by previous speakers, because the accession of the enlargement candidates will also make the gulf between rich and poor within the European Union wider.
Where rich and poor meet, in particular in the border regions, this will of course also lead to problems because amongst the rich there are also pockets of poorer people and less qualified workers who feel threatened.
Although it is legitimate to protect these minorities, we must, however, also endeavour to prepare the people to live in one united Europe and not create new privileges.
While I am on the subject of discrimination - and this is my final point - I should like to add that in quite a number of areas, and this is a major achievement of the work we have done together, discriminatory laws have been abolished and, for example, discrimination on grounds of religion, gender or sexual orientation has already been outlawed, including in Romania.
The fact that this is still in the report means, at least according to my information, that it is already out of date because a law has been passed which abolishes discrimination against homosexuals.
This just goes to show that everything is in flux and that our joint efforts have already improved the situation in Europe, even before enlargement.
The Hungarian political representatives have, in spite of the adoption of new administrative borders that were promoted by nationalist and left-wing parties and deprived them of chances of adequate political representation, signalled that they are ready to continue in the government but that their future participation is dependent on giving real content to the administrative laws.
That is what we are asking for in Resolution No 39.
For a country such as Poland, which the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has studied from a transport point of view, that is quite obvious.
Poland is now already one of the most important countries in Europe when it comes to transport between North and South in Europe.
The success of enlargement depends on whether these three elements are clearly present.
That people live better, qualitatively and quantitatively, in the countries of the current Union and in the candidate countries.
This is therefore true in the case of a country such as Bulgaria.
We hope that during the next political stage which that country is going to experience after the latest elections, the Europeanist will and effort shown so far will remain as strong and that, furthermore, essential actions will be strengthened in various fields.
We must say clearly to the Bulgarian Government that this Parliament would not even consider voting for an accession agreement while, for example, Article 157 of the Penal Code remains in force, which establishes unacceptable discrimination against homosexual citizens in Bulgaria.
We clearly also have to ask the Bulgarian Government to make progress on the reform of judicial power, on the fight against corruption, on improving the social living conditions of the citizens and, particularly, on the fight against unemployment.
We must also ask for progress on the protection of the environment and, above all, for compliance with the commitments made so far on the closure, within certain time limits, of units 1 to 4 of the Kozloduy nuclear power station.
Finally, we want to say to Bulgaria that it is this Parliament' s desire that it be well incorporated into the European Union and on time, but, of course within the political, economic and social framework established.
Mr President, in its opinion on the country reports the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has confined itself to only a few points which are significant for all of the accession countries without exception and which are, as you would expect, included in the introductory report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy.
Our committee calls for a more developed schema governing the future representation of the candidate countries in the European Parliament than is provided for in the Treaty of Nice.
We call for the discrimination against Hungary and the Czech Republic to be rectified and we think it is necessary for provision also to be made for the period after the 2004 European elections for any candidates acceding then.
A constitutional reform in Europe without the participation of the future members is politically indefensible.
Our committee continues to be in favour of actively involving civil society in the Member States and the candidate countries in the process of reforming our future institutions.
Commissioner Verheugen already mentioned in this morning's debate that the application of Community law will be a priority in the ongoing assessment of the candidates' readiness to join the European Union.
I have mixed feelings about another comment which Commissioner Verheugen made this morning.
Commissioner, you said that the border regions would spearhead the EU enlargement process.
For example, the agricultural population totals 1000 people and agriculture is a problem for Malta and for these 1000 people.
In other words, these countries have to harmonise their national legislation with the acquis communautaire in the area of sexual equality, on the one hand, and develop institutions and mechanisms which allow appropriate policies to be applied on the other.
They also refer to specific problems such as high unemployment in Lithuania, the Czech Republic and Latvia and violence against and human trafficking of women in places such as Hungary, Bulgaria, Slovakia and Turkey.
What our committee is calling for, Commissioner, to come back to women, is for candidate countries to take part in Community programmes which help safeguard women's rights and for civil society, and especially women's non-governmental organisations, to be encouraged to take part in these programmes.
Under these circumstances, the accession of Cyprus into the European Union, which should not be delayed, will also bring new peace to international relations between Greece, Turkey and Cyprus in the eastern Mediterranean in general - the European Union's blessing on all three countries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur on Latvia's application for membership of the European Union, Mrs Schröder, has made some very important and pertinent observations.
Latvia satisfies the political criteria for membership of the European Union.
In the light of the difficult situation which these countries were in at the outset and the complicated basic conditions, satisfying the first Copenhagen criterion is a remarkable result.
It is precisely against this tragic historical background that the systematic and continuous efforts of its parliament and government to integrate all of the country's inhabitants into society deserve our respect and support.
Latvia is also an excellent example of how clear political prospects for the future can strengthen and accelerate social and economic development.
On 15 February 2000 the accession negotiations were formally opened.
In the same year, growth of 6.6% in gross domestic product was achieved and in the first quarter of this year growth even reached 8.2%.
These are just a few of very many other indicators which point to the opportunities - the opportunities to create political stability and economic dynamism - which enlargement brings.
I think enlargement negotiations should attach equal importance to this and, for example, internal market legislation.
I think Mr Schröder has written an excellent report on the Czech Republic and I should like to ask the House to support him on all counts.
Public opinion in many countries is favourable towards enlargement for reasons other than simple economic calculations and national self-interest.
Some Members have recommended today, in this part-session, that the ten applicant countries should join the European Union by 2004.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may I start by drawing your attention to the fact that the conclusions of the Wiersma report on the possible accession of Slovakia to the European Union have the full backing of the PPE group.
Slovakia is an example of how, with political will, a country initially at a disadvantage, in this case a country which, under the Meciar regime, lost nearly four years compared with everyone else, can catch up with the other countries negotiating for accession and join with them in resolving problems quickly.
This will also indirectly guarantee the involvement of national minorities, especially the Hungarians, in over 500 communities.
Slovakia should therefore keep up its resolve to deal with outstanding accession problems in liaison with the Commission and the European Parliament, so as to pave the way for fast accession to the European Union.
It is not merely the internal market which is important for enlargement.
I feel that Member States' contributions need to be revised in order to include our new commitments and needs even before 2006.
Wealthy Europe must be more generous and the governments must be the vehicles of this generosity.
Europe and the European Union must demand reciprocity from all the countries with which they sustain relations or for which they are finalising solidarity programmes in the area of multiculturality, for this dimension is the basis of all the democratic structures of the States.
Mr President, with regard to the accession of Cyprus, we should be pleased by the result of the vote in the Committee on Foreign Affairs: 55 in favour and just 2 against.
This demonstrates the excellent work of negotiation and consensus carried out by the rapporteur and the cooperation of the whole committee on this report which was not devoid of difficulties, owing, above all, to the occupation of part of the island by Turkey and the stalemate in the dialogue between the Turkish and Cypriot Governments.
My group has wanted to promote a text which does not hinder or compromise a renewal of the negotiations between both sides, but quite the opposite, one which motivates and speeds up the process of resolving the problem which is undoubtedly seeing a change of attitude from the Turkish Government.
We are in favour of approving the report with the amendments presented by our Group which reflect its concern at the political division of the island, supporting, in this respect, the efforts of the United Nations to reestablish the conversations and urging the conflicting sides to achieve a resolution to the problem as soon as possible, for the good of all the citizens of Cyprus.
Cyprus has now closed 22 chapters in the negotiation and presents itself as a firm candidate for accession.
However, intense work will have to be done on the incorporation of the Community acquis, especially in terms of compliance with environmental legislation, where significant shortcomings in the areas of waste management and water quality and management have been noted.
What Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne has done for Romania, with her report and her hard work, is to get things moving there.
The Commissioner acknowledged as much this morning and I think that we could use this as an example to the numerous groups of visitors who question exactly what we in the European Parliament can do.
To start with, the head of government in Romania reacted as perhaps every head of government in the world would react.
We know that Romania will not accede in the first round in 2004 and a decision to invite Romania to join the North Atlantic Alliance in 2002 is therefore all the more important.
I should like to inform the House that I have received a motion for a resolution from the Committee on Foreign Affairs pursuant to Rule 37, paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
White paper on the reform of European governance The next item is the Commission communication on the White paper on the reform of European governance.
We have kept our promise, and I am particularly happy to be making the first official presentation of the White Paper before the European Parliament.
This is not just for reasons of protocol but because the central theme of the White Paper - bringing Europe closer to its citizens - is, in fact, one of the primary concerns of both Parliament and the Commission.
From the very start of my Presidency, I have stated my firm conviction that we need to rethink the way we are integrating Europe, to establish an exemplary new relationship between Europe's citizens and its political institutions in a historic period in which transparency and accountability are becoming the new rules of governance.
Following the adoption of the Nice Declaration on the Future of Europe by the Intergovernmental Conference, a lively debate on the European Union's future and its ultimate goals has already taken off.
Both political leaders and European citizens have voiced their opinions.
Europe has at last begun the great debate on how to achieve a more complete democracy.
The effects of globalisation and social change, both of which have been progressing rapidly and uncompromisingly, are profoundly affecting the daily lives of everyone.
For many years, the European Union project was seen as a beacon of hope and today it is the only concrete, practical, democratic response to the challenges of globalisation.
We are convinced that a great deal can be done simply by changing the way the institutions and the Member States work - applying the existing rules better and more consistently.
During the second stage, the Commission will state its position on the Laeken process.
We therefore concentrated on two aspects of European governance: firstly, the relationships between the citizens, organised civil society, central and local governments and the European institutions; and secondly, how the European institutions operate and interinstitutional relationships.
The proposals contained in the White Paper aim to improve the way the Community method works in three ways: by getting the citizens more closely involved in defining the Union's policies, by implementing those policies effectively and by clearly distinguishing between the roles and responsibilities of the European institutions, recognising that each needs to concentrate on doing its own core job.
I do not, of course, believe that bodies such as NGOs can represent public opinion in the same way as the European Parliament, or in the way that employers' associations and trade unions represent the views of their members.
Therefore, the White Paper proposes minimum consultation standards with a two-fold aim: to make it quite clear whom we have consulted, who has given us what advice and whether and how we intend to act on it.
Parliament will thus be able to monitor both the quality and the impartiality of the consultation process when taking its decisions in the course of the legislative process.
Furthermore, now that the internal market is largely complete, there is much less need for new legislation in this area.
The Commission has clearly set out in its White Paper the action we are going to take to set our own house in order.
The third and final type of change is aimed at clarifying the different roles and responsibilities of the European institutions so that they can refocus on their core political tasks.
If correctly applied, the existing Treaty would separate clearly the roles of Parliament, the Council, the Commission, the Court of Justice and the other institutions.
Still less do they understand which institution is responsible for which action, whether responsibility lies with the European institutions or with the Member States.
This brings me to the question of how we can improve the way the Commission, the Council and Parliament work together.
Ladies and gentlemen, I feel that this House too needs to refocus on its core tasks, concentrating on Parliament's decision-making role, on monitoring the implementation of policy and on its great budgetary responsibilities.
Finally, changes must be made to the way in which the three institutions work together.
We shall all have very tangible proof of this when euro coins and notes are in our pockets in few weeks' time.
That means building a climate of trust between the citizens and the institutions and a climate of trust between the Member States themselves and between the institutions and the Member States too.
Rebuilding trust between Europe and its citizens also means giving them a clear understanding of its objectives and of the powers of the different institutions.
The time has come to make these ambitious goals a reality.
The White Paper is a departure point.
I believe that all of us in this Parliament agree on the analysis of the situation, that we all wonder what is happening to the European Union and why our co-citizens sometimes show a lack of confidence.
I believe that the White Paper explains this well: the benefits of the European Union are general and they often pass unnoticed; however, the disadvantages are specific.
The second idea that I would like to highlight on behalf of my group is that this White Paper stresses the originality of the system which has operated over the last fifty years.
Today I have been very glad to hear President Prodi talk about maintaining the balance between the institutions: this seems to me essential.
Of course, this Parliament is also going to cooperate in this task of contributing ideas.
This White Paper is very important because we are at a moment of the historic constituent process of the European Union, and that process opened with declaration 23 at Nice.
A White Paper on European governance really should have been submitted to Parliament first.
Yes, our group is in favour of strengthening consultation with civil society, whatever your interpretation of that concept may be.
My group welcomes the Commission's emphasis on decentralised management and on a reinforced role for the regions.
The European region plays a vital part as the intermediary between the citizen and the supranational authorities.
We also note the kind suggestion that Parliament feeds into the European system the views of its own electors.
Madam President, President of the Commission, your White Paper has been widely praised, but we were disappointed in it, because it has not proved the important document that we had expected after your promises.
However, as Democrats, we are concerned about the sections on better policy and better legislation, and on the orientation of policy initiatives and institutions.
Other speakers have already made that point, for example as regards the impact on the powers and role of the European Parliament of a greater use of "soft law" instruments.
We are positively disposed towards the proposal that the Council and the European Parliament should play an equal role in supervising the way in which the Commission fulfils its executive task.
As a regionalist, I feel bound to say that the importance of the region has actually declined.
The Commission limits itself to a more systematic dialogue with European and national associations of regional and local authorities at an early stage in decision-making.
In contrast to the draft White Paper and the report of the Commission' s preparatory working party 4 C, provision is no longer made for a differentiation in regional involvement depending on the type of Member State: unitary, decentralised, regionalised or federal.
As a result, we are now going backwards compared to the present constitutional powers already enjoyed by some regions in certain Member States, for example Belgium.
You can imagine that this will not excite much enthusiasm in our regions for the governance outlined here.
Your concern to take measures which will at last close the gap between the Union and its citizens is one which I wholeheartedly support.
With all due respect for your concern, Mr President of the Commission, I must say to you in all honesty that I am disappointed in what now lies before us.
They had no idea what the 40 odd pages were about.
The White Paper contains positive ideas, such as strengthening the role of the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions or stepping up consultation with organisations in civil society, it is true.
It says that people think the Union is incapable of acting where action is needed, for example, on unemployment.
Mr Prodi, you quite rightly said in your speech that, when we speak of governance, we are really talking about democracy.
You quite rightly addressed the problem of the democratisation of the European Union here today, but why can I only find trace elements of it in the White Paper itself?
The White Paper makes provision for a consultation stage up to March 2002.
The final proposals are then due to be submitted a further six months later.
You decided to ignore almost all these pillars of our national States even though, as you know, they are greatly lacking in our European Union system.
Madam President, I too want to thank the Commission for a good analysis in the 'Governance' paper.
In Italy, Mr Prodi has a good proposal about naming those who have been consulted.
Mr Prodi also has another proposal about preferring regulations to directives.
To be brief, Mr Prodi, these are the changes that would certainly be desirable for the European institutions to make to the way they work, but they will only have a marginal effect if they are not combined with deep-rooted changes in the balance of institutional powers.
That said, the conclusion is very simple: to strengthen the legitimacy of European cooperation, to make contact once more with the citizens, great influence and a much more visible role need to be given to the nation states within the European decision-making process.
For example, how can it be that, in your White Paper, we find developments in the involvement of regional and local structures in European politics, developments in decentralised management, in coregulation with various - non-identified - organisations, and how can it be that there is absolutely no mention of the essential role of national Parliaments in the European decision-making process?
I imagine, Mr President, that, in your position, you were not able to resolve this issue, but the White Paper could at least have raised it.
The fact that our relations are certainly more effective, more functional, smoother and more open than they were previously is precisely because I consider that the basis of the new Europe must be a fundamental role for Parliament.
As I recall, we imposed a limit on ourselves in this White Paper: we will not amend the Treaties.
We must make this enormous effort to best adapt our way of working to our tasks but without amending the Treaties.
Then in the second phase, which is separate from the first phase, we will present the proposals for Laeken, and then, in the third phase, we will make an active contribution and we will have to work on the institutional reforms together.
I therefore believe that we must work together to that end.
The Commission, consistently with what I said regarding not modifying legislation, is not asking for more powers but wants to organise its work more transparently and efficiently, getting back to the definitions in the founding Treaties of the Union, which, in laying down the organisation of the institutions, state that the Council and Parliament make decisions, the Commission executes policy (although not the technical detail) and Parliament monitors.
Therefore, let us now say what we tell each other in our private conversations regarding the inadequacy of this process, here in this Chamber, for that way we can do something about it.
One of them is a point which might appear banal: consultation, civil society and resources.
I am talking about the delegation of practical and technical activities, not political delegation, for no delegation is permitted in these areas.
I would like to thank Mr Prodi, the Members of Parliament who have spoken today and all those who have taken part in this debate.
The debate is closed.
One of the aims of the recycling strategy will be identifying policies and instruments to encourage the creation of markets for recycled materials.
Secondly, in addition to the aforementioned thematic strategies, the Commission intends to propose legislative initiatives addressing specific problems such as batteries and packaging waste.
The Commission can play its role by keeping waste management issues high on the Community policy agenda and providing high quality information.
Question No 38 by (H-0639/01): Subject: Infringement of competition rules in relation to DVD sales The DVD market is characterised by the existence of two different systems in Europe and in the United States and Japan, with the result that European consumers are unable to purchase DVDs from countries belonging to a different zone, where prices appear to be lower and delivery faster.
As a direct result of complaints from private citizens, the Commission launched an investigation on DVD pricing and on the DVD regional coding system in June 2001.
The citizens' complaints related to the fact that DVD prices were significantly higher in the Community than in the United States and that, because of the DVD regional coding system under which the world is divided into six geographic regions, a DVD obtained from the US could not be played on a DVD player sold in the Community.
The position of the major film production companies is that the basic purpose of such a regional coding system is to allow them to protect their copyrighted intellectual property and the traditional pattern of releasing their films at different times in different parts of the world, as well as to protect against piracy.
We do not have information on other products being characterised by this system of regional coding.
If we had evidence in other areas we would, as always, try to be effective in implementing the competition rules.
The situation is extremely complex.
The Commission is seeking to complete its inquiries as quickly as possible.
The Commission will inform Parliament of its decision as soon as it has been taken.
The first question is rather of a meteorological nature.
I have been reliably informed that summers usually end about 21 September and the Commission is still striving to meet a deadline, although I must admit that the case is of such complexity that it will need a thorough investigation by not only the MARKT directorate-general but also by other parts of the Commission.
It may not be possible to meet that deadline exactly, but the Member who has just spoken can count on my personal endeavour to adhere to it as closely as possible, since the Commission ought to take a decision one way or another as soon as possible.
The people who help me in insurance undertakings have also taken a close interest, but may I assure the Member that we are fully stretched in looking at the Lloyd's case itself.
Questions to Commissioner Nielson Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me firstly remind you that following the Lisbon European Council, the Commission and Member States were invited to implement, with the support of the European Investment Bank, measures aimed primarily at strengthening investments in technological research and development.
The joint memorandum establishing a framework for cooperation between the framework programme for Community research and the Innovation 2000 initiative from the European Investment Bank is a response to this request.
In addition to this, the Commission and the European Investment Bank websites are linked and offer information on the memorandum.
On the one hand, experts from the Commission will carry out an evaluation according to the regulations stated in the framework programme, which are specifically based on scientific quality, innovative nature, added Community value and prospects for economic development.
On the other hand, the economists and financial analysts from the European Investment Bank will assess the projects in order to ensure that they fulfil the objectives of the EIB, including those linked to their Community mandate, that they satisfy the criteria of economic and financial viability, especially in terms of the repayment of loans, and finally that they are acceptable in environmental terms.
I thank the Commissioner for his response.
However, I was looking for something more specific, if possible, under three headings.
Thirdly, on the evaluation by the Commission and the EIB: is the evaluation purely based on economic return from the work or is it to ensure that there is ground- breaking scientific work which may not have an immediate economic return but could potentially in five or ten years time?
We currently have a framework programme for technological research and development that the Commission has been funding since its adoption by Parliament and the Council.
We have our own specific procedures for scientific assessment as well as for the framework programme and the European Investment Bank has its own financial and economic criteria.
It is true that we are currently, with the European Investment Bank, studying solutions that will hopefully be used in the development of new processes that help innovation and new financing procedures, taking account of experience already gained on the one hand by the framework programme for research, and by the European Investment Bank on the other.
This work is in progress.
This would not have been possible without the privileged contacts that we had in relation to research programmes.
I thank you for your question and I hope that it will contribute to the dissemination of this information.
As there is currently a strong bond between the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund, the "Innovation 2000" project includes EUR 1.5 billion to support technological innovation, especially in small- and medium- sized enterprises.
Question No 41 by (H-0604/01): Subject: Eradicating poverty and the European Community's development policy In a statement jointly issued by the Council and the Commission on 10 November 2000, the main objective of Community development policy was confirmed as reducing and, eventually, eradicating poverty.
Despite the extraordinary and unique efforts of the European Union, which provides approximately half of all public aid to developing countries, the fact remains that in sub-Saharan Africa and southern Asia, over 40% of the population are still living below the poverty line, and world-wide, 800 million people, 200 million of them children, are suffering from chronic malnutrition.
Developing countries' own poverty reduction policies are the foundation for these country-strategy papers.
With respect to other donors, it should be noted that many EU Member States have already made poverty eradication the main objective of their bilateral development programmes.
All in all this means that we have never been in a situation where the coordination and consensus among the donors has been better.
Furthermore, a consolidated report will appear in the annual report on implementation of external aid from the Commission and that annual report will appear later this autumn.
One of the things I noticed throughout the ACP-EU partnership debate was the lack of emphasis on education.
The response from our partner countries in the ACP group has, to a large extent, been dominated by quite a high priority on infrastructure.
We will continue road building - big roads, small roads - but education and health are the next two items on the list of priorities.
Regarding corruption and the new instrument in the Cotonou Agreement - Article 97 - I can inform Parliament that it will be used.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions No 42 and 43 will be taken together.
Question No 42 by (H-0613/01): Subject: Child sex tourism The international organisation, ECPAT, works in conjunction with tour operators to combat child sex tourism.
The project is the only one of its kind and the Commission's support is fully in line with the Council's 1999 decision on efforts to combat child sex tourism.
Question No 43 by (H-0616/01): Subject: Long-term aid to combat child sex tourism ECPAT is an organisation working to combat sexual exploitation of children, particularly in countries where European travel companies operate.
The financial support which ECPAT receives from the Enterprise DG is reportedly to be withdrawn from next year.
Organisations such as ECPAT, which are interested in obtaining co-funding should submit their proposals to this unit, which will continue to implement Commission policy in managing the budget line for the fight against child sex tourism, taking into account the best interests of target groups and best practice in project implementation.
If I have been informed correctly, Euroaid requires that the implementing organisation be an NGO in a developing country.
I am not sure that we have a problem concerning the fact that this is not an NGO in a developing country.
The principles are totally unchanged.
I want to thank Commissioner Nielson for his positive answer.
Allow me to say that your fellow Commissioner, Mr Liikanen, has, in the same way as yourself today, Mr Nielson, given positive answers to questions raised by myself and a number of fellow MEPs here in the European Parliament.
I just want to add one remark concerning the proportions in terms of money.
The main purpose of the endeavour is to get an impression of the real scale of the problem because the lack of reliable data is both detrimental to our advocacy efforts and a major obstacle to improving our humanitarian response.
Therefore, rather than focusing on instant results, we are seeking to build broad international support for a comprehensive initiative on a data collection methodology which will enable comparisons across regions and over time.
Therefore the Commission is encouraging Unicef to develop a substantial international data collection project on children in conflict, using Mr Otunnu's research network as a sounding board.
Commissioner, I share your care and concern to improve the system and you have our support.
For example, we have seen sexual abuse of children by our soldiers, soldiers of the European Union, in Somalia and elsewhere.
The visit will also show the people of Afghanistan and the victims of the conflict that we are taking more than just a political interest.
Question No 45 by (H-0636/01): Subject: Humanitarian aid in the Caucasus What percentage of the humanitarian aid earmarked in 2001 for Chechnya and for Chechen refugees in neighbouring regions, including the Republic of Georgia, has already been distributed in the crisis region, and what is the schedule for the remainder of 2001 and for 2002?
Mr President, since the beginning of the conflict in 1999, the Commission has granted some EUR 44 million in humanitarian assistance to the victims of the Chechnya conflict.
So far this year, three funding decisions totalling EUR 18.5 million have been adopted.
This implies that in 2001, EUR 18.5 million of the EUR 25 million originally provided for have already been committed.
In order to determine further funding needs this year, the European Commission Humanitarian Aid Office will undertake another assessment of the humanitarian situation in September and subsequently submit a funding proposal to the Commission.
This notably concerns our operations inside Chechnya where things are still very difficult for us and where we are still engaged in a so far unsatisfactory dialogue with the Russian authorities concerning radio communication, access, and working conditions and security in general for the people working for our money there.
Since the outbreak of the conflict in the autumn of 1999, ECHO has allocated a total of EUR 820 000 in humanitarian aid to this beneficiary group.
It is necessary to approach this with caution.
As regards Sudan, we are following the political situation closely and we are actively participating in the political dialogue between the EU and Sudan that was resumed in November 1999.
Despite continued concerns about the human rights situation and the lack of progress in the peace process, the political dialogue is considered to be generally positive and it has been agreed to continue it for another year.
The Commission supports initiatives in favour of human rights in Sudan and is planning a study to prepare a more comprehensive strategy in this area.
So one could say that the development of this oil sector has raised the stakes for the peace negotiations.
The Commission is aware of the accusations that many people living near the oil concessions have been forced to leave and that they have been exposed to human rights abuses.
As far as legislation is concerned, the Commission already promotes respect of human rights by EU companies wherever they operate, in particular through the OECD guidelines for multinational enterprises.
It is clear that this is not the same as what is asked for in the question but having broad international support for these principles is in any case necessary to promote efficiency.
Major European companies have to be accountable in how they operate in other parts of the world.
The real problem is that what is legal on paper or in practice in a country like the Sudan can be very different from what we would accept as being legal here.
But that difference is part of the reality of our world.
I would like to hear whether the Commission is going to make any effort, or is making any effort, to try to establish whether or not there is a scorched earth policy.
The Commission representative in Khartoum said to me that our aid to the Sudan is severely limited because of political constraints.
On top of that the whole performance and the political problems in relation to the government and its policies and human rights aspects have created quite a sour situation over some years.
I am perfectly well aware of the views and advice of our head of the delegation in Khartoum and that certainly indicates that the dialogue that we are in the middle of is making some progress.
Nor in my view does the presence of the former Swedish Prime Minister on its board of directors affect the problem.
One of the elements that we raised in the discussion on priorities in East Timor, at the very launching of our presence there, was to advise them that they should be sure to get first-class consultants to assist in handling the whole issue of the oil resources which are now part of the economic future of that country.
Thank you, Mr Nielson, for your long and outstanding cooperation.
Mr President, cost of access is the key determinant of Internet use and policies to reduce the cost by introducing more competition are central to the year of action plan.
In view of this the Internal Market Council in November last year endorsed a set of indicators to benchmark the year of action plan, which included the cost of access.
OECD data was used in the Commission's report to the Stockholm European Council.
The data includes unmetered access, however their methodology considers only prices charged by the dominant telecom operating in each country.
The response was good and price data will be measured on 1 November 2001 and made available to the Commission not later than 15 January 2002.
The cost in September 2000 of unmetered access in the OECD report was - and here we use dollars because they use dollars, next year we will use euros - USD 25 in the UK, USD 35 in Spain and USD 50 in Germany.
New figures from August 2001 show no notable variation in unmetered access prices.
The overall penetration of ADSL remains low, that is a fact, but there have been several spectacular advances in Member States, for example, Belgium went from 1% to 11% in the eight months separating the two surveys.
As the author is not present, Question Nos 49 and 50 lapse.
Question No 51 by (H-0617/01): Subject: High-speed tyres in Sweden In April this year, when many car owners in Sweden were about to buy new summer tyres, an absurd situation arose.
The fact that the maximum speed limit in Sweden is 110 kph was not relevant and many cars had to be fitted with tyres capable of coping with speeds of 270 kph and in some cases as much as 300 kph.
At European level the specifications for tyres to be fitted to passenger cars are dealt with by Directive 92/23/EEC of 31 March 1992.
Many thanks to the Commissioner for his answer.
In order to discuss these questions the Commission issued a communication, on 11 July 2001 on the protection of pedestrians.
The objective of the commitment is a reduction in the number of fatalities and also a reduction in the number and seriousness of injuries.
If the Commission decides to propose legislation, this would be based on the content of the commitment.
The industry is making a commitment that as from 1 July 2005 all new types of vehicles will meet requirements which relate to the first series of passive measures recommended by the joint (that is, the Commission's joint) research centre.
As the honourable Member is aware, the Commission has sent the commitment which was approved in July to the European Parliament and Council for comment.
Mr President, the Commission left final decision making until after the opinion of the Council and Parliament had been heard.
It is clear that the agreement route will be quicker, but this also represents a new way of action.
OLAF must examine all tendering procedures and all contracts under AVENTINUS and SENSUS.
The honourable Member refers to an inquiry launched by the Commission on 13 June following press articles on Europol.
The Commission understands that internal investigations by Europol have led to the Dutch judicial authorities now investigating the matter.
In the context of Sensus and as explained in the replies to written questions, the Commission is not currently planning a financial audit of Europol's participation in Sensus.
The coordinator of the Aventinus projects has confirmed that Polygon was not used in either Aventinus I or Aventinus II.
Of course, I thank the Commissioner for his very full answer, from which we can nevertheless extract some new elements in this thriller, if I may call it that.
I should therefore like to ask the Commissioner to investigate possible proposals.
A second supplementary question concerns the coordinator of the Sensus programme.
I thank the Commissioner for his answer.
So the only way for us to audit issues concerning Europol in the context of a particular contract.
Question No 54 by (H-0645/01): Subject: Defence industries In response to my oral question H-0447/01, tabled at Question Time on 13 June 2001, the Commission indicated that it was considering what action to take pursuant to its 1997 Action Plan for implementing the EU strategy on defence-related industries.
Indeed I believe it to be even more pertinent for at least two reasons: development of the ESDP - European Security and Defence Policy - and the constitution of transnational defence companies.
Up to now the Council discussions have been characterised by differences of opinion between the Member States, preventing the adoption of a common position on the framing of a European armament policy.
But as the competitiveness of the European defence industry is vital to the credibility of the nascent European Security and Defence Policy, the Commission expects that governments will recognise increasingly the urgency for a change in attitudes in order to end policies and practices that prevent European defence companies from working together more efficiently.
Such a change in the position of Member States will allow the Commission to contribute more effectively to the creation of a European defence equipment market through exercising its competence under Community policies such as the creation of the single market in defence, external trade, etc.
As the commissioner for enterprise I am pursuing the objective of promoting greater competitiveness of Europe's defence industry in close cooperation with national authorities and industry representatives.
But it seems to me that what you are saying is that the Commission is not going to do anything to follow up its communication or its action plan.
As the time allotted to questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 55 to 96 will be replied to in writing.
On 23 July it reached a consensus political agreement on modalities to implement the Kyoto Protocol.
Allow me to give you a brief assessment of the Bonn Conference before I turn to the main decisions on substance.
The agreement struck in Bonn indeed prevented an unravelling of the international efforts to combat climate change following the failure of the conference in the Hague and the announcement by President Bush that the United States will not support the Kyoto Protocol.
The talks in Bonn therefore represented a race against the clock.
It has to be said that the United States honoured President Bush's promise not to prevent other parties from going ahead on the Kyoto Protocol.
The European Union showed a strong and unified position during the talks and the Belgian presidency did a good job in coordinating our position.
I should also acknowledge the political support from the NGOs and MEPs present at the meeting, participating in a very constructive way.
Against the background of the current debate on globalisation it sends another political signal that the international community is able to address global problems to the benefit of all countries.
The agreement was a breakthrough, but of course there remain a number of steps to be taken before the Kyoto Protocol can enter into force.
As the candidate countries supported the EU's positions our attention focuses particularly on Japan, but also on Russia.
Both countries now have a major responsibility in determining whether or not the international community takes an important step in combating climate change.
I should also highlight the constructive role played in Bonn by the developing countries, G4-77/China, under the chairmanship of Iran, sharing EU positions on many points.
These concessions relate mainly to a generous counting of carbon zincs towards industrialised countries' emissions targets and, on the last night of the negotiations, to the legally binding character of the compliance regime.
Nonetheless, given that emissions have increased in most industrialised countries since 1990 a significant emission reduction effort in those countries is still required.
The agreement includes a declaration by the EU and a number of other countries of a funding package of EUR 450 million per year by 2005 for capacity building, technology transfer and adaptation to climate change for developing countries.
It will also channel new resources to developing countries and the economies in transition in central and eastern Europe.
As I said earlier, the agreement in Bonn paves the way for the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol.
The European Union is committed to ratification by our Heads of State and Government.
I hope to continue our good cooperation in the future.
With regard to the environment, this Conference will go down in history as the one that brought to an end the talks and negotiations on climate change that had been dragging on for ten years and the one that enabled us finally to take action.
I should, therefore, like to congratulate Commissioner Wallström on her excellent role in the political handling of this dossier since her appointment, and I also congratulate her for the announcement she made today about presenting to this House the process of ratifying the Kyoto protocol, the practical measures on the emissions trading system and the European programme for climate change.
The second message from Bonn is a change in the economic model: from a fire-based, fuel-using economy, to one which is coal-based.
The third message from Bonn concerns globalisation.
It is now a question of putting words into action.
But the Kyoto process is going to be very much harder.
You have still a lot to do.
The Kyoto protocol is not dead, as President Bush has stated, but alive and kicking.
One thing that is certain is that the Kyoto baby needs to grow considerably in order to keep climate change under control.
President Bush is already experiencing that there is much truth in the Dutch saying: he who breaks, pays.
CO2 emissions are twice as high in the United States as in Europe.
In order to step up the pressure on President Bush even further, my group and, fortunately, Parliament too, proposes organising CoP-9 in the United States in 2003.
We cannot conceal our reticence over emissions trading and its monitoring or the use of sinks.
The European Parliament has already stated, on several occasions, that sinks should only be used in a limited and carefully monitored way.
These issues are of concern to us.
These other measures are being negotiated both at international level and, of course, in the European Union.
Let us suppose that your estimates are right and that CO2 costs about EUR 30 a tonne.
That means that electricity from brown coal will rise by about 3.5 eurocents and electricity from hard coal will rise by about 3 eurocents.
Political agreements must now be translated into concrete action with visible results, because that is the way to strengthen political support for climate policy.
It is a global task, for which Europe must take its share of the responsibility.
Sustainable energy can give a boost to development.
We must now demonstrate that, in fact, the economic effects are favourable.
Sustainable development must lead to sustainable growth.
It is of great importance for us to join forces in a common research programme.
The framework programme for research and Article 169 offer a good basis for this.
Of course we had to make some very unsatisfactory concessions, and the end result and the real reductions were limited in a way that we are not at all happy with, but we will have to live with this framework for a very long time.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation creating a European Aviation Safety Agency was welcomed by all groups in committee.
That is why I say, loud and clear, that this regulation is a sign that we want to guarantee a uniformly high standard of safety in the EU Member States in future and ensure that it is identical in every state.
The second point is also, I think, an important aspect to bear in mind, despite the fact that it often receives short shift in policy.
That means that, in future, individual Member States will not need to repeat the entire procedure and everything will be taken care of by this standard agency in the European Union.
There is another important aspect which I should like to make a point of addressing here.
Mr President, the advent of competition in the air transport sector has certainly resulted in the lowering of prices of air travel for the 370 million consumers of the European Union.
I am calling on the European Commission as a matter of urgency to allocate more monies from the EU research budget to carry out an independent evaluation of the possible public health risks for air passengers travelling on long-haul flights.
I am calling on the European Commission to carry out this independent research in consultation with EU airline companies and EU consumer groups.
The solution to this problem may not be as hard as some EU airlines may envisage.
While voluntary agreements play an important role with regard to the whole issue of air travel, EU institutions and EU governments must not be afraid to intervene and legislate on issues to promote and protect air passenger rights.
In this report I am calling on the European Commission to bring forward specific proposals outlining how the charter of passenger rights in Europe can be marketed to a greater extent.
This will help to guarantee that all air passengers in Europe are kept fully informed as to their legal rights with regard to air travel.
This report includes a proposal calling on European Union airlines to inform passengers of the percentage degree seat pitch available to passengers travelling in economy class.
It is clearly the case that there is more room available for economy class passengers travelling with some airlines than with others.
I also think it is important - and I speak here on behalf of Mr Kuckelkorn - that we accept an amendment proposed by the Committee on Budgets on funding.
My group has also tabled a number of proposed amendments.
The first concerns the composition of the administrative board.
Another proposed amendment concerns the creation of local offices of the agency, which have been suggested in order to allay the fears of a number of Member States about loss of sovereignty.
Mr President, in the extremely interesting debate that we have heard this morning following Mr Prodi' s presentation of the White Paper on governance, he said that the control exercised by this Parliament, including control over budgetary matters, should not be concerned with questions of detail but should check whether the instruments are achieving their objectives and should adopt more of a political approach and less of an accounting one.
Perhaps this is why the Committee on Budgetary Control has made a few suggestions for the creation of an Aviation Safety Agency, such as, for example, that we again adopt the model of control used by the two agencies set up in 1975, which are Cedefop, in Thessaloniki and the Dublin Foundation.
According to this model, granting discharge to the agencies was the responsibility of the European Parliament.
Between 1990 and 1997, nine agencies were created, but it could be said that creating an external agency gives the Council carte blanche to do what it likes.
This idea is not borne out by reality, however, because the agency set up to deal with the issue of Kosovo in Thessaloniki in 1999 is a return to the model according to which it is Parliament, at the behest of the Council, that gives discharge to the Director and the board of management.
The two previous speakers have already commented on certain aspects.
As you already know, we have an urgent need for the equivalent of the American Federal Aviation Administration if we want the Airbus standard to be commercially viable at international level, in particular the new A 380 programme.
My second important point concerns the problem of political control.
Finally, we are hoping that, in the committees of experts, the greatest cooperation will be open to all parties concerned, notably in relation to the creation of the "single sky" or problems relating to air control.
For that reason we particularly welcome the adoption of amendments on consumer health and safety in the Schmitt report's emphasis on the provision of information on health and safety requirements for airline passengers and the Collins report's adoption of the proposal that there should be an evaluation of health risk and research into matters like deep-vein thrombosis.
The fact is that passengers today suffer not merely from being dumped from airlines, from the problem of lost baggage, but from other things which are often not the fault of the airlines themselves.
All of those are possible if we adopt these two reports.
I fully agree with the rapporteur when he states that it is necessary - and I would say quite urgent - that we improve the current level of protection in cases of denied boarding, flight cancellations, unjustified delays which, in many cases, lead to connections with other flights or with other means of transport being missed and a long list of similar problems, which is growing every day, not to mention the fact that we Members of this Parliament are long-suffering victims of these inconveniences.
I must thank the Commissioner for the efforts that her department is making to achieve this, but in order to achieve this, we must undertake a thorough and appropriate review of current legislation in this field and improve all aspects of it that will lead to greater and better protection of passengers' rights.
This information must be sufficiently publicised and made available to all users and not only in airports but also at points of ticket sales, in travel agencies and also, as far as possible, in the media.
I should therefore wish to call for as many binding agreements as possible that are also laid down in legislation as well as for sanctions for failure to fulfil all kinds of promises to passengers.
The setting up of EASA and the provisional definition of its responsibilities are an important step on the way to complete harmonisation of safety rules in civil aviation.
This is necessary and desirable, given the growing importance of the sector at European level, of unambiguous competition rules and of uniform standards, and in view of the need to strengthen the EU' s influence at a global level.
We have opted for a cautious start which, in the first instance, will only involve European certification of new types of aircraft, such as the A 380.
That is quite reasonable because the Authority still has to find its niche alongside the national aviation bodies, which will, of course, continue to have a role.
Based on a certain timeframe, the mandate of EASA can then be expanded to include other aspects of flight safety, such as the human aspect, the quality of pilot training, etc.
The Commission should come up with a proposal by the end of next year at the latest on what new tasks EASA can assume.
EASA must also be able to take decisive action and that depends on the structure, but also on the quality of the managers.
If we weaken the role of the Commission too far it will create serious problems of political accountability.
We took the same line on these and other points with the European Maritime Safety Agency.
I should like to mention two more things.
Mr President, on behalf of the Green Group I would like to welcome both of these reports.
In the limited speaking time I have, I want to focus on just one aspect and that is the health aspects of flying.
On deep-vein thrombosis for example, although for over ten years there have been reports of people getting blood clots after travelling by plane no comprehensive independent research has been carried out.
According to a recent report in The Lancet by a London-based consultant, as many as one in ten people get blood clots of some kind on long-haul flights.
A Canadian researcher was saying that as a result of air recycling in the cabin some passengers are at risk of catching diseases as serious as tuberculosis.
The issue here is not the rights or wrongs of this latest allegation but the fact that this type of uncertainty will continue unless we have a new proactive strategy based on more and better research, appropriate action by the airlines and better information to the public.
Mr President, I am in favour of anything that leads to the standardisation of safety regulations in air transportation.
The creation of a European Aviation Safety Agency, in place of the current informal collaboration between the fifteen Member States, would be the least that could be done to establish common rules in the field of aviation.
It would however have taken, according to the report, twenty years of bargaining for this measure of simple good sense to be taken.
The fact that the differences in interests between the industrial groups concerned have not disappeared augers badly for the authority which will be granted to this agency to impose all the measures useful for the safety of passengers.
As far as the question of aviation safety is concerned, Commissioner, you have now presented us with a proposal on establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation and creating a European Aviation Safety Agency long after the single market was completed and other Commissioners had let the subject drop.
The purpose of the amendments proposed by the committee, as Mr Schmitt rightly said, is to strengthen the technical independence of the European Aviation Safety Agency still further, without wanting to diminish your personal parliamentary responsibility.
We trust that this agency will be able to start work in time to grant the symbol of the independent European aviation industry, namely the new Airbus A380, a joint project involving numerous employees, numerous engineers and numerous workers in European countries, the first uniform certification for European airspace.
If it does, then I think we will have done both the aviation industry and safety a huge service.
I wish to congratulate Mr Collins on his work and also the Commission on having presented us with this report on protecting the rights of air transport passengers.
This is an issue which concerns an increasing number of people, more Europeans, because the numbers of air passengers are increasing.
Dissatisfaction is also growing, however, with regard to the transport available to us and with the conditions in which they are provided.
With regard to transport, passengers demand safety but they also want to know in advance the conditions in which they will be travelling.
We must confront this problem vigorously and I also wish to ask Commissioner Loyola de Palácio whether she still intends to table legislation in this field by the end of the year, and, if so, what will it be?
As aviation is the most regulated form of transport, I welcome the commitment by the industry, as agreed in Lisbon in May, to implement the voluntary passenger service commitment.
This is undoubtedly the best way forward as over-regulation would be extremely damaging to the aviation industry Europe-wide, and in particular in the United Kingdom, and would result in our being uncompetitive.
I hope the Commission will resist in bringing forward legislative proposals as it is only right and proper that the industry should be given sufficient time to implement fully this agreement.
Finally despite asking the Commission on a number of occasions, we are still unclear as to the future role of national civil aviation authorities, the JAA, as the proposed regulation does not define its parameters.
Mr President, I welcome the proposals to provide legal rights for passengers as well as the increase in denied boarding compensation and the right to reimbursement for delayed flights.
The passenger protection dossier is, together with the single sky, safety and protection of the environment, an important dossier for air transport, for passengers and also for the image of European integration in the eyes of the public.
We are all aware of the importance of this means of transport and also of the contradiction that exists between the Europe of the air and terrestrial Europe: whilst traditional borders are disappearing, we are seeing these borders persist in the air transport sector.
I therefore welcome the Commission' s intention to seek a balance between legislation and the voluntary commitments affecting airlines, airports and airport authorities, not to mention the tourist industry.
This is an ambitious communication, which seeks to achieve this balance between the needs to establish guarantees for passengers and to ensure that air transport is efficient and competitive.
I regret the impasse in which many initiatives in this sector are trapped within the Council and I hope that the appropriate agreements will be concluded so that we can move ahead without any further delay.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the Schmitt report, we must congratulate both the Commission, on its proposal in response to the call from Parliament and, of course, the rapporteur on his sterling work.
This obviously logical precept does not always apply to European Union texts or to European Parliament texts because, as we all know full well, each final text depends on the circumstances at the time in the various debating fora, especially when it comes to the vote.
The World Health Organisation is putting GBP 7 million into research and I am asking you tonight to give your commitment to a European Union study to look at potential links between DVT and air travel and preventative action.
This will allow passengers, as consumers, to exercise the choice perhaps not to drink alcohol, perhaps to take aspirin three or four days before flying or to wear these new compression socks which help regulate blood flow in the legs.
We know that air travel is safe but there is nonetheless a small risk for some passengers that they may develop blood clots.
Mr President, I should like to say, first of all, that we are discussing two quite different initiatives here.
The other initiative concerns Parliament' s report on the Commission communication on protecting the rights of air transport passengers.
I shall begin with the initiative on the creation of the European Aviation Safety Agency.
In proposing common regulations for the civil aviation sector and the creation of a European Aviation Safety Agency, the Commission has borne in mind the objective of achieving a high and uniform level of safety, which is an essential factor for air transport.
We want to achieve this high and uniform level of safety throughout the European Union and also greater environmental protection.
From now on, a single certificate will be sufficient for a company to be able to supply its products to the whole European market, whilst access to external markets will be simplified, as a result of the conclusion of agreements that will facilitate the harmonisation and the mutual recognition of the certificates.
The parliamentary committees that have worked on this text have understood the importance of what is at stake and I thank them for their support for the Commission proposal.
In fact, many of them are very similar to the comments made by the Council itself and will, therefore, be adopted in the consolidated modified proposal, either in part or, in some cases, with minor stylistic changes.
This decision would run counter to the flexibility of management that we would like this body to have.
The Commission cannot, therefore, accept Amendments Nos 4 and 56.
I am referring to Amendments Nos 3, 15, 17, 19, 28, 29, 54 and 65.
Nor can we accept Amendments Nos 5 and 62, which deal with the scope of the Regulation, as they stand, although, in this case and as a compromise, we can accept proposals being tabled in the year following the adoption of the Regulation, with regard to air operations and staff privileges.
With regard to the other areas, we cannot accept airports being definitively excluded.
With regard to the publication of the results of inspections by national administrations, set down in Amendments Nos 24 and 30, the Commission does not consider this to be appropriate because confidential information, which could be the basis of criminal proceedings, is involved.
I must also take a stand on the amendments dealing with the Agency' s independence, specifically, Nos 21, 32, 42, 43, 45, 53, 64, 70 and 71.
Nevertheless, Amendment No 36, which reflects Parliament' s will not to participate in the Agency' s Administrative Board seems quite appropriate, if that is what Parliament wishes.
The work currently being undertaken in this House, as in the Council, proves that we are moving towards consensus on all aspects of this measure, with the exception of that of the influence of the Member States and the Community on control of the Agency.
It is, therefore, important that the Commission has the support of Parliament on this matter.
I should like to congratulate your rapporteur once again and thank you for the excellent work you have carried out.
Both institutions attach high priority to the protection of passengers and we agree that this protection must be guaranteed by two approaches, which are not contradictory, but complementary.
Firstly, the monitoring of the voluntary commitments.
In relation to the first matter, we have drawn up a draft, which we are now fine-tuning, with the help of the comments of the various interested parties.
The second matter concerns the contracts airlines have with their customers.
At the end of this year we shall present a consultation document and, once we have received the reactions of those concerned, we will draft a proposal.
We are, therefore, financing research into cabin conditions under the Fifth Framework Programme and we are looking into how we can better support the studies into deep-vein thrombosis started by the World Health Organisation.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The vote will take place on Wednesday at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly no easy task to have to draft a report on ones own country because one is all too subjective.
The Transit Agreement is without doubt doubly important because transit traffic in Austria - and this is a unique situation in the whole of the European Union - accounts for a very high proportion of overall traffic - up to 80% on many routes - and, because of Austria's geographical position and the fact that it is a relatively small country, it contributes to a relatively heavy environmental impact, especially in sensitive zones.
The Commission has tried various ways of sinking this agreement.
That is why I have taken account of Uli Stockmann's suggestion and my point 2 c) states that we in Parliament take the view that a better, sliding scale needs to be found.
I can gladly let you have a copy of the study by an independent economic institute concluding that, by the year 2015 - and I know that is a long way off - transit traffic will have increased four- to fivefold.
What I mean is that, in this situation, knowing that people are very sensitive to traffic issues, to change an existing agreement in this situation in order to create a different situation for perhaps one to one and a half years, is totally incomprehensible to me.
Naturally my recommendation is that we accept the report tomorrow as it was adopted in committee - albeit, I admit, by a very narrow majority, if one can talk of majorities at all here.
Primarily, it is about the fact that Austria has a valid agreement with the European Union.
What this can and will do is to destroy any trust in agreements concluded and hence any trust in the legal security of the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be voting in favour of the Commission proposal.
The objective was to reduce overall NOx emissions from heavy goods vehicles in transit through Austria by 60% by the end of 2003.
Secondly, the Commission proposal does not touch the ecopoint system per se.
However, this clause only applies if the lorries have produced 8% fewer emissions a year.
For example, exceeding 100,000 journeys in 1999 was punished by cutting 150,000 journeys in 2000.
Protocol no. 9 makes explicit provision for the ecopoint system to be reviewed in 2001.
That is why I am in favour of abolishing the 108% rule and adopting the Commission proposal as it stands.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the ecopoint system was agreed during Austria's accession to the EU.
The objective, as has already been mentioned, is to use more environmentally-friendly lorries in transit through the Austrian Alps and to reduce NOx emissions by 60% in comparison with 1992, which has almost been achieved.
The current system has proved essentially effective, since the basic objective has been or is in the process of being achieved, while on the other hand it is proving ineffective, or rather in some cases I would say it acts against the incentive to make vehicles crossing Austria more eco-friendly, as well as being difficult if not unfair to implement, and therefore the clause has indeed proved to be effectively of little use, even though worthwhile in its intention.
This report and tomorrow's vote are about a decision with far-reaching implications.
Our citizens, and I do not just mean in these sensitive regions, are counting on the European Parliament and the sense of responsibility of all its members.
Mr President, this topic involves much more than just a traffic problem.
It is a matter of how the European Union treats its promises to newcomers, the rights of its smaller Member States and interests other than simply those of the economy.
Seven years after this compromise, the Commission is trying unilaterally to deprive Austria of that right and at this late stage to give free rein to north-south road traffic, even if the limit of 108% is exceeded.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left supports the rapporteur in his rejection of this attack by the Commission, the large Member States and the big transport conglomerates.
Mr President, not only the number and distribution of ecopoints in Austria, but also the ecopoint system itself, lead to a highly-charged discussion with repeated heated clashes between supporters and opponents.
When Austria joined the European Union, limited access for in-transit transport of goods was agreed until the end of 2003.
The Commission wants to revoke one of the components of this agreement.
The rapporteur regards the unilateral (partial) termination of protocol No 9 without acceptable alternatives as a breach of agreements entered into.
The rejection of this proposal by the Commission therefore does not stand in isolation, but falls within this framework.
The question does arise, though, what the future of in-transit traffic through Austria will be after 2003, when the ecopoint system has disappeared.
Thirdly, a question to all of you: what are words on paper worth?
Or, ladies and gentlemen, do we just pay lip service here to environmental protection and sustainable development?
That is the only real solution to the problem of transit traffic in the Alps.
The Commission intends to maintain this objective, and we are also convinced, as the proposed regulation to the Commission suggests, that the 108% clause should be eliminated.
The second puzzle is a practical one: the sampling system is unreliable, the critical threshold would seem to be exceeded by 0.6%, or 10 000 journeys, but according to a Commission study there are 92 000 vehicles that entered Austria and did not leave.
We are dealing with a system that has demonstrated that it is absolutely unreliable: the 108% limit has not been proved effective; the penalties are quite excessive, with 150 rights of transit less as a result of exceeding the 108% threshold.
Mr President, these are the technical and objective reasons why the Italian delegation will vote in favour of the Commission proposal.
And the solutions worked out just under ten years ago and the compromises brokered for Alpine transit at the time have, on the whole, worked.
This is the question people in Austria are asking and they are not getting an answer.
That is why I think the position adopted two months ago by an admittedly narrow majority in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism is the right one.
That should be our objective and I trust that we shall return a vote tomorrow which guarantees that.
Article 11 of Protocol No 9 discusses NOx pollution..
The objective of Article 11 is to limit gas emissions and NOx emissions and nowhere does it mention any other types of pollution that could have been suggested but which, at the time, were not suggested and were not included.
I also understand that regions such as the Alpine regions and other particularly sensitive areas of the European Union can and should be given special protection where transport is concerned, road transport above all.
To this end, the principle of ecopoints - let me make this quite clear - has been positive and has reduced NOx emissions by more than 50%.
I stated, although I did not give a firm commitment, that I intend to propose, as stated in the White Paper on transport policy - which I hope you will soon be able to read, that for particularly sensitive areas such as the Alps, measures must be taken to limit the potentially harmful effects for the environment.
If we want to continue improving emissions, the 108% clause must be withdrawn, because otherwise, some of the better lorries might stop transiting through Austria because they have too many ecopoints and lack transit rights as a result of this 108%.
They also state that, if we want to continue improving NOx emissions, our only option is to remove the 108% ceiling because, if we maintain this ceiling, there is no incentive to improve environmental quality with regard to emissions by European hauliers transiting through Austria.
But, Commissioner, you stressed several times today that you have to propose an equivalent solution.
The debate is closed.
The first observation concerns a lack of coordination among the cultural programmes of the Union, especially between those included in Culture 2000 and those in the programmes financed by the Structural Funds.
The second observation is especially that there is a gap between the programmes managed at Union level and national cultural policies, based purely and simply on the reciprocal provision of information.
A positive response to these two observations depends on the recognition of two points: first, the principle of subsidiarity not only does not exclude cooperation but demands it.
In short, all the material conditions are in place for a European culture to spread its message of peace and civil order throughout the world, because Europeans can tap into a rich vein of cooperation in the cultural field.
Such cooperation is affirmed, or rather invoked in the Treaties and official speeches, but funding does not follow as it could and should do.
It also makes another good point that should be highlighted: the Commission' s cultural policy, specifically in its implementation of the Culture 2000 framework programme, should prevent a degree of fluctuation in the criteria for the selection of candidates.
A cultural policy at European level must take these factors into consideration when defining its objectives and outlining its criteria for selecting candidates.
At European level, therefore, the institutions should concern themselves mainly with the implications of the cultural heritage common to all of Europe and avoid confusion with national policies developed by the Member States without prejudice, of course, to stimulating multilateral dialogue between the contemporary creations of these States.
A European cultural policy must contribute to actively placing Europe' s huge and multifaceted cultural heritage within the grasp of its citizens.
This means that we have to recognise the importance of funding for cultural activities.
If we are to recognise the primacy of the knowledge and information economy in the new global economy then we have to face the reality of looking at different priorities for our fundings.
We believe that these are conclusions intended to broaden the scope of Article 151 of the treaty, and that is not something we want to be a party to.
The ELDR Group cannot support the report if conclusions 8 and 10, or the compromise amendments to these, are adopted.
Mr President, a very good evening and welcome to Europe's first culture channel.
May I run over time slightly in order to pay my respects and offer my thanks to all the members who have patiently fought to make headway here over the years, long before my arrival here.
Perhaps we could also propose a cultural policy, and I would really like to know your feelings on reinforced cooperation, on the extension of the qualified majority, in short, on all that could be used to build a cultural policy in Europe in a concrete and non-abstract fashion.
This would perhaps be the best proof and the best argument if those Members who are not interested in culture are to support us in our cultural project.
I am also delighted that two points have been included which I addressed in my report on the status of artists in 1992, Mrs Echerer.
More beautiful things will reawaken their enthusiasm for Europe and more culture costs a bit more.
Mr President, we have before us a great own-initiative report which is so important that, in my opinion, it could easily have been called 'Bases for a common cultural policy' , because this is what they could be if the Council takes a sensitive approach to our requests.
The purpose of my words, Mr President, is to congratulate Mr Ruffolo for having reminded us so brilliantly of the path that we must take in the field of culture.
If all this is true, you will of course allow me, Mr President, sincerely, in my capacity as committee Chairman, to congratulate the rapporteur in advance this evening - something that we generally do as a matter of course when we vote - because I really believe this is a step forward, a major revolution that Parliament is on the point of making.
All that shows how Europe can be made, Commissioner, not just through the economy, but through a major cultural initiative, of which Parliament should take full note.
In fact, the future of Europe, even if current themes centre around the euro and our economic development in a globalised environment, will depend on the following question: how will we know how to deal with culture, our cultures, our cultural diversity, founded on common roots, that has so much in common and is so diverse, united in the construction of a common European cultural unit?
You will all know very well that the move to qualified majority voting for Article 151, that Parliament and the Commission had requested, has not been included in the Treaty of Nice.
We did not get the qualified majority, we therefore have to act without it and try to create a situation in which we can evolve.
Yet together, I am sure that we will get there.
These questions should serve as the basis for the revision of the "Culture 2000" framework programme.
I would also like to underline the interest of the study of national cultural policies in Member States which has provided the basis for this report.
I would like to say to the rapporteur that incidences of convergence, as he says, are many in number, both in terms of definitions in the cultural field and in terms of the objectives of national policies.
It is also important, as has been revealed by the numerous MEPs present at the debate this evening, that this leads to a more profound awareness of the fact that, in order to make advances in national policies, there needs to be convergence and collaboration at European level.
I would now like to react point by point to the fundamental elements of the motion for a resolution, Mr President.
With regard to points 1 and 2, the importance of culture and cultural cooperation for European identity, a lengthy explanation is not necessary.
We are in agreement, culture is an intrinsic value for the peoples of Europe, it is the essential element of European integration.
This recognition of culture as a vehicle for European identity should be shared not only by the European Parliament and the Commission, but also by the Council, currently discussing a motion for a resolution from the Belgian Presidency on the role of culture in Europe.
I really hope that Parliament and the Commission will do everything necessary for this resolution to succeed.
Point 4: culture and the information society.
This seminar will facilitate the development of an electronic European cultural network and the presence of culture on the Internet.
Points 5, 8 and 10: strengthening cooperation.
Parliament is hoping to strengthen cultural cooperation using a three-year plan for Member States and through the creation of a European Observatory for cultural cooperation.
In fact, by strengthening cooperation between Member States and between cultural institutions, we can develop improved knowledge of the cultural world with all that that implies.
Some honourable Members have said this with a great deal of commitment and much talent.
The Director-General of the Directorate-General for Education and Culture regularly brings together the Directors-General of Culture of the Member States.
The objective of these meetings is to strengthen cooperation.
On the same subject, the Commission is hoping to strengthen the visibility of the European Community' s numerous cultural actions.
It is very important that the cultural actors from your Member States and your constituents know that it exists and that it works.
We have decided to devote EUR 167 million to the "Culture 2000" programme over five years - a cause for some jealousy, perhaps.
I would like to give you a few figures on the investment of Structural Funds in culture whilst pointing out that there is no automatic element in this process.
In fact, Member States and regions have to ask for these investments, without which the Structural Funds cannot be effective on the ground.
The Commission has precise information available for countries that have decided to devote a proportion of Structural Funds to cultural actions.
Portugal, for example, has voted for a budget of EUR 327 million for culture for the 2000-2006 period.
The European Community contributes up to EUR 237 million.
This is a question, for a small country - a great country in terms of culture, of course, but a small Member State all the same - of a sum that goes way above that which is available, for fifteen Member States, for the "Culture 2000" action.
In Greece, the total Community contribution for culture will rise to EUR 414 million and in Italy, we will also contribute by participating in seven regional operational programmes and in devoting a large budget to culture in which Structural Funds constitute more than EUR 1 200 000.
Even if we only take the example of these three countries, that is to say not all fifteen, Mr President, we see that in one year Structural Funds invest more than EUR 250 million in culture.
You will therefore have an idea that this involves amounts that are very much higher than those we have available as European politicians responsible for culture.
You have adopted the steps necessary for the introduction of two new budget headings in the 2002 draft budget.
An examination of the role of the contact points and their finance contract is being undertaken.
We will keep you informed of the conclusions of this examination.
Let me in any case draw your attention to the fact that these contact points should remain information structures used in the decision-making process that will have been taken by the political authorities.
Points 13 and 14: the Cultural Forum.
It will be the ideal opportunity to be able to explain Parliament' s position on cultural policy issues directly to the operators on the ground.
Points 15 and 16: patronage.
I am completely in agreement with your analysis of the importance of patronage.
I know that Mrs Pack, present here today, put forward this proposal in 1992, and I regret that, almost ten years later, we still have no policy on this matter.
I would like us to think about a "patronage" action that includes a study of the possible harmonisation of VAT on works of art and artistic work, in such a way that all these elements are indissociable.
With all the national resources that are available to us, we should favour investment in culture and the participation of cultural players.
Point 18: the cultural percentage, that is to say the principle of cultural endowments for works financed by the Structural Funds.
I am not very much in favour of a system of quotas in this field, for this risks introducing an element of rigidity in an intervention system based on subsidiarity and the initiative of local and regional authorities.
With regard to the WTO, I cannot be more clear: at the time of the next negotiations, the European Union will undertake to guarantee, as in the Uruguay round, the possibility for the Community and its Member States to maintain and develop their capacity to define and implement their cultural and audiovisual policies for the preservation of cultural diversity.
I will present you also in the forthcoming weeks with a report, a programme on cinema that will really allow this policy to be established, not in the sense advocated by the WTO, but in the sense of the reinforcement of audiovisual policies.
This is why the Community and the Member States remain fundamentally attached to their freedom of action to develop and adapt their cultural policy.
I think it is normal for Parliament to be committed to constructing this Citizens' Europe and I thank you for it.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
