Situation in Taiwan following the recent typhoon (debate) The next item is the Commission's statement on the situation in Taiwan following the recent typhoon.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, first of all, let me express my sympathy to the people of Taiwan who suffered as result of Typhoon Morakot and its consequences.
Over 150 people were killed and tens of thousands displaced.
Around 700 000 homes were left without drinking water.
That led to strong criticism and on 13 August to much needed adjustments to a completely abortive crisis management programme.
Shortly after that, Prime Minister Liu Chao-shiuan resigned.
Another cause of irritation was the visit to Taiwan by the Dalai Lama over several days in September.
on behalf of the S-D Group. - Mr President, first of all, please let me express my sincere sorrow for the huge tragedy that hit Taiwan on 8 August and in particular for all the people that were killed by the incredible energy of the devastation from this major disaster.
on behalf of the ECR Group. - Mr President, the scenes of devastation and destruction caused by Typhoon Morakot will remain in our minds for a long time, but many people in Taiwan will be living with the consequences of this tragedy for years to come.
Over 700 people lost their lives and thousands of others have faced major disruption.
Such isolation is truly intolerable, certainly when it comes to people's lives, wherever they may be. (FI) Mr President, Taiwan met with human disaster on a huge scale on 8 August.
The Government failed to predict the seriousness of the tropical storm approaching the island.
I also urge the European Union to provide humanitarian support to Taiwan, along with support for reconstruction and, in particular, for the population.
On the question concerning the participation of Taiwan in the World Meteorological Organisation from Mrs Lulling and Mrs Andrikienė, and also from Mr van Baalen and Mr Tannock: in line with the position expressed by the European Union in a statement issued in September 2008 and the EU's One China policy, the European Commission supports, where appropriate, the meaningful participation of Taiwan in international organisations.
This help was received with gratitude which was acknowledged by President Ma to Commission President Barroso.
On the question concerning the visit by the Dalai Lama to Taiwan in the aftermath of the typhoon, the visit by the Dalai Lama was a decision taken by the Taiwanese authorities, and the European Commission has no comment on it.
