Mr President, I should like to draw the attention of colleagues to the presence in the gallery today of the leaders of the three opposition parties represented in Moldova's Parliament, who are here for this debate: Dorin Chirtoacă, who is the Mayor of Chişinău and the Vice-President of the Liberal Party of Moldova; Vladimir Filat, who is the President of the Liberal Democratic Party, and Serafim Urechean, the President of the Alliance 'Our Moldova'. (Applause) President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, both the Council and the Parliament are following with great unease the events unfolding in Moldova in connection with the 5 April parliamentary elections.
It is in all of our interests to ensure that the situation in Moldova does not undermine implementation of the Eastern Partnership.
Immediately after the outbreak of violent protests in Kishinev on 7 April the EU sent its special representative Kalman Mizsei to Moldova.
The parties winning seats in the new parliament must agree on a realistic solution that respects democratic principles.
He met with President Voronin, with Prime Minister Greceanu and with opposition representatives.
Based on this the communists would win 60 of the 101 seats in the new parliament.
Last week the Central Electoral Commission recounted the votes and concluded that the ruling Communist Party had indeed won 60 of the 101 seats in the parliament, thus confirming the results of the first count.
The EU had warned the Moldovan authorities about this problem several times before the elections.
On 15 April Moldovan President Vladimir Voronin took a step in the right direction when he declared an amnesty for all persons arrested during the protests except for people with a previous criminal record.
The investigation must be conducted in cooperation with the relevant European and international institutions.
The human rights situation is being monitored closely on the ground by the EU and also by the Council of Europe, the OSCE and the UN.
It is important that these operations are coordinated.
The investigation in Moldova must include international participation in order to be considered reliable and fair.
It is essential to find a political solution to this crisis.
It is very important at this stage to look to a future beyond the immediate consequences of the current crisis and to consider what our policy should be towards Moldova.
The crisis has shown clearly the need for consistent and ambitious measures to reinforce democratic standards and institutions in Moldova.
The agreement between Moldovan political parties on overcoming the current crisis should include a commitment to thoroughgoing reform in the areas mentioned.
The Eastern Partnership will provide a new and ambitious framework for boosting EU assistance targeted at political and economic reforms in Moldova and other countries in that region.
The situation in the Republic of Moldova is indeed of great concern.
These shortcomings need to be addressed as a matter of urgency, all the more so since the events of 7 April.
Much more worrying are the reports of widespread human rights violations in the wake of the demonstrations after the election day.
After the turmoil that followed the demonstrations of 7 April, the Commission strongly condemned the excessive use of force and called on all those concerned to stop the use of inflammatory rhetoric and violence.
It is crucial that allegations of serious human rights violations by the security forces are investigated thoroughly and swiftly.
President Voronin's agreement to visit the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, Thomas Hammarberg, as well as cooperation with the EUSR on these issues, is welcome.
The current situation is of grave concern, but we should not lose our sense of the wider picture.
We have been working closely and in a relationship of trust with the citizens of Moldova over the last 15 years.
However, recent events have shown us a serious deviation from all these commitments.
EU assistance planned for 2007-2010 aimed at supporting the development of democracy and good governance in Moldova amounts to more than EUR 50 million.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ET) Ladies and gentlemen, I have always been a strong supporter of Moldova, but the present crisis makes me very concerned.
Relations between the European Union and Moldova remain very important to us, but one should not hope that the European Union consists of blue-eyed naïve people who believe everything that the Moldovan authorities present to us as the truth.
The forthcoming European Parliament ad hoc mission to Moldova is very important.
The observation of human rights not only in words but also in deeds is of utmost importance to the European Union and also to representatives directly elected by the people.
I believe in the Eastern Partnership, and also in the possibility of democracy in Moldova.
This Parliament's mission next week must seek evidence regarding reports of 200 000 additional ballots printed, allegations that 400 000 voters registered on election day with inadequate ID, and claims that voters in Transnistria were disenfranchised en masse.
President Voronin and his comrades must commit to that cause.
Our Union must demand it. (NL) The international reporting on the disturbances in Moldova at the beginning of April and their consequences raises a considerable number of questions, questions that the European institutions need to put to the Moldovan and Romanian authorities.
We should avoid these events being taken as an excuse for a unilateral solution on Transnistria. (SV) Madam President, there are those who believe that we should have a resolution on Moldova and there are those who believe that we should not.
I therefore urge you all to support this resolution. (RO) The events which have occurred in the Republic of Moldova had been on the cards for a long time.
When I say this, I am referring to the fact that in 2008 the EU-Republic of Moldova dialogue mentioned at least three major issues: a) free access for the opposition to the public mass media, which has been systematically refused and institutionalised by the Voronin regime; b) failure to comply with the request of the Venice Commission to refrain from amending the law on parliamentary elections, flatly refused by the regime in Chişinău and its collaborators; c) the opposition's involvement in major decisions on the country's policy, especially its European integration policy, another measure flatly refused.
The fact that these three major topics have been ignored or systematically rejected by our partners in Chişinău will actually indicate to us that the European Union has been turned down flat by Moldova when it came to matters of fundamental importance to the future of this country.
We will also have to be just as definite in making up our minds about this last aspect.
Right now we must concentrate on the human rights violations, which must be fully investigated by a mission of the European Union if Moldova wants to continue to receive our support in its EU-Atlantic aspirations. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am most grateful for this debate today, because it shows that a Europe with 27 Member States and 500 million citizens definitely has clout outside the borders of Europe.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (CS) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Moldova is still fragile and the EU must continue its intense efforts to bring the parties to the negotiating table.
It must also work with them to find a common solution which is comprehensive, balanced and realistic and which will contribute to strengthening the democratic process and democratic institutions in Moldova.
There should be no doubt that the EU and the Council are very alarmed at the human rights violations that occurred in Moldova during the crisis.
We are urgently calling on the Moldovan authorities to engage in a transparent process with the full cooperation of the relevant European and international institutions and to investigate and condemn the human rights violations.
The crisis has shown the need to strengthen EU assistance targeted at further political and economic reform in Moldova, in order to strengthen Moldova's commitment to democratic standards and values and in accordance with EU support over the matter of Moldovan sovereignty and territorial integrity.
Concerning the visa question, we are indeed dismayed by Moldova's decision to impose a visa requirement on Romanian citizens.
Overall, concerning the elections, their aftermath and human rights violations, the Commission strongly condemned the violence that erupted in the streets of Chişinău on 7 April and the massive and excessive use of force by the law enforcement agencies' forces and, reportedly, by private militia in the aftermath.
I cannot help but mention the hypocrisy of those politicians who are now scaremongering about the million Moldovans ready to invade the West, in the same way as they were bandying the notion up until 2007 about an onslaught from the Romanians.
The elections which took place on 6 April 2009 in the Republic of Moldova were followed by demonstrations.
However, the declaration of the Romanian ambassador in Chişinau as persona non-grata and the sudden, unilateral introduction by the Republic of Moldova of visas for Romanian citizens are unacceptable.
The Republic of Moldova is a European country through its history and geography.
We are involved in many joint development programmes and I think that Romania and the European Union must continue to support economic and social development in the Republic of Moldova through a partnership based on not only good cooperation, but, in particular, on mutual respect as well.
