Let me start with the objectives of the proposals.
Secondly, to increase the availability of innovative medicinal products and, at the same time, favour competition with generic products, and, thirdly, to prepare for enlargement, which will very soon become a reality.
The Commission wants, especially in the enlarged EU, to ensure that patients have quicker access to innovative medicines.
The mutual recognition procedure has shown its limits.
The centralised procedure would also be positive for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The benefits of a centralised procedure for SMEs are obvious in areas such as orphan drugs, where most of the marketing authorisations are granted to SMEs.
To put it in a nutshell, we need innovative products for the benefit of patients and we need generics to help reduce the pressure on health care costs.
For innovative medicines, the Commission proposes a new data-protection period.
First, the Commission proposes to harmonise the national data protection periods at 10 years across the board.
The protection period will give the innovative pharmaceutical industry an opportunity to recover its R&amp; D investments.
This will also allow for the smoother operation of the internal market.
To reward further innovation and research in new products, the proposal provides for a possible extension of the protection period up to 11 years.
Finally, I should like to say a few words about controlled access to information for patients.
The discussions have concentrated to a large extent on the US model, but this is not our model.
It is a European pilot project, and has nothing in common with the US model.
I think that this second option increases both choice and security for European patients.
In conclusion, the Commission proposals aim to guarantee a high level of public health to European citizens, to increase, in a balanced way, the availability of innovative medicinal products and generic products and also to be ready for enlargement.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in examining the legislation before us, we need to consider whether more EU involvement is needed when it comes to approving innovative medicinal products, or whether the mutual recognition procedure is the best approach.
In other words, do we want a more integrated internal market for medicinal products with a view to giving patients throughout Europe swifter access to new, safe and effective medicines, or is the idea that extremely complicated authorisation procedures should continue to keep new medicines out of patients' hands for as long as possible?
This has advantages not only for patients, but also for companies, because they can market medicines more quickly than up to now and thus enhance their competitiveness.
That means that safety and the effectiveness of medical products must play a key role in the authorisation procedure.
The procedure must be transparent.
The Commission proposal was certainly ambiguous and gave rise to fears that advertising for prescription medicines was to be permitted.
This makes it easier to ascertain side effects and makes it possible to act quickly in the event of a crisis.
In addition to the existing scientific committees, there will in future be a committee for herbal medicinal products with the same status.
Under the present arrangements, data exclusivity in Europe ranges from six to ten years, and this is in urgent need of harmonisation.
As I see it, the Commission proposal is a successful attempt to strike a balance between the justifiable desire of pharmaceutical companies to protect their data and the need of public health systems to improve access to cost-effective generic drugs.
The main objective of the proposals is to ensure a high level of health protection for each citizen, particularly by providing rapid access to innovative and safe products, by developing a preventative and on-going system of pharmacovigilance, as well as by improving the competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industry within the framework of its search for new treatments.
A medicinal product is a product unlike any other.
At present, there are two procedures for registering medicinal products: the centralised procedure, managed by the European Agency, under which authorisations valid for all EU Member States are issued, and the mutual recognition procedure, for which the Member States have jurisdiction.
In reality, the question raised concerns new, active substances.
We all agree that there is a difference between new active substances, which number almost 20 per year, and the new drugs, which amount to between 200 and 300 each year.
It is thus essential to step up pharmacovigilance requirements, in order to offer patients the best possible guarantees, in other words with ad-hoc inspections at the source of manufacturing, using purely public funding, which is indispensable if independence is to be guaranteed and, lastly, by means of a rapid system for exchanging data collated by all the partners, which will make it possible to achieve coherence in pharmacovigilance systems between Member States.
In order to manufacture a medicinal product, the applicant first needs to carry out extensive research in order to discover new molecules.
Industry therefore needs to guarantee the protection of this data.
It is our duty to encourage research to ensure that science moves forward, hence the interest in retaining our best researchers.
Of course, the usefulness of generic drugs has already been demonstrated.
They illustrate the success of our European health systems.
The introduction of adequate measures, therefore, particularly by means of the Bolar system will speed up their launch on to the market.
With regard, more specifically, to veterinary medicinal products, the main challenge is to contend with the problem of the availability of these medicinal products.
When there is no medicinal product available for a condition or a given animal, the cascade system allows the use of medicinal products designed for other species, for other conditions or even the use of medicinal products for human use.
The Commission is proposing to extend the compulsory prescription to all medicinal products designed for food-producing animals, which poses a problem for some Member States, including Ireland and the United Kingdom.
It is vital to maintain a very clear distinction between information and advertising and to place a strict ban on the latter.
Information systems, however, particularly via the Internet, have been widely developed and it appears quite unfair that only those who have access to the Internet and can speak English are able to gather this data, and not other people.
The Committee on the Environment rejected the Commission proposal by a huge majority, as it was deemed to be overly ambiguous.
All the amendments tabled on this issue seek to improve the way they are written, to make them clearer and easier to understand.
That is why I proposed, in particular, what I shall refer to as the 'euro-generic' product.
Within some of the candidate countries and for historical or economic reasons, reference medicinal products have never been registered.
The updating of generic authorisations in accordance with European legal requirements in the candidate countries therefore requires the possibility of referring to a reference product.
The absence of such a product could pave the way for an obligation to withdraw generic medicinal products from the market, which nonetheless conform to the requirements of quality, security and effectiveness.
It therefore seems important that a reference medicinal product present in another Member State be able to serve as a reference.
I am very grateful to the rapporteur and to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy for having taken our suggestions on board in their reports.
It is so important to keep in the European Union, both for the European Union and, above all, for consumers who want safe, effective and affordable medicines.
Added to that are the complex needs of the sectors in the industry, of which there are at least three: the in-patent sector, the generic sector and the over-the-counter sector.
We have to encourage the in-patent sector to develop new medicines but the generic sector also provides affordable medicines.
I want to draw attention to just three points.
On the question of advertising and consumer information, I urge Parliament to accept the amendment that asks the Commission to look again at this issue.
The Commission is right - information is available to some, but not to all.
The primary objective of all the institutions - Parliament, the Commission and the Member States - should be to introduce, at last, new legislation which is better than the previous legislation and which will provide all patients, including those suffering from serious, terminal illnesses, with as rapid access as possible to new medicinal products which are more powerful and easier to tolerate than existing medicinal products, to alleviate their suffering and extend and improve their quality of life.
The presence on the management board of members representing the institutions and, in addition, of members with conflicting interests - such as industry, patients and insurance companies - would only lead to confusion, wasted time and major disputes.
I would like to raise three issues.
I hope this House will consider supporting it.
We are in a situation where Member States differ, firstly, in their definition of what a veterinary surgeon is and what it means and, secondly, in the dispensing of these drugs.
In many instances in the United Kingdom, Ireland and one or two other countries, qualified people dispense minor medicines - in particular, products such as worming pills and flea powders.
The final point concerns the use of medicines for equine species.
I thank the two rapporteurs for taking on board the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and look forward to a worthwhile result.
Innovation: we depend on scientific research and innovation for new combinations of substances and new drugs to fight and cure disease.
So we need to strike a balance here between patented exclusivity, the price of medicinal products and the period of protection.
However, I think that the arrangements achieved in the regulation and now being proposed do strike a balance between exclusivity on the one hand and a reasonable period of protection on the other.
Safety of medicinal products: this is also a serious requirement and the elements of quality and vigilance are also taken into account in this excellent report.
Authorisation: I am in favour of a centralised procedure with a degree of decentralisation to the Member States.
Finally, subsidiarity: this is a very important factor because it is the Member States that foot the bill and provide medical and medicinal care.
Yesterday President Bush made a move precisely because the Member States are under huge financial pressure in this sector.
Health policy in Europe should not, however, be limited to the text on which we are about to vote, and should have been the subject of a more thorough deliberation.
We must once again look at medicine in a context of public health that serves our citizens, as, although medicinal products exist, they must still be accessible to all men and women, and we regret the fact that we have not had a debate on social protection.
We live in a society of high-speed communication and the Internet enables those, who wish or are able to, to access a great deal of information.
Although the quality of this information is not always satisfactory, the solution proposed by the Commission to resolve this problem is not the right answer.
Giving the pharmaceutical companies the option of communicating information on their products will not make it possible to eradicate erroneous information, but will authorise advertising on prescription-only medicines.
This formula, which is permitted in the United States and in New Zealand, has shown its limits.
The proposals on the transparency of data provided by the Agency are heading in this direction.
Let us wait for the new proposals in the area of pharmacovigilance to prove their worth and let us maintain the option of carrying out a genuine scientific evaluation of a medicinal product, five years after it has been placed on the market, in the case of a new medicine.
This evaluation could also provide an opportunity to weigh up the therapeutic value of the medicinal product.
Lastly, I will say that although patients need effective medicinal products, some, unfortunately, need treatment urgently and hope to have access to new treatments, which, although they have not yet provided all possible safety guarantees, are a last resort for these patients.
We must listen to them and provide a response to their appeal.
They will have an effect on the policy regarding medicinal products, but also on health policies.
It is not for nothing that an increasing number of companies have decided to carry out their practical research and development in the United States.
I am greatly in favour of opening up this fossilised market.
We must therefore strive for more competition within the European market, and one of the ways of achieving this is, for example, by making generic medicines available sooner, something on which a sound compromise has been reached within the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
Furthermore, I would insist on the centralised procedure, which is carried out by the Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products in London, being reinforced so as to guarantee the equal treatment of all pharmaceutical companies and to give patients throughout Europe access to the same medicines.
This centralised method also promotes all the objectives pursued by the Commission, such as a high level of health care, completion of the internal market, more transparency, improvement of competition and preparation for enlargement.
Patients who have no access to these resources are kept in the dark by Europe, and it is for this reason too that I think that the Commission's proposal to come up with a trial project is sound and is in any case a good first step.
I do believe that by only making information on asthma, AIDS and diabetes available, patients suffering from other diseases are discriminated against, and I would call for this list to be extended.
Finally, I should like to remark that the reinforcement of the role of patient organisations in this context is of course important at European level as well, including with a view to enlargement and to this centralised procedure.
Neither must we forget what the honourable Member said in relation to the budget of the Agency and the different agencies.
This is a restrictive budget, and in the end those of us who continue to say that the European Union's general budget is very low if it is to confront enlargement and the spending the new countries will generate will be proved right.
Since I do not have much time, Mr President, I would like to stress certain aspects of the report: firstly, the guarantee that the officials, experts and authors of reports do not have financial or any other type of interest in the pharmaceutical industry.
Secondly, something that has been said here on many occasions, the clear differentiation between publicity and information.
Finally, Mr President, access to generic medications that reduce pharmaceutical spending should be facilitated and furthermore there should be a guarantee that the Member States will provide information explaining to users that a cheaper medication is not necessarily any less effective.
Mr President, for our part, the revision of the pharmaceutical legislation must aim, first and foremost, to ensure the safety, quality and efficacy of medicinal products available on the European market, in order to protect public health.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has taken this into account by voting - by a broad majority - against any direct to consumer advertising for prescription medicines, whilst increasing the transparency of market authorisation procedures.
On the contrary, information obtained by the pharmaceutical industry alone cannot be objective and more or less equates to advertising direct to consumers.
Furthermore, it seems important that stricter rules be adopted when promoting medicinal products for use by professionals, which is what, in fact, happens in my own country.
We must increase the transparency and independence of the Agency by making it accessible to consumer and patient representatives.
The risk/benefit relationship makes it possible to determine whether or not the market authorisation can be issued.
This must be re-assessed, however, in order to take into account the effects related to its use as well as any new scientific data available.
The administrative burden involved in the five-yearly renewal of the market authorisation in no way justifies the immediate withdrawal of any periodic re-evaluation of new medicinal products, in particular.
That is why we are proposing that at least a re-evaluation takes place once the product has been on the market for five years.
Far from running counter to the new provisions on pharmacovigilance, this measure clearly strengthens the safety of medicinal products.
Similarly, we are refusing to reduce the time spent on the scientific evaluation of medicinal products, under the centralised procedure as well as the decentralised procedure, and even in the case of the accelerated procedure or the reduction protocol that we support.
This measure can only motivate European research and innovation.
Finally, we are opposed to the amendments which seek to limit the centralised procedure and to encourage the procedure of mutual recognition, or even to delay generic products coming onto the market.
We welcome the adoption in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy of the amendments on the impact of medicinal products on the environment.
My fellow Members have supported us on this issue and we are rather pleased by this.
To sum up, Mr President, although pharmaceutical companies have, by and large, been backed up in the Commission's initial proposals, we have a duty - and this must be the mission of the European Parliament - to protect the interests of citizens, patients and consumers.
In other words, Parliament's power of co-decision in this area is important as a tangible example of the way European Parliament decisions can affect people's lives.
I would say to the Commission that if we are to guarantee the democratic legitimacy of decision-making, we must reassure our citizens that their specific concerns have been taken into consideration.
If we proceed with 'one size fits all' legislation which ignores the particularities of individual countries or regions, we risk alienating our citizens.
A smoothly running European medicines market fits in well with this ambition.
Compulsory centralised registration would hamper the necessary flexibility which regional products enjoy, it would lead to a brain drain from the national registration authorities and it could present too great a financial obstacle for SMEs, preventing them from introducing certain products onto the market.
Finally, we are against allowing medicines to be advertised, because this could lead to an unnecessary increase in the use of medicines.
The many amendments tabled in committee and now once again in the plenary are just one indication of how difficult this undertaking is.
That is why I would like to draw your attention to homeopathic medicines, not just for humans but also for animals, and I urge you to support these amendments too.
The European Parliament is a co-legislator here and we need to make sure that we do our work carefully.
At first reading, we still have a lot of opportunities, but we should also leave the way open for the second reading.
That is why I am asking for your support, but I am also calling on the Legal Service and on our rapporteurs to check whether the final outcome is coherent.
When we now look at the enlargement of the Union, all kinds of problems will arise if we allow ourselves now to move towards a centralised system which allows only by prescription use of such medicines as are currently administered by qualified persons in countries like the UK.
I therefore commend Amendment No 43 to the House.
My second and last point is that on the mandatory centralised procedures proposed by the Commission, the committee decided to move to a more flexible system for human medicines, but did not follow that same route in terms of animal medicines.
We should rectify that and we can do so through Amendment No 171.
This time, I believe, however, that it would be important for the Commission to follow up trends in medicine prices, taking into account differences in different countries.
I see this as important.
Finally, I, like Mr Rod, stress that I am glad that the effect of medicines on the environment will also be taken into account.
Mr President, the - apparently essential - aim of the proposals for a regulation and directive put forward by the Commission is to strengthen the short-term competitiveness of pharmaceutical companies.
It is proposed, in particular, to extend the length of time that clinical data is to be protected, to increase the flexibility of and accelerate the market authorisation procedure and, above all, to lift the ban on pharmaceutical companies advertising prescription-only medicines to the general public.
Based on an exclusively market-driven approach, these proposals consider medicinal products as an everyday, consumer article, almost a product like any other.
This approach is combined with that which is increasingly common in international trade negotiations, which seek to subject health and education to the laws of the market within the framework of the liberalisation of services.
The 'Europe and Medicines' group has been working to provide information and clarification to European bodies and governments.
Due to this, the majority of members of the Committee on the Environment approved the reports which are not in line with the Commission's approach and I welcome, in particular, the fact that the reports are opposed to the advertising of medicinal products.
My group, in conjunction with the 'Europe and Medicines' group, will pursue its efforts to have a responsible policy applied throughout the European Union, one which improves public health, therapeutic progress and consumer protection.
In order to do this, three principles should be strengthened in the European medicines regulation system: harmonisation between countries in order to guarantee evaluation and monitoring of a high quality, the independence of institutions responsible for medicinal products, and the transparency of the system for all.
Mr President, the centralised procedure is our preferred choice.
The fact that we have 500 amendments is to do with the different lobbies and, above all, with the conflict between new and generic medicines.
However, it should be possible for manufacturers of generic medicines to sell their products in countries outside of Europe.
My group is delighted that the Commission's proposal to authorise advertising for prescription medicines for AIDS, asthma and diabetes has suffered a crushing defeat in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
Despite this, the Liberal Group has re-tabled this absurd proposal.
The pharmaceutical industry's profits, on the other hand, have soared.
Via the Internet and telephone helplines, it should be possible for patients to obtain information about medicines in their own language.
This is why my group is very pleased that consideration will now also be given to the environment in the assessment of new medicines.
Mr President, this is an area in which we have had considerable experience over the years, especially in respect of organophosphate pesticides, which are used as sheep dips and for a variety of other purposes.
This requires effective administrative and medical systems, including diagnostic systems, in each Member State.
Again, our experience is that these systems are far from adequate.
We therefore believe that it would be better to focus on this area, rather than extend an already over-complex code.
Mr President, the problem of the great discrepancies in medicines policy in our Member States cannot be solved today.
We are, however, taking a step in the right direction as far as greater harmonisation in registration is concerned and also with regard to the conditions for placing medicines, particularly generic medicines, on the market.
One of today's important areas of discussion is the relationship between the original medicine and the generic product that is introduced onto the market once the patent and data protection have lapsed.
I would ask my fellow MEPs for their support, but I do endorse the compromise.
It is too ridiculous for words that medicines from the Netherlands, where the price paid by consumers for generic medicines is so high, are exported to other Member States in parallel.
Finally, I am not in favour of advertising.
Whether this information originates from national agencies or the industry itself is irrelevant, as long as it is self-regulating.
In my view, articulate consumers should not have to resort to websites in America but should also be able to access this information in Europe.
There is little real innovation in Europe and, what is worse, the development of medicines to fight the worldwide health crisis, is seriously lagging behind.
We should first of all adopt a sound price policy.
For new medicines, the Commission should lay down a guideline on the basis of the development costs involved.
Many countries would like to cut down on public health spending by raising the patients' own contributions for medicines.
Secondly, legislation should not hamper, but rather promote, innovation.
We must stimulate innovation by emphasising the therapeutic value-added and, above all, by displaying public leadership and by raising questions in the area of research ourselves.
Thirdly, we must put provisions in place which enable the production of generic versions of essential medicines that are still patented but that are unaffordable in developing countries.
All that remains for us to do is to make a small, yet important, step.
Finally, we must single-mindedly uphold the ban on advertising medicines.
The pharmaceutical industry is already spending huge amounts of money on marketing.
There are other ways of ensuring that good information is available to patients.
All her efforts to make medicines more suitable for children and women receive my wholehearted support, as does her plea for a European approach, for which I should also like to express thanks.
Firstly, as far as the European Agency for the evaluation of medicinal products in London is concerned, I feel it is important to stress the essential role this body has played for seven years, a role which, in view of the forthcoming enlargement and of improving the way the internal market works, deserves to be extended to all medicinal products using a new active substance.
That is why the Liberal Group is categorically opposed to Amendment Nos 136 of the report by Mrs Müller.
The case of Germany and the United Kingdom, with ten full years of data protection and generic products which in fact have a 20% market share, illustrate this point remarkably well.
Firstly, because the European Commission had the courage to tackle head on a considerable and practical problem which, whether you like it or not, must be resolved.
Next, because accurate information, it must indeed be pointed out, is not necessarily advertising, and because the equation between the two that some skilfully maintain is simplistic and misleading.
To sum up, Mr President - and this is the most important point, the rapporteurs have emphasised this sufficiently - it is vital to maintain a fair balance between the essential priorities of public health and those priorities which aim to encourage the competitiveness of the pharmaceutical industry, and therefore research in Europe, and the completion of our single market. (Applause from the right) Mr President, this report is written from the point of view of defending the interests of the pharmaceutical industry.
When one claims to protect public health, one must put the interests of the community first and one must take into account the health of all human beings, whether or not they can afford to pay.
This is the reason why it wants to work quickly, in order to release medicinal products which yield a high return.
Spending insufficient time, however, on research and trials in order to rake in profits more quickly will certainly have a detrimental effect on the safety and health of patients, not to mention those working in these industries.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know from our own experience that there is really no such thing as an internal market in pharmaceutical products in the European Union.
I hope, however, that the transparency that we have flagged up here and that we are calling for will in future make it easier for consumers to understand why there are such great price differences between individual Member States.
I hope that by achieving transparency the links between public research and industrial research will also become clearer, and that databases will also make it easier to see who has been involved in given clinical tests and to what extent public research receives external funding.
These brief comments are not unnecessary.
I genuinely hope that spirit will remain in this directive up until we have finally achieved a result.
It is a question of using medicinal products rationally and exploiting the price potential of medicines in official drug substitution systems after medicinal product patents expire.
These objectives on the other hand include ensuring the supply of medicines that are new and regarded as important in terms of their therapeutic value to the patients that need them.
These medicinal products are patent protected and in general expensive.
Experience in my country, Finland, and in many others has shown that practice with regard to prescribing medicines does not move sufficiently in the direction of cheaper alternative medicinal products or alternative imported products unless there is guidance in the shape of government action, in other words, legislation.
Restrictions on supplies, as practised by some manufacturers of pharmaceuticals, cause problems for wholesalers of medicinal products and, ultimately, the patient.
I do not know if it is a divine right, as has been said, but it is, in any case, an unassailable right.
That said, the rapporteurs have - virtually - achieved the impossible.
In other words, first of all, they have reconciled the interests of the patient in terms of independent information, safety and rapid access to generic products, even though, in my view, we could certainly have gone much further.
That said, the compromises in this area are still acceptable.
Last, but by no means least, they have managed to preserve the interests of the pharmaceutical firms whose concerns over data exclusivity and financial resources invested in research have been taken on board.
I am particularly pleased by the rejection of all advertising of prescription-only medicines, which acknowledges their unique character and prevents a dramatic rise in their use.
There are still two contentious points, but these merit our attention as they are more scientific in nature.
Too many previous examples, however, such as thalidomide, show us that the side effects of a medicinal product can last for much longer than five years and, in addition, developments in medicine happen so quickly that treatment for the same condition can swiftly change.
I believe that these proposals provide a good basis for ensuring that the internal market in medical products operates properly for medicines for both human and veterinary use.
As far as I am concerned the hallmark of an internal market is not price stability, but comparable prices, which is something altogether different and really has nothing to do with the internal market.
The new plan to impose use of the centralised procedure for products with new active substances will undermine competition between the authorisation procedures.
I know a great many SMEs that carry out research and in particular companies that are doing research and development in the field of 'orphan drugs' or veterinary medicines.
As many colleagues have said, pharmaceutical products are like no other.
We must guarantee that these products are all safe and effective.
I am delighted that the Committee on the Environment has rejected direct consumer advertising.
This is where the amendments adopted in committee requesting a report and the question of how information to patients is used and enhanced are so important.
Mr President, the effective new medicines have brought about a major revolution in healthcare.
One example is the modern medicines to combat heart failure, which have not only increased survival rates but have also radically increased the quality of life for sufferers.
Today, everyone with access to the Internet and with sufficient linguistic ability can find out about treatment principles and information on medicines.
By means of the research incentives envisaged we will not only be making industry more competitive and thus safeguarding around 500 000 jobs in Europe, we will also be promoting the development of new medicinal products.
The proposal for a regulation and the two directives before us do, however, at the same time demand that the pharmaceutical industry, in view of the almost ideal framework conditions - data exclusivity standards are nowhere else as high as in Europe - should demonstrate its capacity for innovation.
The Commission's proposal to allow a data protection period of ten years must, in my opinion, remain a solid, immovable pillar.
This position is well-balanced and will provide European industry with new incentives and impetus to continue to invest new resources in the development of more effective, safer medicinal products and make them competitive at international level at last.
I feel it is important to have a sufficiently long period of data protection for well-known medicinal products too, wherever there are new therapeutic indications.
I am amazed, reading Amendments Nos 153 and 154, for example, to see that the directive still mentions 'traditional herbal medicinal products'.
However, Mr President, I am in favour of removing the requirement to re-license products every five years.
Tomorrow we will be voting on the most important revision package to date as regards legislation on medicinal products in the European Union.
The key objectives here are as follows: first, achieving a high level of health protection and giving patients rapid access to innovative products; second, the quality, safety and effectiveness of medicinal products in Europe; and, third, further dismantling existing barriers to trade within the internal market.
Provisions relating to medicinal products should only apply to products that have a therapeutic benefit and are used therapeutically.
For this reason a clear definition of medicinal products and food is urgently needed, as provided for in Amendments Nos 11 and 18.
Generic drugs, which must of course meet all requirements as regards quality, safety and effectiveness, should also be established in the European market and it should be possible to market them as soon as the period of protection for the original drug has expired.
Mr President, these reports deal with very important issues, and I compliment both rapporteurs.
It is very important that all citizens have equal access to state-of-the-art drugs, regardless of where they live in Europe.
It is very important that they should have access to the same veterinary medicines as UK cattle, but at the moment they do not.
This also applies to the Commission proposal on POM, prescription only medicines.
I would ask the Commissioner to take on board the compromise suggested by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which gets the balance right in this area, because the Commission proposal has caused major problems in many countries, particularly the UK and Ireland.
This resulted in hundreds of veterinary medicine products being removed from the market and huge welfare problems in Europe for minor animal species - including horses - for many years.
As well as listening to the able people in the DG, please listen to the veterinary experts in the field and in research.
No consumer wants to inflict unnecessary pain and suffering on animals for the sake of the food chain, or make criminals of our vets.
I therefore urge you to support Amendment No 151, which I have tabled jointly with several of my colleagues.
The second important point has already been mentioned many times, but we cannot consider it often enough.
We need information for all indications and all diseases, and advertising for prescription medicines should be totally ruled out.
I know that the Commission officials here today and the Commissioner himself regard this as a very important subject, but we have already been waiting too long for a definite legislative proposal.
Mr President, Commissioner, allow me, after having listened to my fellow Members this morning, to draw their attention to a point that I believe to be crucial, which is that of new active substances.
I hope, along with the Commission, that marketing authorisations for new active substances are issued by means of the centralised procedure, and I would like to reiterate to my fellow Members, particularly to those from Germany, the example of orphan medicinal products.
You will, without doubt, remember that at the beginning of our mandate, we voted in favour of a regulation on orphan medicinal products, which allow us to treat rare conditions.
The policy on orphan medicinal products, which is a genuine success at European level, stipulates that all market authorisation applications for these medicinal products shall be issued through the centralised procedure.
Given that research in the area of orphan medicinal products is carried out by small and medium-sized companies, it follows that all SMEs can use the marketing authorisation application, under the centralised procedure, managed by the European Agency in London.
Your argument in favour of the decentralised procedure in the area of new active substances is therefore unfounded, and has no bearing on our discussion today.
We simply must encourage improvements in the area of health and promote equality amongst citizens in healthcare.
A number of interesting issues have been raised.
I want to tackle those raised by Members who are still here in the Chamber.
I will comment on six groups of amendments.
The whole idea behind this procedure is to guarantee that goods are delivered quickly, equitably and in the interest of all patients in Europe.
For that reason, the Commission cannot accept amendments which reduce the scope of the centralised procedure.
The second question is the balance between innovation and competition from generics.
In America, the drugs market is totally deregulated and there is direct consumer advertising.
We are proposing something that the Commission refused to propose for years - namely the Bola system for generics which, of course, means more competition in the sector after the expiry of a patent and, at the same time, lower prices and lost revenue for those who originated the medicine.
Secondly, at the same time, to counterbalance it, we want to propose a solution for exclusivity involving a ten-year period and, if there are indications needing to be researched into later, ten plus one.
I do not believe that European industries have been losing market share, that there are less innovative medicines and research in this field, and that this is in the interests of European patients.
I am sure that we must try to accept that there are two or three public goods we can defend at the same time.
Public health takes top priority but we must also support research innovation in Europe.
So both are issues we must try to tackle at the same time.
To keep the balance, we cannot support it.
On the other hand, Amendments Nos 40 and 92 call for additional data protection of three years in two situations.
These amendments must be seen in the whole context of the data-protection scheme.
That is why we cannot support Amendment No 40.
The third issue concerns improving information for patients.
A pilot project does not mean direct advertising.
It is only information validated by the competent authorities which can be given at the request of the patient or patients' organisations.
That is why we cannot support Amendment No 101 and others aiming at the same objective.
The Commission agrees that the issue of relative effectiveness is of great importance because it can help the kind of innovation that brings important benefits to patients.
The Commission can support the idea that relative effectiveness should be considered at EU level, and can accept in principle some related amendments, like Amendments Nos 4 and 100.
The Commission cannot, however, accept amendments that establish relative effectiveness as a fourth hurdle for marketing authorisation.
The fifth group of amendments concerns legal status.
The Commission proposes that the conditions of supply - over-the-counter or prescription-only - should be determined under the mutual recognition procedure.
The Commission continues to believe that it is appropriate to include legal status in the mutual recognition procedure.
Finally, on the European Medicines Evaluation Agency, our proposal follows the lines which were provided for the European Food Safety Authority at the time of our proposal.
Amendment No 16 aligns the EMEA Management Board with the model finally adopted for the Food Safety Authority, and the Commission can support this amendment.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
This development must be supported without jeopardising the operation of the national health systems and whilst respecting the need for maximum safety.
With regard to medicinal products for human use, Amendment No 71, which I tabled, fully supports this approach.
If the traceability of the marketing procedure were better assured, the safety of European patients would become more reliable.
A credible application of the centralised procedure for marketing medicinal products cannot work without this sort of approach.
I am opposed, however, to the full withdrawal of the decentralised procedure to the exclusive benefit of the centralised marketing procedure.
The choice between these two systems must be maintained so that the European Agency does not remove the prerogatives of our national agencies.
The fact that the Commission has been able to bring forward such a proposal reflects the incredible success of the steps taken over recent years to control rabies.
As the Member States started to adopt their own rules for the increased movement of pet animals, it became clear that a European system was needed to make it easier for pet owners and avoid confusion.
I am pleased that Parliament's amendments, adopted in the common position, called for detailed information for consumers so that they can make the necessary preparations before travelling.
I would like to draw attention to some of the key issues.
Members will recall that this was one of the main issues at first reading.
The Commission proposed a double legal base, whereas Parliament's view was that, since the main aim of this regulation was to protect public health, a single legal base should apply.
However, following the receipt of the common position, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, has accepted the double legal base.
Under the Council proposal, the maximum number of five animals that can be moved under this regulation is fine.
As ISO chips are not available in all countries, the Committee on the Environment has agreed to remove the requirement for ISO standard equipment, but still wants the owner's details to be included.
The fourth point relates to young animals.
The Committee has re-tabled the amendments preventing the movement of animals under three months old without the requirements of this scheme.
This would not be applicable to the United Kingdom, Ireland or Sweden, but it would apply to the other Member States.
I do not believe that it is possible for the authorities to carry out proper checks on young animals, for instance ensuring that they have remained at the place of birth or have not had any contact with wild animals.
The fifth point concerns the involvement of Parliament.
Several of our amendments relate to Parliament's involvement in decisions such as the extension of the transitional measures for the three sensitive Member States and to comitology -retaining Parliament's right to be consulted.
The committee has retained the requirement to take into account the OIE Code when deciding on the health status of third countries in the scheme.
I am aware that the Council felt that the OIE Code would exclude large parts of the EU from free movement of animals, especially after enlargement.
I also know that countries such as the United Kingdom are moving away from rabies-free status because it would exclude, for example, Canada and the USA, but the committee has decided to adopt a cautious approach.
I believe that each of these issues can be resolved without too much difficulty and I ask Parliament to support the position of the Committee on the Environment.
I must say that I am disappointed that, despite my best efforts, an agreement could not be reached with the Council before the second reading and I am very grateful to the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups, the representatives of the presidency and the Commission for their cooperation in our discussions over the past three weeks.
I am satisfied that the report reflects a general agreement on the safety of the technical provisions relating to the management of the rabies risk, even if a few points of disagreement remain and may need some further clarification.
The main differences between the original proposal submitted to Parliament at first reading and the common position we have before us today fall into three categories.
First, we have the provision facilitating movements of young animals between Member States of equivalent status.
Second, the provisions for reassessment within a period of five years of the specific conditions for movements to Ireland, the United Kingdom and Sweden.
Third, provisions amending the conditions applying to trade to align them with the conditions applying to non-commercial movements - to accommodate the wish expressed by Parliament at first reading.
Amendments Nos 1 and 6 may be the result of a misunderstanding.
The setting of a maximum number of animals aims only to distinguish commercial movements from other non-commercial movements.
It is not intended to be a dividing line between two different types of rules - the same rules would apply to commercial and non-commercial movements.
So it would be incorrect to say that setting a maximum of, say, five would be any threat to public health.
In effect, it means that once you go above five, the commercial rules apply but below five the rules set out in this draft legislation apply.
Amendments Nos 3 and 4 would result in a prohibition of movements of young animals under the age of vaccination between Member States other than the United Kingdom, Ireland and Sweden, for which specific provisions exist.
The conclusion of the discussion with the Council was that those movements of young animals have always been allowed, that they represent a negligible risk and that this flexibility must be maintained.
Otherwise, the movement of these animals would be seriously undermined.
Therefore, Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4 and 6 cannot be accepted.
Amendments Nos 7, 8 and 9 suggest the adoption of import conditions equivalent to those that apply to movements inside the Community for third countries free of rabies as defined in the OIE Code.
Finally, on the technical amendments, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 2 and 13.
Almost all Member States consider microchipping to be a reliable method of identification, and I look favourably on automatic harmonisation after a transitional period of eight years.
In a spirit of compromise, the Commission could consider favourably Amendment No 5, which aims to introduce a codecision procedure for the extension of specific provisions applicable to the UK, Ireland and Sweden.
The Commission could also have accepted Amendment No 16 as an alternative to Amendment No 12, and I regret therefore that Amendment No 16 has been withdrawn.
Amendment No 12 unreasonably deprives the Commission of any possibility to propose temporary measures, whereas Amendment No 16 would have allowed this in a reasonable way.
I cannot therefore accept Amendment No 12.
Amendments Nos 10 and 11 would limit the executive competence of the Commission to 'technical' aspects.
This wording would very likely give rise to legal arguments on the interpretation of the word 'technical', which is not defined in the legislation.
Amendments Nos 14 and 15 cannot be accepted because they go beyond the institutional agreement.
Some of those differences will be reflected in this debate, and I still have some minor differences with the rapporteur, which she has already acknowledged.
For those countries which have prevented the entry of animals that may be at risk of rabies without a long period of quarantine, this is, in a way, an act of faith.
I agree, however, with the Commission and not the rapporteur on Amendments Nos 7, 8, and 9.
It is counterproductive to introduce amendments which will effectively constrain the movement of animals between some existing Member States, as well as extending the scheme - as the United Kingdom and other countries with the current constraints would like - to countries that are not rabies-free.
In conclusion, although this is a small measure to many and will not mean much to those countries where animals routinely cross internal EU borders, for those who cherish pets as lifelong companions it is a measure that will be greatly welcomed.
Mr President, this regulation raises a problem insofar as it enforces, in the area of identification of pet animals, the use of the electronic microchip - reputed to be tamper-proof - and spells the end of the use of tattoos, since microchips represent an effective, modern method that is more humane for the animal.
He also states that the microchip can move around the animal's body, as shown in x-rays, medical reports and surgical studies; that the microchip can be removed using nothing more than a Stanley knife, as has come to light, when trafficking rings in pet animals have been broken up.
This is, in my view, the objective we are seeking.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
That is why, before talking about the report that is to be voted on by the plenary, I shall begin by briefly summarising the situation.
These three reports are a direct response to the adoption of the new Financial Regulation due to enter into force on 1 January 2003, which requires the simultaneous adoption of the framework financial regulations on decentralised agencies.
The new Financial Regulation establishes an in-depth reform of the budgetary and financial rules relating to the European institutions.
The same amendments are therefore proposed for each agency, in all three reports.
These amendments simply introduce the principle of transparency, which has traditionally been upheld by Parliament, prior notification of the budgetary authority and the obligation to draw up a budget distinguishing between operating appropriations and administrative appropriations.
We are now going to vote on the four reports concerning codecision.
We have also introduced an amendment seeking to link the adoption of the regulation to a prior decision by the Council on the matter.
Mr President, we can vote on this next report.
This is the last time I shall take the floor, Mr President.
I merely wanted to draw the attention of the House to this point, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets.
I propose that we proceed as we have done on other occasions with regard to the Financial Regulation, in other words that we vote on the text of the amendments but postpone the vote on the legislative proposal.
We consider it preferable to propose this procedure, which we have already followed many times, which consists of voting on the amendments and postponing the vote on the proposal.
I have been informed that you are going to have a number of important meetings with Members of Parliament here in Strasbourg.
At the same time, certain dairy companies are known to have made a killing by raking in huge profits at the expense of livestock farmers - who are forced to supply their milk at ever lower prices - and increasing the price of products to the consumer.
For all these reasons we have voted for the Fiori Report.
The suspense is excruciating.
It is enough to make you forget the moratorium on GMOs and the threat of war in Iraq!
This fable reflects the Commission's desire to make the Member States live happily ever after in sanitary bliss whether they like it or not, preventing them from protecting their citizens as they see fit.
The SPD Members of this Parliament have voted for this report although we can understand the difficulty that a number of our fellow Members had in supporting it.
When the question is what care and benefits these groups of persons should receive in the EU Member States, this is quite justifiable.
We also make this distinction in German constitutional law as a matter of principle, because Article 16 of the German constitution defines a legally obtainable right to protection against political persecution, but not a legally obtainable right to subsidiary protection.
We German Social Democrats have therefore voted in favour of this report despite all these misgivings, partly because it would not have got through otherwise and this House cannot fail to deliver an opinion when consulted by the Council.
Mr President, as representative of the Pensioners' Party, I voted for this proposal for a directive because, like many of the Members, I feel that our States have a duty to receive refugees and to do so properly.
However, we have voted against Parliament's amended proposal.
Establishing minimum standards is an important first step on the road towards a common asylum policy in the EU.
However, it is important to emphasise that, over and above the minimum standards proposed by the EU, it should be possible for Member States to provide people with protection for other reasons.
There is indeed already supplementary protection, in addition to the Geneva Convention, in some countries, for example territorial asylum in France.
What I would reproach the Commission for is introducing this system at Community level and, what is more, establishing all the necessary conditions for it to be extended.
The report seeks to broaden the range of people to whom the standards would apply and to improve conditions and rights.
My non-participation should not be seen as opposition to the principle of the proposed directive but rather to the inclusion of certain elements in the report which I feel are inappropriate and would lead to a diminution of the underlying beliefs in the protection of those most in need of our support.
The following are some of the different elements with which I disagree.
The definition of the family goes far beyond the accepted norm in most Member States and other countries; this issue should have been addressed more sensitively and the report fails badly in this respect.
For these and other reasons I felt it inappropriate to participate in the vote.
We are convinced that the way forward for the European Union is to move towards a common EU policy on asylum.
This report on minimum standards is one important part of the evolution of this common policy.
We reject the hard right-wing view of those conservatives in the EPP who seek to restrict the right to asylum and protection.
With them come others who are not being persecuted but who are attracted by the level of prosperity in Europe.
If these people have been trained in a specialist field in which there is a shortage of manpower over here, they are even actively recruited, often at the expense of facilities in their countries of origin.
On 24 September, the Evans Report on asylum and security was a step in the right direction, even though my group took the view that these proposals did not go far enough.
These proposals, however, ultimately attracted more no-votes than yes-votes.
The European Parliament's contribution would be very useful and positive, if, whilst maintaining the scope and the limits of the proposals for a directive, it contributed to the legal clarification of concepts that could raise doubts or controversy in the transposition of the future directive and in its implementation.
Unfortunately, however, the rapporteur and the majority of the specialised Parliamentary committee have not given this clarification and have instead taken the matter, in a way that is inexplicable in the context of a minimum common status for all Member States, along a route of successive extensions to the legislative provision, which, in a counterproductive way, can only create more difficulties and new obstacles that are unnecessary for its adoption.
Hence our votes on the specific issues and in the final vote: most of the amendments tabled have not been useful and, on the contrary, frequently go beyond what is necessary and reasonable when it comes to setting minimum standards for all Member States.
We agree that the EU should lay down minimum standards for the recognition of third country nationals and stateless persons as refugees or as persons who otherwise need international protection.
In some aspects, however, it upholds the line taken by the Commission, as well as suggesting the communitarisation of policies.
It should be noted that the Commission proposal falls in line with the approach of taking advantage of the events of 11 September 2001 by restricting certain fundamental rights, which has not led to much protest, specifically rights pertaining to the area of freedom, security and justice.
Hence our vote against the report.
In all cases, incidents of computer hacking interfere with the smooth operation of organisations in both the private and public sector, but when these incidents are assessed, what ultimately counts is the positive or negative impact these disruptive activities have.
In short, I think that Parliament has contributed to improving the proposal for a framework decision intended to provide a response to cybercrime by seeking to approximate the legal provisions of the Member States in order to guarantee that all attacks against information systems become a criminal offence and by promoting police and judicial cooperation.
Mr President, the report concerns the importance and dynamics of the theatre and the performing arts in an enlarged Europe.
We were savouring saffron risotto, mushroom risotto and black risotto with cuttlefish, as is appropriate in a place such as Vercelli where rice is grown.
We were all thoroughly enjoying our meal, but the chef said to us: 'Soon, you will no longer be able to enjoy rice if you Members of the European Parliament do not do something to help agriculture in the reform of the common agricultural policy that is currently being carried out in the European Parliament and the European Community, for the agricultural activities of rice-growing areas such as Vercelli, Novara, Pavia, Milan and other areas of Europe must be safeguarded too.' Our position on culture depends on the type of policy it promotes and the values, principles and aesthetic standards it puts forward.
And it targets Mediterranean countries and the Central and Eastern European countries in particular.
If it is not clear, how can we be expected to aid and abet contradictory procedures, which resolve a few temporary problems (intellectual property rights, movement, education), but which also expose the fact that these problems were caused by the intervention of big business in each country's culture?
We are against giving public money to companies and to the wealthy, including money given in the form of tax benefits for patronage or sponsorship which benefit those who present themselves as patrons while taking more than their due, without essentially changing anything about the situation of the vast majority of artists and workers in the performing arts.
It is therefore despite this measure, advocated by the rapporteur, that we voted for a report which, as a whole, if it were followed up by practical action, would improve the living and working conditions of workers in the performing arts sector.
We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity, that is that a decision should be taken as close to those whom it concerns as possible.
All other issues should be handled at local, regional or national level.
We also support cultural diversity, aid for artistic creativity, artistic freedom and access to culture for all our citizens, but we do not believe that they should be enshrined in any future European constitution.
I would even go so far as to say that this report worries me.
Second, I am convinced that this report constitutes the reward given by federalist Europe to the political and cultural establishment, which does not spare any effort in 'advancing' the pro-European cause.
Lastly, this report actually reflects a perverse and dangerous course of action which consists of using the theatre and the performing arts as a means to promote pro-European ideology.
Rather than just promoting art, some aspects of this report tend more towards mixing culture and propaganda.
The protection of the performing arts is also a prerequisite if we are to ensure the preservation of the values of cultural diversity that characterises the European spirit, and so I agree with the importance that the rapporteur attaches to taking a close look at the performing arts in countries preparing to join the EU - a decisive element in the construction of a Europe based on the sharing of values and whose greatest asset is its diversity.
I would also like to thank the Commission and the Council, who through a long line of trialogues, conciliation, working groups and other contacts have helped to ensure that we now have a good draft budget for 2003 to vote on.
I would also like to emphasise that on the vast majority of points we in the Committee on Budgets have reached broad agreement, which is naturally also an enormous strength for Parliament.
I have to say that after having worked on this budget for approximately ten months, I am of the firm opinion that the EU's budgetary system is in great need of major reform.
We have been able to tackle a number of points ourselves by improving the internal work of Parliament itself.
Now, dialogue between, on the one hand, the Committee on Budgets and, on the other hand, the committees and their rapporteurs for the budget takes place as a practically permanent process, beginning with the guidelines in the spring, including the new work carried out this year with special working groups to monitor this year's budget and extending to the amendments ahead of the first reading.
I therefore believe that we have reduced the traditional conflict where the various committees do not think that the Committee on Budgets is paying sufficient attention to their political priorities and where the Committee on Budgets in turn has often considered that the committees are fighting for unrealistic budgetary demands.
This year through close cooperation with the committees and the political groups we have been able to submit a unanimous proposal from the Committee on Budgets.
As you know, we have also reformed the budget debate and have already held the major budget debate at the September sitting.
During this year's budget process we have already received proposals from the Commission on use of the flexibility instrument in three cases.
The Committee on Budgets has also chosen which side it is on.
I will return to this when giving more detailed reasons.
I would now like to mention a more general problem before going into the various budget headings, namely the implementation of the EU's budget.
We cannot go back to the citizens, the taxpayers, year after year and tell them that every year we take EUR 15 billion from them unnecessarily, which we then pay back to their grateful ministers of finance.
I believe that major work is needed on this issue if the Union is to gain credibility for its policies and its budget and if we are to be able to live up to all the promises we make through the budget.
We must quite simply simplify the administration of the structural funds, which we can start doing right now in the current period.
Without these efforts it will be hopeless to argue for more Commission posts, even if we are convinced that they really are necessary in the long term.
As a demonstration we have even decided to exceed the budget ceiling by EUR 20 million for sub-heading 1b, rural development, to indicate our position in this respect.
Heading 2: the Structural Funds.
The EU must create sustainable fishing which can survive in the long term.
Firstly we maintain that last year's promise of a further EUR 27 million to convert the Spanish and Portuguese fishing fleets will be met.
On the contrary, we think that the union needs better support among its citizens.
Despite this, however, we are moving the money and our priority is clear, what matters is enlargement and the future of the EU.
We have followed the Council's draft budget in the vast majority of cases.
This is because the Member States are on the boards of these agencies and should therefore reasonably take the consequences of these agencies' needs into account in the Council's own budget proposal.
Therefore I believe that this is a matter we will need to discuss somewhat in the future.
When it comes to pilot projects and preparatory measures, I think we have achieved a very good dialogue with the Commission on their implementation.
The Council and the Commission propose major new initiatives.
This has concerned the Balkans and Serbia.
This year it is Afghanistan and the Global Health Fund, support to the fight against AIDS and other poverty-related illnesses in the developing world.
Costs have increased every year without any new resources being allocated.
This year we have chosen to exceed the ceiling but to do it openly by means of an asterisk amendment, where we demand EUR 72 million more for heading 4 with direct reference to Afghanistan and the Global Health Fund.
We have built this proposal as far as possible on a combination of priorities from our two committees here, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and the Committee on Development and Cooperation.
I believe this is what will be the main point in negotiations with the Council between the first and the second reading.
For this reason we have chosen to set the CFSP grant at the minimum level, 30 million, plus 10 million but we have allocated this through the Cards programme in order to be able to establish the European police task force in Bosnia.
To conclude, I would like to say that this is the last budget for an EU with 15 Member States.
Therefore, of course, starting to prepare for enlargement has clearly been the utmost priority even in this budget.
We have resolved them in broad agreement.
All the political groups have played their part, as have members from all the national delegations.
I would like to thank all my fellow members of the Committee on Budgets, the highly competent budget secretariat, the Presidium, above all today's President and, finally, the Commission, the Council and, especially, a very pragmatic and proactive Danish Presidency.
We started the year with a large predicted deficit in the 2003 budget.
This was said to be in the region of EUR 140 million.
Within this framework, the priorities which Parliament had supported even in the guidelines were entirely feasible, these being primarily two things.
In view of the decisions subsequently taken, we know that if the Member States comply with their undertakings on ten new Member States at the Council meeting in Copenhagen in December and if the agreements are signed in March, we will be able to have 147 observers from all these countries here at the European Parliament as early as April next year.
These will be required with or without enlargement, especially when it comes to Parliament.
In a very short time, this has become a parliament with considerable legislative power.
Once all this was done, there remained two important issues to resolve within the framework of the 2003 budget.
It was also a question of finding a solution for the Commission's unresolved problems regarding financing the preparations for enlargement.
As early as at the conciliation stage, both the Council and Parliament specifically promised to help attempt to solve the Commission's problems ahead of enlargement.
This promise has subsequently been repeated on numerous occasions both by me and other representatives of both the Council and Parliament.
It is in this context that the concept of frontloading enters the picture as the instrument we came to use.
At a meeting attended by the secretaries-general of all the institutions, we thus produced a total sum of approximately EUR 77 million remaining unused by all the institutions in total.
The maximum amount the Commission can spend on preparing for enlargement amounts to approximately EUR 72 million.
I would like to say a few words on Parliament's own share of this frontloading.
According to the proposal which both the Committee on Budgets and Parliament's own Presidium supported last night, this amounted to EUR 43 million for the current year.
Of the EUR 43 million which will thus instead be transferred to the Commission, we shall, still in line with the proposal we have to reach an opinion on today, receive EUR 35 million back in 2003.
In this context, let me mention that the original proposal was for EUR 40 million.
This means that Parliament's share of this frontloading, seen over two budget years, will be EUR 8 million, a figure which I consider to be well balanced.
This shows that this frontloading, as I see it, is developing into a considerable success and could also be used in other contexts in the future.
A promise is a promise and, as we know, it must be kept.
It is now up to the Council to agree on a common negotiating position for financing issues at the summit this week in Brussels, that is to say how much in the way of resources can be included in the European Union Budget for the new Member States as from 2004.
This once again clearly signals that the 2003 Budget will very probably be the last budget for a Union of 15 Member States.
So it is all the more incomprehensible that, in its own preparations for the Brussels Summit, the Council repeatedly highlights its expectations of the Commission for 2003 in terms of preparation for enlargement, for example in relation to the Structural Funds.
Once again, I would like to express my very sincere thanks, on behalf of the Commission, to the rapporteurs and to the Committee on Budgets.
This idea will now be implemented by means of an interinstitutional rectifying budget, and the very fact that there is an interinstitutional rectifying budget is an achievement in itself.
As you know, the Commission has pursued the same line as the European Parliament, that is a restructuring of market-related expenditure and market organisation so as to strengthen support for rural areas.
As far as this is concerned, I have to say that we have of course to jointly check whether the increased budget appropriations proposed here by Parliament are necessary for the Structural Funds next year.
The Commission is largely able to support the amendments proposed by the Committee on Budgets as regards appropriations for internal policies, for example in the case of measures in favour of immigration and asylum policy, measures in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the proposal in the area of information policy.
A new feature of the 2003 budget is the addition of appropriations for joint police missions to Bosnia.
The Commission has already for this reason added a further EUR 10 million to the Common Foreign and Security Policy budget.
If Parliament's proposal is adopted, the 2003 Budget will represent 1.05% of the combined economic output of all the Member States, that is to say the same level as this year.
However, if the proposal on the table for the financing of enlargement in 2004, 2005 and 2006 is adopted, this ratio between the EU budget and European economic output, even with another ten members, will not again reach the level it stood at in the mid-1990s.
It might become contagious in this House and we might adopt a resolution and then consider voting again because we have reached the wrong conclusions.
Our group has strategies for both these budgets, and they have by and large been implemented as we reach the current stage of the budget procedure.
On Parliament's budget, we would like to emphasise the need for extended provision for freelance translation - because this is going to be an important factor in the years ahead.
We would like full transparency in the Council in future and for all its legislative discussions to be open to the public.
On the Commission budget, there are four relevant points.
Firstly, on payments and backlog, we would like to see a real effort being made to reduce the EUR 110 billion in commitments.
We expect a report from the Commission on this subject by 30 April 2003.
Therefore, we are supporting the appeal by our rapporteur for more information concerning the interinstitutional agreement between the Council, Parliament and the Commission on the expenditure of money on foreign and security policy.
We would also like to know what kinds of expenditure the Council is expecting over the next five years, because we also agree with the rapporteur that it is unhealthy to think that the Council is going to be involved in large expenditure of funds which would not be subject to normal accountability and use.
There seems to be some lethargy on the part of the Commission when it comes to thinking through what kind of priorities we should have for foreign and security policy in the future.
Lastly, my group would like me to say that we want to see this reform process completed and we need to look at how this whole process is being conducted.
We are convinced that progress has been made but we are not yet convinced that this whole programme of reform is going to be implemented.
But, before we approve the new posts, we would very much like to see the reform elements in place and to know you are convinced that this whole reform process will be completed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I too would of course like to thank our two rapporteurs.
I am sure that this Budget procedure also has structural side effects that need to be very carefully examined.
From this perspective, I would also like to make the following comment: we have heard several times that this is the last Budget for just 15 Member States before enlargement.
The hallmark of the Budget as we draw it up at present is that heated debates rage during the budget-setting process around every million, sometimes even every thousand euros, yet during the year we often have to shift funds around and restructure the Budget.
Not only this year, but also in previous years, both during the budget procedure and right at the end of the year we have had to resort to frontloading in order to finance things that strictly speaking fall in the following year.
We also demonstrate by means of this pragmatic approach that we are prepared to finance essential aspects of European policy, and that although we set a Budget at the beginning of the year, there is so much flexibility and room for manoeuvre that at the end of the year the Budget is no longer as reliable as might have been wished and assumed at the outset, when we were discussing certain issues so forcefully.
As the Commissioner has said, the 2003 Budget is a thrifty one.
We will be spending just 1.05% of GNP to tackle all the tasks facing the European Union.
In the context of the Budget, we try to husband our resources carefully.
I would, however, like to say this, Commissioner: it is not enough for Commissioner Barnier to examine how Structural Fund bureaucracy can be dismantled.
There is a lot we could say about financing, Mrs Schreyer, but there is no denying that we have a responsibility here that we need to shoulder.
Category 4 has caused us major headaches this year, just as in previous years.
But there is one thing we need to be clear about: Europe's citizens can rest assured that we will protect their interests in this continent.
Mr President, firstly I should like to thank the rapporteurs for the budget, Göran Färm and Per Stenmarck, for their thorough and constructive work.
I should likewise like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Terence Wynn.
I also want to thank Denmark, as the country holding the presidency, for its excellent levels of cooperation, as well as Commissioner Michaele Schreyer.
The draft budget meets most of the demands of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
It is thrifty and rigorous, and the payment appropriations account for just 1.04% of GNP, while 1.08% has been provided in the financial perspective for expenditure.
There is therefore a margin of more than EUR 3 billion in the budget.
The draft budget now before us is also available in the form of an activity-based budget.
This has to do with the Commission's administrative reform.
The Financial Regulation has been undergoing reforms that will come into effect from the start of next year.
The undoubted focus of the budget is enlargement.
This budget will probably be the last to be drafted for a Union of 15 Member States.
The Committee on Budgets is proposing an extra EUR 699 million in pre-accession aid for the candidate countries to make it easier for them to face the challenges of membership.
The problem regarding administrative appropriations is insufficient margin for manoeuvre under heading 5.
For that reason, the different institutions have started gathering funds out of this year's budget to be able to pay the costs of accession in advance.
For example, Parliament intends to lend the Commission EUR 43 million and the Council EUR 18 million.
Outstanding commitments now amount to around EUR 107 billion, or more than the EU's total budget for one year.
The reason for this is the under-utilisation of payment appropriations.
This particularly concerns the Structural Funds and external actions.
Last year EUR 18 billion in payment appropriations remained unspent and the figure for the previous year was EUR 11 billion.
Under-utilisation on this scale seriously undermines the entire administrative process with regard to the EU budget.
In the spring outstanding commitments under the Structural Funds reached EUR 80 billion.
Despite this, though, the Council reduced the amount in payment appropriations that was proposed by the Commission.
That is why the Committee on Budgets increased payments by more than a billion euros.
Our group is calling for a dramatic simplification in the administration of the Structural Funds.
With these comments we are prepared to give the draft budget our support.
Some of the representatives from France, Germany and Portugal in our group might agree, as might some Italians also.
Mr Prodi said of the Growth and Stability Pact that the reality that lies behind it is multi-layered and that the institutions should take this into consideration and act flexibly.
The same has to be said about the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline.
Heading 4, the section that deals with external actions, is especially stupid in terms of its inflexibility.
We all know, everyone in this House knows, that the budget is in that respect 'quasi-rigid'.
A few million has been discussed, and at the same time there might possibly be a billion in appropriations in heading 4 still not forwarded for payment.
The Swedish rapporteurs have done an excellent job.
Not being given the floor until after the GUE/NGL Group has spoken still requires a psychological adjustment on my part, but I am afraid I will have to get used to it.
However, during our previous budgetary debate, the Council made a huge effort to sit here for four hours solidly, so I do not think we will take offence on this occasion.
They are really not to blame, therefore, but I should nevertheless like to share with you the fact that I cannot muster any real enthusiasm for this budgetary debate or for the 2003 Budget that is before us.
As such, it pertains to structural funds, agriculture, environmental policy, research, social exclusion measures and the reconstruction of war-torn areas, and we are not talking peanuts, but about an amount in the region of EUR 100 billion.
After all, the political battle we are fighting here today in the plenary is really not about shifting billions or about the overall picture, but about millions and about shifting the accents.
When my group suggests bringing up the export subsidies for discussion because many farmers in developing countries are seriously hampered in their economic potential, then the argument of administrative assurance is used.
My group is also very critical about the amounts set aside for the Trans-European Networks.
The Member States themselves grant priority to national projects, while the value-added of European funding is surely the fact that they must be cross-border projects.
Similarly, with regards to structural funding, Member States pursue double and often conflicting priorities, which partly explain the enormous delays in implementation.
On the one hand, they are all out for getting as much out of the Brussels money coffers as possible, but at the same time they struggle to find national co-financing because those projects are not always a national priority.
My conclusion is therefore that the Member States feel less responsible for European money or for the fact that it should be spent carefully and fairly, than they do for national funds.
The European taxpayer is financing a nuclear energy plant in North Korea.
My group is opposed to this as a matter of principle in any case, because we prefer to support sustainable energy.
But anyway, this is the way things are, and I know that a majority in Parliament is in favour of it.
Then there is also a category of credits which I think should be spent, or even more should be spent.
I have already listed the areas where I am quite happy to cut back by a few billion, but I should like to see a few million added here.
This worked out well.
The 500 additional positions for enlargement will probably be created.
At a historic time such as that we are currently experiencing, when the international system is continually changing, on the one hand, and with enlargement and the debate on the future of Europe taking place, on the other, I feel that we too, who are experts in financial matters, should start to think about the role we want the European Parliament to play.
The question is as follows: should we agree to be mere implementors of rules, rules for the most part written by others, or do we want to be able to change things?
The 2003 budget is proving to be a good one, and I congratulate the rapporteurs on their commitment, all the effort they have put in and the results achieved, thanks, not least, to Commissioner Schreyer, the entire Commission structure, the secretariat and the draftsmen, but I can only emphasise that this is a technical budget in which our role has been primarily that of making the figures add up, lacking as we do the strength, the courage and the will to introduce genuine political measures.
Mr President, we would like to add three comments concerning the Budget at this reading.
First of all, at the Commission's proposal, Parliament decided to set up a Solidarity Fund within the budget lines B2-400 and B7-090 during the previous sitting.
Imagine that a major disaster strikes in the spring, to which the Commission assigns EUR 700 million from this Fund.
This means that after a number of years, considerable pressure could be brought to bear on the Member States to make additional contributions.
Given the current economic situation and the freedom in budgetary policy that some Member States allow themselves, I can foresee major problems.
In the fanatical fight to fund research of this kind, the entire framework programme will soon be in the balance because at second reading Parliament refused to make any more guideline statements about the funding of controversial areas.
Moreover, the Council would have been better to start the debate on ethics sooner and postpone the ethical guidelines until after the programme had been accepted.
Financial support for those regions in the form of socio-economic programmes is desirable.
This aspect, however, is still missing from this budget which spends millions on fisheries agreements with third countries, from which only a minority of countries and shipowners benefit.
A fisheries sector that keeps to the quotas should be able to expect more from Brussels.
We distribute some of our funds indiscriminately, we set too few priorities, and we also finance ineffective actions, if you consider that we still allow ourselves the luxury of two parliamentary places of work and are therefore also paying for very questionable tourism for Members as well as a Convention that is costing millions.
The standard of living in a region should not be used to assess the situation or be a factor in the amount of aid allocated.
Göran Färm is one more in a long list of rapporteurs who are faced with the fundamental dilemma of Category 4 of external actions, that is, whether the Council or the Commission should have the last word in terms of setting external political priorities, or whether Parliament should have its say.
The Commission presents a preliminary draft that cuts the Union's traditional external priorities; the Commission cuts the appropriations approved by this Parliament the previous year and explains that the programmes in question have not been implemented satisfactorily.
Then comes the first reading in the Council and, taking advantage of the previous explanation by the Commission, it cuts the appropriations intended for external actions even further, using the pious moral justification of budgetary savings and the principles of sound financial management.
Since not all commitments can be met, however, and not everything can be funded when money is scarce, we have to turn to the excuse of the poor implementation of certain geographical programmes.
We MEPs vote for appropriations which originate from the money of the European citizens so that it can be spent to fund external aid programmes.
Commissioner, your task and that of the other Commissioners and the Council is to ensure that these programmes are implemented.
I do not know whether it is the fault of Latin America or the Mediterranean countries, for example, that their programmes have a low level of implementation, but I do know that their needs are real.
I know that the solution is not to reduce year after year the appropriations we approve, to reduce programmes, but, as we all know, to find new ways to improve implementation.
We hope that for next year - and this is a desire that we express every year at first reading - that the Commission, rather than cutting the money of the previous year, will even request more money in order to comply with the European Parliament's traditional external priorities.
I say that because a lot of people are concerned about the way in which this budget will be voted on Thursday.
On category 2, we are duty-bound to find a solution with the Council.
On category 4, we also need to find a solution together with the Council.
That is why the decisions have been taken in category 4, to try to ensure that there will be real dialogue with the Council to solve some of the political problems in that area.
I hope that when it comes to the next interinstitutional agreement we will have learnt lessons from this one, especially in category 4.
However, this time the needs in category 4 - especially in the areas of Afghanistan and the Global Health Fund - have to be sorted out.
On the Global Health Fund, there are certainly big differences of opinion between the Commission, the Council and ourselves.
To make it worse, at least one Member State is asking us to find the extra EUR 65 million, which complicates matters when we know what the Council's position is already.
When I say it has to be sorted out, I mean we have to find a real solution with the Council, not going into a conciliation or trialogues and playing the usual games.
The fact that the President-in-Office sat for 4 ½ hours at our last meeting showed his commitment.
The message we need to give to the Council is that the budgets we vote here are serious and prudent, but they have political priorities.
I hope that, in December, we will have achieved some of those political priorities.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets and the Commissioner.
This is part of our tradition.
I would, however, immediately add that, in my view, it is also an excessively technical budget with only a very limited political dimension.
We can accept the basic lines, particularly those relating to reform and enlargement, of course, which I feel is the greatest challenge facing us.
However, precisely because it is a challenge, we must take more decisive, political action, action which is, above all, more visible to all the European citizens.
The technical elements of the procedure need to be revised, it needs to be simplified and, in particular, its cultural and political dimensions need to be developed, with the Council's powers defined in such a way that they are maximised, not reduced, to achieve a more effective, more focused and, above all, more topical debate.
The first concerns the issue of category 4, which my colleague has already touched on.
We go so far as to debate reconstruction, Afghanistan and issues concerning very distant countries, but there is a matter nearer to home which we will soon, all too soon, have to address more thoroughly and much more decisively.
As they currently stand, Commissioner Fischler's proposals have not met with the approval of a majority.
Despite the fact that the applicant countries have made huge economic and social adjustments, the Berlin decisions provide that the funds to be transferred to the accession countries, in the form of pre-accession aid, and expenditure on enlargement are to be maintained as laid down and made public.
It is important to remember that the budget is there to support policy decisions taken either by the Council or by the Council and Parliament jointly.
I am referring in particular to certain recommendations relating to agricultural and structural funds.
The proposal to reduce export subsidies is both misplaced and ill judged, especially since it is aimed at forcing a policy decision, mainly a reduction in the transport of live animals.
In the current climate of depressed prices and policy uncertainty, we are going to place our farmers at a further disadvantage.
Clearly this proposal is out of touch with current agricultural realities.
My own group has tabled a number of amendments which seek to undo some of the potential damage.
Likewise, the proposed quota of EUR 525 million in structural fund payment appropriations.
As a representative of an Objective 1 region in the north and west of Ireland, I am very conscious of the benefit of every single euro invested in an effort to redress the economic and socio-economic imbalance in the Union.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said about this budget and a number of speakers have followed the trend started by the President of the Commission.
If everything is stupid, the very rigour of this budget is stupid.
If the Stability Pact is stupid, if it needs to be revised in order to make our countries and our economies less rigid, then, Commissioner, if anything can be described as great stupidity here, it is the stupidity which leads us, while ten countries are knocking on our door, to restrict ourselves with a highly complex budget that is pared down to the very minimum, forcing us to use all our ingenuity - and, in this regard, I pay homage to the skill of our rapporteur - in order to be able to make any provision at all for Afghanistan and many other subjects, a budget, lastly, that remains fixed and, if possible, even smaller than before.
I do not feel this budget takes account of the facts.
I believe that, at this time of enlargement, the Convention certainly needs to consider a new European Treaty, it needs to consider giving Parliament more powers, as it could certainly use them, but also, most of all, it needs to consider the fact that 25 States cannot operate with a reduced budget designed for 15.
That is what I wanted to say in relation to the current climate.
With regard to Thursday's vote, I feel that, yesterday, in the Committee on Budgets, we envisaged a measure that I consider important.
Lastly, we have a budget which I believe to be innovative in other areas.
I actually wanted to start by thanking the Council for making this morning's Solidarity Fund event such a success and for enabling us to reach an agreement.
In this context, however, I hope that the Member States concerned, and in particular the German Government, will now also announce their figures quickly.
I should like to highlight just a few points, because my fellow group members have already addressed a number of issues.
First, a fundamental comment: it is increasingly clear that the decisions made by the Heads of State and Government in March 1999 on Agenda 2000 and the financial perspective up to 2006 were a wish list of items, which may have been sensible in 1999 but which are no longer relevant to the challenges currently facing the Union.
I should like to illustrate this using just two figures: if we are able, according to the financial perspective, to spend EUR 42 billion on the agricultural policy but can, after considerable effort, only scrape together a final total of EUR 47 million for common activities under the Common Foreign and Security Policy then this shows an imbalance in our political priorities.
Europe's activities in Category 4, in particular its support for the peace process in neighbouring countries - an important task whereby we must help to transfer our European legacy of peace to other regions - are on very, very shaky ground.
The decisions that were made in March 1999 do not help us to meet these obligations in the long term.
The Community is called on to act here.
We are doing a great deal for those countries wishing to join us, but we must redouble our efforts.
My group fully supports the rapporteur with regard to the main objective, which is, quite rightly, to provide the institutions with the necessary means for a good preparation for enlargement to 25 countries, which is just around the corner.
To this end, the rapporteur has tried to provide the institutions with adequate means to meet their priority needs.
All the institutions - in fact, the European Parliament was the last - just before the vote in the Committee on Budgets, have presented, under pressure essentially from the Socialist Group, a budget based on a rigorous cost-efficiency calculation.
Firstly, my group has always supported the idea of the institutions having the necessary human resources, providing that the needs are real.
We therefore reject Amendment No 1 presented to the House by the Group of the European Peoples' Party, which requests that it also be extended to Members of Parliament who have similar responsibilities.
I was general rapporteur for the 1999 budget and in that report I placed great emphasis - almost a separate report - on the urgent need to resolve the problem of the pensions of European civil servants.
Furthermore, my group has always argued that the citizens need to be aware that the European Parliament is their home; a transparent home.
And, Madam President, because there is no blank cheque here, with a view to the 2004 budget, the European Parliament's Bureau should present us with relevant proposals in this regard.
It remains extremely regrettable that we are still more than EUR 3 million short on the landmine issue.
This is why the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy has re-tabled my amendment.
Madam President, the exercises in financial engineering required by the current budgetary process demonstrate, once again, the precariousness of the Community financial framework.
We believe, however, that other approaches could be pursued in order to achieve these priorities, without prejudice to and with total respect for the legitimacy and the competences conferred on us, and particularly which would give us an advantage in achieving these very priorities.
It is, in fact, unacceptable to maintain and sustain a budget that is clearly inadequate for the set of priorities that we are coming up with.
Parliament is constantly losing power and the result is clear to see, especially in heading 4, in which we are seeing a clear and ongoing pressure on cooperation with the least-developed countries, given the inclusion in this category of pre-accession aid for the candidate countries and sums for the reconstruction, first of the Balkans and now of Afghanistan.
This would send a damaging and destabilising political message to a population that gained independence only a few weeks ago and which is still facing all manner of shortcomings.
In addition to which, making funds available under the Asia budget line at a time when the path of future cooperation between East Timor and the European Union has not yet been defined would clearly be an act of rashness.
I therefore believe it is right and crucial that the situation that has been created should be rectified in plenary.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this 2003 budget is catastrophic, nostalgic and historic all at the same time.
Second catastrophe: the RALs, for example, not only in the field of the Structural Funds, but also in the field of agriculture.
The difference between the budget on which we voted and the appropriations actually committed, actually taken up, is such that, over ten years, European small farmers have lost out on almost the equivalent of an annual budget.
Everyone has said it, this is the last time there will only be 15 of us.
No, if this budget is historic, it is because it is the first to exceed EUR 100 billion, the first in budgetary history to reach three figures.
With due regard for the interinstitutional agreement and the Financial Regulation, the European Parliament is about to vote on new pilot project and preparatory action initiatives, which I believe will be useful for European integration.
The first point concerns preparing small and medium-sized businesses for enlargement.
The second initiative which I would like to mention concerns a programme known as ENEA, dedicated to the elderly, which seeks to repeat the success of the Erasmus and Socrates programmes in the context of the movement of the elderly.
The innovative nature of this programme lies in the fact that it could develop as an interface between culture, social policies and health and that, if Parliament endorses the pilot project, it will be providing the Commission with the opportunity to create a programme which will encourage dialogue between elderly people from 25 different countries.
The last point I would like to mention is the environmental initiative, which, by means of the funding of reforestation measures and the creation of a seed bank, will allow us to promote the mechanism for clean development laid down by the Kyoto Protocol.
This will also create employment, for the diversification of farming will certainly pose problems and require new goals to be set.
The Commission must, of course, now inform Parliament without delay of the measures it intends to take to comply with the recommendations of the budgetary authority if all this is to be put to the vote on Thursday and again in December.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard several Members, including the general rapporteur, refer to the RALs and present questions and proposals to the Commission, as well as examine the possibilities for simplification.
I would like to draw your attention to a curious phenomenon: the implementation of the Structural Funds, which represent one of the most voluminous headings, is much greater in the poorest countries of the Union than in the wealthy countries, which is contradictory by anyone's standards.
Logically, it should be expected that the more developed countries should have better implementation and better administration, but this is not reflected in the data they present us with.
Perhaps more specific questions should be asked of the Council.
I am speaking on a personal basis, but also as permanent rapporteur for the financial perspectives.
Firstly, I would like to ask the Council - which, although it is absent, I hope will read the Minutes - whether it intends to comply with what was agreed last year in relation to the contribution to the programme of restructuring the fleet which traditionally fished in Moroccan waters, and which we agreed to restructure as a result of the lack of an agreement with that country.
The Union's budgetary authority, that is to say, the Council and this Parliament, agreed in December 2001 to include, and I would stress, 'in the 2003 budget at the latest', the EUR 27 million still required to finish the programme.
We in the Committee on Budgets propose to you two possibilities which, furthermore, may be complementary.
On the one hand, to carry out a transfer of appropriations in November which are not going to be used in Category 2.
Up until 18 October, EUR 105 million remained uncommitted.
This is not very orthodox, it is true, but it could be accepted, since there is an exception laid down in the article of the Agreement.
The second issue is the cut in traditional policies on third countries.
Ladies and gentlemen, in heading 4 they are constantly asking us to increase our aid to new countries, and this is done to the detriment of old ones.
Madam President, I should like to touch upon quite a small part of the budget, namely that relating to the decentralised agencies, as they are called.
Two agencies have the problem of being physically situated in countries where the rate of inflation is higher than the EU average, and this erodes their budgets and, therefore, their ability to carry out their tasks.
The Commission's budgeting does not take account of this problem of inflation, and I believe that more new agencies are at present being established in order to ensure there is the necessary administrative expertise.
The agencies differ greatly from one another in the ways in which they are set up and in the tasks they have, and I therefore hope that, in the future, we can obtain a budget reading that better takes account of the agencies' different structures and different needs.
Madam President, I too would like to express my concern over the lot of development aid in the budget.
Budget headings are removed and reduced, and I feel we are far from a budget that meets our needs and expectations.
Without a proper review of the Financial Perspectives, the pressure on heading 4 is becoming untenable.
Another example is the negotiations which have just begun with a view to the signing of economic partnership agreements with our ACP partners.
Considerable adjustment efforts are asked of them; that is a financial constraint which cannot be sustained by the ACP countries themselves or by the EDF, but which requires supplementary funds to be specially allocated by the European Union.
Lastly, I wish to lend my support to my group's proposal to create a specific heading for aid to Palestine.
Several months ago now, Commissioner Patten estimated the destruction of such infrastructures by the Israeli army at EUR 20 million.
That is what Commissioner Patten has constantly reiterated, calling for a serious and concerted effort required to reform and rebuild the Palestinian Authority, as the only viable interlocutor in future peace talks.
This will be achieved through the political and budgetary transparency of this objective.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we already mentioned some of the priorities of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy for the 2003 Budget in our debate two weeks ago.
Today, I should like to concentrate on making a number of comments on the text that we have agreed with the Council on future cooperation in the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
In future negotiations with the Council, the Committee on Budgets is proposing to introduce an institutional mechanism providing for greater parliamentary involvement before the Council makes decisions on foreign policy spending commitments.
As you know, in recent years we have been repeatedly confronted with the problem - particularly because of the crises in the nineties - of the Council making spending pledges and then Parliament having to find emergency funds from somewhere by cutting the amounts allocated to other foreign policy priorities.
Initial indications are very positive and I believe that this is a very important step towards also subjecting the Common Foreign and Security Policy to parliamentary scrutiny in the future.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteurs, Göran Färm und Per Stenmarck, have already produced the broad outlines of our future Budget for 2003.
Previous speakers have highlighted particular points and added new ones.
That is why I will also repeat what many of you know, but it will not do any harm to remind you of it again: 99% of all companies in Europe have fewer than 50 employees.
They employ more than half of all workers and are also responsible for around half of the European Union's entire turnover.
However, we want to do even more.
The project 'SMEs in border regions' should be replaced by a project on 'SMEs and enlargement' and - a number of social democrats have in any case spoken strongly in favour of this - we want a project that helps SMEs to implement the concept of 'Corporate Social Responsibility - a business contribution to sustainable development'.
So far these proposals have tended to be directed more at the large companies.
We do not consider this to be wrong, far from it, but now we want them to be extended to include guidelines for our small and medium-sized companies.
I have once again tabled a host of amendments, and I hope that if they are approved by the plenary, the Council will be prepared to adopt them.
Also, in my opinion - which is incidentally universally endorsed - agricultural production should focus on quality.
The public, however, should know what quality is.
Europe needs to develop its own quality system which is readily recognisable to its customers, and funding has been made available for this purpose, provided the system is effective.
Finally, with regard to the cost of controlling animal diseases, I believe that it is unacceptable for us to earmark a relatively small amount in the budget for this purpose every year, while every year it becomes apparent that if a real epidemic were to break out somewhere, it would cost billions.
Finally, I have noticed that cooperation between the Council, the Commission and Parliament has been good to date.
My committee was mainly concerned with four areas.
I believe that we have sorted out the problem all the parties in this House had in finding a suitable wording for an amendment about OLAF's funding for the coming year.
Realistically, I am particularly worried that it poses questions about OLAF's independence; it is part of the Commission in this process and we can amend its budget in that way.
I understand that they are relatively happy with the outcome of the amendments they tabled in this field.
The Commission's former chief accountant has drawn our attention to a number of concerns about the computer systems and how to ensure that our taxpayers' money, our national governments' money, is being spent correctly if the computer systems used do not support each other or provide proper figures.
No doubt we shall come back to this in future debates, but those were the main concerns raised by the Budgetary Control Committee.
A stronger Union does not necessarily mean a more ineffective Union - quite the opposite: the simplicity of the rules and the application of the principle of subsidiarity will make the European budget a flexible political and accounting tool which is free from the burden of the RALs, and, most importantly, it will result in a closer, more intimate relationship between the European Union and the citizens.
Madam President, as I mentioned in the previous plenary session, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs largely welcomed the Council's first reading of the Commission's draft budget.
It is also true that the committee feels that the EU budget for 2003 is considerably more modest than it has been in recent years.
As we all know, this is due to the fact that the considerable information initiatives financed by the EU budget ahead of the introduction of the single currency are now behind us.
Our committee proposed a very modest number of amendments to the budget and I was greatly disappointed that these were almost entirely rejected by the Committee on Budgets.
There was broad agreement within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that the information initiatives should be concentrated on those countries which have not yet introduced the single currency and, to a certain extent, also on candidate countries, which will introduce the single currency one day.
The fact that this amendment was rejected becomes even more regrettable when we consider that at least one, and perhaps more, of the current Member States is highly likely to hold a referendum on the single currency next year.
With this in mind, it seems logical that the funds should be earmarked for these countries, rather than being spent on information initiatives of questionable benefit in the countries which have already been highly successful in introducing the single currency.
It is difficult for me to see what use information measures may have in these countries where the euro is already a reality and part of everyday life.
I share this view and believe that these measures can be taken by each country which has introduced the euro without any contribution from the EU budget.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on the eve of the vote at first reading of the 2003 budget, I must confess to mixed feelings.
The now regular reduction in the Community budget as a percentage of GDP seems to me to be of particular concern.
Once again, we do not appear to want to equip ourselves with the means to fulfil our ambitions.
The situation of heading 4 is a prime example of this.
We owe it to ourselves to remind the Member States of their duty to ensure coherence and, in particular, to fulfil our ambitions with regard to enlargement.
I would not like you to think, however, that our draft budget is bad.
I welcome the fact that, as regards heading 1, the amendments proposed by the Committee on Budgets clearly reflect our wish to make the common agricultural policy fairer, more just and more sustainable, and to strengthen its rural development pillar.
The budget must first and foremost fulfil the citizens' expectations.
The amendments proposed by my group with regard to the 'information and communication policy' chapters are along these lines and are essential to the future of Europe.
The same is true of support for small businesses and craft trades.
I would nonetheless like to thank our two rapporteurs for having instigated new methods of budgetary debate, for greater transparency, because all this is indispensable with a view to increasing citizens' awareness of European politics in future.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy is deeply proud that this has been achieved, at least in this reading.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy adopted the sixth framework programme of research unanimously.
Since this was agreed with the Commission and the Council, however, a new problem has arisen.
Madam President, as draftsman for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I am broadly happy with the position the Committee on Budgets has taken on our amendments.
I understand the strategy of the rapporteur in relation to Afghanistan.
I am disappointed, however, that my amendment on landmines was not accepted - the EUR 3.15 million - because that would take us up to the amount to which we had originally committed ourselves.
The line on landmines was very much a European Parliament measure.
I would hope that we can, in our voting, consider restoring that figure because it would take us up to what we originally proposed.
I am disappointed at the amendments whereby EUR 15 million for Palestine is put on reserve under some interesting conditions.
On behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I too should like to thank the rapporteurs who have worked so hard, within all the confines, to bring this budget to a successful end.
The system is ruthless and we have to live with it.
After all, we can protest loudly at a lack of funding, but if you consider what is returned to the Member States, then this always strikes me as a little strange.
Madam President, once again this year we have been struggling with the strict ceiling on category 4, given ever-increasing demands arising from growing international instability and a consequent diminution of the poverty focus of EU aid to developing countries around the world.
But the whole Parliament - not just the Committee on Development and Cooperation - has been clear that development is a political priority overall in this year's EU budget, with support for the global fund against AIDS, TB and malaria.
The Council in its May resolution says it is committed.
Yet the EUR 120 million contribution last year is reduced to a proposal of just EUR 35 million for next.
It recognises that AIDS/HIV is the most serious challenge to humankind today; that the United Nations has declared at least 7 billion is needed worldwide; and that proposals amounting to 5 billion have already been tabled.
The global fund represents a bold new approach - fast-moving, participatory and accountable.
The European Union must demonstrate that it can achieve the same vision, imagination and commitment by significantly raising its own financial contribution and offering real European leadership in tackling the most devastating global challenge of our times.
Mr President, I am pleased that the Committee on Budgets has endorsed so many of the amendments by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, in particular budget line B7-524 - assistance in the nuclear sector.
For instance, the number of children under the age of 18 suffering from thyroid cancer is 50 times higher now than before the accident.
The most effective method of controlling these tumours is high-dose-rate brachytherapy, which minimises exposure to radiation of healthy organs and tissues during radiation treatment of malignant growth.
High-dose-rate brachytherapy requires high-tech equipment and, due to the high acquisition and maintenance costs of this equipment, Belarus needs assistance.
We should not let our very real concerns over democracy and human rights in Belarus prevent us from helping its children.
Madam President, Mrs Figueiredo, the draftsperson of the opinion, has clearly communicated to the Committee on Budgets and to this House the concerns of the Committee on Fisheries in relation to this draft budget for 2003.
I would like to remind the House of the commitment made by the Council and Parliament to provide the EUR 27 million corresponding to this financial year for the restructuring of the fleet that fished in Morocco.
Madam President, I wish to speak about regional policy and transport issues, but first let me congratulate the rapporteurs and the committee chairman on their work.
The trans-European networks, despite the commitments made by the Essen Council, are progressing at a snail's pace.
This being so, we in the Committee on Regional Policy and Transport wish to give our unconditional support to the amendments, also backed by the Committee on Budgets, which are designed to rectify this situation somewhat.
We got off to a very slow start in 2000, for which the Member States were mainly to blame and the same applied in 2001.
We know that the Commission is trying to do something about this and that Commissioner Barnier has tried to do something about this, especially with his recent communication and the meetings he has been holding with Ministers from the Member States.
Someone commented, and I entirely agree, that the situation is worse in the rich Member States than in the poor.
So they must do what they can to ensure funds are disbursed quickly and, of course, the Commission must monitor developments closely so that we can put a stop to this problem because, if things go on as they are, I am afraid that, in the end, a big chunk of Structural Fund resources will go to waste.
Madam President, the vast majority of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, for which I am rapporteur, have been taken into account in the 2003 budgetary procedure.
The third point is the Celex budget.
Although the situation has changed immeasurably since the attacks on the USA, we have done a great deal without demanding a dramatic increase in expenditure.
On information for enlargement, the Commission proposed EUR 14 million in the budget - a good sum you might think, until you see that the subsidy proposed for bee keeping was EUR 16.5 million.
I am not criticising support for bee-keeping, but I think that this Parliament was right to increase the amount that the Commission wanted for information on enlargement from EUR 14 million to EUR 21 million.
On that EUR 21 million, the Budgets Committee accepted the proposal from the Committee on Culture that EUR 1 million should be set aside for training future MEPs from the candidate countries.
We had the President of Hungary here this morning, which shows that clearly politicians from the candidate countries are looking forward to joining this Parliament and they need training to be able to do that properly.
I am also pleased that we have been able, if this budget is now passed, to reinstate the amount of money for e-learning, namely EUR 17 million as opposed to the Commission's proposal of EUR 9 million.
I will pay tribute to the support we have had from the budget rapporteur this year and from the Commission, but the Council is absent this afternoon.
I would like to stress this on behalf of Parliament.
It is important that the Council takes part in our debates and gets to hear our views.
Madam President, I would like to devote my two minutes to expressing my satisfaction at the fact that the proposal which has been put forward allows increased work on trying to prevent the spread of poverty-related diseases, primarily HIV, malaria and tuberculosis.
These forecasts were dismissed.
I must say that both the international community, including donor countries and individual countries in the South, took these problems far too lightly.
Madam President, Commissioner, I should like to start by thanking both rapporteurs of the Committee on Budgets and the members of the Committee on Budgets for the fact that - and this is a first - the lion's share of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities have been adopted by the Committee on Budgets in the same or altered form.
These amendments, Commissioner, pertained to three areas.
We have for the first time included a clause in the budget that stipulates that the aid we provide to a number of countries can be suspended if they fail to respect women's rights.
A second area is about women and decision-making.
They have thus acquired a great deal of power but have not made as much effort to bring women to the fore as our national parliaments and our national political parties have.
The debate is closed.
A major part of ECHO's strategy is dealing with forgotten crises, and this is quite important.
ECHO is the largest source of aid to these refugees.
Over the last three years, ECHO has more or less doubled its assistance to the Saharawi refugees from about EUR 7.5 million in 1999 to EUR 14.34 million this year.
While the World Food Programme is responsible for the basic foodstuffs ECHO is concentrating its assistance on supplementary food products in order to ensure a more varied diet.
This arrangement has been invaluable, with 13 such loans totalling a volume of 12 153 tonnes in the period until the end of October 2002.
The problem is that so far only 5 589 tonnes have been replenished, leaving the buffer stocks very low, at a level of 17.24% of the full amount.
While it may be correct that the WFP could cover only 11% of needs in October, it must be said that this figure relates only to deliveries from WFP and does not take account of deliveries from other donors.
ECHO financed 300 tonnes of rice, delivered in October, and the use of the ECHO buffer stock I mentioned has made an important contribution, enabling us to satisfy the total needs for basic food products in October.
As I have explained, the situation is much better.
Let me say a few words about the ECHO global plan for these refugees, which was adopted by the Commission this year.
This plan, involving an amount of EUR 14.34 million, should reduce the full impact of the crisis.
Over 80% of the ECHO 2002 global plan consists of food products.
Under this plan, a further 5 000+ tonnes of basic foodstuffs are due to arrive in the coming weeks.
In addition, over 3 000 tonnes of ECHO-financed supplementary food products will be supplied in the next few months.
The WFP has also announced that it is sending over 4 000 tonnes of basic foodstuffs.
I agree with the question in this respect.
This is also why ECHO is involved in different ways in raising donor awareness about this conflict and these people.
If the political explanation for this unacceptable, from a humanitarian point of view, situation is donor fatigue, it must be said that some donors are fatigued by really very small sums.
If there is any other explanation, this is all the more sordid, because there are much more worthy and, above all, effective ways to apply pressure than to make women and children suffer as a result of the issue of food aid.
Some time ago, part of the Israeli Government prepared a dossier claiming to show that President Arafat and the Palestinian Authority used funds provided by the European Union, along with Norway and some other countries, to finance supporters of terrorism or even directly underwrite acts of terrorism.
I should stress, as I have already done before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy and the Committee on Budgets, on 19 June, that, on the basis of all the documents made available by the Israeli Government, the Commission has not found evidence of European Union funds being used for purposes other than those agreed between the European Union and the Palestinian Authority.
The Commission provides EUR 10 million a month to the Palestinian Authority in budgetary support.
This constitutes 10% of their overall budget.
European Union support has helped prevent the total collapse of Palestinian institutions and, therefore, preserved one of the interlocutors in the peace process.
At the same time, it has provided the necessary pressure and guidance for serious reform, particularly in public finances.
Let me remind the House that, ultimately, the European Union provides budgetary support to mitigate the effects of the freeze of revenue transfers totalling over USD 680 million by the Government of Israel over the last couple of years.
Budgetary assistance is subject to a number of conditions relating to administrative and judicial reform, financial control and so on, which are reviewed and strengthened on a regular basis.
The merits of our budgetary assistance have been widely recognised, not only by the Council of Ministers, but also by the international community.
Achievements in reform, which have been made largely thanks to our budgetary support, include the establishment of a single treasury account, the consolidation of all the Authority's public finances and progress towards a modern system of financial control.
Next comes the imposition of an austerity budget, then the containment of arrears and, finally and very importantly, the adoption or entry into force of key legal acts, such as the judicial independence law and the basic law.
It is also worth remembering that, in recent weeks, Israel has paid over USD 45 million to the Palestinian Authority Ministry of Finance, which is a small but still positive step.
This money has been transferred into the same treasury account as the EU budgetary support and is subject to the same European Union and IMF monitoring mechanisms I have just described.
I hope some Members will reflect on that sentence.
Israel has therefore recognised that progress has been made in the financial domain, and that is in no small part due to our policy-based financial assistance and budgetary support.
Ultimately, Israel should resume regular transfers and in that respect I welcome the constructive discussions held recently between Prime Minister Sharon and President Bush.
Withdrawal of budgetary support will lead to collapse of the Palestinian Authority, further chaos and a more desperate humanitarian crisis.
The Commission will continue to monitor the use of budgetary support and compliance with all the conditions attached to it.
I also wonder whether you believe that the aid which the EU is giving to the Middle East is sufficiently well controlled in general rather than just in this case.
I am afraid that, unusually, the honourable Member's information is slightly out of date.
I have known you for some 20 years now and I know you to be a man of honour who has always been opposed to terrorism.
It would be helpful if some of those who keep making these accusations would sometimes turn up in the Chamber or at the committee meetings where I have been refuting the allegations.
But I suspect that one or two of them have their own games to play, games that owe very little to fact but a good deal to prejudice and malevolent whimsy.
Secondly, with regard to the impact on conditions on the ground, the situation on the ground - and this is not easy to dispute - is appalling.
We have recently had the report by the UN Secretary-General's special envoy, Catherine Bertini, followed up by a further study.
If Commissioner Patten or his office take this view, then why have they so strongly resisted the initiative by myself and Members from other political groups to raise signatures in this House to request that Parliament set up a committee of inquiry into these very grave allegations?
So I say to the honourable Member, and I am sure that his question is not prompted by any malign motives, that the notion that this proposal to set up an inquiry is somehow helpful to me and to the cause of humanitarian relief in Palestine and to finding a political accommodation to save us from this blood feud, is about as far from reality as it is possible to go.
The Commission actively promotes the principle of religious freedom as part of our dialogue on human rights with the Russian authorities.
In particular, the joint statement of the last European Union-Russia Summit in Moscow states our common aim of strengthening society, based on respect for democratic principles and human rights.
The Commission will continue to impress the message upon the Russian authorities that the effective partnership that the Union and Russia are trying to establish necessarily has to be based on a series of fundamental core values, among which is full respect for human rights, including freedom of religion.
Within the framework of our intensive political dialogue with Russia, the European Union has repeatedly raised its concerns regarding freedom of religion in Russia.
The Commission continues to raise these and other related human rights issues with the Russian authorities.
In parallel, the promotion of human rights in Russia will continue to be a priority in the framework of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights.
As Parliament will know, Russia is a core country under this programme.
Having spent Good Friday this year in Shanghai Cathedral where the Veneration of the Cross was celebrated by the Bishop of Shanghai, who spent about 20 years of his life in solitary confinement in prison, I am aware - as are we all - of the remarkable sacrifices made by Christian missionaries, priests and bishops in countries where, alas, freedom of religion is not enjoyed as it is by and large in the European Union.
This amount covers the use of the financial accounting module by 600 civil servants, the vast majority working in the budget and Financial Control Directorates-General, as well as a few users in the internal and external audit services, for example the Court of Auditors, and in the operational Directorates-General.
Mr President, as you know, the SAP R/3 accounting system is used both by the financial control services and by the accounting, or bookkeeping, department.
I would be interested to know how the system has actually been prepared for the enlargement of the European Union.
Mr Rübig, the accounting system that we have does not only consist of the SAP R/3 software that has just been mentioned; the SINCOM 2 system is also available for services that manage funds.
Preparations for enlargement obviously require the candidate countries and new Member States to take certain measures.
Questions to Commissioner Vitorino Question No 42 by María Izquierdo Rojo (H-0654/02): Subject: Discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation in the granting of visas On 27 July 2002 the Spanish-Argentinian couple Juan Carlos Manteca Cendrero and Carlos Daniel Bettio submitted an application for a residence visa on the grounds of family reunification to the Spanish Consulate-General in Buenos Aires (Argentina) so that Daniel Bettio, an Argentinian citizen, would be able to reside legally in Spain.
Family reunification of citizens of the Union not covered by Community law in the field of free movement and residence, as in this case, is not yet the subject of a Community instrument and remains subject to the national law of each Member State.
A refusal to grant the residence visa must be contested before the competent national authorities.
Article 63(3)(a) of the Treaty stipulates that the Council shall take steps in the field of conditions of entry and residence, as well as standards concerning the procedures for issue of visas and long-term residence permits by the Member States, including for the purposes of family reunification.
Family reunification measures must be adopted in accordance with the obligation to protect family life and the prohibition of discrimination.
The situation of these people will therefore be addressed in a specific proposal at a later date.
Community legislation currently in force in the field of free movement and residence of EU citizens and members of their families provides for the family reunification of spouses, but not unmarried partners.
In order to take account of the rapid evolution of the family unit in society and recognition in some Member States of special legal status for unmarried couples, as well as the need to eliminate, as far as possible, discrimination against unmarried partners of both sexes, the proposal for a directive on the right of EU citizens and members of their families to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States, adopted by the Commission on 23 May 2001, extends the right to family reunification to unmarried partners where the legislation of the host Member State likens the situation of unmarried couples to that of married couples, in accordance with the conditions laid down by this legislation.
We have to strike a balance between a non-discriminatory solution and compliance with the principle of subsidiarity.
As Parliament knows, in December 2000 the Commission proposed the framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
I am very happy to tell you that, on 14 October, the Justice and Home Affairs Council reached political agreement on the Commission's proposal.
Now, the framework decision stipulates levels of penalties ranging from between one and three years for basic offences to between five and ten years in circumstances that aggravate the offence.
The Commission believes that this is an issue for the Member States, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
The age of sexual consent, as defined by national law, is, however, used as a dividing line for different levels of penalties.
In terms of final assistance, the STOP programme is a very valuable tool in combating paedophilia.
The DAPHNE programme also specifically refers to paedophilia.
The Commission will continue to support projects in this field through the new AGIS programme for law enforcement and judicial cooperation.
Turning to the final part of the question, the Commission can confirm that it has comparative information on the legislative and judicial means to combat this tragic phenomenon.
The Commission is convinced that once Eurojust is fully operational, it will encourage and improve cooperation between the Member States in the fight against the sexual exploitation of children, by facilitating mutual legal assistance and the implementation of extradition requests.
I guarantee that the commitment of candidate countries has already been taken into consideration in the latest generation of Daphne and STOP programmes, and they are already being involved in concrete action.
I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the framework decision just adopted by the Council will be part of the acquis.
That means that candidate countries will have to incorporate this new framework decision into their own national criminal law by1 January 2004.
But I would like to ask how you think extradition requests will work when, for instance, material originates in third countries, where perhaps the same kind of basic legislation does not exist?
Secondly, what should be our approach to this kind of material arriving from outside the Community?
This is clearly going to be the route taken in future to circumvent legislation both here and in the United States.
There are specific provisions in these proposals to deal with the problem of paedophilia on line on the Internet.
We can only seize the material at the last station in the territory of the Member States.
For instance, in the case of material that comes from third countries, we need to use the common cooperation agreements on mutual legal assistance to request the authorities of those Member States to act against those who produce such material.
I would like to add also that, in this general framework, we must make the best possible use of the Council of Europe convention on cybercrime throughout the Internet.
The European Union is founded on the principles of liberty, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, principles which are common to the Member States.
The Commission is therefore unaware of any legal arrangements governing political prisoners in the democracies of the European Union, since the mere notion of political prisoners, that is, people who have been in prison or prosecuted only for political reasons or opinions, would be against those founding principles of the Union.
As regards extradition between Member States, therefore, mutual confidence in the national judicial systems has resulted in revision of the political offence derogation in relation to terrorist crimes.
Article 5(1) of the 1996 Convention relating to extradition between the Member States of the European Union, which supplements the European Convention on Extradition of 13 December 1957 thus states: 'For the purposes of applying this Convention, no offence may be regarded by the requested Member State as a political offence, as an offence connected with a political offence or an offence inspired by political motives.' This statement covers the terrorist offences referred to in the first and second articles of the 1977 European Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism, to which all Member States of the Union are party.
The Council framework decision of 13 June 2002 on the European arrest warrant, which will soon replace the previous extradition system, includes terrorism among the offences that will give rise to surrender, pursuant to a European arrest warrant, provided the offence is punishable in the issuing Member State by a custodial sentence or detention order for a maximum period of at least three years.
Finally, the Council framework decision of 13 June 2002 on combating terrorism establishes a common definition of terrorist offences.
It lists serious crimes deemed to be terrorist offences, when committed with the aim of seriously intimidating a population and unduly compelling a government or international organisation to perform or abstain from performing any act, or seriously destabilising or destroying the fundamental political, constitutional, economic or social structures of a country or an international organisation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fighting terrorism is surely the most important objective in the world today.
First of all, I think that we need to pursue our important achievements since 11 September 2001, mainly the transposition into the national legal systems of the framework decision on the definition of terrorism, and the transposition into national law of the framework decision concerning the European arrest warrant.
Secondly, I would like to emphasise the role of police cooperation and the exchange of information between intelligence services on terrorist activities, based in particular on Europol's anti-terrorist unit and the special team of anti-terrorist magistrates in Eurojust.
New initiatives relate, in particular, to ongoing negotiations with the United States on a mutual legal assistance agreement, including extradition, and the conclusion of the agreement on exchanges of information between Europol and the law enforcement agencies of the United States.
Finally, as regards legislative initiatives for the year 2003, we are giving priority to the financing of terrorism, but it is still a little too soon to disclose the concrete initiatives that we will be putting forward to Parliament and Council next year.
As rightly pointed out by the honourable Member, there are increasing concerns about the treatment of animals at livestock markets.
It is the Commission's intention to cover this area when proposing new legislation on the protection of animals during transport before the end of this year.
In particular, the Commission's objective is to ensure that Member States ensure that animal welfare considerations are an integral part of the operation of livestock markets.
Acts of cruelty or negligence observed in some markets are the result of operators' ignorance and insufficient supervision by the competent authorities.
The Commission also considers that market operators should be primarily responsible for securing respect of welfare rules.
They should be accountable for welfare rules as they already are for animal health rules.
It is not the role of the Commission to supervise livestock market operations but to ensure that Member States respect the EU provisions in this regard.
Concerning the first part of your supplementary question as to whether it might be appropriate to phase out the livestock markets altogether, the position is that for some farm species this is a necessary marketing tool.
There are long traditions in relation to the sale and marketing of animals in this way.
However, I agree that in addressing this issue in the context of Community legislation, we are looking at it in connection with the animal transport legislation we are working on at the moment.
I fully agree that this issue is not just relevant to animals under transport, but to all animals.
As I indicated a moment ago, it is important to ensure that there is proper training of staff who handle animals, not only in the context of transport but generally.
The Commission attaches great importance to the correct removal of specified risk material, since it is one of the most important ways of protecting the health of consumers against the related risk of BSE.
In addition to being an unacceptable threat to health, these incidents also serve to undermine consumer confidence in the effectiveness of the Community measures relating to BSE.
According to Regulation 999/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001, laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain BSEs, specified risk material must be removed at the slaughterhouse or, in case of the vertebral column of bovine animals, at the cutting plant.
In the latter case, the removal of the vertebral column should take place at the cutting plant in the Member State of destination.
In the case of recurrence, the Commission has requested strong action, such as suspending the licences of the plants responsible or introducing corrective measures.
The Commission is also funding a research project to find alternative and more effective ways to remove the spinal cord.
The Commission is closely following the situation and will, if necessary, remind all the Member States of the obligation to remove the spinal cord of bovine animals aged over 12 months.
Finally, it should be borne in mind that the vertebral column is currently defined as specified risk material in carcasses from bovine animals aged over 12 months in all Member States except Portugal and the United Kingdom.
Any remnants of spinal cord in the vertebral column should therefore already have been automatically removed as specified risk material at the place of destination before sale to the consumer.
This issue has been closely monitored and, based on the preliminary results in 2002, the actions taken by the Member States have resulted in a decrease in the number of infractions concerning remnants of spinal cord.
Of course, the Commission will continue to monitor the situation closely, and if the problems recur, will place the matter on the agenda of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health to emphasise the importance of the proper removal of specified waste material, in other words, spinal cord, at slaughterhouse level, and to require strong corrective actions.
Finally, as you probably are aware, I am currently working on a piece of legislation on feed and food controls, which envisages imposing financial sanctions for failure to comply with this kind of legislation.
The Commission recognises that diabetes is a chronic disease that poses a major public health challenge to the Community.
The Treaty limits the competence of the Community in the field of public health by stating that Community action must fully respect the responsibilities of the Member States for the organisation and delivery of health services and medical care.
As regards diabetes, the work of the Commission has therefore concentrated on encouraging cooperation between Member States through public health programmes.
Through these programmes the Commission has encouraged policy development and measures related to the determinants of type 2 diabetes, namely nutrition, obesity and exercise.
In the new public health programme entering into force on 1 January 2003, attention is given to improving data collection on key health indicators such as nutrition-related mortality and morbidity.
Emphasis is also placed on developing common strategies on health determinants such as nutrition.
The existing health promotion, health monitoring and cancer programmes have provided concrete support to a variety of initiatives on diet, nutrition, obesity and physical activity.
For example, the support given to conferences such as those held under the French and Danish Council presidencies on the issues of nutrition and obesity.
The Eurodiet report on nutrition is now published and available on the Commission website, making it available to a wide international audience.
The European Prospective Investigation into Cancer (EPIC), financed by the cancer programme and carried out by the International Agency for Cancer Research in Lyon, is another major initiative on the links between diet and disease.
The project, supported by the health promotion programme sli na sláinte, is an initiative to promote physical activity as part of a prevention strategy.
A status report on the place of nutrition in all Commission policy areas, not only public health, will shortly be finalised and published.
Taking account of the limits set out in Article 152 of the Treaty, the Commission does not intend to set up a specific priority plan related to diabetes.
Instead, the approach followed by the new public health programme is designed to ensure a complementary and horizontal approach to prevention, rather than the old approach of looking at diseases by means of separate and individual programmes.
The new programme is policy-driven and aims to promote policy and activities on health determinants that will have an impact on key challenges such as type 2 diabetes.
In the Fifth Framework Programme, diabetes research was covered under the quality of life and management of living resources programme.
The total funding has been more than EUR 18 million.
Diabetes research continues to be a priority in the upcoming Sixth Framework Programme under the first priority thematic area 'Life sciences, genomics and biotechnology for health'.
Research funds will be distributed on a competitive basis following calls for proposals, and information will be made widely available, for example on the research website.
That aspect is considered particularly important in order to contribute to the creation of a European research area.
Finally, it should also be mentioned that foods presented as designed to satisfy the particular nutritional requirements of people with diabetes should currently comply with the requirements of Council Directive 89/398 on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses.
The Commission intends to present a report to Parliament and the Council on the desirability of special nutritional provisions for people with diabetes.
I hope to be able to join with those who are promoting this when the diabetes testing and awareness campaign is launched here in Strasbourg on 19 November.
The best diet for people with diabetes or those at risk of developing diabetes is good, plain, fresh food, not processed foods.
It is certainly true that the costs related to any health care are increasing day by day and year by year in the Member States.
The fact of the matter is that public health professionals and, indeed, some governments are now giving more attention to investing more in health promotion and disease prevention.
If this change takes place, as your question implies, that will greatly affect the issue of diabetes, on which you focus particularly in in your question, but also other diseases.
The Commission and the European Union could play a significant part in ensuring that the rise of this disease is matched only by the information about how to treat it and how to avoid it in the first place?
Once again, I refer you to the first strand of the public health programme that will be in operation from 1 January 2003.
The information that will be gathered and the data that will be made available will assist considerably in coming up with solutions and in the dissemination of valuable information, not only in the Commission and the other institutions of the European Union but also, obviously, in the Member States.
In addition to what I said earlier about the various programmes and the work and investment that has been undertaken already in this area, I forgot to mention that a project, supported by the health promotion programme, to create a masters degree course in nutrition is on the way.
The EU, on the other hand, should be able to operate on a broader front by helping to implement the major population studies needed for the future, so that we can tackle the issue in a more constructive way.
Long-term studies of population groups in various European countries should be something which the EU could contribute in order to achieve good results.
I mentioned earlier the work that I am currently undertaking on the connection between nutrition and, for instance, obesity and the question of good health generally.
There are high expectations in Member States, and I also believe that there is a substantial degree of support from Member States' health ministers.
During 2002, the Swedish Food Administration and five municipalities in Sweden are investigating the presence of salmonella in meat preparations imported from other Member States.
In November 2001, the Commission decided that the rule concerning compulsory salmonella testing does not apply to meat preparations.
As you are aware, Finland and Sweden were granted additional salmonella guarantees in the context of their accession to the European Union.
The only way to do so would be to amend the Community legislation on meat preparations.
Any meat preparation produced within the Community must meet that criterion.
We now know that there was an oversight in our accession negotiations.
In addition, the ongoing revisions of Community legislation on food hygiene and, as I said earlier, on zoonosis, will strengthen the controls on salmonella along the whole food chain, from farm to table.
Should this provision become a part of the final text of the Framework Convention, and considering the timetable foreseen for the establishment of the Conference of the Parties, it is indeed possible that such recommendations could be produced by 2007.
The Commission believes that the adoption of common standards for the regulation of the content of tobacco products and emissions and the adoption of common rules for measurement methods are essential measures to be taken by all parties to the Convention.
However, in the extremely unlikely event that the negotiations should fail, the Commission would not see this as a reason to propose modifying the provisions of Directive 2001/37 on exports.
The negotiating position of the Commission is that we want to achieve the best possible outcome for public health.
The question whether production will shift to third countries is often raised.
As the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 51 to 108 will be replied to in writing.
C5-0591/2001 - 2001/0252(COD)) The Commission is able to accept Amendments Nos 11, 12, 16, 28, 30, 32, 33, 36, 37, 40, 41, 49 (in part), 61, 69, 72, 75, 77, 78, 84, 90, 91 (in part), 93 (in part), 95, 98, 99, 101 (in part), 102, 103, 104, 105 (in part), 106, 107, 108 (in part), 110 (in part), 111, 112, 114, 115, 116, 117, 120, 123, 124, 125, 127, 128 (in part), 130, 131 (in part), 135, 142, 143, 146 and 150.
The Commission is able to accept, in principle, Amendments Nos 1, 4, 9, 13, 14, 15, 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, 24, 25 (2nd part), 31, 34, 35, 38, 43, 44, 47, 50, 52, 53, 54, 55, 59, 60, 62, 63, 64, 66, 68, 73, 74, 76, 80, 82, 86, 87, 88, 89, 96, 100, 109, 113, 118, 121, 126, 129, 134, 140, 141, 141, 149, 153, 155, 156, 163, 165, 166, 169, and 170.
The Commission is unable to accept Amendments Nos 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 17, 21, 25 (1st part), 26, 27, 29, 39, 42, 45, 46, 48, 51, 56, 57, 58, 65, 67, 70, 71, 79, 81, 83, 85, 92, 94, 97, 119, 122, 132, 133, 136, 137, 138, 139, 144, 145, 147, 148, 151, 152, 154, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161, 161, 162, 164, 167, 168, 171, 172, 173, 174, 175, 176, 177 and 178.
The Commission is able to accept, in principle, Amendments Nos 3, 5, 11, 12, 14, 15, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 27, 30, 31, 32, 36, 37, 51 (in part), 52, 55, 80, 83, 86, 92 (2nd part), 94, 95, 98, 114, 116 (1st part), 122, 140, 156, 158, 159, 167, 197, 199.
The Commission is unable to accept Amendments Nos 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 16, 17, 19, 26, 28, 29, 34, 38, 39, 40, 41, 45, 49, 54, 56, 59, 62, 64, 65, 67, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 81, 87, 91, 92 (1st part), 96, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104 (1st part), 105, 107, 111, 112, 113, 115, 116 (2nd part), 117, 118, 119, 120 (2nd part), 123, 124, 126, 127, 128, 129, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 152, 153, 154, 155, 168, 172, 173, 174, 175, 176, 177, 178, 179, 180, 181, 182, 183, 184, 186 (3rd part), 187, 188, 189, 190, 191, 192, 196, 198, 201, 202.
The Commission is able to accept, in principle, Amendments Nos 4, 5, 8, 14, 36, 42, 43, 48, 52, 53, 54, 57, 58 and 68.
The Commission is unable to accept Amendments Nos 2, 3, 6, 7, 10, 13, 15, 16, 17, 23, 25, 26, 27, 30, 33, 37, 38, 40, 44, 45, 47, 51, 56, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 66, 67, 69, 70, 71 and 72.
On behalf of myself and the Members of the European Parliament, it is a great pleasure to welcome you, Mr President, to our House today.
Tomorrow you will be back in Hungary to commemorate and celebrate your nation's national day, and to recall the brave Hungarian uprising of 1956 and the proclamation of the republic in 1989.
On the floor of our House today stands a very special symbol of that moment - the Hungarian flag raised during that period in 1956. (Applause) The martyrs of that 1956 revolution in a way died for Europe and for the values that today, through the enlargement of the European Union, we are now anticipating and creating.
And so those people did not die in vain, Mr President, and your being here today is a mark of their contribution to Europe.
Mr President, I have no doubt that your country will be one of our new Member States in 2004.
This Parliament was the first of the European institutions to set a clear timetable for enlargement.
We want Hungary in the Union and we want your representatives in our Parliament, directly elected by the people of Hungary, for the session starting in the summer of 2004. (Applause) What we are now poised to achieve is the direct result of the events of 1989 in which Hungary, once again, played a decisive role.
With your permission, however, I would anticipate this possibility now and will continue my address in Hungarian.
Because it will give us the opportunity, on the basis of an interinstitutional agreement with the Council, to examine secret military documents and be party to certain information and will therefore enable us to develop a means of extending parliamentary scrutiny to these areas.
We must not, however, go too far at the outset, because this is a very sensitive area and at stake are the security interests of the Member States of the European Union and all of our fellow citizens.
That is why we have also made it clear that either of the two sides can terminate the agreement after two years, so as to draft a new agreement on the basis of the experience acquired, and that this is therefore not a permanent arrangement but just a first step on this sensitive issue of internal security.
As has been said, agreements also need to be reached in these areas.
I think that this marks a step towards greater transparency and control of our foreign, security and defence policy, and if someone had said five or ten years ago that we would be negotiating the establishment of a committee of this kind in the European Parliament, I would not have thought it possible.
This shows how far the European Union as a whole has come since the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Cologne Summit on security and defence policy.
However, it also shows a commensurate need for parliamentary scrutiny.
Mr President of the European Parliament ...
You can either present and justify all of this as being in the interests of the State, just as Elmar Brok, whom I personally hold in high esteem both here and in other professional contexts, has done, or you can comment a little on the procedure and how this agreement has come about and consider why someone behind me always says, 'EB, EB' when I say, 'EP'.
Many Members hardly had the chance to be involved in the negotiating process and above all it is now once again EB who has access to internal documents and, as he himself also said, he is pleased that only Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy are involved while the EP, the European Parliament, is left out in the cold.
There is major interest in these issues among citizens and journalists.
Having a small group of members who have access to these highly sensitive documents is, however, one way of ensuring a certain degree of, admittedly limited, parliamentary control in this area, which thus puts pressure on the Council.
Mr President, on very solemn occasions, those of us in Parliament and in the other institutions of the EU talk about how we should go about bringing the EU closer to the people.
One of the ways of doing this would be to give people an opportunity to participate, play their parts and be partners in the whole of the decision-making process taking place in and between the institutions of the EU.
That is why the principle of access to documents is so important.
As the people's guarantors, as the custodians of democracy and as the institution that should be the democratic guarantor of this project, we have now moved into an area in which we consent to people's not being given access to documents, with only ourselves or a small group of us having such access.
In this way, we are complicit in considering our own interests or, more accurately, those of a small group of MEPs at the expense of the interests of European citizens and their opportunity to be players in the democratic process.
As my other fellow MEP from the Group of the Party of European Socialists put it, the whole process involving public access to, and scrutiny of, documents has taken place behind closed doors.
Mr President, our rapporteur, Mr Brok, who negotiated this agreement, has already stated that we are in a whole new area here.
He also said that either party could propose that this agreement should be reviewed after two years.
Nevertheless, on behalf of my own group, I should like to draw attention to the weaknesses of the arrangement right from the start.
That is why I tabled the amendment the rapporteur has already mentioned.
I should like to stress that the exceptions in the Rules of Procedure, which Members of the European Parliament must submit to on the basis of this agreement, must be strictly linked to confidential information as mentioned in the regulation on public access, that is to say 'sensitive' documents, and no others.
Neither can the right of the Members of the European Parliament to obtain information concerning foreign and security policy, a right that is already guaranteed to them by virtue of Article 21 of the Treaty, be weakened by this agreement.
All the important political forces therefore support the transparency placed on the agenda when the Danes voted against the Treaty of Maastricht on 2 June 1992.
The Council has issued minutes relating to the working party's discussions on transparency.
We are currently debating a proposal for a compromise on Parliament's access to confidential information, but the new rules would limit that access to which all MEPs are entitled under the Treaty.
There have been individual MEPs who have exerted pressure, together with the Ombudsman and active citizens who have won one legal case after another.
The European Parliament is always ready to make demands, but it becomes silent whenever, as now, there is the possibility of a framework agreement's being entered into or a regulation on transparency's being negotiated, entailing the danger of documents at present publicly available in Denmark and Sweden being regarded as secret as soon as they are forwarded to the EU.
Nor am I happy with the new agreement, and I would call upon the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy to go to the Court of Justice in connection with those documents we cannot obtain, such as the screening reports on the candidate countries' adjustments to EU legislation.
The screening reports are very good examples of documents it should be possible for everyone here in the Chamber and in the candidate countries' parliaments to read.
Although there are gaps in the agreement, as the rapporteur himself points out when he says that Parliament has had to make concessions to the Council, it is, at least, a step towards greater democratic control.
The Justice and Home Affairs Council of 14 and 15 October discussed the framework decision on drugs, but the most recent document available on the register dates back to June.
On that basis, it seems to be a measure of the self-importance of the Members of this Parliament that they are seeking information that is not in the public domain.
The information is not to be given to all Members but to a select and privileged cartel within this Parliament.
In pursuit of more information, therefore, it would be much better if it devoted its energies to pressing for more transparency and openness from the Commission.
During the debate I became aware that, according to tomorrow's voting list, we are also going to vote on a Bureau proposal concerning the security rules, which are a precondition for adopting the interinstitutional agreement.
I would, by the way, like to tell Mrs Hautala and others that it is only when we know the documents that we can say whether their classifications are justified.
Without such a settlement, we will have difficulty in carrying on any sort of European foreign and security policy.
In this instance, therefore, all the institutions have a shared interest in finding a point from which they can all start.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
If one is dealing with Parliament, one learns that this place attaches primary importance to compromises, and it is compromises that we have worked towards very intensively.
For that, I would like to thank not only the officials of this House, who, with great commitment, kept on coming up with new formulations and proposals, and not only my own colleagues either, who had a part in this process, which - as we don't work as quickly as Elmar Brok - has in the meantime lasted nearly a year, but also the Members of this House belonging to other groups, who have made the effort to do this.
If they ask how it is that a rapporteur does not know that, it has to do with another of the realities of life in this House, that is, the fact that such last-minute agreements are often reached outside the plenary and are often not completely transparent.
It is the case that, without 314 votes, we will achieve no durable compromise, and we will make no progress without effort.
My concern is not only that unambiguous rules should be created for the Commission, but also - something in Article 93a to which I would gladly return - with working out how this Parliament should at last flex its muscles a bit more at the Council in its executive capacity, and that we should make this our concern.
The discharge of the Commission and of other bodies since the fall of the Santer Commission has become a special event in European political life.
Thirdly, in the year n+2, in other words, two years following the implementation of the budget, a clear political judgment should be given about the functioning of the Commission.
The advice given by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs meets these criteria, in my opinion.
I welcome the results and we will be voting in favour of them.
Commission. (DE) Mr President, honourable Members, although it is for Parliament to debate its own Rules of Procedure, I would like to take the opportunity to say a few words.
The discharge procedure is of course of very great importance to the Commission, and it is enshrined in the Treaty itself.
I must therefore raise the question of whether all the amendments that have been submitted are in accordance with these legal bases.
Over the last two years, Parliament has negotiated with the Council and the Court of Auditors and done very in-depth work on the recast financial regulation.
Article 146 (1) states: 'The European Parliament, acting on a recommendation from the Council, which shall act by a qualified majority, shall give a discharge to the Commission before 30 April of the year n+2 in respect of the implementation of the budget of the financial year n.
Where the time period provided for in paragraph 1 cannot be adhered to, the European Parliament or the Council shall notify the Commission of the reasons for the suspension of the discharge resolution.
Now these proposals refer to October, all of six months later.
That is, of course, not exactly a quick response within the meaning of Article 146.
This deferment procedure also involves three other difficulties.
The second is that, if it is envisaged that action will be taken, six months is again a relatively short period.
Thirdly, if these conditions are to be seen as a normal option in the Rules of Procedure themselves, there is of course the risk of suspension being regarded as a regular course of action.
Mr President, the discharge procedure is something that is particularly important.
It is one of the European Parliament's major powers and this was evident during the most serious dispute between Parliament and the Commission, which occurred on the occasion of a vote on discharge.
Secondly, we felt that it was not just the Commission but all the bodies that have their own budget which, by extension, should be subject to the scrutiny of the discharge procedure by Parliament's granting of discharge.
That said, extending the discharge procedure poses a number of problems.
The first of these problems is the danger that this procedure will go on forever without achieving results.
The second problem that we have had is a problem relating to coherence between the three votes, namely the vote on discharge, the vote on the approval of accounts and the vote on the resolution.
The report before you, which we firmly support in the PPE-DE Group, resolves the problem by combining the discharge procedure and the procedure for approval of accounts and by giving the President the possibility of avoiding putting a resolution to the vote which would contradict the provisions relating to the vote on discharge by Parliament.
The second risk was related to the equality of votes, both in committee and in Parliament, whereas the Treaty obliges us to take a decision.
The report before you does not resolve this problem in an entirely satisfactory manner, although, in my view, it does resolve it in the best possible way.
The report essentially proposes to divide the procedure into two phases: during the first phase, we shall choose between granting and postponement, at the proposal of the Committee on Budgetary Control; during the second phase, if discharge has not been granted once the postponement has expired, we shall choose whether to refuse or grant discharge.
Mr President, as we are political anoraks in the Committee on Budgetary Control and there are a lot more people listening to us tonight, I will try and explain to them what is going on because budgetary control and discharge are really not terms that normal people understand.
One of our formal responsibilities is to grant discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget.
However, there is a danger - we must not be naive about what is going on - that the whole process could be hijacked for more sinister and for more political motives.
It has become almost established practice within the Committee on Budgetary Control to postpone the discharge and to ask for more information.
That means that there are now three options.
It is much easier if we have only two options and that is what is being put to us today.
The Commissioner has a point when she says that the Commission could probably comply more quickly.
It is clear that we all want to complete it before the summer.
It is also right that the Commission should have this additional breathing space, because if Members refuse discharge and want to criticise the Commission, then it needs time to try to put things right.
The situation is clearer and the process will not be hijacked for political aims.
Mr President, the discharge procedure is one of the most important rights and duties of the European Parliament.
Parliament cannot therefore grant discharge without justification.
If there are points that need clarification that emerge later on, we can always return to them, even if discharge has been granted.
Malpractice necessitates bringing charges against the authority or authorities concerned.
The system that has now been outlined, according to which refusal of discharge would be followed by a vote on a motion for censure, is good but unclear.
If there is a motion for censure against the Commission or a Commissioner but discharge is not granted, there is a contradiction in the system.
The contradiction may be due to the fact that discharge can be refused by a simple majority but a motion for censure only by a qualified majority.
The rapporteur and I also had some good discussions.
This is a political act and not only the closure of the accounts, important as that is.
Where the three discharge options, which the rapporteur has elucidated - grant, deferment, and refusal - are concerned, I think it right to specify time periods, so that there will not be two discharge procedures running in parallel, as often happened in the past, but so that one procedure is concluded before the beginning of the next, and so that the two stages can function.
I would therefore have liked the proposal, in its three parts, to be sent back to the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Should the discrepancies between the resolution and the result of the vote, as described in paragraph 3 of the new Article 5a, occur, the Committee on Budgetary Control should be given the task of removing them and submitting the resolution to the plenary for a second time.
However, as has already been mentioned, my group's amendments have been withdrawn.
I must therefore rely on my own experience when I say, as I have done before, that, although there is in the report much that I can accept, I do not feel able to vote in favour of it if no other way is found of dealing with the issue of suspension and hence of the grant of discharge.
In this debate, however, we cannot forget the fact that underlying the discharge procedure are aims that are very clearly expressed in Article 276 and, specifically, that the European Parliament is examining the accounts and the balance-sheet setting out the Community's assets and liabilities.
The Convention has tried to live up to this task, and has, among other things, set up a working group on the simplification of procedures.
In 1999, as one of the members of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I experienced first-hand the dilemma into which we were all plunged by the Rules of Procedure - or, as one should perhaps say, the Rules of Disorderly Business.
The system now proposed is no less complex than its predecessor.
I do not believe that we should inflict such headaches on our citizens in Europe - at any rate, not in the long term.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The report emphasises three horizontal issues of great importance to the success of the strategy.
The strategy suffers from an unacceptable imbalance and a lack of strategic vision for follow-through.
The report therefore calls for an action plan with timing commitments against each major proposal, for such a plan to be endorsed by Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in time for the spring 2003 European Council and for it then to be subject to annual monitoring through the Social Agenda scoreboard, as advocated by the Council.
Parliament and the advisory committees would also need to be involved in this monitoring process.
If not, I have a clear mandate to ask for this report to be referred back to committee, where it will be reformulated to reject the Commission's strategy.
In 1992, some 130 officials were working on occupational health and safety within the European Commission.
We might disagree over the precise numbers but the Commissioner would agree there has been a dramatic reduction in the number of staff working in this area.
The third major horizontal issue in the report highlights a lack of balance between legislative and non-legislative instruments.
I am concerned that the development of non-legislative instruments should in no way be seen as an alternative to maintaining and improving Community legislation on occupational health and safety.
First, the report makes the point that, given how much more problematic health and safety are in small and medium-sized enterprises, it is regrettable that the Commission has still not launched a multiannual SME programme based on the two years' preparatory action undertaken by the Bilbao Agency on the initiative of the European Parliament.
It would facilitate the testing, analysis and dissemination of successful measures in this critical sector.
I hope it will go further and accept our call for a comprehensive directive on workplace ergonomics.
Reflecting the helpful opinion we received from the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, the report advocates the integration of a gender dimension throughout the strategy and highlights a number of specific strands of work to be tackled.
The report also welcomes benchmarking, but it takes the view that a successful benchmarking approach will need not just more comparable and reliable data but also a harmonised system of definitions, recording and reporting of occupational injuries and diseases.
None of us here should have an interest in maintaining redundant legislation, nor in making legislation complicated rather than as easy as possible to understand and implement.
I hope the Commissioner can give us the assurance we need on this action plan.
The communication entitled 'Adapting to change in work and society: a new Community strategy on health and safety at work for 2002-2006' is a strategy on health and safety for the period in question.
These elements concern the quality of work and the need to combine a variety of different political instruments such as legislation, social dialogue, progressive measures and best practices, corporate social responsibility and economic incentives.
Of course, the basis of the analysis is that health and safety issues are related to competitiveness and there is always a cost when we neglect social policies.
Firstly, and I think this must be very clear, it is not just a proposal from the Commission, it is also a Community strategy, so there is a need to include all the European partners including, at political level, the European, national and regional authorities.
There are, of course, a number of priorities concerning the need to reinforce our capacity for risk surveillance and the need for better legislation.
I totally agree with the need for simplification and codification, which is one of the commitments in the Commission strategy.
There is also a need for cooperation between the Commission and the national authorities as far as the implementation of the strategies is concerned and, at the same time, for cooperation at international level.
Some of the proposals could perhaps be examined in greater depth.
Thanks to Parliament we now have a specific budget in Bilbao for SMEs and we can discuss the details for implementing this project as well as the timetable.
The same applies to the proposal for a directive on workplace ergonomics and issues concerning the manual-handling directive.
Gender mainstreaming is a general principle in all actions in our strategy paper.
As regards benchmarking, you are right that perhaps we could find a better way to enforce the procedure.
The report specifically refers to the need to encourage Member States to use benchmarking in this area, but maybe we can discuss this together to see how it can be made more concrete.
It cannot be an obligation - we cannot oblige Member States to do it - but maybe we could present it in a more organised way to see how benchmarking can move forward.
This is one of the main commitments in the strategy.
It is not an easy task but our final goal is to simplify the provisions, see whether they are consistent and then codify them.
As he said, I have been very pleased with the way that our committees have worked together on this issue and, in particular, the cooperation with the rapporteur which has ensured that the points made by the Committee on Women's Rights have been fully taken on board.
The Commissioner agreed that gender must be mainstreamed throughout this strategy so that issues such as the effect of the double workload of paid employment and personal responsibilities and issues such as harassment in the workplace are properly addressed.
I totally support the rapporteur in his comments on the lack of resources in the Commission to deal with health and safety policy and, in particular, the need for a detailed and costed action plan and a very strict timetable for improving legislation in this very important area.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the Commission and also the rapporteur, not only the quality of his work, but also on his attitude towards the amendments presented.
And the reality in the European Union in terms of health in the workplace, without wanting to be alarmist, is that in 1999 there were 5 500 accidents resulting in fatalities, 4.8 million accidents leading to more than 3 days of inability to work, 500 million working days lost as a result of accidents or health problems, compensation payments and, what is more serious, almost 350 000 people had to change job or their place of work - around 300 000 with some degree of disability - and 15 000 will never be able to take on a new job.
Furthermore, there has been a certain worrying rise in the number of accidents in certain Member States of the Union and, in view of enlargement, there is enormous concern about the situation of the States which are candidates for - not future, but imminent - accession with average work accident rates which are above the Community average, although this can be explained, it is true, from different angles, including the importance of higher-risk sectors of activity in those countries.
The European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights states in Article 31(1) that every worker has the right to work in conditions which respect his or her health, safety and dignity.
I therefore believe that the triple aspects of the strategy are correct; the global approach ranging from professional qualifications to the working day, from demographic trends, the general development of economic activity to that of the working population, the notion that safe and healthy working environments and organisations are factors which affect the performance of the economy in general and of companies in particular and, above all, the culture of risk prevention.
Given the risk inherent in work by definition, constant and insistent action is required.
It will be necessary to use all the means allowed by the so-called social acquis, from the framework Directive to the rules laid down in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Protection is therefore going to require joint action by the whole of society, as has already been said: employers, workers, public administrations, citizens.
The culture of prevention must be insistent, to the point of boredom.
Mr President, as is apparent from what the Commissioner said this evening, we rarely disagree with the Commission on the direction we should all take when we talk about the working environment.
It is against that background, Commissioner, that we had hoped that the Commission might have been more ambitious in its working environment strategy and, in any case, when it came to following this up.
As the rapporteurs have emphasised, the situation in the area of the working environment is such that, since 1992, there have been swingeing cutbacks in the resources available to the Commission in this field.
We are concerned here with cutbacks at a time when problems in the working environment have become more complicated and extensive and when, as a matter of fact, we face new working environment problems.
We must work with different tools, we must look into prevention and we must help the national authorities.
Stress and harassment require concerted action, and we are also aware of the possible need for a general recognition of occupational illnesses in a minimum directive.
When the Commission says that it would like to be involved in timetabling, our answer must be that timetables should be made still more binding, and we must propose that a proper action plan in actual fact be prepared.
If the Commission agrees that we must have timetables and that we must make them more binding, it will hopefully - at the end of this debate in which there will presumably be more people demanding an action plan - explain to us why it does not go the whole hog, pursue this strategy further and draw up a proper action plan.
We know, of course, that this would be more binding upon the European Parliament, the Commission and, especially, the Member States.
Mr President, although I welcome some of the points in Mr Hughes' report, especially the simplification of existing Community legislation and better monitoring, I am very unhappy that my amendments on comprehensive impact assessments did not pass in committee.
My group agreed that I should table the amendments again in plenary but, unfortunately, no other group was prepared to open up the process.
Legislation should only be brought forward when we demonstrate that there is a clear need for it, rather than best practice or the exchange of best practice.
We must first make sure that existing legislation in the same field is being implemented across the European Union.
Above all, in health and safety we need to have up-to-date scientific and medical evidence to demonstrate the need for such legislation.
This brings the European Union into disrepute.
We should perhaps make it clearer to the candidate countries that the right to strike is part of the body of law, or acquis communautaire, which they are expected to introduce.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Hughes, the fact that sound reports are being produced is excellent, in my view.
In my view, the analysis is satisfactory, but certainly not solid, for the simple reason that there are far better practices in Europe than those described in this document.
After all, legislation on health and safety at work is solid legislation.
Mr President, the Commission document on health and safety at work is a good document.
It talks of the importance of health and safety at work, of the need to strengthen the prevention culture and to secure a better application of existing law.
However, for some people all roads always lead to the standard socialist solution of more money, more people and more regulation.
I note the rapporteur graciously referred to the joint amendment we tabled, which was the great highlight in committee - perhaps it could be the highlight of his report.
Meanwhile, the rapporteur wants to extend the scope of the framework directive to propose new legislation on workplace bullying and a new directive on workplace ergonomics, strengthen the display screen equipment directive and amend the manual handling directive.
Mr President, I want to thank the Commission for a sound report.
Danish employers often maintain that, unlike their opposite numbers in many other countries, they have to comply with the regulations governing the working environment.
A good example is the combating of stress and harassment as problems that can only be solved through better cooperation in the individual workplace.
Mr President, Commissioner, although the European Union has helped to improve health and safety legislation, it must be acknowledged that the situation is declining in some Member States and in some industries.
The report by Stephen Hughes quite rightly emphasises three important points: the lack of resources, the absence of an action plan, the lack of balance between the legislative and non-legislative instruments.
The report therefore calls for Community legislation to be simplified, for improvements in its implementation in the Member States and for issues relating to gender and corporate responsibility to be taken into account and for new instruments and specific measures addressing the situation in the candidate countries to be implemented.
The report highlights the need for a detailed plan to be drawn up that has financial commitments and clear deadlines for each proposal and methods of monitoring its implementation.
Lastly, we must significantly improve the health and safety of women who are pregnant or breast-feeding or who have young children.
In this area, too, there must still be room for national peculiarities and independence.
We have to maintain the level of protection that we have achieved and made into one of Europe's common assets; it must also be introduced in the candidate countries, not only on paper, but also in reality.
Paper can hang around a long time, even, and indeed especially in Europe - we all know that.
Even in a country such as France, almost 800 people die each year in work-related accidents, and several thousands are crippled for life.
Mr President, although there are different opinions on this communication, I believe we can strike a balance.
As I have said, this health and safety at work strategy is an action plan for the European Community as whole.
So we have to take account of the differences between the Member States, their different laws and definitions, the Treaty, the legal basis and the constraints on the Commission's human resources budget.
The Commission services and the Bilbao Agency have different terms of reference, but the Bilbao Agency provides support in the form of information, campaigns, analyses and studies.
In any case, I cannot commit myself to more human resources, since you all know how difficult an issue that is.
In conclusion, we can in future work together in cooperation with the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to assess the potential for more precise commitments.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The recommendation I am presenting and which we are debating in the European Parliament asks that the health and safety at work protection offered to salaried workers be extended to self-employed or independent workers.
Our thinking is based on the fact that workers who carry out their professional activity outside a working relationship with an employer or company are not generally protected by the Community directives relating to health and safety at work.
Council Directive 92/29/EEC on the minimum safety and health requirements for improved medical treatment on board vessels does not fall specifically under Directive 89/391 and what I have said about Directive 92/57 also applies to it.
And the most recent Directive, Directive 2001/45/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 June 2001 amending Council Directive 89/655/EEC concerning the minimum safety and health requirements for the use of work equipment by workers at work, refers in one of its recitals to self-employed workers, pointing out that when they personally use work equipment they may put the health and safety of employed workers at risk, as if the self-employed worker were considered a risk factor not deserving of protection from the same risks, as if they were not considered truly a worker.
A large majority of Member States do not provide legal health and safety protection for self-employed workers, and there is great diversity and heterogeneity between levels of protection.
Measures and decisions to combat the conversion of risk into accidents have traditionally appeared linked to the concept of the employed worker, perhaps because the independent self-employed worker should take responsibility for their own health and safety, a reasoning which is insufficient and unjustified.
It therefore seems that action at Community level is required, in order to ensure a minimum degree of protection for self-employed workers against professional risks, because, as well as the self-employed worker isolated in a workplace with one or more self-employed workers, the development of the employment structure, when companies are subcontracting work to micro-companies or self-employed workers, gives rise to new work safety problems: the safety of self-employed workers and that of employed or self-employed workers who work alongside them.
Self-employed workers seem to be subject to the same risks as dependent workers, but their deficient training and information may also be the cause of accidents and injuries for them and for other employed workers.
In my opinion, and I believe this is shared by everybody, the work safety protection of workers cannot depend on the legal status of each worker exposed to risks, whether they be independent, dependent or salaried.
Every worker has the right to work in conditions that respect their health, safety and dignity, according to the Charter.
The procedure for application is a recommendation which must facilitate the process, the objective of which is clear; the obligatory application to independent or self-employed workers of the same rules which are applicable to salaried workers.
Without getting into issues such as those relating to liabilities in certain types of accident, I believe that the constant and determined fight against accidents now has a new factor within the collective landscape: that offered by a culture of prevention in which the protagonists are the workers and the authorities themselves.
The purpose of this initiative is to guarantee the same level of protection for self-employed workers and employed workers and it calls on the Member States to distinguish between three types of action.
The first is to include self-employed workers within the scope of health and safety at work regulations, assuming, of course, that their national legal systems so allow.
Secondly, it calls on the Member States to take the necessary measures so that self-employed workers can access information, training and technical support on risk prevention.
The Commission therefore accepts Amendments Nos 1, 3, 5, 6, 8, 10 and 11 and will make every effort to ensure that the Council does likewise.
The Commission does not agree with Amendments Nos 2, 4, 7, 9, 12, 13, 14 and 15 because they are either included in other amendments or call for certain binding legal arrangements which prejudge the efficacy of the recommendation during its first four-year pilot application.
The Commission feels that this proposal is an important step towards ensuring that legislation benefits all Europeans, irrespective of their type of work, a step towards the final objective of reducing accidents at work and occupational illnesses.
The application of health and safety legislation to self-employed workers is an important subject, not least because of the ever-growing number of self-employed, subordinated, sub-contracted or atypical workers.
The creation of false forms of independence and self-employment can put workers who are in an employment situation beyond the framework of protection.
As Mr Pérez Álvarez has pointed out this evening, the issue was also tackled in the framework of the directive on temporary and mobile work sites, but in a fairly limited way.
We therefore needed a more comprehensive approach and this recommendation may prove to be a useful contribution.
The Commissioner will say that the legal base in Article 137 will not permit this.
If not, imagine the sort of problems we face in relation to, for example, the proposed directive we are currently considering on protection of workers from risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
They need the information, the support and training to understand the risks they run if they take short cuts.
The recommendation is a very useful contribution in that respect.
I should above all like to focus on one element in this report in which reference is made to the Commission's approach, which has been relatively cautious so far.
This is not only important for the workers' own health, safety and well-being, but also for that of those indirectly involved.
In other words, changes do need to be made, particularly if you consider current legislation in the different countries and realise that some countries include the self-employed in their occupational health and safety legislation to some extent, while other countries do not at all.
As the Commissioner will know from the 'falls from heights' directive, it was pretty clear that we needed a very strong political message to cover the self-employed.
Everyone in Europe must enjoy the same level of protection.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
It was only the degree to which all the institutions were committed to working together that made it possible for the new financial regulation to be adopted unanimously by the Council on 25 June 2002.
The new financial regulation forms a fundamental part of the reform of the Commission, and I am proud of our having achieved this feat of strength in 2002.
The Commission favours such a tightening-up of the procedures.
It is proposed in the report, with reference to the summary of the annual activity reports of the authorising authorities, that the requirement that such a summary should be submitted to the discharge authority should apply not only to the Commission, but also to the other institutions.
As regards the demand for the drawing up of a list of all persons with the right of access to the electronic accounting system and the creation of an audit trail clearly showing what changes have been made to the system and by whom, I am able to inform you that the Commission is already in possession of both of these.
My sixth point is that, in Amendment No 17, you demand that the budgetary authority should be informed of all waivers of recovery of debt in excess of EUR 100 000.
The Commission will take this on board as well.
I repeat my offer to inform the Committee on Budgetary Control as soon as possible concerning the proposals that the Commission has made here.
Mr President, if this debate was scheduled at this time because of the Conference of Presidents' suspected interest in the subject matter, they were probably right.
I have to say it is a shame that two of the three committee members who voted against the report in committee and, therefore, triggered a debate in plenary, are not here today to explain their objections to the report.
I would like to thank the committee members who supported me in drawing up this report and giving it near unanimous backing in committee.
Thanks are due also to the Commission for the excellent cooperation we have again had on this report.
Many of the amendments contained in the committee's report are technical in nature.
I will request that a report be submitted to the budgetary authority and that the accounting officer and internal auditor be appointed on the basis of a vacancy notice in the Official Journal.
What we want to avoid is a system where peers are assessing peers.
The introduction of an independent external element is, therefore, important, and I welcome the fact that you have accepted that proposal.
Thirdly, there is the matter of improving the quality and integrity of the computerised accounting system, something you also mentioned.
I realise that the Commission is already doing this, and it is important the other institutions should be required to follow.
The final point I want to mention is late payments and the need to bring commercial payments in line with the relevant directive.
The PPE-DE is retabling an amendment that was rejected in committee, proposing to create a fully independent accounting officer with no lines of accountability and responsibility within the Commission.
Great formal power does not necessarily mean better decision-making, as we know.
With regard to the amendments by the GUE/NGL Group, I can agree in spirit with Amendment No 34 on the need for the accounting officer to have full information, but in practice it would lead to a huge bureaucracy, with 600 000 payments going through one single person.
There are two criteria: one on competition and one on economic and social damage caused by a debt if it is recovered.
The GUE/NGL Group wants to scrap this possibility for authorising officers.
To conclude, I think these amendments strengthen the proposal and I call on the Commission to incorporate them all into the final text.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what would a regulation such as the EU's Financial Regulation be without rules for its implementation?
That is also precisely why it is so important that the so-called accounting officer should be in a clearly defined and independent position.
Mr President, I should like to place this debate in a political context: ultimately, we are in the European Parliament, which is supposed to be the most representative political body, and the one in closest contact with the citizens.
The structure of the budgetary authority as defined in the Treaties, and the still inadequate role in budgetary policy allotted to Parliament require and justify particular attention to the control and monitoring of budgetary implementation.
The truth is that the monitoring of budgetary implementation can only be effective and useful if it is underpinned by principles of transparency and clarity and is supported by rules that are at once ambitious and simple.
This is clearly the aim of the new financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities, which will enter into force on 1 January 2003, and, specifically, the aim of the new implementing rules proposed by the Commission.
The current budgetary framework is acknowledged to be a precarious one, which does not respond fully to the Union's political priorities.
Consequently, and in the absence of a revision of the financial perspective that could increase the volume of resources available to the European Union, it is becoming mandatory for the European Parliament to make full use of all its competences and prerogatives.
The principles of unity and universality enshrined in the rules contained in the new regulation - albeit in embryonic form - and which the rapporteur strengthens, as well as the status conferred on internal hearings at the initiative of the rapporteur for each institution are, in my opinion, extremely important and significant steps forward.
The reform of the Financial Regulation began with the report in 1999 by the external committee of experts commonly known as the Five Wise Men.
The report mentioned the importance of both simplifying financial administration and clarifying personal accountability.
The reform is partly linked to the Commission's administrative reform.
The rules for implementation now being discussed are connected with this new Financial Regulation.
For that reason, Amendments Nos 33 and 34, for example, are not acceptable, as they would allow for responsibility for execution to be shared once again by two people, the authorising officer and the accounting officer.
The system has to be clear and transparent.
It is therefore vital that the accounting officer has a strong and independent position.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Schreyer, if we are to take the Commission at its word when it makes these statements, then the new Financial Regulation is leading us into a new era of financial management, in which we will be able to resolve the problems of the past.
Of course, Mrs Schreyer, we welcome the way that you are doing that any way, as these rules of implementation do not apply to the Commission alone, but are in future to be applicable to all the EU institutions.
Let me pick out a number of points on which we should be asking the Commission to think again, if not to make improvements.
Take the accounting officer: according to this proposal, the institutions have to select their accounting officers from the ranks of the civil service.
It is my belief, Commissioner, that such would be a false assessment and would lead us into renewed disaster.
Mr President, I wish to use this minute to congratulate the rapporteur on the magnificent work he has produced to date, which leaves us an extremely positive legacy, but which also commits him to the future and requires him, in the implementation of this regulation and specifically in all aspects concerning the accounting system that will be implemented, to respond as effectively as he has done in the case of the Financial Regulation.
I wish to say to Commissioner Schreyer that I have listened closely to everything she said, especially her approach to one of the points that I believe to be crucial: the issue of the directive on payments, which is included in this implementing regulation.
I believe this to be an extremely positive point and I wish, therefore, to congratulate the Commission, but there is no doubting that the great challenge is to see how this regulation will be implemented, both in the accounting system and in the financial management system.
Commission. (DE) Mr President, I would like to return to some of the points that have been made.
That is, of course, also the way in which the Commission and other offices administering public expenditure are accountable to the body which legislates on the budget.
For that, we need more information in the accounting system.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.45 p.m.)
