Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is now the second occasion in just a few months on which we have come together in the Chamber to discuss the situation of the car industry in Europe.
Regretfully, I have to say that the situation has worsened since our last debate.
In the last quarter of 2008, sales of new cars fell by 20% and car production by 29%.
In January and February of this year, the sales figures dropped by 29% and 18% respectively.
Overall production of cars and commercial vehicles in Europe is likely to fall by between 20-30%.
This means that around 5 million fewer vehicles will be produced in Europe in 2009 than in 2007.
In October 2008, we made the first recommendations in the CARS 21 group for overcoming the crisis, including the involvement of the European Investment Bank and the scrappage incentives.
On 25 February the Commission presented a concept which was approved a few days later by the European Council and the Competitiveness Council.
What we want to do now is to maintain the integrity of the European internal market, avoid protectionism and preserve the solidarity of the Member States, in order to save jobs in the car industry.
I would like to state very clearly at this point that the industry itself must make the first moves.
The European Investment Bank, which I would like to thank very much for its cooperation, is also working on a special programme for the medium-sized companies in the automotive supply industry which have been particularly hard hit by the crisis.
This is needed in order to put European industry in a good position for the period after the crisis, so that it can really benefit from the positive development which we are expecting then.
In April we will hold our first round table with representatives of the industry, the workforce and the Member States in order to discuss the social dimension of the crisis and our response to it.
However, I would advise companies to provide vocational training now for their employees in order to improve their chances of finding jobs either in the car industry or in other sectors of the economy.
I would like to say something about the situation of a specific manufacturer, General Motors in Europe, which is made up of Opel, Vauxhall and Saab.
I am not of the opinion that the disappearance of General Motors production sites in Europe would help to solve the capacity problem in the European car industry and is therefore to be welcomed.
Therefore, it is important for us to know what will happen in the United States.
I am pleased that all the European governments with General Motors sites in their countries have agreed not to go it alone, but instead to work together on the European part of the solution.
In addition, it must be possible to provide economic as well as political justification for the solution.
The jobs at General Motors in Europe are too important to allow them to be dragged into elections or the politics of national interest.
We have in place a European plan with coordinated measures both at EU and at Member State level.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Verheugen very much for bringing up this subject and to congratulate him on his success in coordinating the European measures and preventing individual Member States from going it alone during a meeting of ministers on 13 March.
We have requested a debate on the basis of your written report because we believe that the crisis is so serious that the European Parliament must discuss it.
I would like to repeat some of what you have said.
With a total of 12 million jobs dependent on the car industry, annual investments of EUR 20 billion, an annual turnover of EUR 780 billion and added value of EUR 140 billion, it is a very important industry, which has got into difficulties partly through its own fault - I am thinking here of the overcapacity and the model policies of some manufacturers - but in general terms mainly because of the effects of the international crisis on the financial markets.
My group will vote in favour of the amendment from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament on paragraph 5, to refer specifically to the special case of General Motors, so that with a broad majority we can encourage the Commission to offer workers job security and to open up new prospects for the car industry.
The European automotive industry is the sector's world leader in technological terms.
Where necessary the European Investment Bank must be recapitalised so as to be able to aid the restructuring of the sector and its thousands of subcontractors, which are essentially SMEs.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Verheugen, once again we are meeting to discuss the subject of cars, and rightly so.
However, the EIB needs to be better equipped.
I would like to look more closely at General Motors.
Daimler and the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority have recently taken this type of step, so it should also be possible for us.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, what concerns us most in this debate are the workers in the car industry.
Something which makes me a little suspicious, Commissioner, is the considerable influence of the CARS 21 group and the influence of the industry in the process which is being kick-started here.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the car industry is unfortunately too late in the day and also inadequate in content.
We need to set guidelines for action, by which I mean that firms must not lay people off when they are being given aid, that the aid must be linked to innovation as laid down in the climate-change package and the Sacconi regulation, and that relocations and competition between EU Member States must stop.
My group has tabled amendments on all of these points.
In other words we need a new policy, one that this Europe does not appear to have and one that we must create before social hardship becomes so severe that we cannot give our workers any definite answers. - (SK) The dramatic fall in global demand for cars has also affected Europe.
In the final quarter of 2008, European car sales showed an annual decline of over 19% and they are still falling.
The situation is made more difficult by the fact that these rules do not take account of global competition, particularly from the US.
We have asked the automotive industry to achieve an average reduction of 120 mg by 2012 and a further 25 mg reduction by 2020.
We should add to this the fact, which has already been mentioned by some of my fellow Members, that the automotive industry directly or indirectly employs 12 million workers in Europe, that is, 6% of the European workforce.
If Europe is serious about giving its car industries the means to meet the CO2 targets we have set and if, on the other hand, we want to keep people in their jobs, which is a problem for our continent right now, then we need to implement a coordinated strategy for providing aid to this sector.
However, such policies must form part of a single Community strategy for preventing dangerous market distortions. (DE) Mr President, I would like to state very clearly that I fully support everything that the Commissioner has said.
In my country, Austria, many thousands of workers are directly or indirectly affected by the crisis.
This also applies to our neighbour, Slovakia, and many other countries.
Our demands have not yet been adequately met by the Commission or by the Council, either from the point of view of support for demand or in terms of external competition with appropriate support for exports.
Incentives to coordinate the EU-wide scrapping of all types of protectionism; refinancing, including by the European Investment Bank, of credit lines targeted at this sector; incentives for environmentally friendly and hybrid cars only; more funds for research into clean engines; and effective action within the World Trade Organization to create conditions of real reciprocity within the global car market are the most significant requests of those who do not wish to encourage the deindustrialisation of Europe in one of its crucial high-added-value and employment sectors. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Verheugen has stressed the need to be very careful not to propose or support protectionist measures.
I should like to remind him that, across the Atlantic, such measures are being taken and they obviously benefit European manufacturers' competitors.
European producers must be encouraged to invest in research in order to guarantee the future of an industrial sector of excellence, one that also includes car-production ancillary companies, which today are also suffering from the European banks' policy of withholding funds. (PT) We should not forget that last November we had exactly the same debate in this House, when it was already clear that we were facing a crisis in the capitalism system, which required fundamental changes to increase the purchasing power of the majority of the population.
However, we also need to pay particular attention to countries with more fragile economies, such as Portugal, by increasing financial support to prevent unemployment and to help micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises in the car industry, associated sectors and the parts industry and also small repair shops. (FR) Mr President, globalisation gone mad and its mad exponents are making European automotive workers pay a high price for the consequences of their fundamentalist open-market and free-trade order.
However, in another very important respect, it is also a problem that has to do with overcapacity.
This prompts me to say that if we are to succeed in retaining a successful car industry in Europe with all the opportunities that entails for technical development, healthy employment and the role that the car industry plays in the European economy, the state aid that is currently granted by the Member States must be used to guarantee its survival through the recession and the financial crisis, but not to distort competition between Member States or between car manufacturers.
Also in light of the terrible data relating to redundancies and unemployment benefit measures, I call on the Commission to submit more effective proposals on the best use of the Social Fund and the Globalisation Adjustment Fund. (SV) Mr President, what we are experiencing now is both a financial crisis and a climate crisis.
Furthermore, I believe that the European Parliament's activity in Strasbourg should be discontinued. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the car industry is one of the key industries of the European economy and one that has a great deal at risk with the current crisis.
Now is the time also to offer strategic, clear and courageous certainties to European producers and workers with - I wish to stress this point - a support plan that gives the same opportunities to all the Member States.
We, Europe, must now take control of and lead the switchover to a sustainable automotive sector, something that is only possible if we guide the sector through this severe and life-threatening recession.
Hence this call, Commissioner Verheugen, to you and to the Commission.
The social partners, and certainly the employees' representatives, must be closely involved in this European recovery plan, as this issue is also a litmus test for social dialogue at European level.
Please, let us not allow the situation to go to the dogs. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the Commissioner for his speech, but also for his bold actions over the last few weeks and months concerning the car industry and his clear statement that a solution must be found for General Motors, because the company is needed, in particular in relation to the strategy on new drive systems.
I would like to thank him very sincerely.
In our resolution we have discussed short-term measures.
However, we should also speak about medium-term measures, as the CARS 21 group of experts has done, and about harmonising car tax rates.
We are in a time of crisis and we should start these measures now.
The 27 finance ministers should make a joint effort. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, you yourself already said that we cannot have a debate about the motor industry without also saying something today about General Motors.
That is also what you, personally, would like to see - a European approach rather than a national one - yet such a European approach is also only possible if you involve the European Works Council in the debate and if that European Works Council is given all the information the law stipulates it should receive.
It is my belief that these funds must also be used in a preventative manner.
Last week I met the Luton workers, one of whom told me that IBC's chances of survival are just 50/50, in a town which has had vehicle production for more than 80 years, and where 50% of jobs are still in manufacturing.
In view of this economic downturn affecting the whole of Europe, I believe that national governments and the European Commission must join efforts to support the car industry.
I therefore invite decision makers to reflect on this example and propose a viable strategy for supporting the European car industry during the current global economic crisis. (ES) Madam President, I must thank the Commissioner for his willingness and efficiency in inviting all the interested parties to prevent and solve the problems of Opel Europa, and also the car industry, which is certainly a competitive industry, faced with the global problems of General Motors in the United States.
On behalf of the 7 000-plus workers at Opel's Figueruelas plant, I ask you to please do more. (DE) Madam President, if Europe provides money and, in particular, if the Member States provide a lot of money to help the car industry out of its crisis, it cannot only be a question of maintaining the status quo and preventing bankruptcies, because a number of other concerns are involved.
This is about ensuring that people who are looking for jobs and who need jobs can find them in the long term.
Therefore, we must provide more support for new technologies, innovation and, most importantly, for sustainable transport systems than we have done in the past.
For this reason, we should link all our measures to these objectives, so that we do not have to reproach ourselves in a few years time with the fact that, if we had thought about this years ago, we would not be in the next new crisis. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, the crisis is a test of EU cohesion.
Unfortunately, governments are adopting short-term measures on an individual basis, such as the scrappage schemes which are not coordinated, although they have brought instant positive results to combat the crisis.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you first of all for the unity in this House and for your broad support for the Commission's policy.
The goal of our policy is to ensure that the European car of the future is the most innovative, in other words, the cleanest, most energy-efficient and safest, in the world.
I have confidence that our manufacturers, our technical specialists and our engineers can achieve this.
I would like to move on to a second subject, in other words, financing in the crisis.
The European Investment Bank is now our all-purpose tool.
I must state quite clearly that the European Investment Bank has already reached the limits of what it is able to do.
The Commission proposed this a long time ago and I am very sad that some Member States did not follow this proposal at the time.
However, I hope to be able to return the favour in future.
The incentives have also had a positive cross-border impact.
Mrs Roithová, your country in particular has benefited very much from the generous incentive schemes in other European Member States.
The vote will take place tomorrow (Wednesday, 25 March 2009).
The EU and Member States can contribute to this by helping to create appropriate conditions and suitable prerequisites for competition.
It is good that the second debate on the crisis in the automotive industry acknowledges the motions of the European Parliament which were presented during the debate in February.
The car manufacturing industry is a sector which employs roughly 2.3 million workers and on which another 10 million jobs are indirectly dependent.
To be able to preserve jobs and a decent living for employees in the car manufacturing industry, it is important for companies to have access to finances.
I urge the Commission to make sure that European funds, such as the European Social Fund and the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, will be used so that employees in the car manufacturing industry can receive training and support when they are affected by the companies in this sector experiencing a drop in activity.
