The fact is that the latter is losing its effectiveness, forfeiting any opportunity to exert influence once countries have joined the 'club', which is why the EU must not repeat this mistake with Turkey. (PL) Mr President, I should like to refer to Mrs Kudrycka's report on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Community and Ukraine on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas.
in writing. - (PT) This agreement between the European Community and Ukraine on the facilitation of issuance of short-stay visas is to be signed in parallel with the readmission agreement as these are 'mutually conditional'.
What the rapporteurs have failed to realise is that there is a need for the effective implementation of measures aimed at facilitating issuance of visas to broader sections of Ukrainian society, or even a non-discriminatory visa exemption regime such as Ukraine provides for citizens of the various EU countries.
in writing. - (DE) For far too long, the EU has given a helping hand to countries around the globe while failing to make these monies conditional on the readmission of illegal immigrants.
in writing. - (PT) This agreement between the European Community and Moldova on the facilitation of issuance of short-stay visas is to be signed in parallel with the readmission agreement as these are 'mutually conditional', just the same as with the agreements with Russia and Ukraine.
There is a need for the effective implementation of measures aimed at facilitating issuance of visas to broader sections of Moldovan society, or even a non-discriminatory visa exemption regime such as Moldova provides for citizens of the various EU countries.
The European Parliament's Committee on Culture and Education should be closed down because it deals with matters which are outside the scope of cooperation within the EU.
Cultural issues are also a matter for the Member States, and the Union is currently engaged in very limited cooperation relating to various cultural programmes.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - (PT) The objective of the Commission proposal for a new Council regulation on the collection of data in the fisheries sector is to develop long-term sampling programmes which are well-integrated at regional level and which include ecological, economic, environmental and social data.
in writing. - (PT) This proposal aims to replace, from 2008, Council Regulation (EC) No 1543/2000 establishing a Community framework for the collection and management of data needed to conduct the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - It is only right that small groups do not have disproportional influence in this Parliament.
Thus I welcome this reduction in representation by the non-attached on the Conference of Presidents where until now a handful of Members had a higher level of representation than political groups with more than 200 members. (DE) Mr President, I said what I had to say during the explanations of vote, in order to save time during the voting.
I am pleased that Parliament has adopted this report by an overwhelming majority, also because I am aware that there have been very arduous and intensive discussions in the Council working groups.
in writing. - (PT) The Commission is responsible for producing Community statistics by coordinating the necessary harmonisation of the statistical information, while collection of the data is done by Member States on subjects such as definition of variables, breakdown, dates of implementation and frequency, and so on.
A coordinated European plan is necessary, and for this it is essential to determine the level of protection in the Member States.
in writing. - I voted against the Jordan Cizelj report on the Euratom Supply Agency.
Europe must strive to make more of our renewable energy potential and work to phase out the need for nuclear. (PL) Mr President, I should like to explain why I voted as I did regarding this very important resolution.
Less and less physical activity is being practised in individual Member States of the European Union, and sport is taken ever less seriously, despite its significant social and cultural role.
I also support the modernisation of activities in the area of physical education, especially those aimed at establishing a balance between physical and intellectual activities in schools.
We chose to vote against the statements in paragraphs 10, 24 and 47.
in writing. - UKIP approves of greater investment in and participation in sport.
in writing. - I wholeheartedly give my backing to the Schmitt report on the role of sport in education.
I voted in favour of this report because it deals with a matter that is particularly important for the health of a whole generation of young Europeans, and therefore for their lives as a whole.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this own-initiative report, encouraging all EU member states to require physical education to be included for all school-aged children.
Encouraging physical activity among young people will help deal with problems of obesity and general lack of fitness, along with all the secondary health problems that arise over time from these consequences of a lack of activity.
We cannot forget in particular that these people will have health problems throughout their life which will have considerable social and economic effects on the organisation and future of our societies.
Another important fact is the evidence that the time allocated to physical education across the EU has been gradually eroded.
I voted in favour of this report which aims to help ensure that positive measures are taken to encourage health in the new generations.
in writing. - (FR) The need to encourage the youth of Europe to take up sport has surely never been as relevant as it is today.
This is why I fully share the message being put across by Mr Schmitt in his own-initiative report calling for more compulsory physical education from primary-school level.
This battle is far from being won: the average child now watches two hours of TV a day, which is a lot more than the 109 minutes a week that schools set aside for PE lessons.
It is difficult to see why the EU in particular should regulate in detail the number of hours of physical education at school, not only for primary school pupils but also for secondary school pupils.
in writing. - As a former teacher of physical education, I will be supporting the Schmitt report because it addresses not only the need to ensure that physical education is taught in schools but that Member States must also ensure adequate training for physical education teachers.
Health and physical education is as important as maths and sciences, yet you would not know that if you entered many of our schools.
in writing. - After some consideration and serious doubts with the word "fully” in paragraph 8, I have voted in favour of paragraphs 8 and 10 of the Prodi report, as on balance I feel there is a need for an EU framework directive in the area of soil protection to fill in the gaps.
With 300 soil types in Europe, only 9 Member States with national legislation in place, and the challenge of climate change before us, there is added value in an even-handed EU approach in addressing the international challenges caused by deforestation and decline in water quality, serious soil erosion, floods and landslides and ensuring safe food production.
in writing. - (PT) I regard the Commission's assessment as important and I agree with the strategy proposed on the protection of soil, a non-renewable resource that provides vital services to human activities and to the survival of ecosystems.
Amendment 8: I do not consider that an EU framework directive is fully justified.
in writing. - (EL) The Commission's proposal on soil protection is generalised and vague.
in writing. - I voted for this first reading report on Commission plans to protect soil.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report but voted against paragraphs 8 and 10 as I do not accept that there is a need for additional legislation relating to soil protection.
in writing. - (PT) Protection of the environment is a politically important issue in Europe which has developed rapidly in recent years and in which research continues to be a priority for the Union.
The need for specific protection measures within a new European framework in this area therefore makes total sense.
We recognise that, in the main, soil is in private ownership, but also that soil is a natural resource of public interest and therefore must be preserved for the benefit of future generations.
A plan of action and measures need to be devised at European level, obviously with due account for national circumstances and within a framework of subsidiarity and cooperation with the Member States.
Moreover, it is vitally important that all 27 Member States should have a minimum level of legislation in this area and that education and awareness-raising campaigns be introduced.
in writing. - (PL) Multi-faceted protection of the soil is one of the main challenges for environmental protection at international level.
Such a European strategy would be based on prevention, and would aim to raise public awareness and to persuade the public of the need for soil protection.
It should be noted that it is important to establish a clear demarcation between this directive and other European legislative standards relating to soil protection in order to avoid regulatory duplication.
in writing. - The EPLP voted against paragraphs 8 and 10 of the Prodi report on Thematic Strategy for Soil Protection as it has not been proven that there is a need for a framework directive for soil protection.
As is the case for small cars, exemptions must be in place for small aircraft under 20 tonnes in order to avoid any disproportionality.
I am strongly in favour of a single starting date for both intercontinental and internal flights.
The goal of reducing global warming by two degrees by the year 2020 involves convincing the rest of the world first of all.
in writing. - The Emission Trading Scheme is the most effective way of dealing with climate change emissions and to facilitate the EU in reaching its target of 20-30% by 2020.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the Liese report on the proposal to amend Directive 2003/87/EC so as to include aviation activities in the scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading as I consider that including the aviation sector in this scheme is vital for mitigating the effects of climate change.
Aviation's contribution to climate change is substantial and growing rapidly which is why this proposal for a directive represents an important step in meeting the ambitious greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets in the European Union.
However, it is essential to adopt measures so that this directive takes account of the situation in the outermost regions in order to prevent the social and economic impact of the emissions scheme on these regions being too high.
We regret that the inclusion of the outermost regions in the EU territory and of all the flights arriving at or departing from European airports has not been taken into account in the impact assessment for this directive.
This impact will be greater in those regions than in Europe on average, both due to the use of aircraft by their inhabitants and due to the impact of tourism on regional development.
I did not support the report that seeks to include CO2 emissions from aviation activities in the European Union's scheme for emissions trading.
in writing. - (PL) Ladies and gentlemen, the Polish Members decided to vote against this report for a very simple reason, namely that not one of our comments was taken into account.
I should like to point out that Polish aviation was very well prepared for reductions of CO2 emissions within the framework of meeting the Kyoto Protocol obligations (36% of 6% obligations) and CO2 emissions are not a problem for countries like ours.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this first reading report on the Commission's proposal to include the aviation sector in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme, also backing the amendments to reduce authorised emissions from the proposed 100% level to 90%.
I also supported Socialist Group amendments to include all flights originating and terminating in the EU, but unfortunately other parties did not back these and they did not pass.
Aviation is an important and fast-growing source of GHG emissions, and taking action to curb those emissions is vital in the fight against climate change.
in writing. - (PT) The adoption of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the European Union and other industrialised countries is under way and this Commission proposal to include aviation in the emission allowance trading scheme is an important element in the set of measures to be adopted internationally.
This is why the EU must adopt a firm position with solutions that are actually effective in terms of protecting the environment, whilst defending our industries and our freedoms.
in writing. - I have voted in favour of the Liese report, even though I have doubts about its practicality and its implementation.
in writing. - (DA) I voted in favour of the final version of the Liese report, as it was a small step forwards in comparison to the Commission proposal.
However, the report leaves much to be desired in relation to the steps necessary in order to combat climate change, and therefore demonstrates that the European Parliament is not at the forefront of this battle.
I voted in favour of Amendments 77, 81 and 82, to allow air traffic to continue to survive in Europe's remotest regions.
