The proposal is also of great importance for Europe as a centre for research.
The fact is that the regulation does not actually lay down whether or not medicines are ethically acceptable, and in this respect, we are abiding strictly by the subsidiarity principle, for ethical matters are reserved to the Member States, and we, in the European Union, cannot end up in a situation in which one of them can impose its ethical convictions on another; that is not on.
Despite the amendments proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs, then, we should not remove ethically problematic products - those derived from embryonic stem cells, for example - from the scope of the regulation.
I should like to seize this opportunity to thank the Commission for its proposal.
The final report was adopted by a large majority.
There is a broad consensus within Parliament that the report by the Committee on the Environment, as presented for the vote in this House, is excellent.
As rapporteur, I have to respect the diversity of 27 sets of legislation relating to embryonic stem cell research, from the complete freedom of research to the prohibition of killing embryos for research purposes.
As an elected representative of this House, I have the responsibility to listen to all opinions, to marry positions and to propose to our citizens a text which can be considered as modern, progressive and respecting universal principles and values such as human dignity.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - Mr President, Commissioner, first of all I should like to thank the Commissioner for his remarks about this proposal and report.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his work, but I have to respectfully disagree with him with regard to the two amendments from the Committee on Legal Affairs which seemed to me, and to many on my committee, to be pushing in exactly the opposite, retrogressive direction to that of this proposal.
I would like to remind everybody that the world around us is changing technologically, socially (although manners may not be changing), scientifically, and, as we can see in this report, biomedically.
Mr Mikol치코ik, you also said that we should have a first-reading agreement.
If you read Article 30 of the Treaty, you are exactly sure that it says that public morality is always a reason to make sure that a Member State can ban something.
Mr President, Commissioner, Secretary of State, given that the rapporteur has already done so at length, I do not wish to launch into a detailed description of advanced therapies.
Things must be made clear, as clear as our Amendment 62, which is in the package, and validated by the legal services of the three institutions, I should also like to point out: the Member States and they alone will decide which research and which products will be available on their territory.
Nothing will be imposed on them that contravenes their national legislation on ethical matters.
For that reason, I formally reject Amendments 3 and 17 tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs, together with the package of amendments endorsed by Mr Gargani and others.
Such decisions must be taken on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity and must remain within the national competence of each Member State.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, imagine someone who is in financial difficulty and who is racking their brains to find a way of making ends meet.
I therefore hope that we can keep these products outside the scope of this regulation out of continued respect for the dignity of the human body and for the choices of the individual Member States.
European patients therefore need to be able to have access to these revolutionary products, on a non-discriminatory basis, because of the potential that they offer.
It is also important to guarantee that these products are safe and effective.
I particularly support the technical package that Mrs Roth-Behrendt has tabled in the form of amendments and that takes up all of the points of agreement that were reached during the various informal trialogues with the Council and the Commission.
I absolutely regret Amendments 3 and 17 tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs.
Amendments 3 and 17 put patients' safety in real danger by excluding certain products from the very strict public heath requirements laid down by the regulation.
It is extremely important that issues as sensitive and complex as this are dealt with under the codecision procedure.
Regrettably, and not unexpectedly, some reactionary elements are falsely claiming that this proposal overrides Member States' rights on ethical issues.
This amounts to a distortion of values and to putting the brakes on scientific research that complies with the principles of respect for human dignity. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we should be clear in our own minds about the fact that all those who have given their attention to this regulation want to help patients; Mr Mikol치코ik is a doctor, and so am I.
Amendment 127 provides for SMEs working in tandem with a hospital to be exempted from the requirement for a European license.
Consequently, I do not understand why there is all this debate, when the world is waiting for new therapies, when there are chronic illnesses and when patients' hopes are very high.
For these therapies and medicines increasingly represent life and death.
This is one of those occasions when it is really important for us to exercise our powers carefully and responsibly and let this matter be finalised. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can say that I agree with the rapporteur and therefore am also in favour of the two points included in Amendments 3 and 17, in line with the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as all the amendments proposed by that committee.
The first one is, 'Does the end justify the means?' I recall that in Article 2 of the Oviedo Convention on bioethics we wrote that the interests and welfare of the human being shall prevail over the sole interest of society or science.
It is now being stated that there is a legal error affecting both the draft currently under debate and the 2001 directive.
Supporters of that view argue that pursuant to Article 95 of the Treaty, which aims at full harmonisation of the market, citing it as a legal basis for a draft regulation on advanced therapy products implies creating an open European market for these products.
The need for high-quality products for everyone in Europe means that it is true to say, as some of you have, that what is on the agenda today is in fact life itself, improved quality of life and the chance of new life.
Application of the subsidiarity principle ensures that national legislation - and I would draw Mrs Breyer's attention to the example of stem cells - is not touched by the regulation.
I might add that it is also a fact of life for all of us that, while we do well to pay attention to what our consciences tell us, we cannot make that a yardstick for the conduct of others.
On this issue, for example, my conscience tells me that I could not take upon myself the responsibility not only for leaving this new medical sector in a legal no-man's land, but also for putting it in a situation in which - in certain parts of Europe at any rate - everything would be possible, with no legal bounds set and no stipulations as to quality.
As regards the principle that the human body should not be exploited for commercial gain, I would say, yes, that is indispensable, and you will find nobody who is more in agreement with that than I am.
I would like to make it plain that it is a misreading of the Treaty to say that Article 95 - the internal market article, that is - would not guarantee that no products would be licensed that a Member State did not want to see licensed.
Finally, the technical package has been described as inadequate, and to that I have to say that the Council and the Commission really have been extremely willing to make compromises in order to get this dossier wrapped up early.
