Use by Parliament of the symbols of the Union (new Rule 202a) (debate) The next item is the report by Carlos Carnero González, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on insertion in Parliament's Rules of Procedure of a new Rule 202a on the use by Parliament of the symbols of the Union.
The flag is not intended to be an icon, but to be used in our everyday lives to strengthen the unity for which we are known.
Thus if we say that the crisis we are all experiencing - and I am referring not only to the economic crisis, but also to Europe's present institutional and moral crisis - is a symbol of these difficult times, I think the EU's response must be united action.
I hope that by using the flag, anthem and motto more often we will all be reminded of the values that are vital to the existence of the European Union but, at the same time, we must remember that how we behave is most important of all.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (DE) Mr President, I fully support the parliamentary initiative on the flag and the anthem.
Now, the European Parliament - which of course is the only EU body for which citizens can vote - is in the process of reintroducing them.
Displaying these symbols at all levels and in all institutional areas will ensure that there is a constant reminder of the values that inspire Europe.
It is duplicitous to maintain that a decision on reinstating them may be taken internally by one of the European institutions.
The European Parliament is a legislative body.
In this case, however, it must be understood that a broader political dimension is involved, as the rapporteur pointed out.
The answer is 'none'.
The European Parliament is right to proceed as usual today with the formal adoption of these symbols.
So symbols are a necessary part of democracy that the EU regards as being central to its identity.
By introducing regulations concerning the use by the European Parliament of the European Union symbols in the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Parliament is sending a strong political signal.
The Parliament celebrates Europe Day on 9 May.
This is what our flag, our anthem, our motto and Europe Day represent.
Of course, I feel Spanish because I am European and European because I am Spanish.
The vote will take place today at 11 a.m.
In this process, the European symbols are a crucial linking element for developing a positive identity at European level, complementary to and not replacing well-established national identities.
in writing. - I support the introduction in the Rules of an official recognition of our European flag, the European anthem Ode to Joy, a European Day on 9 May and the motto of 'Unity in Diversity'.
