2009 budget: First reflections on the 2009 PDB and mandate for the conciliation (debate) The next item is the report by Jutta Haug, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the 2009 budget: First reflections on the 2009 Preliminary Draft Budget and mandate for the conciliation - Section III - Commission (2008/2025).
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, what should the budget for the European Union for the year 2009 look like, and what could it look like?
After the resolution on the Budgetary Framework and Priorities for 2009 in April comes our resolution 'First reflections on the 2009 Preliminary Draft Budget and mandate for the conciliation'.
Nevertheless, such techniques have been used - for example, the backloading of multiannual programmes; the fact that known and easily discerned needs for financing are not taken into account; and the non-budgeting of the Guarantee Fund estimated at EUR 200 million a year.
The Commission claims to have earmarked almost EUR 14 billion in the budget for the environment, but closer inspection reveals that, of this EUR 13.842 billion, EUR 13 billion is already allocated to the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the Cohesion Fund and the European Regional Development Fund.
The 2009 budget should provide a specific SME facility available to SMEs, who must first sue for their debts.
I do not wish to address now the insufficient budgeting to meet the requirements of food aid, food security, Kosovo, Palestine, Afghanistan; indeed, of the whole of heading 4.
Therefore, while fully appreciating your concerns, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the 2009 Preliminary Draft Budget was prepared by the Commission within the limits of the financial programming period 2007-2013 after thoroughly assessing the economic and social development forecasts and establishing a well-founded, adequate margin that provides for unforeseen challenges.
With the aim of having a budget for 2009 that would reflect the European Union's foreign policy goals along with the full participation of the Union in international activities, the Commission will, in the very near future, table an amendment to the draft, providing accurate calculations for the financing of Palestine and Kosovo.
You can rest assured that the 2009 Preliminary Draft Budget provides sufficiently detailed information from that aspect and we are prepared to provide all the information you require in your resolution.
Madam President, generally speaking, I am far from satisfied with heading 4 of the draft budget.
No only is heading 4 only 1.8% up on the 2008 budget, but this increase is below the average budget increase of 3.1%.
The preliminary draft budget this year proposed EUR 171 million in commitment appropriations and EUR 100 million in payment appropriations.
Thirdly, I am concerned about the food crisis that is taking shape and the effects of climate change.
In the 2009 preliminary draft budget, the appropriations allocated to food aid have risen by only EUR 6.8 million, the famous 3%, even though at the end of April 2008 the Commission asked for a payment of EUR 60 million extra and it has just asked us for an additional EUR 40 million; it is a joke.
I welcome the launch of a Global Climate Change Alliance and a Global Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Fund, but we need to increase the finance for these initiatives in the 2009 budget in addition to the commitments provided for under development.
Without sufficient resources, the budgetary DIY strategy chosen for heading 4 will give a very poor image of it.
As has already been said, the food crisis is a major problem, and so we must seek solutions via the budget, both for the short and medium term and for the long term.
For example, she has highlighted something we consider important, namely that there is a certain discrepancy between the Commission's Annual Policy Strategy and what is actually being proposed in the budget, for example on climate and energy policy.
In particular, we are concerned at the inadequate margin, 82 million under heading 1A.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - (FI) Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Haug for a good report.
France understands Europe and has done a lot for it.
I therefore particularly welcome the courageous political work done by our rapporteur, Mrs Haug.
This new procedure provides greater clarity, and therefore greater democracy, for citizens.
For the 2009 budget, the Commission is proposing a margin of more than EUR 2 billion, and the Council is going further by increasing this margin to EUR 2.4 billion.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DA) Madam President, Commissioner, I should like to start by thanking Mrs Haug for her cooperation on this report, which my group can support.
The EU budget is an important political instrument, of course, even if it is a modest budget in relation to the overall economy.
The 2009 budget must naturally also reflect political priorities, so is that what we are seeing?
This can also be seen this year, when once again there is nothing like a realistic budget for aid to Palestine and Kosovo.
Here is another interesting figure: to help the developing countries, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change - that again - tells us that around USD 100 billion a year would be needed to finance all these projects.
We have a margin of at least EUR 2 billion.
If we do not use this EUR 2 billion margin, it is not simply a charming error of budgetary technique, but a failure to assist a European project in peril, a failure to assist a planet in danger. (Applause) Madam President, Commissioner, at the start of our term of office we were all striving to increase funds for the implementation of EU tasks.
It is obvious that the sums to be given to Palestine and Kosovo in 2009 will not fit into the budgetary framework.
On the other hand, the tendency towards a mid-year increase in payments is reducing not only in relation to gross national product, but also in absolute mid-year terms.
This is not good news prior to the election year of 2009. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, the Haug report presents our first reflections on the Preliminary Draft Budget at a very early stage, and we are combining these with a plenary mandate for the conciliation that will take place on 17 July.
In at least 13 paragraphs, the European Council has in fact presented an intensive programme for revising the multiannual financial programming: the further development of Frontex; Europol; strengthening Eurojust; measures to deal with natural disasters; pilot projects in second-generation biofuels and clean coal technology; funds for agriculture in developing countries, food security assistance and stabilisation; an increase in public development aid of 0.7% of GNP by 2015; trade assistance for developing countries; immigration policy; and new financial resources for dealing with climate change.
However, sneaking a project like that in under heading 2 by creating a new legal basis is simply not on!
If the intention is to finance it in that way, taking into consideration commitments we have made, this constitutes a revision of the financial perspective and belongs under heading 4.
Naturally, we know that, for example, we spent three times as much on Palestine in 2008 as is stated in the 2009 Preliminary Draft Budget.
Given the new challenges, given the political decisions, the old trick of financing the common foreign and security policy and new priorities at the expense of the developing countries in heading 4 is no longer acceptable and we shall not put up with it. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, the budget is a political instrument, not an accounting instrument, and this report has the great advantage, I believe, of going beyond technicalities and making some political points.
We need political initiatives, and for those political initiatives we need communications and money. (NL) To begin with, I too wish to thank Mrs Haug and the Commissioner.
I believe the margin currently stands at 121 or 123 million.
The amount of funds for commitments in the 2009 budget is 1.04% of GNI, and just 0.9% of GNI for payments, which means a fall of as much as 3.3% in comparison with payments in 2008.
Thirdly, the funds mentioned under heading 4, with its characteristic title 'The EU as a Global Player', deserve particular attention, as they are just 1.8% higher than in 2008, even though it has been apparent for years that this is a permanently under-financed area.
To conclude, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Haug, on a very thorough report that once more demonstrates how both the Commission and the Council sadly approach the process of budget drafting primarily from an accounting angle. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, we are in the process of setting a clear mandate for negotiations on the discussions we are to have with the Council next week.
I would like to say a few words about the idea that President Barroso pulled out of his sleeve yesterday and will be putting to the G8 summit today or tomorrow, if I am not mistaken, on food security.
It is an idea that we should examine, but we should examine it from the standard perspective of the way in which we draw up the EU budget: in other words, we should discuss it with the Council as a budget principle and decide whether it should be tabled as an EU proposal in international forums.
In comparison with 2008, payments under expenditure sub-heading 1b have decreased by almost 14 %.
It will be important to assess the results of cohesion policy for the period 2000 to 2006. (FR) Madam President, first of all I would like to say that I have enormous respect for Mrs Haug, who was passionate in her presentation of a comprehensive, demanding and, at the same time, very brave budgetary report, which was voted through unanimously in the Committee on Budgets and which aims to clarify Parliament's need for transparency and clarity in preparation for the 2009 budget.
I join Mrs Haug in lamenting the fact that it is precisely those activities that help demonstrate what Europe does for its citizens that have been increased the least.
To that end, our institutions need to work closely together and the European Parliament has to be fully consulted in its role, yes, as joint policy-maker for Europe, but more importantly as the citizens' representative in the key political act that is the adoption of the budget. (LV) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in talking about the draft budget for 2009 prepared by the European Commission, we ought first of all to note that the total amount of commitment appropriations is increasing to EUR 134.4 billion, which is a 3.1% increase.
As regards heading 4 of the EU budget, relating to the EU as a Global Player, it is obvious that the amount of resources proposed by the European Commission is insufficient.
It is necessary to reconsider the draft of heading 4 of the budget, taking into account the EU's commitments in Kosovo, Palestine and elsewhere, and to arrive at realistic figures.
Finally, on institutional issues, the 2009 budget procedure was begun on the assumption that the Lisbon Treaty would enter into force next year.
The proposals submitted by the IMCO Committee for the 2009 budget follow this direction.
Thus, the democratic control over the destination of public money is undermined, a fact that the Parliament firmly rejects. (RO) The first report of the European Parliament regarding the preliminary draft budget for 2009 should indicate very clearly the political priorities of the European Union at present.
The price crisis and the food insecurity we are dealing with for the first time in more than thirty years needs to be part of our budgetary priorities.
For this reason, I do not agree with the use of the margins available under title 2 of the European budget for other fields and not for agriculture.
Thank you. (FR) Madam President, following the Irish referendum, there is an even greater need for the EU to listen more to citizens and to keep them better informed about what concerns them on a daily basis, particularly now, less than a year away from the European elections, if we want to arouse the voters' interest in European issues and ensure that a basic consensus is obtained on its aims and policies.
This is a difficult time for the 2009 budget, on which Mrs Haug produced an outstanding report with her new approach to the major issues and her wide-ranging consultation.
I recall from her report the points made about citizenship and information, which must rise to the various challenges in 2009 and require considerable resources in a heading where, unfortunately, the margin is small.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 8 July 2008.
The Jutta Haug report has in view the 2009 budget detailing, emphasizing current priorities at the European Union level, including the fight against climate change and solidarity toward poorer regions.
