Eurostars (debate) (FR) The next item is the report by Paul Rübig, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on support for research and development performing SMEs - C6-0281/2007 -.
A group of 29 EUREKA countries, and now Luxembourg, which has just applied to join, have decided to develop the Joint Programme, specifically designed to support SMEs undertaking their own research and development activities, in cooperation with their partners.
In order to enhance the impact of this initiative, the Commission has proposed to the European Parliament and the Council participating financially in the Eurostars Joint Programme, based on Article 169 of the Treaty, with an amount of up to EUR 100 million.
This amount will leverage approximately EUR 300 million from the participating countries for the next six years.
I shall also be tabling an oral amendment on this tomorrow, and I would ask the Presidency that Luxembourg therefore be considered tomorrow when the Member States are named, so that small and medium-sized enterprises in Luxemburg, too, are able to take part in this programme successfully.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Thank you, Madam President.
The result of these synergies has been Community funding for the Eurostars programme, on the basis of Article 169 of the Treaty, a programme that complements the Framework Programme through what I understand to be the main virtues of EUREKA: its bottom-up structure, which enables better adaptation to the needs of SMEs and facilitates participation, given that the bureaucracy required in order to participate in the Framework Programme is, in many cases, an excessive burden that is impossible for many SMEs to bear.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Small and medium-sized enterprises provide 70% of jobs in the European Union.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Mr President, the EU extends its reach into more and more areas.
The 22 Member States and the 5 states in Eureka that have decided to invest, together with the Commission, the 400 million euros to support the research carried out by small businesses, contribute to the achievement of the Lisbon Strategy objectives.
Also, the financing of small businesses based on a business plan might determine a very large number of SMEs participating in the European research.
Research and development SMEs that spend at least 10% of their turnover on research and development are key players in this domain.
More than 200 businesses fulfilling the criteria have applied, although a problem now emerging is that Member States have not set aside adequate resources.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner Potočnik, ladies and gentlemen, in summary we can say that we have again set ourselves an objective here that focuses on the Lisbon Agenda.
In Germany alone, almost 20 million people are working, researching and developing in more than 3.3 million small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - (SK) By voting for Paul Rübig's report, the European Parliament is sending a clear signal to small and medium-sized enterprises in the Member States.
