Yet again we are waving through this budget despite all the errors in it and thereby betraying those who put us here, who are our constituents and also our taxpayers, because the majority of people in this house take a 'Europe right or wrong attitude' and would rather see things being badly done by Brussels than competently done by the Member States.
Mr President, the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left voted in favour of the mobilisation of EUR 24 million to support workers made redundant in Belgium.
We voted in favour because we are on the side of those who are in need, those who devote their sweat and their brains to companies and who, ultimately, are victims of an unfair economic system and unchecked competition for profits, which have devastating social effects.
In Portugal, the fund provides an unemployed person with EUR 500 of support.
Dell was given money to set up a new factory in Poland while it was gaining new positions in US markets and, in the third quarter of this year, announced profits in the region of USD 337 million.
Furthermore, it is alarming that these officials should have won over to their cause political groups which are hostile to us and which, clearly, ought not to give a de facto or de jure opinion on the appointment of our representative.
Mr President, in order to ensure that we have genuine and binding results in the fight against climate change, there are four principles that must be guaranteed, and I would like to highlight them.
They have also been voted on here today.
The fourth and final point - which I believe is very important to consider - is that it should be a global agreement, and not just an agreement among certain regions, and this has to happen by means of a process rooted in democratic participation involving all countries.
However, I believe that what should be safeguarded here is really the result achieved and the efforts made throughout this process and so we leave for Copenhagen with a rather good job done within Parliament.
Climate change is a global political priority at the Copenhagen Summit.
They must agree on mandatory targets to cut their emissions and, at the same time, find money to help developing countries deal with climate change. (CS) With today's adoption of the resolution on the Copenhagen Summit on climate protection, Parliament has given a clear signal that it attaches enormous importance to this issue.
In accordance with this, the industrialised countries are to take a leading role while the developing countries and economies such as China, India and Brazil will be provided with adequate support through technology and the building up of capacity.
On the other hand, I must say that the assumption that a deal in Copenhagen might provide the impulse for a green new deal initiative is, in my opinion, overly optimistic and ideological one-sided.
As a Conservative, I consider myself a natural conservationist.
We are committed to implementing a common policy on asylum, to respect for the safeguarding of fundamental human rights and to a common immigration policy through greater control of our borders.
In its final form, the Stockholm Programme must stand for European values such as freedom and respect for human rights.
Wells called an open conspiracy, but at no stage have we had the courtesy to ask people whether they want to be citizens of a state with its own legal system. (NL) Like many European citizens who were not given a chance to have their say on the Treaty of Lisbon, I, too, have become quite concerned about developments in the areas of freedom, security and justice.
More and more asylum and immigration powers are being siphoned away to the European Union, and these issues are increasingly being excluded from the ambit of citizens' democratic control.
Mr President, as has been said, this report includes two objects of concern.
The second is not disclosed by the content of the report or by the conclusions.
They are being denied this right and they are being hit with very heavy punishments.
In particular, we need to speed up the process of revising Directive 90/314/EEC on package travel, just as we need, on the one hand, to equip ourselves ... (The President cut off the speaker) (ET) Over the past nine years, 77 airlines have filed for bankruptcy.
On account of this, I voted for this resolution, and I agree with the idea that in the airline sector, we must also regulate this gap in our legal system, something which has prevailed today.
However, the high number of low-cost airline bankruptcies in the European Union since 2000, and the recent case of Sky Europe, have clearly demonstrated the vulnerability of the low-cost carriers to the changing oil prices and the current difficult economic conditions.
We must rectify this situation, and we ask the Commission to consider the most adequate compensation measures for our passengers. (IT) Mr President, in the wake of recent cases involving the suspension and revocation of the licences of many airlines, a substantial number of passengers and holders of tickets that were neither honoured nor reimbursed have suffered considerable losses.
I therefore believe it necessary to propose a specific regulation that defines the best solutions to problems arising out of the bankruptcies in terms of both financial loss and repatriation.
In this sense, suggestions of a guarantee fund or a compulsory insurance for airlines could represent plausible solutions that would have to be weighed against the trade-off, which would be an increase in prices for consumers. (FI) Mr President, it is very important to talk about the security of airline passengers and, above all, compensation in situations in which companies go bankrupt, as Mrs Oviir just mentioned.
There have been 77 bankruptcies in the past nine years, and it is alleged that the airline industry is facing more turbulence than ever.
To ensure that... (The President cut off the speaker) (ET) With the Lisbon Agenda, the European Union aimed to strengthen economic union.
However, it is essential in this matter that fair competition should prevail in the market.
I supported the proposal in this resolution because imposing an obligation to identify the country of origin of goods imported from third countries in the European Union is an infallible way to obtain transparency, to give the consumer the appropriate information and also to secure compliance with international trading rules.
Thank you. (IT) Mr President, the debate on origin marking absolutely does not prioritise the interests of one or a few Member States, as is sometimes mistakenly believed.
For this reason, I believe it is essential to reach an agreement on origin marking that goes beyond individual national interests or those of political groups and leaves room for the will to implement a single market by promoting competitiveness and transparency.
In line with the Treaty of Lisbon, the process of codecision between Parliament and the Council will therefore make it absolutely possible to speed up the approval of a regulation that is so important to the economy and European consumers.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - British Conservatives have been unable to approve discharge of the 2007 European budget, European Council section.
The auditors consistently report that levels of control and scrutiny of the use of EU funds within the Member States are inadequate.
In order to address this ongoing problem, the Council entered into an Interinstitutional Agreement in 2006 which obliged them to produce certification for those transactions for which they are responsible.
We are dismayed to note that, to date, the majority of the Member States have not satisfactorily delivered on their obligation and therefore, despite the traditional 'gentleman's agreement' between Parliament and Council, we will not grant discharge until such time as the Member States fulfil their obligations under the Interinstitutional Agreement.
I voted in favour of granting financial discharge to the Council for the 2007 budget whilst emphasising the fact that I disagree with the way in which the Committee on Budgetary Control has managed this situation in which the rapporteur, Mr Søndergaard, has produced two contradictory reports; the change in position between the proposals for postponing discharge in April 2009 and for granting discharge being justified by the assertions resulting from meetings without any audit work, whilst the European Court of Auditors has made no comment on the management of the Council.
The report adopted today finally discharges the Council, since it considers that Parliament has obtained a satisfactory response from the Council to the requests made in the resolution of last April.
I voted for this regulation regarding the fuel efficiency labelling of tyres.
The new regulation on the labelling of tyres is part of the Community strategy on CO2, which sets targets to be achieved through vehicle emission reductions.
From November 2012, tyres will be labelled in the EU according to their fuel efficiency, wet grip and noise emissions.
Tyres are responsible for 20 to 30% of the energy consumed by vehicles due to their rolling resistance.
Mr President, I approve Parliament's decision to finally adopt a regulation that increases safety as well as the environmental and economic efficiency of road transport.
The aim is to promote the use of safe, quieter tyres.
In line with my commitment to consumer protection, this regulation establishes an effective regulatory framework through clear and precise labelling and information.
Tyres can play an important role in reducing CO2 emissions because they are responsible for 20 to 30% of the total energy use of vehicles.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the compromise package on tyre labelling.
However, closer examination reveals that almost a quarter of CO2 emissions come from road transport and that tyres play a significant role in determining fuel efficiency.
This proposed legislation therefore plays an important part in wider EU efforts to tackle global warming.
I voted in favour of this report in particular because it contributes to two essential points: improving the information available, which facilitates a more environmentally friendly choice of tyres, and the fact that, by making such a choice, we will be contributing to greater energy efficiency, given that tyres are responsible for 20 to 30% of the total energy use of vehicles.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a regulation on the labelling of tyres approved today by this House is a crucial step towards marketing safe and quiet products that also allow fuel consumption to be minimised.
This will allow us to achieve the equal and immediate application of all the provisions in all Member States, ensuring more effective harmonisation of the European tyre market.
The interim provision of exempting tyres manufactured before 2012 from the obligations of the regulation also constitutes a necessary measure for the purposes of ensuring a gradual phasing-in of the new European regulations in the market.
I voted for the regulation on the labelling of tyres with respect to fuel efficiency.
Member States will publish by 1 November 2011 all the provisions laid down by law and administrative actions required to transpose the regulation into national legislation.
The provisions of this regulation will be enforced from 1 November 2012.
My country, Portugal, has benefited from the EGAF twice: in 2008, following 1 549 redundancies in the car industry in the Lisbon region and in Alentejo, and in 2009, following 1 504 redundancies in 49 textile companies in the northern and central regions of the country.
The crucial role of this fund is clear.
We must prevent the allocation of funds or State aid in a Member State resulting in job losses in other areas of the EU.
in writing. - I support this allocation of €14.8 million of European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGAF) support to the 2 840 workers of Dell in Limerick who have lost their jobs following the closure of their plant because, rather than Dell, it will benefit the redundant workers directly.
Indeed, it appears that while Dell was closing its manufacturing plant in Ireland, it received €54.5 million in State aid from the Polish Government to open a new plant in Lodz.
As I have had occasion to say before, even before the emergence of the current financial crisis, which has increased and exacerbated some of the earlier symptoms, the serious impact of globalisation and the resulting relocation of businesses on many people's lives was already clear to see.
This fund provides individual, one-off and time-limited support directly to workers made redundant.
The current situation calls for robust, proper and swift implementation of the ESF.
As the extraordinary measure it is, the EGAF should be financed autonomously, and it is a very serious mistake for the EGAF, a short-term measure, to be funded at the expense of the ESF or any other structural fund.
in writing. - I welcome the decision of the European Parliament to approve aid for the Dell workers under the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
We must put in place appropriate re-training measures to ensure that the people who lost their jobs at Dell can secure employment in the near future.
I voted in favour of the mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund for the cases of Belgium and Ireland, as I consider that we should use all possible means to help employees who are victims of the damage caused by globalisation and the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - Today the European Parliament endorsed a €14 million fund which is to go towards the training of 1 900 Dell workers who were made redundant by the decision to move the plant from Ireland to Poland.
This fund can provide for those who have lost their jobs to retrain and acquire qualifications to get back into the workforce.
The fund should help slow the trend of increasing unemployment in Munster and will provide a major boost for the local economy as those affected by the closure of the Dell plant return to the workforce.
It is in thinking of the Irish and Belgian workers as victims of neo-liberal globalisation that we are voting for this report and for the granting of aid under the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
The commercial appetites of capitalist predators such as the Texan company Dell, the world number two in telecommunications, cannot be indulged independently of the general interest of the citizens of Europe.
At any rate, this is not our vision of Europe.
An increasing number of companies are relocating, taking advantage of the lower labour costs in a number of countries, particularly in China and India, with damaging effects for countries that respect workers' rights.
The EGAF is intended to help workers that have fallen victim to company relocations and it is essential for helping them to have access to new jobs in the future.
The EGAF has already been used in the past by other EU countries, in particular Portugal and Spain, and it is now time to provide such aid to Belgium and Ireland.
The EU has established a legislative and budgetary instrument to be able to provide support to those who have lost their jobs on account of 'major structural changes in world trade patterns and to assist their reintegration into the labour market'.
However, the financial crisis has hit the Member States' economies very hard and the economic downturn is deeper this time than any downturn that Europe has experienced since the 1930s.
If the EU does not take action, the unemployed will be very severely affected in those regions in Belgium and Ireland that have applied for assistance from the EU.
We therefore support the assistance for the unemployed affected in the textiles sector in the Belgian regions of East and West Flanders and Limburg and in the computer manufacturing industry in the Irish counties of Limerick, Clare and North Tipperary, as well as in the city of Limerick.
There is no doubt that those in the countries concerned who have lost their jobs should be helped.
Losing their jobs is a huge tragedy in the lives of these people and their families.
The economic crisis continues to take its toll in the form of group redundancies, which often lead to human dramas, a growth in social problems and many other unhelpful phenomena.
The Treaty of Lisbon makes the international fight against climate change a specific objective of EU environmental policy.
The Treaty of Lisbon also gives Europe new powers in the fields of energy, scientific research and space policy.
I am particularly pleased with the increasingly important role played by national parliaments and Member States' initiatives in terms of European integration.
I voted in favour of David Martin's report on the reform of the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure insofar as it will allow our House to adhere to the new ground rules accompanying the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The reform involves, in particular: welcoming new 'observers' who should be able to become MEPs in their own right as soon as possible; introducing rules relating to the new role of national parliaments in the legislative procedure, by examining the respect shown for the principle of subsidiarity, a reform I gladly welcome insofar as it helps deepen the democratic debate; and, above all, granting the European Parliament an enhanced role in the drafting of European laws.
Finally, this text clarifies the types of action to be taken by the European Parliament in the event of a 'breach by a Member State of fundamental principles', which is especially positive in its defence of fundamental rights.
in writing. - Under the old Rule 36 of this Parliament, we were required to 'pay particular attention to respect for fundamental rights'.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon on 1 December 2009 means it is necessary to adapt the Rules of Procedure to bring them into line with Parliament's new rules and powers.
With these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, Parliament is preparing itself for the increased powers that it will have when the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force, taking account of the arrival of 18 new MEPs, increased legislative powers and the new budget procedure.
Future cooperation with national parliaments is also important here.
The lack of democracy within the EU remains unchanged after the Treaty of Lisbon.
For this reason, I have voted no.
The Treaty of Lisbon will bring more speed, legitimacy and democracy to the decision-making process in the European Union, which is responsible for measures that affect us as citizens every day.
In particular, Parliament will see its legislative power increased, as it will share responsibility equally with the European Council on most issues handled by the institutions.
Some amendments are purely technical in nature and others concern updates that Parliament has taken the opportunity to implement on this occasion.
As a whole, the report represents a compromise that satisfies the political family to which I belong, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), by incorporating, in a balanced way, issues such as subsidiarity and proportionality, as well as strengthening cooperation between the European Parliament and national parliaments.
For those reasons, I voted in favour of this report.
The Greek Communist Party is opposed to and voted against the amendments to adapt the European Parliament's Rules of Procedure to the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The European Parliament does not represent the people; it represents the interests of capital.
The people's interest lies in opposition, in breaking with the anti-grassroots policy of the EU and the European Parliament which supports it and in overturning the euro-unifying construct.
I voted in favour of this resolution, which seeks an ambitious and legally binding international agreement in Copenhagen, since I believe that concluding this agreement can lead to a new, sustainable model that stimulates social and economic growth, fosters the development of environmentally sustainable technologies, as well as renewable energy and energy efficiency, and reduces energy consumption and enables the creation of new jobs.
I believe that approval of this resolution - which stresses that the international agreement should be based on the principle of common but differentiated responsibility, with the developed countries taking the lead in reducing their emissions and accepting responsibility for providing developing countries with financial and technical support - will contribute to a certain global balance.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the Copenhagen Summit, since it is our responsibility, as elected members, to protect the planet for future generations.
in writing. - (NL) In the resolution adopted by the European Parliament today, a specific chapter stresses the great importance of regions and local authorities, especially in the consultation process and in disseminating information about and carrying out the implementation of climate policy.
Up to 80% of adaptation and mitigation policies will be implemented at a regional or local level.
As a member of the European Free Alliance representing European nations and regions, I fully support the direct involvement of regional governments in the promotion of sustainable development and an efficient response to climate change.
This agreement must contain operational elements that can be implemented immediately and a schedule that will allow a legally binding agreement to be drawn up during the course of 2010.
While, on the one hand, industrialised countries should lead the way in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, economically more advanced developing countries also have a role to play, contributing in accordance with their responsibilities and respective abilities.
The funding must come from the private sector, carbon market and public sector of industrialised countries and economically more advanced developing countries.
in writing. - It is extremely important that the EU takes action and becomes a world leader in reducing carbon emissions approaching the Copenhagen Summit.
The Parliament has already shown more ambition than the Member States in relation to a reduction in carbon emissions, and today's resolution is to be welcomed with calls for real financing, calls for strong targets in the high end from 25-40% in line with the science, and the insistence on a legally binding agreement.
I abstained, firstly because Amendment 13, which considers nuclear energy to be an important factor in reducing carbon dioxide emissions, was approved and, secondly, because Amendment 3 by my group, calling for developed countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by 80 and 95% by 2050 compared with 1990 levels, was rejected.
There are numerous positive points in the resolution, such as the EU's commitment to granting EUR 30 billion a year up to 2020 to meet the requirements of developing countries in the field of moderating the impact of and adapting to climate change.
The German Free Democratic Party members of the European Parliament have abstained from voting on the Copenhagen resolution for the following reasons.
The resolution contains statements about financing for climate protection measures in third countries without defining the specific criteria or purpose of the financing.
The call for specific arrangements for a CO2 trading system for the aviation industry goes against current EU legislation and overburdens the EU's negotiating position in an international climate agreement with unrealistic demands.
in writing. - The effects of climate change are being felt now: temperatures are rising, icecaps and glaciers are melting and extreme weather events are becoming more frequent and more intense.
The UN estimates that all but one of its emergency appeals for humanitarian aid in 2007 were climate related.
The response to climate change lies in strong international governance and financial commitment.
The resolution voted on will serve as a road map for negotiation for the European Union.
My requirements, when voting, are to reach a global political agreement that is ambitious and binding and that quickly paves the way for a genuine legal treaty; to achieve a 30% reduction in relation to the 1990 greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, with an ambitious, quantifiable yet flexible commitment from other polluters such as the United States and China, and an 80% reduction by 2050, in compliance with what the experts are demanding; and to clarify the crucial collective commitment by industrialised countries in terms of finance and aid for developing countries.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the Copenhagen conference on climate change, since I believe that it sets out a good parliamentary compromise on the fundamental aspects that should guide negotiations on a future international agreement on this matter, especially with regard to the issues of adaptation, funding mechanisms and deforestation.
in writing. - In the resolution adopted by the EP, a specific chapter stresses the great importance of regions and local authorities in the consultation, information and implementation of the climate policy.
Several regional or sub-State governments are leading the way on radical policies to fight climate change.
We therefore call for the explicit recognition of regional governments in the context of the Copenhagen agreement, recognising the key role they are playing in mitigation and adaptation policies.
In my view, the idea of a tax on international financial transactions as a solution to fund adaptation to climate change and mitigation of its effects by developing countries is not appropriate, given that it will be at the expense of the economy (particularly in crisis situations such as the one we are currently experiencing), trade and wealth creation.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because I believe that the EU should continue to lead by example in the fight against climate change.
I believe that the agreement should be global, ambitious and with a clear timeline.
I hope that the President of the United States, Barack Obama, will show that he deserved the Nobel Peace Prize, because combating climate change will contribute to peace and happiness for all nations.
The experience of how the European Union Greenhouse Gas Emission Trading System has functioned since 2005 is an illustration of this.
The European Union produces approximately 11% of worldwide CO2 emissions.
It is illogical to restrict Member States in the use of clean development mechanisms (CDMs), albeit provided for by Kyoto, and, at the same time, ask for EUR 30 billion a year in aid for developing countries, without conditions or proper judgment, to mention only one incongruity in the resolution.
This commitment must also include the introduction of a tax on financial transactions that is used to finance not banking sector supervision, but rather developing countries and worldwide public goods, such as the climate.
I voted for this resolution on the European Union's strategy for the Copenhagen Summit on Climate Change as I am convinced that a comprehensive international agreement can actually alter the trend of uncontrolled growth in greenhouse gas emissions.
Environmental policy in general, and climate policy in particular, are also a driver of technological innovation and may generate new growth prospects for our companies.
I am very glad that Europe is playing a leading role by providing for an energy and climate policy that aims to reduce emissions by 20% in 2020 compared with 1990.
I voted for this resolution as a mandatory, global legal agreement must be reached in Copenhagen, based on which developed countries or developing countries as well will commit to targets for reducing emission levels comparable to those of the EU.
in writing. - This resolution represents a clear and realistic strategy for dealing with the key areas which must be addressed in order to achieve an effective agreement in Copenhagen next month.
The European Parliament has now called on the EU negotiating team and the Member States to press for action on the following: emissions trading; a global carbon market; a fair system of financing for adaptation and mitigation; forests; and aviation and maritime transport.
The Parliament has kept to its earlier commitments regarding emission reductions by 2020, and has now set out even more ambitious targets for 2050 in the light of new recommendations from the scientific community.
If the European Union wants to remain a leader in combating climate change, it should continue to set itself ambitious reduction goals and to meet previously made reduction commitments.
The voice of the European Parliament, as the only democratic institution of the EU, is crucial in this debate, which is also why our resolution should show the right direction to take, and should formulate priorities which are truly of importance.
The text of the resolution itself must not be just a collection of demands and wishes without any basis, but should be the coherent and, above all, united voice of the citizens of the EU, based on the principle of joint, but differentiated, responsibility of Member States on the question of combating climate change.
The European Union should show a readiness to increase reduction goals to 30%, provided other countries also express a readiness to set themselves such high reduction targets.
I voted in favour of the resolution because the European Parliament is calling on EU negotiators to make EUR 30 billion available to developing countries for their fight against climate change.
Parliament is thereby sending out a clear signal to the negotiators who will be attending the climate summit in Copenhagen on Europe's behalf in a fortnight's time.
In today's vote on the EU strategy for the climate conference in Copenhagen, the European Parliament adopted a radical and unrealistic position.
In demanding a doubling of restrictions on CO2 emissions in EU countries, Parliament is undermining the climate package which was recently negotiated with such difficulty (point 33 calls for a 40% reduction).
While demanding an expenditure of EUR 30 billion annually for clean technologies in developing countries, Parliament expects countries with coal-based power generation, such as Poland, to pay double for CO2 emissions: once in the form of a fee under the system for emissions trading, and a second time in the form of a contribution to help developing countries in the area of combating climate change (point 18 talks about the contribution, which should not be less than EUR 30 billion annually).
While demanding that calculation of Member States' contributions towards clean technologies in developing countries be based on CO2 emission levels and GDP, Parliament has overlooked the criterion of ability to bear these costs.
This means a cost to Poland of EUR 40 billion over the next 10 years (this is a consequence of rejecting amendments 31 and 27).
The road to the Copenhagen Summit is blocked by the escalation in imperialist infighting.
The Greek Communist Party voted against the European Parliament resolution.
I voted in favour of this resolution, since it addresses priorities in fundamental chapters such as freedom, security and justice, particularly with regard to the conditions for the reception and integration of immigrants, fighting discrimination, particularly on grounds of sexual orientation, access to justice, and combating corruption and violence.
Freedom of movement should also be guaranteed for all EU citizens and their families.
I am convinced that the protection of children's rights is a very important aspect of the Stockholm Programme.
Given that the protection of children's rights is a social priority of the European Union (EU), I call on the Council and the Commission to dedicate more attention to protecting the rights of those who are most vulnerable.
Children's rights are part of human rights, which the EU and the Member States have pledged to honour in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations (UN) Convention on the Rights of the Child.
The EU must increase its commitments to help the situation of children in Europe and the whole world, so that it can properly ensure the promotion of children's rights and their protection.
Therefore, by implementing the Stockholm Programme, I call on the Council and the Commission to take concrete measures to ensure that children's rights are properly protected.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the resolution because it indicates the right way to strengthen European unity around the fundamental values that constitute its very identity.
The clear distinction between the right to free movement and the principle of non-discrimination, on the one hand, and the value of the family as a natural society founded on marriage, on the other, has led to the formulation of the paragraph that upholds the independence of individual States in family law and the ban on discrimination against any human being.
The significance of this concept, as recognised by Article 16 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, is fundamental to the succession of generations and the educational capacities of heterosexual couples.
However, it is precisely by protecting and respecting these rights under the rule of law that security is safeguarded.
This resolution is addressed to a society which only has enemies and in which everyone is a suspect.
For us as EU citizens, having a stable legal system with everyone being equal before the law is a given, as is the fact that we can have confidence in the way authorities treat our privacy.
Many of the 144 points in the motion for a resolution and the 78 amendments to Parliament's resolution that have been tabled were, of course, worthy of support.
The resolution and the amendments also include a number of points, concerning human rights, discrimination and privacy for example, that are already covered by previous programmes as well as the Treaty of Lisbon.
We have chosen to vote against a number of amendments in order to obtain a resolution that is even stronger on the issues that are not already covered by previous programmes and treaties.
Even though there are points in the resolution that was voted through that should not have been included, we have chosen to vote in favour of the resolution, as the benefits far outweigh the negative aspects.
In itself, the European Parliament resolution calling for an area of freedom, security and justice serving the citizen is a progressive resolution and one which puts a check on the desire of the Council of Ministers to allow the free exchange of citizens' personal data.
Some of its crucial amendments, including those concerning the establishment of the principle of non-refoulement, the diminution of the role of Frontex, which will have no role to play in the resettlement of migrants in third countries, a positive attitude to 'en masse' regularisation of illegal immigrants and the assertion that security should serve the interests of freedom, are of decisive importance.
So far, progress has been slow with regard to some aspects of the area of freedom, security and justice, whereas the right to move and to reside freely within the EU is now granted to more than 500 million citizens!
I voted in favour of the motion for a European Parliament resolution on the Stockholm Programme, since I believe that the proposals it contains clearly and precisely establish the priorities for the coming years in terms of European legislation in the areas of freedom, security and justice, in the light of application of the Treaty of Lisbon.
The current situation confirms that these predictions were right.
On the other hand, I feel that the part that refers to respect for the rights of minorities, and particularly the Roma minority, is very inadequate and overly politically correct.
The majority in Parliament has approved the main thrust of the European Commission's proposal for the so-called Stockholm Programme, which is a powerful attack on such a key element of Member States' sovereignty as justice.
Mr President, political strategy concerning the area of freedom, security and justice - the Stockholm Programme - will be adopted by the Council in December this year, straight after the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I voted in favour of this resolution because it enables a better balance to be struck between respect for individual freedoms and a predominantly repressive outlook accompanied by security measures of which it is difficult to gauge the effectiveness today.
Through this programme, we are reaffirming our attachment to a Europe of solidarity and values that has a duty to defend freedom of religion, equal opportunities, the rights of women, the rights of minorities and the rights of homosexuals.
in writing. - Whilst the ECR Group supports much of what is contained in the Stockholm Programme, such as cooperation and solidarity over issues of policing, fighting cross-border crime and corruption, protecting fundamental rights, and finding solutions for immigration by seeking to assist those countries in southern Europe that face serious immigration problems, we do not support proposals for a European Security Strategy, or measures which would hand over control of our criminal justice system and asylum policy to the EU, or calls for 'compulsory and irrevocable solidarity'.
We believe in cooperation rather than compulsion; and therefore we voted against this report.
In itself, the European Parliament resolution calling for an area of freedom, security and justice serving the citizen is a progressive resolution and one which puts a check on the desire of the Council of Ministers to allow the free exchange of citizens' personal data.
Some of its crucial amendments, including those concerning the establishment of the principle of non-refoulement, the diminution of the role of Frontex, which will have no role to play in the resettlement of migrants in third countries, a positive attitude to 'en masse' regularisation of illegal immigrants and the assertion that security should serve the interests of freedom, are of decisive importance.
The countries of the European Union must increase cooperation in judicial matters, without detriment to the traditions and fundamental laws of Member States.
We need to increase mutual trust between Member States concerning the appropriateness of decisions made by the authorities of another Member State, especially in areas related to legal and illegal immigration, and also concerning the cooperation of police and courts in criminal matters.
It is important for this Parliament, as the representative of the citizens of Europe, to propose a route to be taken by the justice and home affairs policy.
We have found a good balance between security and citizens' rights.
However, to ensure that this middle way really does feed into the justice and home affairs policy, we are calling for more control rights for this Parliament and for the national parliaments in the EU as part of the implementation of the Stockholm Programme.
However, my motion calling on the Commission to present proposals for combating the abuse of the asylum system throughout Europe was successful.
It is vital to ensure that the Euro-Mediterranean integration process is restored as a political priority of the EU, since the success of this process and of the free trade area could contribute to peace, prosperity and security throughout the region.
The EU, which wants to open itself to the world and to promote dialogue between its members and third countries, must cherish the idea of a Euro-Mediterranean free trade area that makes it possible to build closer relations again between both sides of the Mediterranean and which also promotes greater South-South convergence.
Moreover, this free trade area should be supplemented by the gradual and conditional introduction of free movement for workers, with account being taken of the current discussions on the links between migration and development.
I also support the European Union's efforts to start the process of modernising the economies of these countries and, therefore, to help the population.
In order to help ensure a positive future for the SEMC, I have therefore voted against this resolution.
The ambitious plan of forging new and closer political, social and cultural links between the northern and southern shores of the Mediterranean must remain one of the priority goals of the European Union in order to achieve the desired and strategic implementation of a free trade area.
The implementation of a free trade area requires the determined, ongoing and synergetic contribution of all parties.
in writing. - The ECR rejected the motion for a resolution tabled by other groups in the Transport Committee concerning passenger compensation in the event of airlines bankruptcy.
We in the ECR tabled our own motion for a resolution which would have rectified a number of key weaknesses in the adopted text for the following reasons.
Although supporting passenger rights is, of course, of vital importance, there are more efficient measures that can be taken without passengers being burdened with even higher costs. 1.
We should await the impact assessment that was proposed by Commissioner Tajani during the plenary session on 7 October. 2.
The text that has been supported calls for the establishment of a 'guarantee' fund that would be used to compensate passengers in case of airlines bankruptcy.
Rules regarding passengers' rights must be updated and strengthened to give protection and help in the case of airline bankruptcy or incidents of that type over which passengers have no control.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on passenger compensation in the event of airline bankruptcy, since I believe it is necessary to increase protection of European passengers in the event of airline bankruptcy by introducing new legislation or revising existing legislation, and by creating a reserve fund for compensation.
Commercial airlines have been contending with a serious crisis since the attacks of 11 September 2001, which has been exacerbated by the current economic and financial crisis.
This lack of consumer protection is truly unacceptable, and it calls for a European response that provides for the assessment of airlines, promotes assistance for passengers caught in these situations and sets out compensation for damages.
I am voting for the resolution, in particular, with regard to Regulation No 261/2004 establishing common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights and repealing Regulation No 295/91, which has already been adopted.
The right steps have already been taken in this regulation and strengthening and protecting passengers' rights is simply a logical development of this.
We are voting in favour of this resolution in the hope of preserving as many of the interests of airline passengers as possible given the current state of affairs (liberalisation of transport services, increase in the number of airlines).
The growing number of bankruptcies that has been seen among airlines, affecting thousands of citizens in the Member States, has made it necessary for the EU to take measures to protect them.
I voted in favour of the resolution on passenger compensation in the event of airline bankruptcy.
Indeed, at present, the only passengers covered by European legislation in the event of airline bankruptcy are those who book a package holiday.
Madeira is an example of this, having been classed last week as one of the best tourist destinations in the world by the World Tourism Organisation, which awarded the region the highest rating on 13 of its 15 assessment criteria.
The motion for a resolution on which we voted today is a step in this direction, as it aims to protect passengers of bankrupt airlines by establishing compulsory insurance and guarantee funds for these airlines, as well as optional insurance for their customers.
Also positive is the call on the European Commission to present a proposal with the aim of compensating passengers of airlines that go bankrupt and ensuring their repatriation if they are stranded at an airport.
I voted for the European Parliament resolution on passenger compensation in the event of airline bankruptcy.
The European Parliament has therefore asked the Commission to strengthen the position of passengers in the event of airline bankruptcy.
In view of the need to guarantee consumers appropriate information when making a choice to purchase certain products, particularly with regard to their country of origin and the respective safety, hygiene or environmental protection standards applicable to their production - information that is necessary to make a conscious and informed choice - I voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which calls on the Commission to resubmit its proposal to Parliament so that it can be debated in accordance with the legislative process established by the Treaty of Lisbon.
The 'made in' concept must not simply be about marking, but must quickly become a powerful concept of respect for the most advanced rules in relation to knowledge, employee rights, sustainable development and environmental protection, and the expression of a responsible economic attitude.
I understand the need for a discussion about the creation of a European legislative framework for origin marking of commercial end products, in particular, against the background of consumer information and transparency between trading partners.
As part of the ongoing discussions, it is important to establish clear guidelines and to defend them, including on behalf of Austria.
I voted in favour because the 'made in' marking is essential for market transparency and for giving consumers the necessary information regarding the origin of the products they buy.
From now on, the country of origin must be specified on certain products imported into the EU from third countries.
The particular purpose of origin marking is to give EU consumers unrestricted information about the country of origin of the goods that they buy and to allow them to make a connection between the goods and the social, environmental and safety standards in the country in question.
The market is free only when rules are clear, mutual and applied.
We are sure that agreement between the political groups of the European Parliament will be instrumental in establishing a definitive legal framework with the Council.
I take this opportunity to emphasise that the commodity categories envisaged in the current proposed regulation must be respected and extended with regard to fastening products, in other words, products for which it is essential to ensure quality and compliance with European regulations in order to guarantee safety in the construction of bridges, cars, electric household appliances and any other item that involves the use of fastening products.
