Electronic communications networks and services - European Electronic Communications Market Authority - Common approach to the use of the spectrum released by the digital switchover - Electronic communications networks and services, protection of privacy and consumer protection (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the report by Catherine Trautmann, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2002/21/EC on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services, Directive 2002/19/EC on access to, and interconnection of, electronic communications networks and associated facilities, and Directive 2002/20/EC on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services - C6-0427/2007 -, the report by Pilar del Castillo Vera, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing the European Electronic Communications Market Authority - C6-0428/2007 -, the report by Patrizia Toia, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on reaping the full benefits of the digital dividend in Europe: a common approach to the use of the spectrum released by the digital switchover, and the report by Malcolm Harbour, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2002/22/EC on universal service and users' rights relating to electronic communications networks, Directive 2002/58/EC concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector and Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 on consumer-protection cooperation - C6-0420/2007 -.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you only have to look at some figures to see the strategic importance of telecommunications and new information technologies in Europe: telecom technologies alone account for one quarter of European growth and 40% of our productivity gains.
If you look at a number of studies that have been conducted, you can see that, over the past 12 years, 50% of the growth gap between the US and Europe is linked to disparities in the development of our information and communication technologies.
Europe therefore needs to invest in this sector on a long-term basis.
As I said at my hearing before the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, the objective of the French Presidency is to reach a political agreement at the Council of Telecoms Ministers on 27 November, the substance of which will, of course, be based as closely as possible on the positions adopted by the European Parliament.
Firstly, I should like to congratulate Catherine Trautmann for the work that she has done so far as rapporteur on the Directive amending the Framework Directives on 'access' and 'authorisation'.
I should like to commend her willingness to take into account the challenge raised by the deployment of next-generation networks, a concern which is shared by all stakeholders in this sector and by the Member States.
Your report suggests greater use of the geographical segmentation of the market in order to remove ex ante regulatory obligations where competition is effective.
This second issue is being debated in the Council.
This constitutes real progress compared to the original text on what is a highly sensitive issue for the Council, which does not seem quite willing, at this moment in time, to give so much power to the Commission.
I wish to commend the quality of the report by Pilar del Castillo on the establishment of the European Electronic Communications Market Authority; I would point out that it touches on a highly sensitive issue, one that is also the subject of a broad consensus between Parliament and the Council.
The Council is aware of all of these arguments but, as you know, a majority of Member States do still have some reservations about the idea of establishing a Community body.
Over the next few weeks, the Council must therefore try to strike a balance between two options: the institutionalisation of a private-law body comprising European regulators or the establishment of a Community body whose independence must be guaranteed.
Thank you, Mr Chatel.
As Mrs Toia has shown in her report, the combined value of the electronic communications services markets that depend on the use of the radio-wave spectrum in the EU amounts to more than EUR 250 billion, or about 2.2% of the EU's annual gross domestic product.
Good spectrum management can significantly contribute to the Lisbon goals of competitiveness and economic growth and satisfy a wide range of the social, cultural and economic needs of European citizens.
The Commission is also called on to support and assist the Member States in achieving this goal.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, Catherine Trautmann, Pilar del Castillo Vera, Patrizia Toia and Malcolm Harbour, for very difficult work and very constructive proposals.
I would like to thank Parliament generally, because the work has been very hard, and I know it has involved a very thorough and extensive preparation - hearings with the stakeholders and the consideration of literally of hundreds of amendments - and I know that you have also been working against the clock, but it is often in such circumstances that the best results are achieved, and that certainly applies here.
We have to ensure that when Member States manage their national spectrum - which is a very precious resource, as has already been said - they realise social and economic benefits because their management is efficient, transparent and flexible and because there is better coordination at EU level.
Finally - and this underlies all our endeavours - we must reinforce the internal market.
The IRG operates outside the Community framework - it has a membership beyond the 27 Member States - and in practice nobody understands where the IRG begins and where the ERG ends.
That is why the other side of the internal market coin is so important and that is why the European Parliament is absolutely right to reinforce the Article 7 consistency procedure for notifying national market reviews in which, by the way, the body will play its part.
This debate goes far beyond the technical level.
rapporteur. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, for the reform of the regulatory framework that we are discussing to be justifiable, it has to bring about tangible improvements, both for consumers in terms of prices, access and connection speed and for companies in terms of the prospect of fair competition, new investment and competitiveness.
It is therefore a matter of both public and private concern that requires us to support flexible rules and the responsibility of all stakeholders through cooperation between regulators and the Commission, in the same way that operators and customers cooperate on the basis of a contractual agreement.
There are four key areas that I want to see strengthened: firstly, customer service, whether in terms of access - through the more widespread territorial deployment of networks - fair prices or quality; secondly, sustained industrial activity with a view to stimulating job creation and innovation, since technological progress is also effective in bringing down prices; thirdly, the competitiveness of small and large companies in order to guarantee sustainable competition in the EU Member States and the necessary investment, especially in fibre optics, that will enable us to compete more effectively in a global market; and, finally, legal certainty - the need to ensure the reliability of the system by giving responsibility to those involved and encouraging mutual cooperation, especially among regulators but also between regulators and the Commission.
I personally feel that the sector has generally responded positively to these guidelines, and I hope that our partners in the Council will do likewise.
Under the mechanism provided for in my report, each body has its rightful place: the Commission may raise doubts about a remedy but cannot completely reject it unless BERT also delivers a negative opinion.
In short, these numbers confirm the Lisbon Agenda statements on the need to develop a European economy based on knowledge, where the great driver of development is, in fact, electronic communications.
This is a proposal which fits in which the concept of shared responsibility and developing an essentially successful market which still requires a few props up front in order to adjust fully to the rules of competition, a board based on cooperation between the Commission and the Member States in the form of the regulatory bodies.
rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the telecommunications world any medium which allows the transmission of voice, data and images is a precious resource.
This is why the idea that in a few years' time there will be a significant, not to say massive, quantity of radio spectrum available, in other words new frequencies available for new uses, is a huge social and cultural opportunity as well as an economic and commercial one: in fact, someone has even quantified the commercial value of the digital dividend already.
We have therefore got some time to make up - or at any rate use rapidly - and even if the digital switchover is completed in 2012 - a date which should be absolutely and comprehensively respected - we need to focus now, without delay, on reforming the radio spectrum and on the digital dividend.
The radio spectrum is a natural and hence a public resource.
Our report makes various points and I will just single out one or two: the need for a win-win strategy, as the Commissioner was saying, in other words an allocation of resources which satisfies audiovisual and media operators - who are already present in the field to ensure cultural pluralism and to defend cultural identities - and also answers the needs of and provides adequate space for telecommunications sectors, which need to develop new services and a broad range of technologies to respond to new requirements from modern consumers.
I believe that on the one hand - and here Parliament is in agreement - we must respect the responsibility of Member States in terms of allocating frequencies, but we must also assess together the vital need for harmonisation, because we should all be aware that if we fail to harmonise, if we fail to coordinate and fail to take common decisions, the economic and social value of the spectrum will be diminished.
Therefore, on the basis of cost/benefit analyses carried out in various countries, as part of national projects, regarding the dividend sought by our report, on the basis of the broadest possible debate to be held in the Member States, involving both operators and the general public, I believe that in the end, with a big dose of political will at European level, we must all come to recognise the added value of a Europe-wide management of this resource which will, I believe, offer a challenge to Europe both socially and economically.
This is a very important entitlement.
I must also remind the House that, under Article 47 of the Interinstitutional Agreement, Parliament and the Council must reach agreement on the funding of BERT.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - (DE) Madam President, as draftsman of the opinion on the first part - better lawmaking - in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I refer the House to my written opinion, but there are three points to which I attach particular importance.
Besides the telecommunications companies, other public enterprises must also be involved in duct-sharing.
rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - Madam President, Europe's ability to be the leader in the field of telecoms and mobile internet is dependent on our ability to open up to new innovations and new services.
We need to open up, and that is why it is so important to use the digital dividend in a way that frees up the whole of the spectrum for new services and new opportunities, while at the same time defending old broadcasters and their services of today.
Where infrastructure competition is not there already, we must ensure that there is real competition via a functional separation.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - (FR) I shall conclude, Madam President, by thanking all the rapporteurs and especially Catherine Trautmann, who has done a tremendous job, as a result of which we can expect a very large majority tomorrow.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - (NL) Madam President, the package in itself contains sound proposals for protecting consumer rights and privacy, but unfortunately it lacks coherence and so creates legal uncertainty both for businesses and for consumers, because the scope is completely unclear.
I am also glad that certain amendments were accepted, in particular those regarding the harmonization of the spectrum, as well as certain measures related to the global telecommunication services.
The European economic growth, as well as the consumer welfare, depends on a dynamic and competitive telecommunication sector.
On behalf of the Committee on Culture, I thus call on all Members in all committees and political groups to protect European creativity, thus safeguarding artistic content provided via new media.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Education. - (NL) Madam President, Commissioner Reding has once again shown her decisiveness with the telecom package.
The cultural and linguistic diversity of broadcasts must continue to be fully guaranteed and the interests of consumers and their investment in television equipment must be safeguarded.
The Committee on Culture has tried to strike a balance between these interests.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture and Education. - (FR) Madam President, I should first like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work.
The Committee on Culture and Education has, from the outset, taken this whole issue very seriously because we can no longer legislate on the electronic network or on radio spectrum whilst ignoring the real nature of the content being distributed.
The reality of a digital world requires us to work together with television broadcasters and electronic service providers and to legislate for an internal market in telecommunications which has become inseparable from the audiovisual market.
We also need a balanced response to the problem of illegal content on the Internet which will compel each of us to face up to our own responsibilities in a struggle that must concern us all if our children and our culture as we know it are to be protected.
I therefore support all these texts in their current form and I hope that our debate and the final vote will not be contaminated by ill-informed external pressure.
EU law must reflect these changes, including the social implications.
It is necessary to ensure cost-free access to a common alarm number, 112, for people throughout the Union, including users of Internet telephony, and to other electronic voice communication services.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs. - (DE) Madam President, if you granted me the same speaking time as the three previous speakers, that would suit me fine.
So as not to waste any of that time, let me thank Malcolm Harbour, Catherine Trautmann and Pilar del Castillo Vera for our truly outstanding cooperation, to which Malcolm has already referred.
To that extent I am pleased that I was able, in cooperation with other groups and Members, to help ensure that the right of consumers to have their personal details treated confidentially and their personal systems protected will be incorporated into this package.
After all, if I may remind you of a statistic, a turnover of more than EUR 300 billion has been achieved by the telecommunications sector in Europe alone.
Thousands of jobs depend on this market, and so it is important that we continue to develop the legal framework which has stood the test since 2002 in such a way that new chapters can be added to this European success story.
To this end, of course, we must first and foremost adapt our legal framework to take account of new technological developments.
We must create the legal conditions in which these investments will bear fruit.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Madam President, I only wish to deal with two points.
I should like to begin with an area in which we still have one or two matters to clear up with Pilar del Castillo Vera.
I should be grateful for your comments on these points.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the slowdown of production and economic growth in Europe is also being felt by the telecommunications sector which is currently undergoing various crises.
I therefore think that we need to provide all possible support and that our review package regarding the regulatory framework can boost the revitalisation of this sector by providing a stable, solid and effective legal framework.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Reding for her reliable and active work in the sphere of electronic communications, both on roaming and also on this package.
Firstly, it is possible that the joint structure formed of the national regulators, BERT, will be a more democratic regulatory structure than the authority proposed by the Commission, but it may be that BERT will function in accordance with worse cooperative principles and will weaken the Commission's capacity to take regulatory decisions.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, to the many thank-yous we have heard I should like to add a very special one of my own.
Commissioner, in my view, Parliament has made crucial changes to the draft framework directive as regards competition law but also, and more especially, on frequency-trading.
Besides the framework directive and the point about frequencies, I would also like to say something about two other reports, beginning with the Harbour report.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (SV) Madam President, I hope that many of our citizens are following this debate and becoming involved before the vote as it involves such major changes, especially regarding internet services.
I am working against the decision to prohibit file sharing at national level and am doing so at EU level too.
The risk of now taking a decision at EU level is greater than that of national decisions as the lobby groups have had a major influence and effect in the EU system and because many citizens lack sufficient information when we are debating these issues at EU level.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Madam President, Sisyphus is my middle name.
The right to freedom also guarantees our right to human dignity.
We have now reached the second stage in the process of reducing roaming fees for voice telephony.
For this reason I call on the Commission to act in this matter and create a single European market for European consumers.
We cannot but observe that this part of the European internal market is not yet in working order and that there is an urgent need to establish a single market in this sphere, especially through the gradual introduction of a common flexible frequency-allocation plan.
I also believe that BERT should be fully financed from Community funds, because we quite simply need an authority or institution that is committed to the European internal market and because national regulators should be granted more rights in the other Member States. (RO) Dear colleagues, the development of the information society relies upon the electronic communication networks and services.
The transition from analog to digital television by 2012 will release a significant range of frequencies at European level, thus enabling the development of new technologies and innovating solutions to stimulate the European competitiveness in this sector.
Consumer confidence in the information society services depends on the quality of the electronic communication services, their security and the personal data protection.
It is essential that the national regulatory authorities consult all suppliers of electronic communication services before they adopt specific measures in the field of electronic communication network security and integrity.
Since we were talking about suggestions before, I do not wish to omit that we are considering how to deal with IP addresses, because IP addresses - and we must not confuse these things - are not the data that are being traded, which are personal data, credit-card details, etc., and even if they were traded - just to explain this briefly - an IP address is not necessarily a personal characteristic, at least not when your fridge transmits a message to your computer. (The President cut off the speaker.) (GA) Mr President, it is absolutely necessary that wherever people live, be it in parishes, big or small, in the countryside or in towns or cities, they have access to broadband and to modern technology.
It is absolutely necessary that governments concern themselves with the inequality that exists between rural and urban areas in terms of digital services and broadband in order to ensure competitiveness and investments for those areas.
Of particular concern to us are some dangerous proposals in the Harbour report which clearly infringe the principle of neutrality of the Net as a means of communication, infringe users' privacy, threaten freedom on the Internet and, above all, clearly exceed the legal scope of the telecommunications package in terms of content, in terms of what is lawful or unlawful, legal or illegal in intellectual property, and in terms of information filters.
We must ensure that future legislation does not become an electronic straitjacket, but a framework within which the culture, societal debate and interactive life of the future can unfold. (PL) Madam President, may I begin by congratulating Commissioner Reding.
The protection of consumers referred to in the regulations discussed in Malcolm Harbour's report is very closely connected with proper allocation of the digital dividend, which consumers are awaiting.
Television and mobile telephony are proposed as the main beneficiaries of the digital dividend, but I want to stress the importance of wireless Internet.
I should first like to express my agreement with the rapporteur on the fact that broadband access is a major challenge facing our societies, whether in terms of access to knowledge or essential services.
The first option would be to extend the scope of the Universal Service Directive to include broadband services; the second would involve freedom of choice and would enable only those Member States to include broadband access in their universal service which wished to do so; and, finally, an intermediate option would make the inclusion of broadband within the scope of universal service compulsory in those Member States where broadband has reached a sufficient level of maturity.
Another very important issue is access to emergency services and the provision of caller location information, which must be made available in a reliable manner, regardless of the technology used.
All these developments had to be secured for the benefit of as many people as possible.
I should now like to turn to the question of content and copyright which has tended to overshadow the rest of the improvements in the text.
Our aim has always been to provide consumers with general information on infringements of copyright, in line with the Commission's original proposal.
I should like, once again, to thank my colleagues, and I am looking forward to more specific proposals from the Presidency in order to make further improvements to this text before the next part-session.
This directive will ensure better protection of consumer rights in electronic communications.
In addition, access to emergency services through 112 may be blocked in case of repeated misuse by the user and 112 will be more accessible to people with disabilities.
May I thank all the rapporteurs for the work they have put in.
Internet service providers must play their part in preventing their platform being used for destructive forces like libel, hate and exploitation.
Mr Guardans, Mr Medina and Mr Mavrommatis have made that point very well indeed, and I agree with them.
The debate is now focused on a reference made to the 2001 and 2004 Directives on copyright and on cooperation among the various stakeholders.
However, the model that we should follow is the Memorandum of Understanding that was adopted on 24 July by the UK Government, OFCOM and the various stakeholders.
May I say to you that this is not the opinion of Parliament, for Parliament is not due to vote for another two weeks, and only then shall we see what position it takes on these matters.
If no satisfactory agreements materialise in Parliament on data protection, network access and network neutrality, my group will be unable to vote in favour of the package, and then we shall have to see how we move on from there. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, I should like to congratulate you on your dedication, and, of course, I should like to congratulate the rapporteurs and especially Mrs Trautmann, who has worked extremely hard to reach this consensus, which she wanted to be neutral and to have no sectoral distinction.
The new Article 8a, proposed by the rapporteur, does provide certain guarantees, but the wording of this clause must be tightened up in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and ITU rules.
Regarding copyright, I should like to endorse the comments made by all my colleagues who have raised this issue. (ES) First I would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the good work they have done.
Ladies and gentlemen, this stance runs counter to Article 12 of the Electronic Commerce Directive, which already states that intermediate service providers must act as neutral intermediaries when they transmit electronic information.
I think that, thanks to our rapporteur, Malcolm Harbour, consumers will be better and more quickly informed.
Despite the fact that I would never wish anyone to have to dial 112 for an emergency, it should be emphasised that, on the basis of this directive, the emergency services will have access to information on the caller's location, allowing them to provide assistance more quickly and effectively.
I respect the role and contribution of private companies, but the economic interests of the Internet giants must not be allowed to dictate the laws adopted by Europe to protect the fundamental rights of its citizens. (DE) Madam President, many thanks to all the rapporteurs for their work, which was truly excellent.
A step in this direction reflects technological convergence as well as convergence in the reinforcement of copyright. (EL) Madam President, Commissioner, when managing and allocating the radio spectrum we must ensure full and effective access for all citizens to this public asset.
The proposals in the reports by Mrs Trautmann and Mrs Toia on the radio spectrum and digital dividend place the issue on a firm footing from the outset.
The debate on the digital dividend should not boil down to a black-and-white choice between commercialisation and social benefit.
However, the new approach taken by the Commission for greater harmonisation at EU level with regard to how to allocate the radio spectrum on the basis of common administration criteria, such as the principle of neutrality of services and the extension of the principle of a general licence, seems to ignore the public nature of the radio spectrum and to favour the commercial aspect.
I want to draw the attention of this House to one provision - an amendment I made and backed by the committee - to make the introduction of the 116000 missing child hotline a legal obligation on all Member States.
The Commissioner will be aware that a recent report has shown that, a full 18 months after its introduction in 2007, only seven Member States have assigned the missing child hotline.
In addition, the amount of investment is likely to frighten off many investors before they can even think about recouping this EUR 250 billion providential windfall.
The distribution of these constraints must therefore be factored into our policies.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Madam President, at the end of this debate, I should like to start by thanking you, ladies and gentlemen - I found that both the quality of your deliberations and your commitment to this subject highlight the importance of telecommunications in current European debates.
I should like to commend the very broad consensus that I observed during this debate between Parliament and the Council, particularly on improving spectrum management, enhancing consumer protection and restricting the use of functional separation in order to prevent it from becoming widespread, which is an issue that has been raised several times.
Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, what do we want to achieve?
I should like to pay tribute to them because they have often managed to square the circle.
rapporteur. - (FR) Madam President, at the end of this debate, I should like to thank the Council and the Commissioner for listening so carefully to what we had to say; this has enabled them to see that there is quite considerable consensus, a great deal of agreement, in our Parliament on the telecom package.
However, we must also take into account the freedom that must be guaranteed in our texts - we have adopted extremely important texts on the protection of personal data, and we are the only ones to have done so in the world today.
It is in this spirit that we shall continue to work to improve our proposals.
I also wish to express my thanks above all to my colleagues who, here today as on so many days in the past, have shown the extent to which they are aware of the importance of this sector to European economic growth and, therefore, to the employment and welfare of all European citizens.
rapporteur. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and would just like to draw attention to two points.
A positive approach means that we have taken a realistic look at the interests at stake, at the value of the industries, at the work performed by workers in this sector and therefore at its significance in the European economy as a whole, but also at the role of the citizen, the consumer, starting with the least advantaged, who are set to benefit from the digital switchover if they are helped to make this transition: I know that some countries, including France, are running information and support campaigns in this connection, but if not followed up these citizens might well have difficulties.
The second point concerns a balanced approach.
rapporteur. - Madam President, I find myself in the uncharacteristic position of having the last word in this major debate so I will perhaps make a few broad-ranging remarks at the end.
But first of all I would like, regarding my own report, to thank the many colleagues who have contributed and have reinforced the determination of our committee to make and carry forward those improvements.
I was absolutely astounded to hear from her colleague, David Hammerstein Mintz - who I get on very well with - that he considers my report to be dangerous to net neutrality.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (NL) The new telecoms law that we are discussing today has far-reaching consequences for all of us Internet and telecom users.
It is important for consumers to be well informed on what can and cannot be done on the Net, but access to the Internet must in no circumstances be denied.
in writing. - (GA) In today's highly connected, globalised world personal privacy and data protection should be priorities for all of us.
However, we feel that there is still a considerable amount of work to do in the areas of strengthening competition and consequently breaking down consumer prices.
It is also an important result that there will also be a new framework for cooperation by the national regulatory authorities in the future.
We feel that the importance of the framework regulation that is to be adopted lies in the fact that it will increase market competition without overlooking an appropriate level of consumer protection.
