International Tropical Timber Agreement 2006 - International Tropical Timber Agreement 2006 (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Caroline Lucas, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade, on the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 2006 (11964/2007 - C6-0326/2007 -, and the oral question - B6-0458/2008) to the Commission on the International Tropical Timber Agreement 2006, by Helmuth Markov, on behalf of the Committee on International Trade.
rapporteur. - Mr President, let me start by thanking all of my colleagues in the Committee on International Trade and in the Committee on Legal Affairs for their excellent cooperation on my report on the International Tropical Timber Agreement (ITTA) 2006.
You may note that almost a year has elapsed between the referral of this agreement to Parliament and this debate this evening.
Without doubt it does represent an improvement on the older ITTA agreement of 20 years ago which, although it was billed as an agreement promoting both trade and sustainability, is in reality very much about trade and not very much about sustainability.
ITTA 2006 falls well short of what is required to address the problem of the loss of tropical forests.
Parliament's assent to any future agreement will depend on a radical change in the underlying objectives of the agreement towards the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests, with trade in tropical timber taking place only to the extent that it is consistent with that objective.
Nevertheless, as our rapporteur Mrs Lucas has already said - and I should like to thank her very warmly at this point for her wonderful report - there is some doubt as to whether this agreement will indeed be sufficient to tackle the problem of deforestation seriously.
At this point I should like to thank in particular the rapporteur, Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou, and the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Gargani, for their clear and rapid legal advice regarding the legal basis.
Regrettably, the Council did not reply to this letter until 23 May 2008.
It was in this context that the Committee on International Trade adopted the report by Mrs Lucas, the present oral question and the corresponding resolution we are debating here.
Despite its imperfections, the agreement signed in 2006 is an important step in this direction and its entry into force can only further the cause that you quite rightly defend in your report.
The Commission is of course ready to report to the Council and Parliament on the activities of the ITTO, but I would still like to draw your attention to the fact that this organisation publishes its own annual reports.
As you know, at the sitting on 19 December 2007, the committee in question gave its opinion on the legal basis of the motion for a Council resolution.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, let me say at the very start of this debate that the Socialist Group congratulates Caroline Lucas on her report, truly supports it and will vote for all the amendments that she proposes in her report.
I share Caroline Lucas's objective in trying to ensure that the revised agreement does in reality give priority to social and environmental issues rather than solely focusing on increasing trade in tropical timber.
I share the disappointment that both Caroline and Helmuth Markov have expressed regarding the fact that Parliament has not been granted the assent procedure on this agreement, and I share the view that we should have been given that procedure.
In Ghana, where illegal logging has reduced the rainforest by up to 25% of its original size in under 50 years, the agreement will help to secure the future of its timber industry - its fourth most profitable industry.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the conclusions of her report, which I fully endorse.
As a main importer and consumer of wood and having committed itself to halving deforestation as part of its plans to fight climate change, the EU has a responsibility in combating illegal logging and trade in illegally harvested timber products.
Mr President, Commissioner, the conclusion of an International Tropical Timber Agreement is certainly a very significant step towards protecting tropical forests and making trade in certain species of timber more civilised.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DA) Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Lucas for an excellent report.
We have established, and there is agreement all round, that the trade in tropical timber in the EU is a disgrace.
The idea is that international trade should be put to use - as a tool to promote sustainability and development throughout the world.
Meat production is one of the main causes of forest destruction in Amazonas.
The Chairman of the United Nations Panel on Climate Change, Rajendra Pachauri, recently called for a reduction in meat consumption.
As I mentioned earlier, Mrs Lucas is also right in most of what she says in her report.
The European United Left Group therefore supports this excellent report. (PL) Mr President, the existing international agreements relating to tropical dendroflora are very clearly inadequate.
The most interesting species of tropical timber still have a market in wealthy countries.
The preservation of tropical forests is essential for maintaining the planet's ecological balance and we can state, without exaggeration, that, as such, tropical forests really are the heritage of mankind and that we all bear a responsibility for the conservation of tropical forests.
For this reason, I also advocate the recognition of existing certification systems that have been set up partly by the sector itself and partly by NGOs.
I believe that the International Agreement on Tropical Timber will contribute to the sustainable management of world forests, even if 80% of them have already been destroyed or damaged.
We all know that forests are a haven for the preservation of biodiversity and that they play a crucial role in the fight against climate change.
Our European endeavours to protect the environment will remain ineffective if we tolerate the destruction of the environment in other parts of the world.
Finally, deforestation stimulates not only trade in wood and furniture but also increases in agricultural prices and in demand for biofuels.
This type of agreement should be ratified by Parliament and it is important that we discuss the Commission's report on the implementation of this international agreement and the state of deforestation every year here on the floor of the European Parliament.
First of all, I would just like to remind everyone that the 2006 agreement aims to promote the expansion of international trade in tropical timber from forests that are sustainably managed and exploited legally and to encourage sustainable management of timber-producing tropical forests.
This agreement also affects other forests indirectly, although this is less evident and more marginal.
It is true that the agreement that we have discussed tonight is a modest start - to quote someone here - but this should be the starting point for a much more effective strategy than in the past.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues for their comments and support, but I do want to have a few words with Commissioner Barrot in particular.
I hope you have heard the impatience and the frustration that has been expressed right across this House tonight about the endless delays to this long-awaited legislative proposal on measures to combat illegal logging.
Many colleagues have mentioned the link between deforestation and climate change, and I would like to add a final point about the climate package that colleagues will be voting on in the coming weeks.
We certainly do need to tackle deforestation as part of the climate package, but we are arguing that that should be done by using the auctioning revenues to properly invest in those countries that have that issue.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) Nobody can any longer be in doubt that the clearance and destruction of forests has an impact on climate change and biodiversity.
Only such an agreement could make a real contribution to protecting forests and to the sustainable use of timber.
