Those needs are addressed in the consumer action plan 2002-2006 and in the Green Paper and its follow-up on consumer protection.
It is also seen in our own differences over what kind of framework directive best regulates the business of consumer relationships and where and how unfair practices can be identified and redress sought.
For my own report I am indebted to the Commission, the shadow rapporteurs of all parties and all those who have worked with me to produce a consensual report, notably my own former researcher, Michelle Smyth, whose intermediary skills have now been transferred to our National Consumers' Association.
That is why in my response today I have been unable to accommodate, any more than I could at the committee stage, some of those on either the Left or the Right who wish to make this also a debate about eco-labelling, the virtues of organic produce or, on the other side, the virtues and provability of GM technology.
As the Commissioner well knows, there are other places where these things will be discussed.
I cannot accept that we should go further from the area which was laid down in the very extended debates in committee.
Some in her party have asked why that should be there.
I shall turn now to the broad principles of the action plan we are deliberating.
Firstly, a high level of consumer protection.
Only five States out of 15 have met the Barcelona targets for implementation.
Thirdly, the involvement of consumer organisations in EU policies is crucial for the enlarged Community.
At the moment only about half our citizens know their rights as consumers.
So we want to provide consumers once again with a simple, standardised legal framework, comprising a limited number of fundamental rules that are applicable whatever the nature of the transaction.
The global approach of the Commission is, therefore, to be welcomed.
In this area, too, the application of general criteria should not be to the exclusion of the special provisions covering information provided to the consumer.
It should also be possible to take legal action as a preventive measure in order to put an end to unfair commercial behaviour, which - were it allowed to continue - might be detrimental to consumer interests.
In view of the diversity of national traditions and the uncertainties of the definition of the concepts, it is essential to continue consultations with the Member States and, at the same time, ensure the laying down of strict rules for the codes of conduct within the Community rules themselves.
There is an urgent need to establish an organisational framework for cooperation between the national authorities responsible for the application of consumer law.
It will be desirable to establish databases to facilitate the exchange of information and to create a warning system to enable Member States to take concerted action for all consumers where the need arises.
Although we are not dealing with any legislative proposals on this occasion, the importance of this debate should not be underestimated.
Both are objectives of the Treaty and each can support the other.
That will bring us more justice, certainly as far as SMEs are concerned, more legal certainty and more stability in the legislation, all things we are all striving for.
Nor do we reject the idea of a framework directive, Commissioner, but as responsible legislators we want to satisfy ourselves beforehand that such a framework directive with all that involves really would lead to greater simplicity, more legal certainty and, also, a more effective consumer policy.
In any case, we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market are also convinced that maximum harmonisation is not possible as long as a high level of consumer protection has not been reached, unless harmonisation is geared towards that.
The second objective is to make sure that there is effective enforcement of consumer protection rules.
The third objective is to provide for the involvement of consumer organisations in EU policies.
I would like to stress that these three objectives have been designed with the three following cross-cutting ideas in mind: To help achieve integration of consumer concerns into all EU policies, such as competition policy, transport and justice; to maximise the benefits of the single market for consumers - this is a result which should benefit business and consumers alike; and, last but not least, to prepare for enlargement.
All three objectives of the strategy - a high common level of consumer protection, effective enforcement of consumer protection rules and proper involvement of consumer organisations - were very much designed with the perspective of new and future countries joining the EU shortly and in the future.
They suggested, in particular, the idea of a framework directive on unfair commercial practices.
The Commission also suggested the development of a legal instrument for cooperation between enforcement authorities.
This gives us a clear sense of what the impact of a framework directive will be on small and medium-sized companies.
The conclusions of this impact assessment and surveys can be summarised as follows.
The impact assessment concluded that a framework directive based on full harmonisation would be the most effective way to remove barriers to cross-border retail trade.
In addition, my services have been working on the nature of the legal barriers faced by business and consumers.
This very thorough consultation and research process has enabled the Commission to gain a comprehensive understanding of the various nuances of national rules on unfair trading and the concerns of all stakeholders.
I hope it has also enabled us to build a broad consensus on a workable framework directive.
The view of the European Parliament plays a very important part in the Commission's deliberations.
I hope today's debate will enable us to reconcile the remaining points of divergence between the two reports.
In our homelands, the standard of consumer protection is an important yardstick for measuring the effectiveness of our work.
The Committee also regrets the fact that no attempt had already been made to evaluate or qualify the effects that the measures proposed by the strategy as submitted would have on our finances or on the Budget.
The Committee furthermore points out that, if the measures envisaged in the strategy are, on being incorporated into the proposal for a new legal framework, to extend beyond 2006, the finances will have to be confirmed, either by an agreement on a new Financial Perspective, or by annual Budget resolutions.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am glad that we are able to have a debate today on this important subject, for the Spring Summit is about to be held, at which, every three years, we can give renewed consideration to how Europe can become the most competitive and the most innovative region in the world.
The importance of consumer protection as a subject is not a matter of dispute.
Mr President, actually I can be brief here and thank Mr Whitehead.
Section 15 deals with international private law.
I tried in my opinion to say that when aspects of international private law come up in consumer law, we should be able to regulate them under Article 95, the article that concerns the internal market.
What the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities wants is for vulnerable groups to be closely involved in consumer policy and I think this is expressed very well.
Special attention must be given to consumers and consumer organisations in the applicant countries, as we think that the internal market can only function at its best when the parties in the market are of equal standing.
Mr President, I would also like to say that this framework directive should assume a high level of protection of the consumer, but that it should also be based on the principle of maximum harmonisation, but linked to the high level of protection.
We want the internal market to function well, we want to get good service throughout Europe, we want good services to be sold and for everyone to know exactly where they stand.
In that sense we can vote for a framework directive.
Mr President, I am delighted that this morning we are debating three strong reports on consumer protection and that they straddle so many different committees.
Adam Smith declared that the sole end and purpose of all economic activity is consumption.
The consumer is king and we in Parliament - and indeed in the Commission - would do well to remember this.
The Commission report 'Consumer policy strategy 2002-2006', and indeed the Whitehead report, are both extremely positive steps in this direction.
Finally, I expect the Whitehead report to carry overwhelming support in the vote this morning.
Some consumer rights stop at national borders.
Mr President, we are dealing here with three important reports of course.
Finally, Mr President, I think that the Commission should use Article 153 of the Treaty more often as the legal basis for consumer protection.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, speaking this morning on behalf of my group in the debate on consumers and consumer protection, I, like many of my fellow Members, would like to say once again that, although we can adhere to the European Commission's objectives in this area - high level of protection, effective application of rules and effective participation of consumer organisations - we must once again point out that the proposals made are still far too vague and not specific enough.
Incidentally, at this stage of the debate on consumer protection and policy, I would also like to express very clearly two concerns in the form of basic criticisms.
These policies are only rarely objectives in themselves and tend, for the most part, to be a result of free competition.
My second concern is that these policies are frequently, if not always, a pretext for erasing, suffocating, or even abolishing the concept of public service, even though this is far broader than consumer protection as it applies in the long term, which involves solidarity and land use planning, in particular through pricing and access conditions.
This morning, I therefore wanted to point out these fundamental differences or even divergences, while welcoming the efforts made by the European Commission and supporting our rapporteurs' proposals.
Mr President, the Green Paper presented by the Commission and the reports presented this morning are along the right lines.
In order to achieve this high level of protection, it is therefore vital to involve representative consumer organisations in drawing up both Community and international policies.
They must therefore be protected, but also kept informed.
Community-level logos relating to fair trade or to companies that observe a social charter, are therefore valuable, effective instruments, as are those representing organic farming.
If we want to see ethical, fair trade, we need to restate our preference for quality products that do not endanger human dignity, in areas as varied as coffee or children's toys, and that fulfil all the criteria of the precautionary principle.
In particular, we must not, as implied by some amendments, allow consumer confidence in GMOs to increase.
On the contrary, our duty is to protect consumers and provide them with accurate, comprehensive information that will enable them to make fully informed choices, what they feel are the right decisions for themselves and for their children.
As we know, the 2001 Green Paper on Consumer Protection, for example, opened a period of widespread consultation and a valuable debate on the future of Community consumer law.
Yet , even before the results of the consultation process are known, the Commission has presented a proposal for a regulation on sales promotion in the internal market, which, on the one hand, pays little attention to the views of the European Parliament on the global approach, and, on the other, gives the absurd impression that we would prefer to continue to take a sectoral approach.
A high level does not necessarily imply uniform protection.
We must demand that the WTO does not dismantle our public services.
I am also concerned about the content of the Thyssen report: asking the Commission for an impact assessment on the possibility of maximum harmonisation seems unrealistic.
The Consumer Credit Directive is one example of this.
Quite simply, because they still lack confidence, because they do not always have access to the relevant information on products and services and because they do not always have the means of ascertaining the quality of products or price references, and because, particularly in the event of litigation, they do not know which authority will be competent.
In order to remedy this, we therefore need to harmonise legislation and establish genuine European consumers' rights while guaranteeing the flexibility required for application in the Member States.
Developing a framework strategy for consumers also means ensuring their legal protection, putting an end to disputes relating to unfair practices on the part of companies and protecting the companies themselves too.
Mr President, in today's world it is clear that consumers are more informed and more demanding.
In an ideal world, responsible businesses would respond to consumer needs.
The current corporate social responsibility debate offers business the opportunity to improve its consumer protection as a good business model and selling point, to help business gain the competitive edge and bring commercial benefits, while providing added value to the consumer.
I know that, as a skilled lawyer, you are committed to ensuring legal certainty for both business and consumers.
The consumer is already faced with fragmented regulations and enforcement.
As Commissioner Prodi has said, all European institutions need to step up their commitment to simplify regulations in order to reduce the cost of doing business in Europe and increase legal certainty for citizens.
In the Thyssen report Parliament has made it clear that it wants to see an extended impact study in this area.
Commissioner, you have mentioned three studies and you have been very clear about the benefits of this directive.
It is important that we explain to business what its obligations are and what it has to do to achieve your consumer protection objectives.
We have before us very good innovative ideas from the Commission - an overarching policy, a framework directive - something we need if we are really to make the internal market work and to make a success of eEurope.
However, to achieve all of that we have to build confidence in our consumers.
The one area that concerns me is in paragraph 17 of the report, which I endorse completely.
It concerns this linkage between codes of conduct, legal certainty and enforcement and how we get those three to really work together to protect consumers.
This year I shall be drafting a report on the monitoring of Community law and therefore feel very passionately that in moving to codes of conduct we have to ensure we still have legal certainty and enforceability or we fragment the very gains we have made in the internal market.
If we really want to do business across Europe together we have to be fair and reasonable with one another.
Mr President, any decisions taken with regard to consumer protection must pay due attention to the expectations and hopes, and also the fears, of the 425 million consumers in the enlarged Union.
The reports on the future of European consumer protection policy meet this demand whilst also demanding that an end be put to the lack of discipline in relations with consumers.
There is a great need for action, for example, in order to put a stop to abuses in the area of telecommunications and for reforms in competition law and in the field of financial services to protect consumers.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what I found absent from the Commissioner's speech this morning was something quite essential, by which I mean the need for us to re-establish a clear order of precedence, according to which this self-evidently has to be about safety and consumer protection, but also about transparency.
Commissioner, I would like to urge you in quite specific terms to make a real effort to enact a directive on consumer information analogous to the directive on the freedom of access to information on the environment.
Parliament's resolution contains many lines of approach for the introduction of precisely this consumer information directive.
This is not about mounting a lot of campaigns in support of the genetic engineering industry, but what matters is that a directive on consumer information should be produced, laying down in very clear terms not only the consumer's right to information, but also the enterprises' duty to disclose breaches when they occur.
I cannot restrain myself from making a final comment in view of the warning issued by the gentleman from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs about the provisions on the giving of credit.
The internal market is already a corollary of the commandment "thou shalt consume".
If we want to invest in consumer confidence we must above all invest in the reliability of products and services.
Let us first begin with minimum standards in the cases where there are real problems.
The European Union must adopt the necessary measures to achieve the participation of consumers in the management of this activity, if it wants to achieve genuine economic democracy.
It is time for Europe to declare war on the dangerous habit of smoking, introducing more effective awareness campaigns and maximum harmonisation of Member States' legislation in order to eliminate the evil of smoking.
Mr President, a debate analysing three reports on consumer issues together is a rare, precious occasion after years of lukewarm interest from Parliament and the Commission in this area.
The first report is, as we have heard, on the Green Paper on European Union Consumer Protection, the second on the consumer policy strategy for 2002 to 2006, and the third, a very weighty tome, on the legal protection of the consumer.
The strategy proposed by the Commission lays down these three medium-term objectives, which are to be achieved through a programme implemented immediately and to be subject to periodic checks carried out by the Commission and recorded in documents certifying progress made.
Achieving a common level of consumer protection means harmonising not just the safety of goods and services but, first and foremost, the different legal procedures through which the consumers exercise their role as guarantors in commercial transactions on the internal market.
The programme also provides for a plan of priority actions through which consumers can decide with the Member States on monitoring and, where necessary, appeal procedures, thanks to a system of genuine administrative cooperation.
The principle of minimum harmonisation of consumer protection policy is enshrined in the Treaty, moreover.
It is now important that there is a more effective, comprehensive policy to win support for minimum harmonisation across the board.
Mr President, I want to thank all three rapporteurs.
It therefore follows that when the Commission proposes legislation that is harmonised as fully as possible in the EU, I agree with this basic standpoint only if that means these very highest levels of consumer protection are implemented though harmonisation.
This same principle must also apply to mutual recognition.
The modern consumer is, however, a different type of citizen.
We agree with the request to establish simpler, more targeted legislative measures in order to facilitate the implementation of the legislative arsenal applicable to the internal market which, in our opinion, lacks transparency and is too fragmented to instil confidence in consumers.
Mr President, I would like to refer to the Green Paper, specifically that on consumer protection.
I therefore have in mind only the directives on misleading and comparative advertising or the fact that all the Member States have laws on duress and the use of force.
From the point of view of practical implementation, if one takes into account the scope of the amended directives on distance selling and of the proposed regulation on sales promotions in the internal market, the only consumers to which this would be applicable in cross-border business transactions would be tourists.
I therefore see no need for a framework directive in this area.
Unlike some of those who have spoken before me, I do not expect an additional framework directive to achieve that.
The Commission is therefore right, by means of the proposals on consumer protection, to seek ways out of the confusion and suggest what some of those ways might be.
That will also lead to harmonisation, and that is what we need in the internal market.
Consumers can avail themselves of their rights only when they know what those are.
Secondly, everyone must realise that just listing business to consumer relations or even business to business relations does not amount to integrated consumer protection, especially if our common objective is a more efficient market and greater consumer protection.
For example, the Green Paper proposals also need to address the proposed regulation on sales promotions.
As for the approach, opting as a matter of priority for a coherent framework directive containing a number of principles, such as a ban on immoral practices, the principle of good faith and the principle of fair trading practices, is the right approach.
Another problem is choosing between maximum harmonisation and minimum harmonisation.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am very glad that I have managed to get a few of my amendments accepted.
The one amendment to the Patrie Report has to do with taking into account the protection of competitors from unfair business practices, without prejudice to consumer protection, and in the interests of a uniform legal framework.
It is getting harder to achieve unanimity when it comes to clarifying where this objective ranks among the other policy objectives, and one Member said that we should support all measures that tend to promote sales.
I believe it to be apparent from all the reports and from everything that has been said, that we are a very long way away from our goal of a high standard of consumer protection in our Community, and that this makes it coherent and logical to enquire whether the country-of-origin principle and the principle of mutual recognition should remain applicable in future.
I would like to conclude by saying that I attach great importance to item 18 in the Whitehead Report, namely access to affordable and high-quality services of general interest.
Parliament is very fortunate in having distinguished Members who are experts in their field and that is reflected in the quality of the work they presented to us.
I want to speak from the perspective of the rapporteur on internal market strategy for the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
Consequently, given the enormous fragmentation and even incompatibility of trade and consumer protection rules in the Member States, which simply distort competition, bring down quality standards and undermine consumer confidence, I am in favour of all consumer protection legislation being harmonised to the highest possible degree.
The Treaty requirements on consumer protection and the internal market are entirely compatible.
Recent surveys reveal that only 13% of EU consumers made a cross-border purchase in the last 12 months.
We need, therefore, to strive for simpler and more common rules and practices to promote consumer confidence in cross-border transactions.
If neglected, fragmentation of consumer protection rules would significantly increase.
The framework directive will provide full harmonisation of the laws on unfair commercial practices.
Of course, this will not include contract law provisions, which will be addressed in the context of the action plan recently adopted by the Commission.
These matters, which are currently subject to minimum harmonisation rules, will be fully harmonised by the framework directive.
In addition, the general clause in the directive will replace all the divergent general clauses in the Member States and so create a more uniform regulatory environment.
It is an important aspect of this proposal and will make it generally more acceptable to business and consumers alike.
The definition of what constitutes an unfair commercial practice should lead to more legal certainty.
To help achieve this legal certainty, a non-exhaustive list of unfairness categories and a list of examples of banned commercial practices will supplement the general clause.
I look forward to taking into account the views expressed here this morning in the final drafting of the legislation, which I look forward to presenting to Parliament in the very near future.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at noon.
Mr President, I am delighted to see that Commissioner Byrne is here this morning because, as Chairman of the European Parliament's Intergroup on the Welfare and Conservation of Animals, I was very disappointed to receive a letter from Commissioner Byrne saying he was unable to come and meet our intergroup in the next three, four, five or six months to discuss issues concerning animal welfare, in particular the live transport of animals.
Zoran Dzindzic, in many respects, symbolised the new democratic State that Serbia has become.
We will remember in particular his personal commitment to democratic reform in Serbia and his role in the arrest and transfer of Slobodan Milosevic before the criminal court of The Hague.
This will be the first military operation to be conducted under European Union leadership.
I would like to point out that the issue of democratic control is of even greater importance in this instance than in others; that the mandate of a parliament - specifically of this European Parliament - is required; and that this principle, whereby similar operations have to be subject to democratic control, has to be embodied in the future European Constitution.
Mr President, we heard this morning from Parliament's legal services that if we retained the phase 'including private international law provisions' in paragraph 15 we could not mention the two articles of the Treaty which are the purpose of this amendment.
I agree, and am even certain, for example, that it is essential for the current and future Member States to take full advantage of the programming opportunities that exist with regard to the various forms of Structural Funds intervention in order to promote an integrated approach to equal opportunities for men and women and support specific actions in favour of equality.
I also consider that the Structural Funds should play an important role in supporting economic and social restructuring in the candidate countries, with particular regard to the effects of this restructuring on the employment situation for women, provision of childcare services and care for other dependants.
I voted against this report because I do not agree with the wording that implies that economic restructuring, in other words the change from the communist system to a market economy, has only negative effects.
The actions of the European Social Fund and of the other Community funds and initiatives must be drawn up in such a way that they properly cover regional and local levels within the State structure, and not only the national level. - (NL) The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities was right to also look into the opportunities and obligations that the existence of the EU Structural Funds can deliver for promoting equal opportunities.
The Treaty of Amsterdam and the regulations relating to the Structural Funds also make mention of this.
She is also asking for a balanced participation of women in bodies that select and make decisions about projects at local, regional and national levels, and for sanctions against projects that do not meet these criteria.
The role of the Structural Funds is going to diminish for the current EU Member States or even disappear altogether, in favour of projects for the newcomers.
In practical terms, with regard to the gender perspective and even when it does not legislate, the European Parliament, specifically in its capacity as a privileged forum and as the body that represents the citizens, issues guidelines both for the citizens in general and the Member States, which are the targets of some measures proposed by the report.
This report provides a good opportunity to promote further steps to achieve greater equality of opportunity between men and women and - it should not be forgotten - also greater equality within the worlds of men and women themselves.
Indeed, individuals' freedom of choice cannot be ignored and it is important to correct inequalities where these different personal choices are concerned and to ensure that these choices are respected.
This report, however, is forgetting two important points: firstly, the 'one member, one vote' system was deliberately introduced into the Treaty of Maastricht in order to present the model, supposedly attractive to the electorate, of a monetary union operating in an egalitarian way; secondly, this model is already not working very well, even before enlargement, and is the main reason for the ECB's inertia in the face of the problems of the largest economy in the area, Germany.
We have also voted against the ECB's proposal.
We think it is better to analyse this issue in greater depth and to give the new Member States opportunities to express their opinions on the matter.
In any future proposal, it will be important to emphasise the need for improved transparency within the ECB.
Transparency is an aspect that, unfortunately, is conspicuous by its absence in the proposals presented. . (PT) Enlargement and the need to take effective decisions have been used to justify extending qualified majority voting, as at Nice, strengthening the federal approach and the domination of decision-making by the major European powers.
Hence our appeal to the Portuguese Government not to accept this position and to take account of the European Parliament Resolution rejecting the ECB's recommendation. . (FR) Neither the European Central Bank's proposal to reform the voting methods within the Governing Council nor the model proposed by the Friedrich report are satisfactory.
The ECB's proposal would, in fact, allow the larger Member States to dictate monetary policy.
The model proposed by the Friedrich report allows one vote per member within the Governing Council, thereby giving the impression that it respects equality between the Member States.
I nevertheless believe that the IGC must agree on a proposal that reflects a better balance between fairness and effectiveness. - (NL) I agree with the majority who reject the proposal, but my criticism goes even further than that of the majority.
The European Central Bank is in danger of being cut increasingly loose from the Member States.
A rotating system for the Governing Council means that members from the separate Member States are no longer involved in decision-making, while their countries do have to suffer the negative consequences of those decisions.
Public control over the ECB should be increased rather than reduced. . (PT) The enlargement of the EU will make decision-making by the ECB more difficult, not only because there will be more members of the Governing Council with voting rights, but also because there will be less homogeneity of points of view.
Reform of the ECB's voting system must only be implemented, however, at the next Intergovernmental Conference, which is scheduled for 2004. . (PT) Taking advantage of the recent entry into force of the Treaty of Nice, the European Central Bank has already made use of its new powers by proposing an amendment to the operating methods of its Governing Council.
The ECB must be a strong body, with greater autonomy from the governments of the EU's Member States.
Although I regret the fact that various proposals for amendments tabled by my group, which sought to ensure respect for the basic principles of law, have been rejected - for example the amendment establishing that a person accused of a crime shall be considered innocent in the eyes of the law until proven guilty; the right to a fair trial, the right to protection and the right not to be sentenced or punished by the courts twice for the same crime - this proposal for a regulation has incorporated amendments that enable us to guarantee the survival of people whose names feature on lists of terrorists or of people with connections to terrorists without any trial having taken place.
Hence our vote in favour of the report. - (NL) Since the disaster in New York on 11 September 2001, attempts have been made to make the international financing of terrorist activities impossible.
They are refugees and democratic oppositions in exile, who are hated by the regime in power in their country of origin.
I have asked for attention to be given to this problem before in written questions on organisations of people from the former state of Somalia and of the left-wing opposition driven out of the Philippines.
The people affected are now able to pay for their food, accommodation, medical care and legal representation and it is no longer impossible to get names scrapped from the list. . (PT) The 'replacement' of NATO forces with a military force under the ESDP is being presented as the first military operation to have been undertaken under this EU policy, a policy to which we are opposed.
This is a military operation that has been executed following the EU/NATO declaration on the ESDP of 16 December 2002, which welcomes 'the strategic partnership established between the European Union and NATO in crisis management, founded on our shared values, the indivisibility of our security and our determination to tackle the challenges of the new Century'.
Or they involve taking sides and giving support to one warring party based on the major power's own interests or ideologies.
As a matter of fact, this hysterical language is, in itself, quite incomprehensible, in light of the explanations given by the Commission yesterday during the debate in plenary.
I must say that the choice of this subject by the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities was not my priority, given that there are many other problems that deserve to be addressed by an own-initiative report, problems that concern millions of women in the European Union, such as, for example, the issue of independent social security for spouses helping in small and medium-sized enterprises and in agriculture, where these unpaid, invisible workers are discriminated against particularly in the event of divorce.
Women who are fortunate enough to be employed by the European Parliament and those who have succeeded in becoming Members of the European Parliament are certainly not the most discriminated against or the most worthy of pity among females in the European Union, who make up the majority of citizens.
This is where the European institutions, the European Parliament in particular, can play a role as a pioneer in the world of work as a whole.
Equal treatment for men and women is incorporated in the Treaty establishing the European Communities and in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Here, gender mainstreaming is appropriate long-term for integrating gender issues into political and administrative decision-making processes and ensuring equal treatment in all policy areas and at every level.
The reality is that, in comparison to previous years, this is the second highest level that figures for suspected fraud have reached.
Even if there were no EU, agreements would have to be made between different countries on common support for these rights.
You can level everything down by regulating as little as possible, scrapping existing national regulations and leaving as much as possible to voluntary cooperation of the companies involved.
In the decision-making on strategy and the Green Paper on European consumer policy, there is a great temptation to misuse consumer protection as a lever to bring about greater uniformity of regulations at EU level, without solving the real problems.
Codes of conduct cannot substitute for legislation but are no more than detailed supplements.
I voted wrongly on the conclusion to section 23. . (PT) The Whitehead report constitutes a crucial initiative in the European strategy for consumer protection policy.
In this context of promoting high-quality tourism, the report calls above all for a high common level of consumer protection and for more effective compliance with existing rules.
In fact, the consumer policy strategy for 2002-2006 will lead to legislative proposals that we, like the rapporteur, hope will respect the important criteria established in the European Commission's package on better regulation, in particular: the principles of subsidiarity, necessity and proportionality; the presentation of consistent proof of the need for Community action; the identification of existing barriers to the development of the internal market; making appropriate information available on the impact on the existing Community acquis and on the main interested parties, which are undertakings and consumers; and lastly, the presentation of adequate proof and guarantees on the viability and effectiveness of measures intended to implement the objectives that have been set.
In addition to the reference made to the importance of listening to consumer associations - including those from the candidate countries - and to the fact that their involvement in the preparation of future legislation is much needed, I believe it is, at this stage, extremely timely that, in addition to launching the debate stimulated by the Green Paper on consumer protection, the Commission is initiating awareness-raising campaigns directly targeting consumers.
This model, however - it must be stressed - will still have to take due account of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. . (PT) The Thyssen report quite rightly calls for simpler and better targeted legislative measures to ease the implementation of the legislative strategies proposed in the Green Paper on the legal protection of consumers, since, despite the progress that has been made, the legislative arsenal applicable to the internal market lacks transparency and is too fragmented to inspire consumer confidence.
As everyone knows, this Commission Green Paper on fair commercial practices is intended to stimulate debate on the possibilities for improving the operation of the internal market in the field of electronic commerce between business operators and consumers.
In fact, the emergence of this new commercial situation as a result of the explosion of electronic trade calls for realistic measures to be adopted, specifically measures in line with the principles of greater security in legal trading, the security of commercial transactions, consumer protection and fair trading practices between competitors.
In order to achieve these aims, I agree with the view put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs, specifically with regard to the need for Community legislation arising from this Green Paper to be clear, simple, coherent and of high legislative quality.
Mr President, I ask you to intervene in this matter.
Mr President, I now wish to ask the Bureau the following question: in the resolution on the issue we will shortly be voting on, concerning company relocations, the Portuguese version of item 8 is different to all of the other language versions.
I believe that item 8 of the Portuguese-language version is wrong and item 8 of the versions in French, Spanish, English, etc.
The Commission therefore understands very well why Parliament attaches great importance to this problem and has a considerable interest in it, and how our fellow-citizens are quite right to be perturbed by it.
This will obviously have to touch on several different aspects, the first being the policy of economic and social cohesion by means of co-finance from the Structural Funds; secondly, European social policy; but also, thirdly, the rules of the European internal market, which should enable our enterprises to build themselves up in a climate of fair competition.
I would like, in my statement, to focus on the issues I have just mentioned, but before doing so, there are two other points I would like to address.
The first is that the problem of the closure of undertakings - even if the financial aid granted means that the Community is directly affected - is not a phenomenon exclusive to Europe, but one that must be considered in its international context.
It is unfortunate that our enterprises often succumb to the temptation to relocate their operations to countries where wages are low, sometimes disregarding all the requirements of social and environmental integration.
This international dimension of the problem demands that we be consistent in finding international or global solutions to it, which will, above all, involve active cooperation with the poorest countries and the creation of a system of international law that is more rigorous and better applied.
Secondly, it is in the context of enlargement that the Commission gives this problem particular attention.
This is an area in which the Commission can ensure only the implementation of the general provisions on the Structural Funds laid down by the Council with Parliament's agreement.
I might add that this corresponds to the practice within the Member States, in which every region endeavours to attract new enterprises and direct investment.
The guidelines on national regional aid require the recipients of this aid to maintain their investments for a period of at least five years, a period beginning with the date of the initial investment in the enterprise in question.
The 1999 general Structural Fund Regulation takes the same approach, stating as it does that the Funds will continue their contribution to productive activities only if there is no change in the site at which these activities are carried on in the course of the five years following the Structural Funds' decision to contribute.
Finally, the new regulation on State aid for employment enacted in 2002 is rather more flexible, requiring that the jobs created be maintained for a period of three years in the case of large enterprises and for a period of two years for small and medium-sized enterprises.
All these provisions will have to be applied in the future Member States from the moment of their accession.
The Commission is prepared, then, to discharge its responsibilities where an enterprise has, under an aid scheme co-financed by a Community programme, received subsidies without being entitled to them.
This does, however, presuppose that the authorities in the country from which the enterprise has migrated have, in the first place, established that the points described above of the provisions have been breached.
Some are the result of clear economic decisions and have been discussed frankly with the workers and their representatives, while others, regrettably, carried out without regard for labour law, force people, unprepared, into unemployment.
The Commission's position is clear; enterprises may well be free to come to their own economic decisions, but they must always be aware of the social dimension.
The European Works Councils Directive, in particular, imposes on multinational groups of companies with bases in Europe precise duties as regards informing and consulting workers' representatives.
Social measures accompanying restructuring are, after all, also an important issue for the social partners and for the new European Observatory on Industrial Change.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Fischler on the communication that he has just given this Parliament, but I cannot.
I shall highlight two cases with which I am very familiar: those of the Clark shoe factory and the Bawo clothing factory.
Last January, the management of the Clark company decided, unexpectedly and without consulting anyone, to close their factory in Castelo de Paiva in Portugal, leaving 588 workers unemployed.
Two years previously, acting in a similar way, they had shut down their factory at Arouca in the same region, leaving almost 500 people unemployed.
These cases are models of a poor example to set and raise the following questions: where is the balance between economic interests and those of the companies and the rights of workers and of society?
The European Union's priority is employment.
This phenomenon of factory relocating is spreading in several Member States, creating unemployment and endangering the economic and social development of the regions.
The consequence of this will be greater pressure on social security systems, which will have to bear the costs of social assistance for these unemployed citizens and we are, of course, moving even further away from the vision laid down in Lisbon.
I wish to use my final words to welcome the support of the other political groups in this Parliament, in particular that of our socialist colleagues, who have understood the reach of the serious consequences of these company relocations in the Community area.
I also agree that the Commission should have acted more swiftly, not only by ensuring that its legislative machinery and the various directives in force were implemented, but also by drawing up a programme of action for a crisis situation such as this.
Nevertheless, to conclude, I also wish to offer my congratulations, on the fact that the Commissioner has defined a doctrine and a strategy that in principle warrant support, for responding to situations of this type, at the legislative, financial and social levels.
I also wish to congratulate this Parliament and all the political groups on having united over this serious situation, thereby demonstrating that the European Parliament is not turning its back on the citizens' problems and that it can put this communication to the benefit of society and of Europe's citizens.
Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the increase in relocations by multinationals involving the partial or total closure of their factories in the countries of the EU in which they have been based, especially Portugal, is aggravating unemployment, stifling the development of regions lacking alternative forms of employment and increasing poverty and social exclusion.
Furthermore, they sometimes undertake such action after receiving substantial Community, national and local aid, failing even to meet the commitments they have given and ignoring the extremely serious social and economic damage they cause, which is what happened in the case of C &amp; J Clark in Arouca and Castelo de Paiva and in many other cases in Portugal.
This situation is particularly serious in countries that are weaker in economic and social terms.
The case of Portugal cannot be compared with that of other countries, although this entire issue warrants attention throughout the EU.
I would highlight several examples of this: Eres, Bawo, Schuh-Union, Scottwool, Rhode, Ecco'let, Yasaki Saltano, Philips, Alcoa, Dhelphy, Alcatel.
Measures must therefore be adopted to regulate this type of investment and to protect employment and local and regional development.
Hence our proposals for the urgent creation of a regulatory legal framework - which must not be confined to what Commissioner Fischler stated a few moments ago - that makes Community investment aid conditional on companies' meeting contractual obligations that ensure the protection of the interests of communities and regions affected and in this way ensure respect for sustained economic and social development accompanied by the full guarantee of information and intervention for workers' organisations throughout the process, including the right of veto.
It is particularly important that all aid is made conditional on long-term agreements in the fields of employment and local development, that no aid is granted under Community programmes to companies that do not respect these commitments or that misuse aid.
Companies that have received Community financial aid must also all be audited, and these actions must be accompanied by an exhaustive study of the closure of companies that have received Community financial aid and into the relocations now underway, at a time, like this, when enlargement is close and when this situation is even more worrying.
Many legislative frameworks still remain to be established in order to provide investors in Europe with minimum guarantees, and thus provide millions of our fellow citizens with guarantees of job security and lasting employment.
Once these industrial crises are over, we must learn from them in order to establish clear employment obligations in the area of quality, quantity and durability in proportion with each Community subsidy.
You may recall, for example, that, from 1988 to 1995, the Longwy employment area in Lorraine was so badly damaged by the heavy industry crisis that it did not require any guarantees before welcoming Daewoo, even though the company was strongly backed by Community aid.
The European Union must no longer be simply a source of cash, but must now insist, as others have done in the past, 'I want my money back', to those who would swindle the Community out of its funding.
The sustainable development of our continent, which is its only long-term prospect, must be achieved through the threefold social policy of progress, respect for the environment and a regulated, fraternal economic policy.
That will be the price paid by Europe, but if Europe is to have a future, it will be at that price.
Let us hope that, especially where this Portuguese case is concerned, that of C &amp; J Clark, which has upset everyone in Portugal, the Commission will finally draw the conclusions necessary to bring an end to a problem that has been around for such a long time: that of companies chasing Community subsidies.
The recent case of C &amp; J Clark in Castelo de Paiva speaks for itself.
We cannot ignore, or pretend to be unaware of the fact that in most cases, these businesses, especially in Objective I regions, benefit from Community financial aid and from direct or indirect financial aid from the Member States.
Mr President, Gislaved, Bengtsfors and Skvde are among the Swedish localities in which many people have seen their lives shattered when large numbers of jobs have been transferred to other EU countries.
For Bengtsfors and the province of Dalsland in western Sweden, for example, the effects have been disastrous.
The Member States must abide not only by the letter of the EC Treaty, but also by its spirit.
Naturally, cases such as Bengtsfors lead to people's confidence in the EU's internal market being undermined.
I want now specifically to address two questions to Commissioner Fischler.
The first concerns whether he considers current penalties to be adequate and sufficiently severe in cases where state aid is given to companies, as a result of which jobs are transferred from one European Union country to another.
Mr President, Commissioner, strengthening the collective and individual rights of workers, especially in the context of mass redundancies, company transfers and insolvencies as a result of industrial change, is enshrined in directives that the Member States must respect, by transposing them swiftly and effectively into national legislation, which does not always happen, and on which the Commission must take special action.
Unfortunately, we are also seeing frequent cases of unfair advantage being taken of the material gains achieved without any concern to contribute to strengthening the chain of value produced in the region and, in particular, which fail to demonstrate any social concern.
This aid must be conditional on long-term agreements in the field of employment and local development, which means that aid must not be granted to companies that do not respect these commitments.
It is also becoming necessary, as we stated in the motion for a resolution, to draw up a code of conduct regulating the conditions for relocating jobs and which also enables us to monitor the virtual practices of companies that fail to comply.
This is why a special role has been given to the European Monitoring Centre for Industrial Change, which can assist in defining alternative policies for cases of relocation.
I personally am against the use of public funds to increase private profits.
Naturally, at the very least, we should demand that companies which do not fulfil their obligations, and in particular those which implement redundancies after receiving public money, reimburse the subsidies they have received.
Just as, at the very least, we should refuse to grant subsidies to businesses which, having received aid in one Member State, transfer production to another State.
The real problem, however, is not even that.
Mr President, it is very interesting that our Portuguese colleagues have brought this to our attention and we have had many contributions from them.
I want to approach this from a very different perspective.
If one looks at the state aid conditions - and I have seen some of the applications for my own region - there are plenty of procedures in place for clawing them back.
I should like you to pass on to Commissioner Monti, who I believe should be here, the message that we need to encourage industries to work together on reconfiguring their processes in order to make better quality products more competitively and at a better price.
I went to see a company the other day that makes ceramics in competition with lower cost Portuguese producers.
That company has invested EUR 55 million to reconfigure its process.
It has had to lose jobs as a result, but it has worked with its trade union to do that.
They left Parliament in disbelief, disgusted at not having been heard, and some said that they would come back, but only to cause damage.
If Europe continues to ignore the social impact of the liberalisation policies it is implementing, there will be further explosions.
I would like, though, to set out under three separate headings my response to the questions that have been raised in the various speeches, for all of which I am grateful, as they have led to a very rounded debate.
That has nothing to do with Manchester liberalism, but rather with adherence to, for example, our European rules on competition, for failure to ensure that competition works would utterly contradict the whole of our support policy and the entire cohesion and structural policy.
What this is about is increasing the level of employment in these regions.
One of the items in your motion for a resolution is a demand that the Commission should draw up a list of those firms that have been found guilty by a court of law.
We can see difficulties in this as regards data protection.
Mr President, I welcome this resolution which highlights the declining political situation in Cambodia.
The situation must be rectified before the country holds its general elections in July.
Although we as democrats welcome these elections, they will be meaningless if political activists continue to be intimidated and harassed.
This must be condemned.
I commend this resolution and I call on the European Union as a whole to maintain its vigilance on the situation in Cambodia, and to do everything within its means to secure democratic elections in the summer.
Mr President, Commissioner, we can only regret that, at the time of this new resolution on a South-East Asian country, once again our Parliament must condemn an increasingly widespread and serious failure to respect democracy and human rights.
On-going tensions with Thailand and an atmosphere of political intimidation are characterising the run-up to the general elections of 27 July.
The draft resolution before us is therefore opportune.
The resolution rightly asks the Cambodian Government to withdraw these guidelines.
The resolution contains another appeal to the Cambodian authorities that also meets with my complete approval.
Sadly trafficking in women and children is in any case an increasing problem in Cambodia.
Mr President, this House has given a great deal of attention to Cambodia ever since the days of Pol Pot, the Stone Age Communist with a doctorate in philosophy from the Sorbonne.
It is for this reason that I want to make it clear that, whilst our cooperation agreement with Cambodia was a step in the right direction, it was a pledge of our confidence, and such a pledge is justified only if the developments initiated by the United Nations, along with the rule of law and the beginnings of democracy, continue without interference.
If, however, the elections on 27 July are taken as an occasion for putting leaders of the opposition in fear of their lives and limbs, and intimidating religious groups and ethnic minorities, then that is a lamentable development presaging a fearful backlash, and something that we cannot accept.
Mr President, I am delighted at the progress on economic cooperation with Cambodia and other Asian countries and I am also for the financial support that the European Union gives to Cambodia, but with a qualification and I will come back to that in a minute.
I would like to remind you that of all the countries that the European Union gives financial support to, Cambodia receives the most support per head of population.
However, I am very concerned about the human rights situation in Cambodia.
Mr President, in the light of these events I would urge that the aid to Cambodia from the European Union must not be allowed to be unconditional and that our representatives in Phnom Penh must put explicit pressure on the Cambodian Government to make every effort to improve the human rights situation in their country.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank the Commission.
Two weeks ago, I went to Phnom Penh.
It is strange that, here in Brussels or Strasbourg, we should have a more accurate perception of the problems and dangers that threaten a democratic process than people living in Phnom Penh.
I think that this affects the kind of relations that representatives from our countries or our bodies can enjoy in Cambodia, with the vast number of cocktail parties and meetings with local VIPs.
The situation remains extremely worrying.
It is a signal that can be heard by the authorities in Phnom Penh to encourage them to continue with the electoral process until July.
The Commission has made proposals to appoint the head of this electoral observation mission.
The most crucial game is now being played over access to the media, 95% of which are controlled by the authorities in Phnom Penh.
The Commission also gives voice to the hope that the investigation mounted by the royal government into the background to the riots on 29 January this year will help make the country more stable.
The Commission is, moreover, concerned about the situation of the media in Cambodia.
A preparatory mission, led by the Commission and consisting of experts on elections and representatives of the Member States, was in Cambodia from 27 January to 4 February.
It is on the basis of the information they brought back with them that a decision will be taken on whether, and if so how, to support the electoral process, and, above all, on whether sending an EU mission to observe the elections on 27 July makes sense, is advisable or, indeed, feasible.
All those in Cambodia with whom we have entered into dialogue have spoken in favour of the EU being involved in the electoral process and have expressed the view that the observers' mission at the time of last year's local elections had done a great deal to further a climate of confidence and transparency during the election process.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place after the debates.
Mr President, with this joint resolution, Parliament is addressing very clear requests to the Council and the Commission regarding the respective competences, not least because it has been unanimously agreed that there is a situation of total violation of human, political and social rights in Burma.
Until now, the measures taken by the European Union to improve living conditions in Burma, to try to humanise the situation of its millions of inhabitants, have been limited to theory and political statements that have never been followed by action.
We need to activate the European Union's economic and industrial lever in order to prohibit any investment by the Member States in undemocratic regimes.
We also need to use the force of Community diplomatic and political action throughout this Asian region, which has a shared history with some of the Member States and for which relations with Europe are still so important for its development.
The European Union owes more than that to the winner of the Sakharov Prize and the Nobel Peace Prize, Aung San Suu Kyi, to the 1200 political prisoners, and through them, to the millions of Burmese citizens.
This resolution is very strongly worded and comprehensive.
Each paragraph should be part of a framework for a genuine Community policy on the military junta, and therefore to the benefit of Burmese civil society.
When they are divided or make seemingly empty threats, sending different messages through other channels, then the tyrant sees no need to respond.
Sometimes tough measures are introduced but there is little resolve in implementing them or there are deliberate efforts to undermine them.
We have seen this with Zimbabwe, where the very target of an EU sanctions regime is himself given specific exemption in order to be wined and dined in a European capital.
Now we come once more to Burma - another abominable regime - yet another case where the efforts of the European Union and the international community to encourage change have brought few tangible results.
Current sanctions against the Burmese regime are due to expire on 29 April.
The Council must renew the sanctions but it should strengthen them, introduce new measures, such as an investment ban, remove exemptions to the travel ban and extend it to include all members of the military junta.
There are thousands of people suffering who we do not hear about from the media as we did, I am glad to say, in the case of the 13 years of house arrests imposed on the Nobel Peace Prize-winner.
Forced labour is still common practice: recent Amnesty International surveys have shown that approximately 90% of the population of the State of Shan are subject to forced labour.
These people have no choice: either forced labour or prison.
The military regime is still breaking all records when it comes to violation of human rights, political prisoners, forced labour, child soldiers, media censorship, violation of religious freedoms and violence against minorities.
The time is long overdue for the generals to release unconditionally the 1 200 political prisoners who are being held in atrocious conditions and tortured.
The Council and the Commission must also give very serious consideration to the systematic rape of women and sexual enslavement and argue for an international investigation into this.
While it may be true that the freedom of movement of the NLD of Aung San Suu Kyi has been slightly increased, that seems to be more a question of window dressing than of a significant change in policy.
The European Union must strengthen the sanctions against Burma.
I would like to confirm, as regards forced labour, that the Commission gives unconditional support both to the most recent UN resolution on the human rights situation in Burma and to the ILO's stance in defence of international labour standards.
The Commission has no reservations about favouring closer cooperation between the WTO and the ILO and welcomes the informal cooperation that already takes place to some degree.
The Commission also favours independent international investigation of the charges laid against the armed forces, namely of sexual violence and other infringements of the civilian population's rights.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place after the debates.
Mr Karamanou, I do not know whether Commissioner Fischler understands Greek too.
The political leadership has done nothing whatsoever and the entire matter has been left to the loyalty of women's organisations and the media; in other words, to pressure from global public opinion.
This pressure is very strong and it does bring in results but, in the final analysis, the European political leadership also needs to do something and insist that the Nigerian Government do what it should to protect women's rights in Nigeria.
Because on 25 March, Amina Lawal's case will be heard before the Sharia court of appeal.
She was, however, spared on procedural grounds and that means that the danger has certainly not gone away for Amina Lawal, who was granted an appeal on 19 August and whose sentence will probably be reconfirmed on 25 March.
She was convicted in Katsina, one of the twelve northern regions where Sharia has come into force during the past 3 years.
This immediately renders the Constitution of Nigeria, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and all other treaties that Nigeria has ratified dead letters.
Presidential elections are being held in Nigeria in a couple of weeks.
Recently 220 people were killed in riots surrounding a beauty contest.
Commissioner, we did that on 15 February 2001, 15 November 2001, 11 April 2002, September 2002 and the ACP did that on 21 March 2001.
We discussed it in the group and with other groups in this Parliament and passed a motion for a resolution on the plight of Amina Lawal.
The motion clearly sets out what we believe the government of Nigeria must do, in accordance with its international obligations and the requirements of its own federal constitution.
We must remember this and similar cases and the plight of all women under Sharia law in the African continent.
Today, we women are still the victims of discrimination in Europe, our sexuality is commoditised, but our right to exist has been won.
We must prevent the killing of Amina Lawal, a woman who has dared to love and is condemned to being stoned to death for having a child out of wedlock.
Nigeria has even adopted a Constitution which guarantees the right to freedom without torture or punishment.
On a number of occasions, President Obasanjo has stated that he is opposed to the death penalty being applied on the basis of Sharia law, but he cannot keep up these double standards forever.
It is true that the issues are complex, but now, the lives of many men and women are at stake - today, it is the life of Amina Lawal, yesterday, it was the life of Safiya Hussaini.
Yet how many other women and how many men are lying in prison or are charged and hanged?
The Nigerian Government must ensure that they comply with international obligations in the area of human rights.
We wait to see how the Nigerian Government will act after the appeal on 25 March.
I express the hope now that the Lawal case will not bring dark clouds over relations between the Union and Nigeria.
Christian groups have been critical of the Nigerian Government's failure to affirm that such punishments are contrary to the federal constitution, although President Obasanjo has said that he will weep if the verdict is carried out.
The sentence has been delayed until 2004 to allow her to wean her child.
I would also call on the Greek presidency of the Council to summon the Nigerian Ambassador and make plain to him the feelings we hold so strongly in this House against such an unjust punishment.
Madam President, the cases of stoning in the States of Northern Nigeria, based on the application of Sharia law by Islamic courts, are a flagrant violation of human rights which we must condemn with all our energy, as Mrs Karamanou has done very effectively this afternoon, on behalf of our European Parliament.
The case of Amina Lawal is dramatic and urgent because, following several postponements, the sentence is imminent: 25 March.
But it is not the only case, Sarimu Mohamed, Safiya Hussaini, Bariya Ibrahima and Adama Yunusa have also been sentenced to prison following a series of international campaigns to prevent these stonings.
The vulnerability of women under Islamic criminal law, torture and the degrading treatment they suffer represent an unacceptable violation of human rights and this should be reflected in the European Union's relations with Nigeria and with any other country that applies the Sharia.
More than a million and a half people have protested to the Nigerian authorities and, thanks to this popular action, other stonings have been prevented, but the issue at the moment is to save Amina Lawal and to this end Sharia law must be abolished and, where necessary, hunted down.
Nigeria is not the only country in the world in which such cruelties take place.
Stoning must of course be banned in every country of the world, but let the obviously appalling case of Amina Lawal be an opportunity to register our unshakeable opposition to the stoning of women.
Madam President, I welcome this joint resolution on behalf of Amina Lawal Kurami.
I would like to thank the thousands of people who responded, both in 2002 and to the recent appeal within the past weeks.
I also thank the European office dealing with human rights in Nigeria.
Regional legislation must be in keeping with the international laws in place nationally in Nigeria.
Even though Amina Lawal would have the right to appeal her verdict before a non-religious court, she has suffered enough.
When I was asked to launch an appeal on behalf of Safiya Husseini for a similar offence I was informed that at least four women were awaiting the same sentence - Amina Lawal was one of them - and that young boys from 12 to 16 years of age were awaiting amputation of their hands for theft.
We call for an immediate and lasting response to our parliamentary resolution.
Madam President, once again Parliament is led to, and strongly obliged to condemn the appalling situation of a woman named Amina Lawal, who has been sentenced to death by stoning in Nigeria for having exercised her freedom.
What can I say, what can I add to all that has just been said by my fellow Members, except to reiterate my condemnation of the appalling situation of a woman which justifies as still necessary the fighting that takes place on international women's days.
This intolerable situation forces us to restate our radical opposition to the death penalty and forces us to remember that a court of justice, whether in Nigeria or in any State in the world, cannot be based on religious principles and deny all the principles relating to absolute respect for human rights and respect for human dignity.
We must condemn again and again this intolerable situation of a woman, confirming the importance we attach to the principle of secularity as the principle of major organisation in modern, democratic States.
Madam President, Commissioner, the Nigerian Government should declare that the application of the Sharia by a regional court of justice is counter to the Constitution of its country.
In this regard, we would remind it, in particular, that respect for human rights is a fundamental element of the agreements concluded with third countries.
Apart from the situation of Amina Lawal in Nigeria, all those men and women in the world whose fundamental rights are denied expect the European Union to turn the resolutions that we adopt, sitting after sitting, in this House, into action.
We must do everything possible to influence Nigeria's Supreme Court.
We must also be able to question whether it is reasonable for Sharia law to be so fundamentally at odds with international law and human dignity.
Madam President, honourable Members, the Commission does, of course, share Parliament's concerns about the sort of punishments inflicted in northern Nigeria under Sharia law.
The Commission also welcomes the statement made last year by the Nigerian Minister of Justice, to the effect that it was not right to discriminate against Muslims by imposing different sentences on them for one and the same crime.
As various Members of this House have already mentioned, Amina Lawal's appeal is due to be heard on 25 March.
Amina Lawal has been allowed legal counsel and will also have the opportunity to take her appeal to an even higher court if necessary.
The position is also very problematic in terms of constitutional law, because the state's Sharia law is in contravention of both the constitution and the international obligations entered into by the Nigerian federal government.
A study funded by the Commission has concluded that Sharia's application in criminal law is made even more problematic by the fact that the criminal laws are badly framed and applied without consistency by poorly trained judges.
The EU has elaborated a Common Position on human rights issues in Nigeria, drafted representations by the Troika on the death penalty, and made an official statement to the Commission on Human Rights.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place in a moment.
