On Monday, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) published its new scientific recommendation for 2004 and has now, unfortunately, been obliged to confirm the disastrous state that cod stocks are in, including in the waters to the west of Scotland, in the eastern English Channel, in the Skagerrak and in the Kattegat.
Last week, the International Council for Exploration of the Seas (ICES) warned us that young North Sea cod measured in early 2003 were at their lowest level in 20 years.
The Commission is not alone in this objective.
We cannot use a one-size-fits-all approach across the areas covered by the plan.
On research, we need to look seriously at the interaction of cod and other commercial fish species such as haddock and whiting.
Regional advisory councils are vital to the future of a sustainable EU fishing policy.
I was happy to see this week's Commission proposal providing a blueprint for these regional advisory councils and how they would work, with two thirds of the membership of these new organisations coming from those active in the fisheries sector.
I hope we will be able to improve dialogue and cooperation between all those concerned in order to secure a sustainable future for our industry.
On the socio-economic impact of these measures, the Commission's proposal does not go far enough.
Some of the communities most directly affected are in remote areas truly on the periphery of the European Union.
Parliament has already recognised the importance of the socio-economic issues in its resolution of March 2003.
To be fair, so too have some of the Member States.
The Scottish Executive has given GBP 50 million, with GBP 40 million for decommissioning and GBP 10 million for the direct socio-economic impact.
I would like to see Member States carrying out socio-economic impact assessments on the recovery plan.
That committee’s amendment according to which the precautionary principle would lead to drastic measures being taken and to the Member States having the opportunity to take measures in addition to the common ones in order to protect and preserve stocks has been adopted by the Committee on Fisheries, and that is something I am pleased about.
As we heard earlier, the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES) will tomorrow present its annual report on the fish stocks in our oceans.
I therefore withdrew my amendments concerning the Baltic Sea in the Committee on Fisheries.
That is very serious.
The advisers consist of 1&#160;600 researchers from 19 countries, and not listening to these researchers constitutes a waste of what could be flourishing fishing communities and a flourishing industry.
There is nothing to be gained from shooting the messenger, but this most recent ICES report once again highlights the vital importance of listening to the advice of the fishermen as well as to the boffins.
According to new scientific research from the respected Sir Alistair Hardy Foundation in Plymouth, which has been monitoring the North Sea for the last 70 years, stocks of cold water plankton, on which cod larvae feed, have been driven hundreds of miles to the north by an unprecedented rise in water temperatures.
We therefore believe that the precautionary approach must be a residual criterion to be taken into account only when reliable and safe scientific opinions are not available, but under no circumstances must it replace these scientific opinions.
We need to ascertain the effects on the cod populations in the Irish Sea and the North Sea of the extraction of more than a million tonnes of fish of species other than cod, but which are, however, a source of food for cod.
We also need to know the impact of industrial fishing on other populations of white fish, because that may perhaps provide the key to explaining the decline of cod and hake.
We must, however, look beyond the regulation to other means of helping cod recovery and of moving to sustainable fisheries overall.
I hope that the House will support this report, which seeks to make the regulation far less of a blunt instrument than that fashioned by the original proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my group supports the Commission's proposals.
The Council has asked for a proposal for a recovery plan, which the Commission proposed in 2001, but the Council still does not seem to have the courage to adopt it.
But in the Irish Sea the Commission's proposal would allow fishing below a stock level of 6000 tonnes, whereas ICES is now advising closure until stocks reach that level.
It is vital that the Commission reflects ICES advice when recommending TACs for the next year on these stocks.
That will happen here if we do not take a progressive position. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I take the opportunity offered by the Stihler report to remind the House that the common fisheries policy has evolved greatly over the last 20 years and is now a fully-fledged Community policy with specific objectives.
Member States and regional advisory councils must be able to propose alterations both to the geographical scope of the plan and the exact arrangements designed to reduce fishing efforts.
It only applies to vessels over ten&#160;metres in length, even though shorter vessels do play a part in cod fishing.
The proportionality of the measures to be taken is unclear.
The recovery plan should be less of a hindrance to the activities of fishermen whose by-catches of cod are small than to those of fishermen whose contribution to the problem is comparatively great.
This is another major flaw in the CFP, and this is also acknowledged by the Commission, which wants the future transnational regional advisory councils to be the forum in which these two categories of data will be addressed jointly.
Our rapporteur does address this point but far too cautiously.
The fishing professionals concerned are particularly concerned at the implementation of the new instrument provided for in the reform of the CFP, which is to reduce the fishing effort.
We are glad about this and we are also happy with the report, on which we congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Stihler, despite the fact that originally she opposed our amendments to differentiate between the two species.
This is the minimum we can ask for in order that the fishermen affected accept and comply with the plans laid down – whether they take place in Community or non-Community waters – whenever they affect European fleets, as in the recent case of the proposed recovery plan for halibut in NAFO waters.
Moreover, we cannot exclude the possibility that we have already passed the point of no return, the point beyond which not even the most radical measures will afford sustainable cod fishing in the future.
We must ensure that our biological resources are no longer decimated on the say-so of an irrational common fisheries policy, and that this tragedy never happens again anywhere else in Europe.
We urgently need a new fisheries policy, therefore, that enshrines in Community law the conventions of international maritime law, the right to property as defined in the European Charter of Fundamental Rights, and the precautionary principle, always preached and never practised.
I am considering voting against the Stihler report, not because I am against its content which after all was substantially shaped by amendments of mine that were accepted in committee, but in protest at the likelihood that the Commission will ignore it anyway.
Member States are very often accused, even by the Commission, of ignoring the science in their determination to defend their national interest in the Council.
Last December the then UK Fisheries Minister continued a long tradition of actively voting against Scotland's interests in the Council of Ministers and the new Minister, who finally managed to get himself to Scotland this week, where 70% of the UK fisheries fleet is based, told fishing communities to get real – presumably asking them to accept that there will be more pain to come because he knows that he will do nothing to help.
The social and economic pain being felt by families in Scotland's coastal communities is very real.
What I have called a strategy must involve all the stakeholders: biologists, researchers into marine ecosystems, and environmental campaigners just as much as politicians in the localities, in the capitals and in Brussels, and, last but not least, the fishermen and the fish processing industry.
I agree with looking after sensitive areas, but opportunities must be equal for all.
For a long time – in fact for as long as I can remember – there has been a problem with cod stocks and we seem unable to find a solution to it because all our efforts to date have quite clearly not succeeded.
This includes the areas of TACs, managing effort through days at sea – based on stocks size consistent with the precautionary principle – and of course Chapter 4, which most importantly deals with measures to police, monitor, inspect and survey the effort management system.
The proposed action plan, the joint inspection structure and any new fisheries control agency must involve all the stakeholders in introducing a harmonised code of conduct for inspections.
This must include the fishermen, national authorities and scientists, and the Figueiredo report later today will deal with that.
The situation with cod fishing will then turn out well, too.
I would like to stress the consequences of recovery plans for coastal regions or areas dependent of fishing.
Therefore, within a reasonable time period – no more than a year, naturally – the European Commission should present a report, accompanied by proposals to alleviate the social and economic repercussions of the measures adopted, on the basis of the information communicated by the Member States.
Commissioner, it is not a question of failing to defend the recovery of stocks, but of defending the fishermen and their families.
I am unable to accept Amendment No 1 on the grounds that drastic measures are called for, not by the precautionary approach, but by the fact that cod stocks are below biologically safe levels and are therefore threatened by collapse.
Amendment No 4 came as a surprise to me, since, as you are aware, I have called on the Member States, not once but repeatedly, to inform us of the socio-economic impact of the recovery plan.
The Commission has, unfortunately, received no replies to these enquiries.
I have also drawn the attention of the Member States to the fact that they can reprogram the funds in the FIFG in order to support the sector.
Amendment No 5 is superfluous, as the Commission can, in any case, propose changes to the geographical areas in question.
Turning to Amendment No 6, I have to tell you that these technical measures can, if need be, supplement restrictions on fishing effort, but cannot replace them.
Amendment No 8 will not work, as the definition of ‘days absent from port’ must correspond with that laid down in other regulations.
I do not think that Amendment No 9 is to the point, as satellite monitoring systems will be required to be installed on all vessels over 15 metres in length with effect from 2005.
I can accept the first two paragraphs of Amendment No 12, but am obliged to reject the third.
Amendment No 13 is, I think, a very good one, as there is a need for the annual review of stocks that it proposes.
I am obliged to reject Amendment No 14.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m.
This correction only enters the correct budget lines without obviously changing the content of the amendments. (1) I also want to propose three oral amendments.
A number of amendments rejected in the Committee on Budgets have been retabled and, if they are adopted, their cost will have to be offset by adjusting Amendment No&#160;709 accordingly. &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote on the budget.
I wanted to inform you, as regards Amendment&#160;No&#160;8(2), that I propose to replace the words ‘all steps’ contained in the original text with the words ‘steps’.
This is not easy to draft, however, because it seeks to discriminate, in a very clumsy way, between the supposedly ‘integrationist’ political parties and the others, but also between the strictly European political parties and those that, from a national base, work at European level.
In the international arena, the very serious situation in Iraq and the help to be provided for its long-suffering citizens and for its sorely tried infrastructures require some simple principles and ideas to be recalled.
In the field of Union aid for the reconstruction of Iraq, the Council of Ministers, like the European Commission, has agreed to acknowledge that a sum of around EUR&#160;200&#160;million until the end of 2004 would provide the necessary and sufficient contribution to the reconstruction of the country, leaving food aid and emergency aid aside, in the knowledge incidentally, that Iraq’s absorption capacity, according to these institutions, is limited.
Furthermore, in order to match the needs of the Iraqi people, the European Union’s contribution must be set against the background of a specific political agreement on the conditions for its implementation, with a key role being given to the United&#160;Nations. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that the House has nevertheless not agreed to the amendment by the Group of the Party of European Socialists aiming at cutting EUR 40 million for the export of live cattle.
The draft budget is all the more disturbing because it will apply, as of 1&#160;May 2004, to a Europe of 25.
The Chasse- Pêche- Nature- Traditions (CPNT) members of the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities (EDD) believe that, instead of putting the French budget under its supervision, Europe would do better to put a brake on its own compulsive spending. &#160;&#160; .
This draft budget is the equivalent of less than 1% of Community gross national income (GNI), despite the fact that it is the enlargement budget, with greater requirements in terms of social and economic cohesion, and despite the fact that the EU is experiencing an economic recession.
We regret that the creation of a budget line of EUR&#160;20&#160;million for the reconstruction of Palestine has been rejected, given the deterioration in the living conditions and infrastructure of the people of Palestine.
As fish stocks have decreased at the same pace, the authorities finally got worried and decided to reduce the size of fishing fleets.
The measures envisaged by the European institutions or national States will consist of indecisive measures, which according to one report have been scuppered by the large shipowners with the complicity of the EU Member States, and measures whose main effect is to harm the communities that depend on fishing.
That calls for measures to reimburse the costs incurred by those sectors of the fleets and fishing regions that depend on these catches, as well as guarantees that the parties with the greatest interest in seeing stocks recover – fishermen, in other words – play a leading role.
The report accepts that urgent conservation measures are required but that these must be balanced with actions to protect the economic and social interests of fisherman and ancillary workers.
Just as interesting is the call for a report to be drawn up on the impact of industrial fishing on cod stocks, which is still a controversial issue. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am concerned.
I am referring to the Jarzembowski report and I am astonished that the vote went in favour of the rapid liberalisation not only of freight but also of passenger transport, despite the warnings of the Commission and the Council and despite the fact that most rail companies are not ready for such changes.
I believe that this is not only of paramount economic importance, but also that the unification of Europe as a whole cannot succeed unless we at last do massive extension work on the routes between east and west.
Although the effects of directive 2001/12 on access rights to the Trans-European rail freight network could not be evaluated, because it is still being transposed in the Member States, the European Commission and Mr&#160;Jarzembowski propose to speed up the complete liberalisation of rail transport.
Both a majority in Parliament and the Council are seeking to liberalise this sector and broaden its scope to include national rail freight networks as well, though the Members of this House are in more of a hurry.
The Council is proposing that date as the deadline for international freight services, and 1&#160;January&#160;2008 as the deadline for infrastructure in all the Member States to be opened up to use by all forms of rail freight services.
Portugal must not be left out of the system of trans-European rail transport networks.
Parliament supports the proposal of only six&#160;Council representatives, a position we oppose.
Establishing this agency is justified still more convincingly by the growing liberalisation of the sector and the coming propagation of uniform safety rules throughout all the Member States.
I agree with the Committee on Transport’s view that actors in the road transport sector should be involved in the work of the agency.
It has become a privileged area of activity of organised networks that exploit the discrepancies and loopholes in the legal systems of the Member States, at the expense of the most vulnerable groups, such as children the number of abductions taking place in Brazil and Guatemala is shocking and those living in extreme poverty.
What is needed is an integrated Community approach, harmonised definitions of the offences linked to the traffic in human organs and tissues, and the sanctions applicable.
However, we want to point out that the lack of funding for information campaigns designed to overcome reticence, aversion and preconceived notions is resulting in a limited number of donors and strengthening the existence of the repulsive and particularly lucrative phenomenon of trafficking in human organs.
The disgraceful but particularly profitable 'transplant tourism' which is developing illustrates the intensity and the extent of the problem and provides clear proof of the link between this huge crime and the legal activities of big business, of the exploitation of the less developed countries and their peoples in particular.
The rules must be very clear, and all these illegal activities must be penalised and punished.
The trade in human organs and tissues is legitimate, however, when it is destined for medical purposes, within a very tight and strictly regulated framework.
The donation of organs by living persons is a genuine source of abuse and often represents the exploitation of poverty.
They also talk of 'modernising' the social protection systems and repeat that the pension systems are threatened by demographic developments, in other words by the increase in average life span.
In order to invigorate the monopolies further, they have announced major new projects in transport and telecommunications networks.
They welcome the US-inspired decision by the UN Security Council on Iraq and have declared that they are ready to contribute to the 'stability' of that country. &#160;&#160; The resolution urges the current Intergovernmental Conference to adopt ‘improved provisions’ for Title IV of the Convention’s draft Constitution which, for example, deals with the procedure in the event of changes to a future adopted Constitution.
We wish to emphasise that such ‘improvement’ must not lead to a disappearance of the demand for ratification by all the Member States in the event of changes.
We also wish to emphasise that we are able to support the establishment of a border administration authority but that we do not wish to see any operational structure or any other form of operative cooperation. &#160;&#160; The European Council of 16-17 October erased from its conclusions the idea of an immigration policy based upon quotas, as proposed by the Italian Presidency.
The statements made to us by the Presidency of the Council and the European Commission confirmed the across-the-board mediocrity of a Council unequal to what was at stake, particularly in the social and employment spheres.
We are very far from the genuine social issues and issues of citizenship that would necessitate a new constitutional framework, different from the liberal framework characterising the draft presented by Valéry Giscard d'Estaing.
It is also clear that negotiations on the provisions of the new EU treaty are being somewhat fast-tracked. &#160;&#160; Liberals, conservatives and European social democrats have tabled an unacceptable joint resolution to us on the outcome of the Brussels European Council.
We cannot sanction the IGC’s approach to the draft Constitution, displaying contempt for Europe’s 450 million people.
We cannot deny the way in which the economic and social situation of workers has deteriorated.
There is no doubt, though, that these states form part of Europe, and, self-evidently, the Western Balkans also have the prospect of accession – indeed, ever since Thessaloniki, the right of accession, too – as soon as these states fulfil the European Union’s criteria.
I therefore object to the way in which this form of words puts the Western Balkans on the same level as West Africa and the Southern Caucasus.
The importance of international law is emphasised in quite a few places.
In his introductory speech to the IGC on 4 October 2003, the President of the European Parliament, who manifestly feared encroachment by the new President of the European Council, called for ‘confusion over the respective roles’ of the Commission and the Council to be avoided.
It also attempts to restrict the sovereignty of each Member State in the field of foreign policy, referring to every Member State’s supposed ‘Constitutional commitment’ to refrain from adopting a national position before the EU has had the opportunity to establish a European position.
It promotes as a priority the ambition to accept joint responsibility with the USA 'for peace, stability, democracy, tolerance and sustainable development in the world'.
Consequently, the immediate and dynamic mobilisation of the peoples against these choices is needed in order to block the invaders' path. &#160;&#160; The report that has been presented concerning a common European security policy is supposed to advocate a transparent policy, based upon multilateralism and a global approach to security that is not purely military.
In his report, he takes the opportunity to himself express what the Council omits to say.
When talking about influence over neighbouring regions, he makes no distinction between possible future EU Member States in the former Yugoslavia and the former Soviet Union on the one hand, and desired spheres of influence in West Africa and the Middle East on the other.
I also agree with the statement that there is a need for common definitions by European Union Member States of certain questions relating to security and defence, such as threats, interests and strategic objectives.
I disagree with a system under which national sovereignty is disregarded and Member States’ right to independence and self-determination called into question.
For these reasons, I abstained. &#160;&#160; Among the now adopted items I have voted against are the following: Paragraph 20 calls ‘at least in relation to decisions on proposals by the European Foreign Minister, for majority voting’.
Paragraph 26 states ‘that the joint costs of ESDP operations, including those of a military nature, must be financed through the Community budget’.
Paragraph 28 calls for a European defence budget and paragraph 46 for a ‘homeland defence’ for Europe.
Swedish Christian Democrats wish to strengthen EU foreign policy cooperation, without its leading to each Member State relinquishing its own right of military decision-making or being forced to cofinance military activity it cannot support.
This initiative will contribute to the future abolition of the death penalty in every country in the world.
Just as crucial is doing away with the policy of double standards so often pursued by the US Administration. &#160;&#160; The Menéndez del Valle report on the paths to peace in the Middle East rightly supports the Road Map of April 2003, which should lead to the existence of two neighbouring states, Israel and Palestine – democratic, sovereign, viable and living in peace within safe and recognised borders.
To my great regret, I had, however, to abstain from voting on this report, for, once more, it tends to put everything on the same level: the Palestinian terrorist attacks and the Israeli military responses.
In the course of the last few years, this policy has taken the form of state terrorism, as despicable as the individual terrorism it has engendered on the Palestinian side, but using very different methods.
Not only the United States, but also Europe have means of putting pressure on the Israeli leaders who have a vital need for economic, political and military support from the major powers.
The Palestinians have been unable to fulfil many of their commitments on the crucial issue of security.
The European Union does have an important political role to play in re-starting the peace process in the Middle East; it could certainly be seen to play a role as an honest broker in the region.
In Palestine, groups such as Hamas and Islamic Jihad have grown powerful because people think that, in any case, agreement can never be reached with the occupying power, which is seizing ever more land for settlements and the construction of a wall.
Through the votes on individual paragraphs, I was able to help improve the overall balance of the text. &#160;&#160; I abstained from voting in the final vote.
We European Christian Democrats in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats voted against the proposal (now adopted by 191 votes in favour, 179 votes against and 39 abstentions) in paragraph 66, concerning ‘an international mandate in Palestine, including an international force on the ground’.
Paragraph 18 is unclear inasmuch as acts of terrorism committed by Palestinian suicide bombers are not kept separate from actions on the part of the Israeli army.
The peace plan has no aim other than to bring about peace and reconciliation between Israelis and Palestinians. &#160;&#160; Entrepreneurship is being promoted as the new ideal of the EU, which will resolve the problems of economic stagnation, unemployment and so on.
In other words, it is proposing full unaccountability for companies, cheap money and guarantees that investments will bring in excessive profits and a propaganda campaign at all levels (education, mass media and so on) in order to persuade even the inexperienced that they must worship entrepreneurship or, at the very least, entrepreneurs.
However, our ideals and our principles do not allow us to accept such an approach.
In this way, the Green Paper on Entrepreneurship and this report, which comments upon it, presuppose that ‘entrepreneurs are the driving force of the social market economy’.
What is needed here is a return to a belief in the forces of the social market economy in order to create incentives for potential entrepreneurs to assume entrepreneurial risk and responsibility.
In the future too, it should be the national parliaments that legislate on income taxes. &#160;&#160; The Commission’s proposal came at the right time: on the eve of enlargement, people are worried about the possible consequences of a 25-nation Europe for their lives, starting with their employment.
The Right has attempted to remove these emphases, fortunately without success.
The profound changes that are to come in the industrial fabric are so many opportunities to reduce the environmental impact of certain activities.
The East European ‘social dumping’ to which she refers means in reality a collapse in the living standards of workers and, concomitant with this, mass marketing over here and the excess profits of the Western companies present in Eastern Europe.
The French clothing industry has lost 134&#160;000 jobs since 1986.
The political and economic power relations in Europe and in Parliament have, of course, limited our achievements.
It will only be possible to achieve the objectives laid down in the Lisbon strategy and move towards harmonisation in an enlarged Europe, based on current Union labour standards, if these different considerations are respected.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has drawn up a balanced report, and I therefore voted in favour of it. &#160;&#160; The report is a step towards achieving the highly placed objective in the Lisbon strategy of making the EU the world’s most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy, with sustainable economic growth and more and better job opportunities.
It is therefore to be welcomed that a start has been made on debating the place of industrial issues in relation to this objective.
The popular uprising in Bolivia, which claimed dozens of victims as a result of the violent bloody repression, was an outburst by the repressed: the workers, the farmers and the natives.
At the same time, we express our solidarity with the people of Bolivia and the whole of Latin America and our steadfast conviction that the recent victory will not be the last. &#160;&#160; The resolution claims to support the democratic regime in Bolivia when, in its own preamble, it states that, in this country – the poorest in South America – small-scale farmers, workers and the unemployed are largely excluded from political life and that, moreover, this ostensible democratic regime has just massacred the poor who were demonstrating against the then President of the Republic.
For us, the only democracy that has existed for some days in Bolivia is the direct democracy exercised by the people, a democracy that has shown that, in spite of the army and in spite of repression, the people are able to get rid of a President of the Republic not wanted by the majority.
The struggle of the Bolivian people has evolved over the last few months, growing into a popular uprising whose central demand is a guarantee that Bolivia and its people will retain sovereignty over the country’s energy resources.
There is a general consensus in the European Parliament and the fisheries sector on the need to improve coordination of inspection and surveillance activities at Community level, rationalising resources and setting priorities, especially in areas where greater cooperation between Member States is necessary, namely in international areas governed by regional organisations to which the EU is a contracting party.
Pressing ahead with those measures aimed at harmonising processes and objectives is also seen as desirable, based on the experience acquired over the years by the various Member States, notably in crossborder cooperation, always bearing in mind the role of national authorities in the monitoring and evaluation of inspection and surveillance activities in dialogue with the sector and the national authorities, while not losing sight of objective regional differences or undermining the specific role of individual Member States.
As we emphasise several times in the report, effective implementation of the common fisheries policy depends, first and foremost, on fishermen’s acceptance of and compliance with the rules governing fisheries, which will increase if fishermen’s organisations are enabled to participate in the decision-making process at all levels.
It is just as important, however, to take measures to achieve a more effective use of national inspection and surveillance resources in selected fisheries or population units.
These measures need to be examined and debated by all the interested parties, including fishermen’s organisations, producers, vessel owners and national authorities.
We would draw attention, however, to the high costs of using new technology, which is important in this area and in improving inspection and vigilance measures.
This study should, above all, include a comparative cost-benefit analysis and consideration of better use of national means and the practical implications in terms of material, financial and human resources.
Following the reform of the common fisheries policy, the Member States and the Commission must now make every effort to ensure that the rules in force are correctly applied.
From this point of view, the Commission communication defines a strategy for cooperation and coordination between the Member States and at EU level, focusing on both short-term and medium-term goals.
What we have drawn up is an action plan that seeks to establish a coherent strategy to ensure that the inspection and monitoring activities of the Member States – which are first and foremost their responsibility – are more effective, and to this end we propose three major areas of action.
The third area is the improvement of cooperation to ensure that the monitoring and application of the rules are uniform and more effective.
This control must not relate exclusively to fishing itself, but it must also, and this is very important, be extended to the other phases of the process, in other words, to the chain of marketing, transport, sales and so forth, also including controls in catering establishments.
I congratulate the rapporteur and I am pleased that, both in the annual report by the Commission and in the report by Parliament, it is stressed that just four Member States have complied 100% with the requirements for the corresponding boxes in all segments of the fleet.
The objective pursued – the coherent application of the common fisheries policy – should be extended to all Community policies and, furthermore, to European Union policies and Member States’ policies.
We call for coherence, not contradiction, between the various Community policies and also between the various aspects of the CFP.
We must direct all actions of the common fisheries policy towards a common objective, that of sustainable fishing, which is the only way to make fishing a lasting activity.
By the same token, infringements and compliance or non-compliance also depend on them.
At the same time, calls for the renationalisation or regionalisation of Community policies such as the CFP are also increasing.
Moreover, action cannot be restricted to the Community framework – as we see in every meeting of the Committee on Fisheries – since the causes of many of the problems facing our fishing arise at international level, and it is at that level that solutions can be found.
Furthermore, the regional and local administrations, which often, as in the case of marketing, are responsible for applying Community rules, must also feel that they are participating in decision-making. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, we have in front of us a good report, and I should also like to underline that.
It is extremely important that we have uniform rules and uniform monitoring procedures.
I should like to emphasise that there are a great many plans, that we all want structural change, but I should like to add that the financing of this must be temporary.
We therefore congratulate the rapporteur on the clarity and courage of her report.
This activity will only be politically and socially objective and economically profitable if the controls are effective, fair, clear, transparent and identical in all of the EU Member States.
This means that monitoring is particularly important, because it is only by means of effective quota management that we shall be able to conduct a successful common fisheries policy in the future, too.
I am referring in particular to Commissioners&#160;Monti and Bolkestein, whose portfolios include competition policy.
An excessively liberal approach on the part of one section of the Commission must not frustrate the social position of fishermen and the environmental situation in the North Sea.
The proper control and monitoring of the common fisheries policy and the even-handed implementation of the rules is, of course, the only way to return a semblance of credit to this much discredited common policy.
The same week as the ICES published its most recent report, calling for the complete closure of the cod fishery around Britain and Ireland, the Council of Ministers tore open the Irish Box and tore open the economic exclusion zone around the Azores and Madeira, allowing a virtual free-for-all in some of the most sensitive spawning and nursery grounds in European waters.
The debate is closed.
In general, Mrs McKenna, we agree with your analysis of the guidance programmes for fleet capacity, known as MAGPs in our jargon, and MAGP IV in this case.
We agree, too, with your recommendation that the export of fishing vessels to third countries should no longer be financed: as you are aware, we suggested this in our reform proposal.
The Council postponed the application of this a little further than we would have liked, but the main thing is that from 2004 exports of fishing vessels with public aid will no longer be authorised.
I would like to comment briefly on the two main advances of this new management policy.
The first is the system for the entry and exit of fishing vessels – which is an innovation that neither the industry nor the Member States were too happy to accept – and this system will be combined with the ban on replacing fishing capacities that have been withdrawn with public, national or Community financing.
Technically it covers the period up to 30 June 2002, but since Parliament is not going to do a report on the final situation as at 31 December, I will make some comments on the situation up to that date.
To its credit, the Commission has proposed a far more comprehensive and important cut in fleet capacity than the Council was ever able to accept.
Yet at the end of the programme in December 2002 only five of the 13 countries had met the objectives for all the different fleet segments.
Each Member State has been allocated a certain capacity for fishing vessels in tonnage and kilowatts, but there is no requirement for that capacity to be reduced.
During the period 1998 to 2001, at least 746 vessels were exported to third countries.
I would like to know how many more Commissioners are bending over backwards to facilitate specific business interests against the interests of the Community as a whole. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, first of all, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the end report which is on the table, and which has also been well amended.
I should like to make a somewhat political remark: she belongs to a group that regularly calls for civil disobedience in a great number of spheres, but I notice that she is now very law-abiding.
In addition, quotas can be better monitored by means of the joint management of these by producer organisations.
That is what we have done with, in my view, a desire that was clearly expressed by the Commission and the Member States, which, after many discussions, finally agreed to this new direction.
The debate is closed.
The Commission’s communication also raises a number of major legal difficulties.
According to the proposal in the Commission’s communication, olive trees planted between 1990 and 1&#160;May&#160;1998 would be entitled to aid, but the implication is that such aid would be less than the aid awarded to trees in other groves.
Similarly, the 1998 Council&#160;Regulation provided for guaranteed national quantities.
Furthermore, aid to olive trees planted between 1988 and 1&#160;May&#160;1998 would also be reduced if the approach outlined in the Commission’s communication were adopted.
We must therefore expect a decrease in cotton production and we are aware that this reform will require adjustments on the part of the sector.
We consulted producers, we consulted local representatives in producing regions during a forum which brought together all of the interested parties, and we reached the conclusion that the reorientation of tobacco production was essential.
Our study also shows that this reorientation of production may, of course, have a negative impact on employment in the sectors at both ends that are linked to the tobacco economy, even though we do not have any precise assessment of the global and local impact.
There is no doubt that tobacco production is important for the economy of certain regions today and there is no doubt that its disappearance will have consequences from that point of view, which we hope to limit.
Therefore, unlike the proposals for cotton and olive oil, we have adopted a specific approach which first and foremost involves entirely decoupling small farms – those where production is below 3.5 tonnes – in order to ensure immediately that these small structures continue to receive the full income support they currently receive.
As far as restructuring is concerned, we are proposing additional financing, by transferring a proportion of the funds currently used for direct aid for production to a restructuring envelope, which would bolster the existing rural development funds of producing regions, thus helping them to support diversification.
Consequently, our proposals in these three sectors take account both of the general rules, which we hope are now those of the common agricultural policy, and specific characteristics.
These three sectors differ a great deal from the other major crops, they differ a great deal from each other, and our proposals seek to reflect this diversity, whilst remaining faithful to our general principles. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, in this debate I shall focus exclusively on the alarm raised by the Commission amongst European tobacco growers further to its hare-brained proposal for reform of the sector.
The Greek countryside and three of the country's basic products, which are grown by 75% of farmers, will receive a mortal blow so as to serve the new plans and commitments of the CAP, the WTO and the enlargement of the European Union, in other words the instructions of big business and the multinationals, which are ordering that tobacco farming be wiped out, cotton farming be cut back, olive oil farming be abandoned, products in which the European Union is highly deficient.
The Commission is cruelly proposing with no turning back to abolish tobacco farming and subsidies by 2013.
The European Union of 370&#160;million citizens is being called on to stop financing 347&#160;000 tonnes of tobacco, while the USA of 263&#160;million citizens continue to increase their production of 586&#160;000 tonnes, a large proportion of which is imported into the European Union.
However, the Commission is demanding even greater reductions under a new disastrous reform.
These proposals are not open to amendment or improvement.
When you expressed your position, Mr Lamy, you said that you had also come to an agreement with the producers.
You came to an agreement with those who have nothing to do with production, nothing to do with the products and, mainly, you came to an agreement with the multinationals. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, all those present here today seem to agree that the products under discussion are of significant social importance.
Commissioner, producers are up in arms in Extremadura, the region I represent.
The age-old imbalance between Mediterranean crop production and crop production in the rest of Europe needed a different approach, whereas we are faced with the reform of Mediterranean crop production after the failure of Cancun and with a view to enlargement.
Of course, there is a desire to reduce the requirement for support based on the amount produced.
We know that this will require considerable efforts on the part of a number of tobacco producers today, at both ends of the scale, but we are putting proposals, including financial proposals, on the table that allow this restructuring to take place due to the necessity that we have again discussed over the past years.
We want to maintain a number of cotton crops and many olive groves in the European Union by avoiding the depopulation or desertification of the zones in question, but also by correcting the effects of the current aid systems from the point of view of production, the environment and the finances of the European Union.
That is why the Commission has presented an option, somewhere in the middle, that does not take decoupling as far as the measures adopted in Luxembourg this year for other products.
Yet more than advice is needed, as the European powers have an overwhelming responsibility for what has happened and what is happening in Burundi, just as they have a more general responsibility for all of Africa, of which Rwanda and Burundi are to some extent the sad symbols.
However, if Europe wanted to, it could provide sufficient aid to allow the refugees to return, provide the Burundi people with acceptable housing and living conditions, and enable them to build infrastructures, hospitals and schools, thus creating jobs.
The resolution does allude to aid, in particular for the economic reconstruction of the country, but it gives much more attention to the financing of African forces working to restore and maintain peace and the despatch of a mission of European senior military officials to meet their counterparts in the Burundi regular army.
Yet in neighbouring Rwanda some years ago, the presence of French senior military officials not only did not prevent the genocide but actually encouraged it and perhaps even armed the butchers.
Thus, even if this resolution had some effect, it would certainly not wipe away the traces of blood that the presence of major European capital has left in Burundi and more generally in the African continent. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when we consider the historic, colonial interference of many European countries in various places around the world, for example Burundi, it is very important that we have this discussion here today on Burundi where government forces have been responsible for extra-judicial killings, disappearances, torture and other serious violations.
Moreover, armed belligerents in Burundi continue to recruit, at times forcibly, child combatants.
We also recognise that Burundi is in need of help from the international community, especially financial aid for the economic reconstruction of the country, for the maintenance of peace and the promotion of a legitimate functioning government.
But we must also be aware of the fact that little is being done to stop the well documented flow of arms that fuel conflicts and cause massive human rights abuses – not just in Burundi, but in so many other parts of the world.
We should not be involved with arms in the first place, to be honest. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Pretoria Protocol brings new hope for the peace process in Burundi, and the EU along with the international community needs to support strongly the transitional government in its efforts to restore stability and law.
To rebuild national unity and reconciliation after those long years of civil war, it is vital to ensure that people, individuals and communities who suffered gross human rights abuses are acknowledged and provided with reparation.
This Protocol is in our eyes an important step towards consolidating the peace process in Burundi.
Like the author of the resolution we are discussing this afternoon, we are also concerned about the exclusion from the process of the last rebel group, the FNL, and we feel that it is important to continue to encourage all initiatives to launch the negotiations between the FNL and the transitional government in Burundi.
We are working towards the economic reconstruction of Burundi with a rehabilitation programme, totalling just under EUR&#160;50&#160;million, which is designed to ensure the physical rehabilitation of the economic and social infrastructures that have unfortunately been destroyed by the civil war, as in other parts of Africa.
Therefore, in our view, support for the peace process and a substantial contribution to the reconstruction of the country are the two objectives that the Union must continue to strive towards in order to support the little progress being made as regards the peace process in that country, which sadly continues to be troubled. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Apparently, in Paris, oil and natural gas interests take priority over everything.
President Niyazov renamed himself.
Our delegation on Central Asia covers all the countries of Central Asia and Mongolia.
He was arrested on charges of homosexual conduct, criminalised in that country under Article 120 of the criminal code, in contradiction with the provisions of the ICCPR ratified by Uzbekistan.
On 28 August masked men kidnapped and severely beat his public defender, Surat Ikramov.
It is not in Europe’s interests to let those countries, which export corruption and instability as well as oil and gas, remain ‘rogue states’.
To some politicians, however, and sadly also some fellow MEPs, that means that we have to do business first and foremost, and that we should just mention human rights, but on no account focus attention on them too much.
It is true that Europe needs oil and gas, including from that region, but that also means that those countries need us, and this provides us with the opportunity of giving priority to the human rights situation – to improving it, in particular – in our dealings with those countries, and only then speaking about oil.
I am still rapporteur for a new cooperation agreement between the EU and Turkmenistan.
In spite of this situation, however, it is important to maintain dialogue with Turkmenistan in order to avoid totally isolating the country, which in our opinion and in the current circumstances would probably be even worse from the point of view of respect for human rights, which we promote.
With regard to the bilateral relations between the Union and these countries, we do the same, and we have done so publicly for all of these democracy problems in Central Asia by cooperating with other international bodies working with us on this issue, be it the United Nations, the OSCE or the Commission on Human Rights.
To achieve lasting peace in Nepal, an open and democratic society, and progress and prosperity for all, all sides must honour the armistice of 19 January as well as the code of conduct which was signed by both the Maoist insurgents and the government on 13 March 2003.
Sadly, since the breakdown of the ceasefire, 211 people have lost their lives.
These underlying causes of conflict must remain the target of all EU cooperation assistance to the country.
The Commission must work in Nepal through all stages of the conflict, from supplying humanitarian aid for those suffering, to ensuring that conflict resolution and prevention programmes are launched to prevent further violence.
Although Nepal has sheltered many Tibetan and Bhutanese refugees over the years, the deportation of 18 Tibetans to Tibet a few months ago is a worrying development.
The well being of all refugees needs to be guaranteed.
The EU should help this process and help the Nepalese to build a better future. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the ceasefire agreed on 29 January of this year in Nepal between the government and the Maoists lasted only seven months.
The Group of the European People’s Party calls on the Maoists to renew the ceasefire once and for all and to return to the negotiating table.
We therefore call on the Council to appoint a special ambassador to Nepal, with which, Commissioner Lamy, the Commission must build up the EU’s relations.
One first and important step would be for the staff complement in the new office in Katmandu to be increased.
The minorities also include refugees from Tibet, who have been obliged to leave their homeland in fear of their lives, and who pass through Nepal on their way to India.
The Nepalese government must guarantee that deportations will be prevented, and all refugees from Bhutan and Tibet must be guaranteed protection under international human rights agreements. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the population of Nepal has known poverty and a ruthless caste system for centuries, and a government that has not been able to offer any solutions.
Since then, again according to the sources available to me, there have been more than 800 deaths, mainly Maoists and poor farmers and villagers.
The deaths, on 13&#160;October, of four students caught in the crossfire between Maoists and the army are the latest outrage.
Every possible means must be employed in an attempt to get the parties back around the negotiating table.
Unfortunately, as we know, no consensus has been reached on a lasting solution and we believe that the role of the political parties and civil society must be better integrated into the peace process; otherwise, there can be no serious chance of restoring confidence.
Secondly, because the short-term action plan and, more importantly, the creation of a Joint Inspection and Control Structure are measures for the further integration of the ΕU in the fisheries sector, meaning greater restrictions on national fisheries policies and national measures which take account of national peculiarities and requirements.
Such definitions are all the more important given that, until now, the accepted principle has been that the Member States are responsible for monitoring fisheries activity.
Bearing in mind the far-reaching legal implications of the Commission’s proposals – remember that surveillance and monitoring of aspects of the common fisheries policy are in some cases ensured by military means as well – and their very high costs, the rapporteur’s suggestion that a feasibility study be carried out in relation to this proposal, in coordination with the Member States, is equally sensible.
As various Member States, experts and organisations maintain, this study should examine alternative models for Community cooperation in this field.
That is because these programmes started the restrictions on small- and medium-sized fisheries production, as in Greece, resulting in a reduction in fisheries, the deterioration in the fisheries balance of trade and unfortunate repercussions for the populations of the shore areas.
Europe’s overfishing problems are being shifted on to the rest of the world in that increasing numbers of European fishermen are depleting fish stocks in the waters of other continents.
There are now as many as three supertrawlers that have not been decommissioned by the Netherlands; these vessels are now depleting fish stocks in the waters off the West African coast, under the Dutch flag.
The response of the Dutch Government will then probably be to send these supertrawlers even further away.
A year ago, at the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg (September&#160;2002), the Dutch and European authorities hypocritically signed declarations that there must be an end to worldwide overfishing by&#160;2010, but in reality the Dutch and European authorities are shifting the problems caused by overfishing in European waters on&#160;to the countries of the Developing World.
Because of an event that you will probably be able to follow up – although you are again the wrong person for me to be telling about this – I asked, during the last part-session, for the House secretariat to pay attention to the circumstances under which a vote is re-examined when one or more Members ask for this to be done.
We often talk about the dignity of Parliament, but that also involves us being given an answer to this question by the secretariat. &#160;&#160; Clearly, Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure already covers this matter.
