Democratic Republic of Congo: clashes in the eastern border areas The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the Democratic Republic of Congo: clashes in the eastern border areas.
author. - (ES) Mr President, I should like to emphasise some of the aspects already mentioned in relation to the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
author. - (NL) Mr President, it is becoming increasingly important for the residents in Congo to find a way to survive, even if it remains impossible to create a central government.
author. - (PL) Mr President, some Polish clergymen are currently in Congo, along with clergy from other countries.
Particular concern has been expressed about the situation in North Kivu and about peacekeeping in the Ituri region.
We call upon governments in the Great Lakes region to engage in a dialogue to halt the violence in Congo.
Peace will not return to Congo until at least a semblance of the rule of law is re-established at a regional and national level.
We cannot have a stable African continent without a stable Congo and therefore we have very strong obligations in this respect.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, in fact we are extremely concerned about the resurgence of violence in the eastern provinces of Congo.
First, the Congolese Government has to take special responsibility to put an end to the widespread sexual violence against women and girls used as a weapon in this internal warfare.
The most important thing is to support the government of the Democratic Republic of Congo in order to find a solution to this crisis.
Mr President, the peace agreement reached in Goma on 28 January 2008 did not resolve the problems nor did it bring about peace in the eastern territories of the Democratic Republic of Congo.
More specifically, regarding health services (an issue raised by all the resolutions), it is important to stress that the Commission has been active since 1994 in the health sector in the Democratic Republic of Congo, which is today one of the focal sectors of our cooperation.
