Production of opium for medical purposes in Afghanistan (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Cappato, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, with a proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on production of opium for medical purposes in Afghanistan.
rapporteur. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this report we propose that Parliament should take the initiative and make a proposal to the Council, primarily in the context of the common foreign and security policy, on the issue of opium production in Afghanistan.
Tonight's discussion contributes to the wider debate on Afghanistan's reconstruction, but also on the role of drugs.
Countries like Australia, Turkey and India, which are already producing raw opium for medical purposes, usually have effective law enforcement and also an absence of widespread conflict.
More than anything, this report tries to encourage the European Council to be creative and daring in the fight against heroin production in Afghanistan.
They are increasing their production in order to meet illicit trade demand and in order to increase their profits.
the International Narcotics Control Board maintains that there is already a worldwide surplus of opiates for medical use; 3.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (ES) Madam President, I want to begin by emphasising that this report is extremely important, timely and courageous.
It is unfortunate that this proposal, at present and in real terms, does not have stronger support from the Commission or the Afghan Government itself.
International demand is constant.
In Afghanistan the price can go up to USD 450 per kilo.
In practice, Afghanistan currently has a monopoly of the supply of the deadliest drug in the world.
It accounts for 93% of world production of opiates.
Thus, 40% of the gross domestic product in Afghanistan resulted from production of and illegal trade in opium, involving 2.9 million people in this process.
Despite this fact, only 10 countries consume 80% of the opium derivatives legally available in the world, while in over 150 countries serious treatment insufficiencies generated by the illegal trade in opium have been found.
Madam President, I consider that an anti-drug plan in Afghanistan, consisting in the control of opium quantities by using them to obtain analgesics and other derivatives, might represent one and not the only alternative economic solution and a means of reducing poppy cultivation. (PL) Madam President, I should like to begin by congratulating Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner on the outstanding performance by the Altenburg Boys' Choir that we have just heard.
I am firmly convinced, however, that the proposal will actually result in legalisation of the trade in drugs rather than of medical aid. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a matter simply of observing that 92% of opium in the world is produced in Afghanistan but of noting the upward trend: in 2001, according to data from the UN drugs agency, 8 000 hectares were given over to opium growing while in 2006 it was 165 000; 185 tons were harvested in 2001, 6 100 in 2006.
The International Narcotics Control Board shows world stockpiles of licit opiates equivalent to two years' demand, whilst London-based Johnson Matthey, the largest producer of morphine in the world, attest to a world surplus of more than 250 tonnes.
Poppy for corruption and terrorism would be the more apt phrase. (PL) Madam President, Commissioner, I should like to express my support for the proposal for a European Parliament recommendation to the Council on production of opium for medical purposes in Afghanistan.
The European Union should organise its activities in such a way as to try and effectively control drugs and reduce the supply of drugs in the world on the one hand and, on the other, to increase the availability of analgesics and bring down their prices.
I therefore think that the debate on Afghanistan is crucial, because it is the origin of the majority of the heroin (93%) that kills our young people on the streets.
And I hear that world demand is indeed fully met now, and Turkey and India had to cut their production in 2005 and 2006.
Now, comparing 8 200 tonnes to five tonnes: this is nothing!
This is what we are trying to do more and more through a very coordinated strategy, which, on the one hand, is going to combat drugs.
