Common rules in the field of civil aviation security (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the Council common position for adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on common rules in the field of civil aviation security and repealing Regulation (EC) No 2320/2002 (14039/1/2006 C6-0041/2007 (Rapporteur: Paolo Costa).
I admit, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that I would have preferred this proposal to have been adopted at first reading.
Mr President, I come now to the amendments that have been tabled.
Firstly, Amendment 46 seems timely to me.
Amendment 33 includes a sunset clause for all the implementing measures that are to be reexamined after six months.
Amendment 37 gives Member States the opportunity not to implement measures that they consider to be disproportionate.
We would be in danger of going backwards, to a patchwork of 27 uncoordinated national regulatory systems, and of reducing to nothing five years of work towards harmonisation.
Therefore, we must reexamine chapters 4 and 5 of the annex to the proposed regulation on the basis of the Council's common position, in order to ascertain the aspects on which the Commission could reach an agreement.
I understand very well the underlying logic of this viewpoint.
It is also true that the Commission has a tool in this field, and that is the Treaty rules on State aid.
I fully understand what Mr Costa said in his address to the Council.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to pay tribute to the work of the rapporteurs.
I feel that it would be difficult to resolve the funding issue within the framework of this regulation.
I will conclude, however, by warning that Amendments 4 and 45 will lead to the Commission's position being very much strengthened, which, in my opinion, is not necessary at this time.
There is no real pressure to carry out this revision, because you were able to enact the basic regulations we now have - the measure regarding liquids in hand baggage being the prime example - on the strength of these rules.
To a certain extent, all of us here can regard ourselves as experts, simply because we are almost daily air travellers.
Mr President, I should like first of all to thank all of the speakers and, in particular, to thank Mr Costa for his report.
That is why we need a new framework regulation that is simpler and more flexible; I must insist on that.
Firstly I should like to say that I understand very well the position of the Commission and of Mr Costa.
What I can say to you is that we need this regulation, as I have explained to you.
The debate is closed.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) The Commission proposal introduces provisions that will enable definite progress to be made in the area of aviation security.
