The creation of the euro is a considerable success in the history of European integration in both political and technical terms.
We are now replacing a President of the European Central Bank for the first time.
It is crucial for the European Central Bank and the euro that the selection of a successor to President Duisenberg is carried out transparently and that it is based only on the criteria laid down in the Treaty establishing the European Community and in the Statute of the European system of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank, and on the agreement of the latter on the candidate most qualified for the job.
In appointing the successor, we must recognise and pay tribute to the excellent work carried out by President Duisenberg, and express our confidence that the European Central Bank will continue to perform all its functions as successfully as it has thus far.
The legal basis for the procedure for appointment of the new President of the European Central Bank is Article 112(2)(b) and Article 122(4), of the Treaty establishing the European Community, and Articles 11.2 and 43.3 of the Protocol of the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and of the European Central Bank.
The recommendation was forwarded to both you and the European Central Bank, in accordance with the Treaty, so that you could give your opinion before the recommendation was presented to the Heads of State or Government for the final decision.
The Governing Council of the European Central Bank adopted its opinion on 31 July and forwarded it to the Council and Parliament.
This opinion confirmed that the Governing Council of the European Central Bank is of the opinion that the proposed candidate is a person of recognised standing and professional experience in monetary or banking matters, as required by Article 112(2)(b) of the Treaty.
The adoption of the opinion by Parliament will allow the Heads of State or Government to take a final decision on the new President of the European Central Bank's taking up office, within the time-scale set down in the Council recommendation.
The nominee has submitted a written statement and has given oral explanations to the committee in the course of a confirmation process.
He has convinced the members of the committee not only of his personal integrity and professional competence, but also of his views on economic and monetary policy in the Eurozone.
At the same time, he has shown that he is receptive to the demand for more transparency and democratic accountability for the European Central Bank.
Its independence - in political, economic, financial, organisational and staffing terms - is guaranteed and is not challenged by the draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.
This requires the greatest possible transparency in the interests of democracy and integration policy.
For this reason, the transparency of decisions and the decision-making procedure is integral to the European Central Bank's role.
This effort to achieve transparency is reflected in the quarterly monetary dialogue with the European Parliament, in the regular publications and decisions, but also in reports, conferences and the inflation forecasts that are published every six months.
The task is to define the role of the Central Bank in a globalised world dominated by trade, commerce and international financial markets.
The ECB will have to play an ever greater role in defining and implementing appropriate policies for the global economy.
Many issues relating to the ECB's future policy are tied in with the appointment of its new President.
They include the definition of price stability as much as the issue of monetary policy instruments.
Maintaining price stability as the primary goal must not result in the ECB removing support for growth and employment from its list of tasks.
Monetary policy is not neutral, so the ECB must play a role, as a macroeconomic actor, in coordinating European policies.
The European Parliament expects other measures towards greater transparency as well, from the publication of summary reports of decisions, with arguments for and against the decisions adopted, to the (anonymous) results of voting in the ECB Governing Council.
What is important is an open and transparent monetary policy in which access to the decision-making process is a given, because this is in all our interests and in the interest of the common good.
Only last week, at our study days in Madrid, we redefined and laid down once again the crucial points of our policy.
The first is a clear and unequivocal endorsement of the Stability and Growth Pact.
We regard the Stability and Growth Pact as the regulatory framework for the Member States' budgetary policies.
The Stability and Growth Pact is a driving force for reform, and it is the basis on which to achieve more transparency in the Member States' budgetary situations.
It is also an orientation aid for the new accession countries as they move towards the common currency, in order to be able to fully accept the euro.
Our second cornerstone is the independence of the ECB.
Thirdly, our group says a resounding 'yes' to the single currency.
The single currency is the basis of a functioning internal market and the expansion of the internal market into a home market.
He pointed out that the Stability and Growth Pact provides the overall concept and the common rules for the different economic policies of the Member States.
In all his answers, he has thus clearly recognised and affirmed our principles as the correct ones.
The Stability Pact is not the outcome of an exact science: like any agreement entered into freely, its terms must be complied with.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists is in favour of a stability policy.
The fight against inflation is crucial for protecting Europe's poorest citizens in particular.
As, however, the Italian President, Carlo Ciampi underlined, there can be no stability without growth and no growth without stability.
The European Central Bank must fight against inflation, but also against recession.
The Bank has objective criteria for combating inflation, but none for combating recession.
Furthermore, the European Central Bank must support the Union's other economic policies: in this regard, combating inflation is extremely important but not enough.
We must also invest in growth and allocate more money to research and development, to infrastructures in Europe, and to lifelong learning and training.
Consequently, during the three and a half years of his mandate, whilst achieving the same rate of inflation as the United States, we have done infinitely less well than the Americans in the field of investment and stability.
Mr President, together with the majority of my group and, in any event, all the French members of the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities (EDD), I will be voting against the appointment of Jean-Claude Trichet as President of the European Central Bank although I have been told that it is unusual to vote against one's fellow countryman.
The reason for our opposition, however, goes deeper.
Jean-Claude Trichet is, as every French person knows, one of the instigators of a policy that sacrifices, which has sacrificed and which continues to deliberately sacrifice growth to the Malthusian dogma of stability.
There are increasing levels of unemployment in Germany and France and their economies are in trouble to the extent that neither are able to meet the rules of the Stability Pact.
The continuing economic difficulties in the eurozone are one of the many reasons why the UK should not abolish its national currency either.
He does not receive full marks for the monetary policy he will be implementing but I have yet to meet a central bank governor who is open to any other monetary policy.
I would say, therefore, that if we are looking for the Eurozone's economic and monetary policy to be overturned, we should look elsewhere.
Because he has been involved since the signing of the Maastricht Treaty, he knows very well that this is founded on two pillars: monetary union and economic union.
This economic union cannot operate without governments that are able to understand that their budgetary and fiscal policy falls within the realm of the common interest.
The role of a central bank governor today, unless he or she wishes to be a permanent scapegoat, is to remind governments of this responsibility.
My second observation is that, if we want to restore confidence, we will need this economic policy coordination and not just a central bank that applies the criteria strictly.
Lastly, I shall take the opportunity provided by this morning's debate to express my astonishment and my concern to see the position adopted by the European Central Bank yesterday, calling for non-inflationist growth and price stability to be included in the objectives of the draft Constitution.
I believe that the balance of the wording of Article 3 as produced by the Convention is quite satisfactory and that it would be dangerous to follow the lead of the Central Bank on this matter.
Mr President, a hearing with the president or a governor of the Central Bank always leaves much to be desired, as this person has to be extremely careful in public on account of his position.
I think it will be excellent if this comparison continues to be true in the long-term.
I hope that this does not mean that he will still be a little bit French from a functional point of view, because one would want him to defend the case of the euro in clear language in Paris.
Those who argue for a flexible approach to the rules in order to stimulate growth - I am thinking here of Prime Minister Raffarin, for example, deny or do not understand, or even more seriously, do not want to understand, that the percentages mentioned in the pact already have a structural component which operates within all movements of the economy.
A tight policy promotes the credibility of monetary union and faith in our euro.
According to the classical economy, die Massengewohnheit der Annahme [the mass custom of acceptance] is the basis for the functioning of money.
Our willingness to use the euro in the European Union must be confirmed and increased every day.
We can no longer gloss over the fact that citizens are starting to think that the cost of the euro is too high for Europe.
The Stability and Growth Pact, of which the Commission is the guardian and the European Central Bank a fierce advocate, reflects a noble and fundamental ideal, but the way in which it is drafted is not satisfactory because it fails to address crisis situations such as we are in currently.
Encouraging the deficit in order to lower taxes - a policy which when implemented in isolation brings only a few economic benefits, and always creates inequalities - is one thing; accepting the deficit as the result of investment policies that really do help the economy recover is quite another.
The Keynesian benefits of increasing public spending dry up over a certain level, it is true; it is also true, however, that the launch of subsequent initiatives to promote economic growth, which is absolutely crucial to recovery, will never be possible without increasing public spending.
Besides, it is very strange that there is so much talk today of economic growth initiatives, when the reforms and goals defined for that very purpose in the Lisbon Strategy are still so far from being attained.
Sweden showed us how the wrong budgetary policy in the Member States can influence the vote.
The main responsibility for meeting the Lisbon objectives lies not with the ECB or indeed with the Commission.
They can both contribute to the process, but the chief responsibility lies with the Member States, and a great deal of time has been lost here because Member States have not done their homework.
I think that would take us much further forward.
Mr President, the appointment of the new President of the European Central Bank and the opinion of the European Parliament on this appointment are acts that exercise the sovereignty of the European peoples and must be addressed with all due seriousness.
Today the House has the affirmative proposal of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and there is no doubt as to the professional qualifications of the candidate.
Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the economic philosophy which the candidate President of the European Central Bank defended before the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs with such obstinacy.
I am convinced that this will be true in this case too.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m.
I should also like to thank the rapporteurs of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport and the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, who have also made a major contribution to Parliament's work on this issue.
Computers are becoming ever more ubiquitous in our everyday lives and, quite apart from the box that sits in almost all our offices and quite a few of our bedrooms, microchips are now commonplace in everyday gadgets, such as electric razors, cars and microwave ovens.
The question of how to define the patentability of computer-implemented inventions is thus becoming steadily more important, especially as such inventions are estimated to cover 15% of new patent applications.
Indeed, the potential patentability of computer-implemented inventions is already accepted in current European Patent Office practice.
The proposed directive does not aim to abolish this practice or extend it to cover the patenting of pure computer programs, as many opponents of the directive have claimed.
Indeed, many have - falsely - claimed that the directive introduces for the first time the notion of patentability of software inventions in the European Union's patent practice.
I am, therefore, all the more pleased that the rapporteur has been able to steer past these misconceptions and produce a highly constructive report which seeks to build on the objective of the Commission set out in its original proposal, namely to clarify the scope of patentability of inventions, which incorporates software, and to harmonise across the European Union, on the basis of existing practice, the proposal which seeks to achieve harmonisation and clarification.
Opponents of the directive have mounted a very vocal and, at times, even personal campaign based on half-truths and misconceptions which play on legitimate concerns over competitiveness, especially for smaller firms.
There are some interesting points but, in the main, I am afraid that the majority of those amendments will be unacceptable to the Commission.
I am very concerned about this situation: many of these amendments are fundamental.
If that were to happen, I fear two possible consequences, neither of which, I suspect, has been foreseen by some Members of Parliament and neither of which would advance the objectives which seem to lie behind a number of the new amendments.
Firstly, in the complete absence of harmonisation at Community level, the European Patent Office and the various national patent offices would be free to continue their current practice of issuing patents for software-implemented inventions which may blur or even cross the line in undermining the exclusion from patentability of software as such under Article 52 of the European Patent Convention.
Secondly, in the absence of harmonisation at Community level, Member States are very likely to pursue harmonisation at European level instead.
Let me explain what I mean by that remark.
Unlike many other fields, that of patents is unusual in that, as a result of the existence of the European Patent Convention and the creation of the European Patent Office, there is already a supranational patent system in place which covers the whole of the European Union and indeed beyond.
This system can be operated independently of the Community's legislative process.
If we fail in our efforts to achieve harmonisation of patent law relating to computer-implemented inventions in the European Union, we may well be confronted with a renegotiation of the European Patent Convention.
The process of renegotiating the European Patent Convention would not require any contribution from this Parliament.
The situation is clear: there is a single objective but a choice of means.
It is clear that proceeding via this Parliament would give European citizens a greater say in patent legislation, an area which is so crucial to our economy.
Mr President, the Commission proposal on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions before Parliament is not, as some opponents of the directive have suggested, a new phenomenon.
The fact is that some 30 000 patents for computer-implemented inventions have been handed out by the European Patent Office and indeed national patent offices.
Out of over 110 000 applications received at the EPO in 2001, 16 000 dealt with inventions in computer-implemented technologies.
In the USA, and increasingly in Japan, patents have unfortunately been granted for what is essentially pure software.
Clearly this technology is not new, nor is it unique, and patenting of software business methods such as this is not good for innovation and competition.
I have seen letters from small companies across Europe which are supportive of this directive.
A small Belgian company employing 12 people has written to me saying that it needs patents to get a return on its investment, to grow its business and to ensure that others respect its technology.
This company granted a licence to a US multinational for its computer-implemented voice recognition patents, which shows that in the world of global patents there can be examples of David meeting Goliath.
I have attempted to produce balanced legislation that takes account of the needs of all sectors of the industry, not just one vocal sector that is against this directive.
I therefore ask the Commission to look at the crux of this debate: how do we get good patent law which rewards our most innovative companies for their investment in R&amp;D while, at the same time, not allowing companies to use patents to abuse a dominant position, lock up technology and stifle innovation and competition?
They are very clear in suggesting that we need to limit patentability to genuine inventions in Articles 2 and 4.
We want to ensure interoperability to enable computer programmers to engage in reverse engineering practices and to decompile programs for experimental purposes without risking infringement or legal action.
Other amendments seek to ensure that the granting of a patent does not allow monopoly or abuse of a dominant position.
We also want to protect the open-source community which makes a vital contribution to competitiveness in the area of software development.
This does not mean rubber-stamping bad practice in Europe, but developing good practice for the future, good law, good patent examiners, and a quick death for applications that are clearly not inventions.
We also want to ensure that multinationals do not dominate in our EU markets.
This legal uncertainty has adverse effects in terms of the operation of the internal market.
The European Patent Office has awarded more than 30 000.
The directive now being proposed will not make patents for computer programs possible as such and will thus restrict the existing practices of the European Patent Office.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy is of the opinion that the directive must be strictly limited to unambiguous cases.
The condition of technical innovation is essential.
Unlike in the USA, we want to prevent so-called trivial patents being awarded, for example on business matters.
Mr President, Commissioner, this directive and this debate are horrifyingly complex, and also doubly complex, in both legal and computing terms.
The 1972 Convention prohibits the patenting of any software but the needs of big business, which has taken advantage of the vagueness of definitions, have led to a surge in the number of such patents.
The legal position of these thousands of patents is unclear and this is extremely dangerous for millions of individual creators or small businesses.
We need a directive and your draft provides a good working basis, as you reiterated this morning.
We have, therefore, tabled amendments that make a distinction between an invention and a pure product of the human mind.
The reference to materials and natural forces is not universally accepted and that is the subject of this debate.
Mrs McCarthy, you had to overcome two major problems not usually faced by rapporteurs.
We do not want to strengthen the market power and monopolies of the software giants.
The proposal by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market improves the directive on key points.
Mr President, the Socialist Group does not believe that the amendments approved in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market reflect the current situation in the field of the patentability of computer-implemented inventions.
We must work on the basis that this is not a proposal for a Directive for patenting computer programs.
The attempt to establish a monopoly on computer programs by means of patents has caused justifiable indignation on the part of all those who are currently using the open network in Europe, and whose possibilities for action would be prejudiced.
The Socialist Group therefore believes that the proposal for a Directive must be substantially modified, establishing very clear limitations, so as not to undermine the nature of industrial patenting.
We cannot end up in a situation here like the United States situation, in which there are currently certain companies which in practice are able to prevent all work in the field of computer programming.
There is a big difference between copyright and patent law.
Mr Medina Ortega and many other fellow MEPs have already given examples of this.
The European Patent Office in Munich is already using the United States method at the moment and is already patenting software as such.
After all, this would make it possible for the US methods referred to by some fellow Members to remain in place and the Patent Office to continue to issue patents for thousands of software methods.
I therefore think that the report before us is already suitably balanced.
I think it would be a good idea to establish this in the directive.
I would even like to call upon the Commission to go further and include a grace period in all directives pertaining to intellectual property rights we may get in the future.
Interoperability is necessary, but we must make a clear distinction between standalone inventions and inventions intended for use in conjunction with other inventions.
We have applied this distinction in our amendment.
I call upon fellow Members to support the directive in any event, in order to prevent legal uncertainty in the future.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to thank the rapporteur for the huge amount of work she has done.
I should like to praise the Commission, and also the rapporteur, for having emphasised what the intentions are, namely to create still more development and still more investment in small- and medium-sized enterprises in this area.
That should, I think, in any case give rise to a certain amount of doubt as to whether we are in actual fact doing what we say we are doing.
The ostensible purpose of the directive is to ensure that rights can be enforced.
Legal cases of this type cost approximately one million euros and are not the kind of thing that small and medium-sized enterprises can get directly involved in.
The fact is, moreover, that the European Patent Office has extended the scope of its activities slowly and gradually.
None of us here is talking about software patentability here, oh no!
In fact, what we tried to do was to avoid the massive lobbying and find some neutral and objective legal experts who could explain this very complex subject matter to us.
It is a difficult problem and I think that the proposals that have been devised in the opinions by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the Committee on Culture are the basis for our decision-making.
By 'our', I mean the critical members here in this committee who want to pursue the same approach as you, Commissioner Bolkestein, but who are perhaps going further and thinking it through.
Possibly - as many legal experts have explained - this directive will not create any more legal certainty.
We all know the reality of the market.
We know how someone can use a patent as an instrument of market dominance and even as a weapon against his competitors, if he chooses to do so.
Last but not least, the European Patent Office and the unfair patents that may have been granted or that will be granted in future are primarily the responsibility of the signatory states.
It is laudable that Europe is showing responsibility here, but taking the first step on the basis of the European Patent Convention would have been enough, and then we could have given the matter further thought.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, information technology is the backbone of the future development of every country in the world and it is based on technology - hardware - and science - software.
At present, all technological innovations are protected by their patentability; but software development gives rise to copyright which protects its intellectual property.
To make this clearer, let me draw a parallel with the music world.
If all existing patents had to be validated, then all software development would be restricted, limited and increasingly inhibited, since all small and medium-sized enterprises and programmers would be forced to buy rights or licences and virtually pushed out of the market.
An expanding market, open to new horizons of lively criticism and fantasy, such as the European market, cannot allow itself to impose more regulations which would, in actual fact, further constrain development in the European nations.
We firmly believe that the McCarthy report cannot be accepted, since supporting it would seriously jeopardise the technological growth and development which can be generated only where people have a free spirit and mind.
Mr President, I am a trained architect and have worked as an architect all my life.
In the design and architectural work I have done, I have of course been protected by copyright law so that my work cannot be plagiarised.
Permitting the patenting of software in the EU would have negative consequences for the consumer, small and medium-sized enterprises, the whole 'open source' movement and innovation within the industry.
One would have to be more than usually naive to believe that innovation in the EU were being encouraged by allowing an American firm to take out a patent on the use of the special Danish letters æ, ø and å in domain names, or that it would be of benefit to small and medium-sized enterprises if, before they began to develop their product, they had to invest in a department concerned with legal matters relating to patents.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the Commission for the work they have carried out in all its difficulty.
Whilst the distinction between the patentability of software as such and the patentability of software as part of a computer-implemented invention is a subtle one - which means that we are running the risk of getting into a mess - the solution is, I believe, very clear: if a piece of software is an integral part of an invention, it is this invention that is patentable and is patented, not the software.
Independent programmers and programmers in general would now be authorised to use a function patented in 1983, the early history of computer software.
Hence our support for the amendments, in particular those on interoperability and those on the need for natural forces if software is to be considered an invention.
I also believe that the involvement of hundreds of thousands of people who have all expressed their opinion on this issue individually should be seen as a democratic contribution, not an inconvenience.
I do not have all the answers and I understand the Commission's need - as Commissioner Bolkestein explained clearly - to speak on this issue.
Now to a second point: we have, of necessity, to deal with a complex international legislative framework and, if we look at what is happening, not just in Europe but in the United States, in particular, the patent system is proving to have very many limitations, above all very many practical limitations.
We need to stand apart from the US positions and we may well also have to convince our main economic partners of the need for a measure harmonising all aspects of the legal protection of software in a form different from the current form.
Furthermore, with the number of patent applications increasing uncontrollably, it will become virtually impossible to ascertain properly from the archives whether the application will genuinely lead to a new invention.
Our intensive work and the fact that it was monitored so closely by stakeholders has produced the compromise which I would encourage you to support and which is reflected in my group's proposed amendments.
It aims to release us from the pitfalls contained in Article 2 and Article 4, where a new definition of 'technical contribution' opened the way for the patenting of software.
Article 52 of the European Patent Convention excludes software as such and states that ideas and theories are not suitable for patents.
Under the Patent Office's current practices, it has already awarded more than 30 000 patents, many of which are not actually legally valid.
Mr Rocard has rightly mentioned that there is a difference between an invention based on the forces of nature and a product of the human intellect.
I am of the opinion that we must therefore support some of the amendments, which have also been submitted to the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and also the amendments submitted to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport in the past.
If these amendments are not accepted, I will vote against the directive.
Human knowledge and the dissemination thereof is an important freedom which we in Europe must preserve.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning's debate follows a turbulent period in which the world of computer users, inventors and innovators has been fighting tooth and nail to protect its right to difference, freedom and creativity.
Recognising that in order to be patentable, a computer-implemented invention must have an industrial application is a step in the right direction.
Mr President, many of the amendments - and certainly all those to which my group has given its name - are clearly and directly aimed at preventing any leakage from this directive into the patenting of computer software itself.
That is very important to us.
But then the burden of proof lies with the Commission to show us which of Parliament's proposed amendments would over-protect us against the risk that we see and under-protect against the danger which the Commissioner is anxious to avoid, namely the danger of 'real' inventions not being adequately patentable within the European Union.
With the awarding of patents in this area we are running the risk of actually discouraging innovation and putting small- and medium-sized enterprises at a disadvantage, something that other people have already pointed out.
For years this office has been issuing so-called software patents, and these have already been enforced up to the highest international level.
The proposal that is now before us is really a sort of emergency measure designed to keep the awarding of patents in Europe within certain limits.
The question is whether there is any point in doing so any more.
On the positive side, the directive will lead to harmonisation and clarity in the Member States.
We and I believe the vast majority of speakers in this House, Commissioner, believe that the standard form of protection is copyright.
The same must apply to software, because software also uses language.
Furthermore, your directive is at best ambiguous, because your definition of a computer-implemented invention in Article 2(a), can just as easily apply to software.
Of course, in Article 4 of the draft directive, you appear to limit patentability to inventions, and I quote, 'susceptible of industrial application'.
We all know that US multinationals have managed to patent aspects as trivial as clicking a button to close a window on a screen, or the idea of alerting users by means of a tune to the fact that they have received an email, or even using a colour to underline words that need to be corrected when a text is revised - and textual revision is susceptible of industrial applications in typography or printing.
I will also mention the electronic 'shopping basket' used in e-commerce.
Young creators have even managed to patent the 35-hour working week imposed by the previous government of my country.
Mr President, in all my time on the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, this is the first time that I can recall that one of our major directives has received such prominence in the Parliamentary agenda.
Patents are an indispensable part of that.
I want to remind all of you here, and everyone listening to this debate, that there are hundreds of thousands, maybe even millions of people across the European Union working on inventions that have been protected by patents.
What we are talking about here is a regime that is legitimately going to encourage invention in all fields.
Part of the problem we have had in dealing with this is that a lot of the issues that have been raised have come from one particular direction of creativity: writing elements of computer programs.
I would like to remind colleagues that when you apply for and are granted a patent it does not have to include all the details.
The Commission has made a persuasive case, supported by a lot of research, that we need a consistent framework so as to ensure that people know that they can get patents for these types of invention.
She has consistently seen the importance of this in a knowledge-driven economy and has led us in looking at ways of improving and making this work better.
This has allowed certain innovations and certain patents of software programs.
It makes no sense to say that with the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and the Commission's proposal these problems are resolved, because they are resolved by means of the amendments approved in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport and in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
If this is simply a problem for the European Patent Office and for applications for patents, I believe that this is really quite a limited starting point.
The problem of software and of technical contributions is identical.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been heavy lobbying around this report because there is much at stake.
I understand this very well and I share this concern.
This directive, which is probably well-intentioned, is a threat to scores of small- and medium-sized enterprises in Europe who are at risk of losing their creativity as a result of all these patents.
This innovation enables us to maintain our position in the world market.
The protection of computer-implemented inventions by means of patents is not a new problem and it must be made clear, as other Members have said in this House, that there is no intention to establish rules allowing computer programs to be patented, but to extend the classic doctrine of patents to computer-implemented inventions.
We want to apply the existing arrangements for patents to computer-implemented inventions.
We cannot be left behind and we must regulate here in Europe as well the possibility of registering computer-implemented inventions as patents.
Mr President, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for her work because I feel that - as this morning's debate has confirmed - this is a very complex, sensitive issue.
Independent software developers and small businesses play a fundamental role in innovation in this area, above all in Europe.
Thus, some fundamental points of the Commission proposal need to be modified and improved on, so that the regulation is a step towards clear, severe limitation of the conditions for patentability.
Mr President, our debate today is of the utmost importance not only for software developers in the European Union, but also for all those with an interest in knowledge.
It goes without saying that human knowledge cannot become the birthright of large multinationals, which are almost synonymous with Microsoft in this case.
We all know that this proposal for a directive responds neither to the economic, scientific and cultural challenges facing the software sector, nor to the imperative to promote innovation, technological development or the interests of SMEs.
We know how important it is to maintain a supply of free software, and how important it is to give the public sector tools for developing a content and service industry, in order to protect the common interest.
I hope that this plenary will send a clear message by approving the proposal for a rejection, which I endorse and which was tabled by my group.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a directive which regulates the uniform application of the law by patent offices and patent tribunals is to be welcomed unreservedly in the interests of a well-functioning internal market and for the sake of avoiding distortions of competition.
The definition of 'technical contribution' is too vague.
A clear distinction between technical and intellectual inventions is required.
I hope that we can all live with these amendments.
The proposal on the table today, with the compromise amendments suggested by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, manages to reconcile these different concerns in an acceptable way.
I have taken these concerns very seriously, because no one wants to stand in the way of innovation in Europe or impose additional burdens, especially on the small and medium-sized IT companies.
After weighing up all the pros and cons of this directive, however, I am convinced that we will make the right decision tomorrow if we adopt this directive with the amendments proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and various other clarifications.
We need this directive.
It is simply designed to harmonise existing practice governing the granting of patents in Europe, and in this context, more stringent criteria are to be adopted, particularly for the granting of patents.
I have a number of reasons for supporting the directive.
The directive states this quite explicitly, and it is also prevented by the fact that patent protection for computer-implemented inventions requires a technical contribution.
Patents on trivial software, such as progress bars, are a cause for concern and are not desirable.
At a time when we want to encourage innovation, growth and competitiveness within the European Union, in the form of a simple legal harmonisation and clarification of the varying practices and interpretations in this area, this directive represents a real step backwards, a real change of approach in relation to the European Patent Convention and to the directive on software copyright, because it seeks to extend to the limit the possibilities of patenting this software.
We should consequently reject this directive, because it contains too many vagaries.
First of all, computers have become a crucial tool in transmitting ideas, thoughts and knowledge.
Lastly, in the context of the economic rivalry that pits us against the United States, adopting this directive would allow some large corporations, which act as monopolies, to maintain their dominant position in the market.
We shall, therefore, continue to wait for a directive drafted after a more detailed study has been undertaken into the economic effects on innovation, competition and intellectual property policy in this sector.
This is how I understood it, after I received the proposal and after I read the existing legislation - and the innumerable letters we have all been receiving - more than once.
More legal certainty and uniform application of the legal rules in the internal market are things small- and medium-sized enterprises have a particular need of.
This is true both when they enjoy the protection of a patent themselves and when they have to deal with the patent rights of others.
Hence my question, Commissioner, as to whether you and your administration could not think creatively about how we can achieve a European approach that will enable small- and medium-sized enterprises to improve their position in patent land.
I do, however, think that it is important enough to make this suggestion now from a political point of view, and I would therefore appreciate it very much if you could give me an answer.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur.
Of course, copyright already protects software codes.
I say that particularly in relation to this debate because so many hundreds of thousands of livelihoods depend on this Parliament and the Commission getting this issue right.
There are very few absolutes in this debate.
The proposal for a directive on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions must have aroused more passion than any other matter debated in Parliament in recent times.
The amendments I have proposed would make the directive less harmful to independent software developers and small- and medium-sized companies.
My main arguments are as follows: In its present form the directive could significantly harm independent software developers and European small- and medium-sized software houses, which may find it impossible to survive in the 'patents jungle' of the great software giants.
One of the main purposes of granting patents has always been to make society aware of the existence of inventions.
Patents on computer-implemented inventions are virtually useless as data sources if the source code is not published.
I hope that tomorrow's vote will have a favourable outcome and that as many of my fellow Members as possible will show their support for a creative and innovative European software industry.
on the initiative by the Hellenic Republic on a Council Decision on procedures for amending the Sirene Manual (7180/2003 - C5-0149/2003 - 2003/0808(CNS)) 2.
on the initiative by the Hellenic Republic on a Council Regulation on procedures for amending the Sirene Manual (7179/2003 - C5-0148/2003 - 2003/0807(CNS)) Before the vote: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report on which we are about to vote is not what it appears to be.
What it appears to be is a set of amendments to the Sirene Manual, which regulates the exchange of information between Member States in relation to the Schengen Information System.
Underlying this vote, however, is something a little more complex.
This Parliament was initially asked to express an opinion on two initiatives, but was refused access to the relevant documentation, the Sirene Manual.
On the basis of that information, I proposed the report which will be put to the vote today, approving the two initiatives with amendments.
My committee accepted that proposal.
By voting in favour, however, we are sending a political message to the Council, a message of good faith and collaboration, but also a message saying that it is time to stop playing hide-and-seek with the European Parliament.
This situation cannot continue.
There are other cases, too, in which information regarding a Member State is not passed on until the Member State in question decides that the information should no longer remain classified.
Mr President, perhaps I can assist the Commissioner here.
It is an amendment which I submitted myself, because although the two main groups had submitted a proposal for a temporary committee, there was no agreement on the content.
I am trying to keep out of a political discussion that is taking place in one of the Member States of the European Union.
Obviously, we shall return to vote on his initial amendment which, I am sorry to say, contradicts Article 193 of the Treaty and Rule 151 of our Rules of Procedure, because it basically makes provision for a covert committee of inquiry.
Consequently, I think that we are voting for something which contradicts the Treaties and the Rules of Procedure. (The President cut off the speaker) Mr Hatzidakis, that was not a point of order.
It is quite clear that more than 32 Members objected to the oral amendment.
Before the vote on Amendment No 3: , rapporteur. (NL) Mr President, on the basis of previous information I had written that there was still 13 000 tonnes on board the wreck.
Yesterday I spoke to the people who are trying to bring this oil up to the surface, and they told me that there was still 14 000 tonnes in the wreck.
In principle, there is no reason why the statute of the political groups in the European Parliament needs to be enhanced any further, although one can condemn the desire that has been expressed in recent years to eliminate any form of national representation in the Chamber, which would only lead to a highly partisan form of representation.
This measure appears to simplify matters, to be common sense, to match the need for closer cooperation between European countries in light of the influx of refugees of all sorts.
The real reason is quite different.
Indeed, we believe that it is not a question of drawing up a slightly longer list of States whose decision to grant the right of asylum would be acceptable to the European Union.
The right of asylum must be unrestricted.
We also reject any restrictive application with regard to the 'Geneva Convention and the principle of non-refoulement'. . (PT) The Republic of Austria's initiative, motivated by a need to respond to 'a dramatic increase in asylum applicants' in that country, 'contrary to the European trend', fits into the logic of building 'Fortress Europe'.
The initiative aimed to produce a list of third countries which qualify as safe for the purpose of taking the responsibility for examining an application for asylum, on the assumption that the country responsible for studying an application was the country where the applicant entered the Union.
This is most striking in the case of gypsies fleeing the racism and discrimination that they suffer in countries such as Romania or Slovakia - States that the EU considers to be 'safe'.
In France, the Villepin law calls this 'internal asylum'!
The Austrian initiative must be rejected on the grounds that it authorises attacks on the right of asylum in Europe and anticipates the way in which, in the context of drafting European legislation, the Member States intend to abandon any consideration of the right of asylum and of the Geneva Convention. . (PT) I support the rapporteur's arguments, since I believe that the scope of the Austrian initiative is indeed limited.
At the same time, the inflexible nature of the proposal makes no provision for mechanisms allowing the list of 'safe states' to be revised and countries added or removed.
The rapporteur notes that underlying this Austrian proposal is the problem of a 'dramatic increase' in applications for asylum in that country, which is regrettable.
I also support the rapporteur's contention that the concept of safe third European states should not be targeted by a separate regulation, but should rather be dealt with as part of the comprehensive approach established by the framework of the Directive on asylum policy.
Mr Trichet was very young, whilst the fifteen governors were elderly, not only did they have white hair, but they were genuinely weary: they were pensioners.
He is not completely wrong, moreover: the slowdown currently enveloping France and Germany probably cannot be corrected by the tools of traditional monetary policy, because this is the result partially of the single currency - a rigid framework applied in a uniform way to economies that are quite different.
In light of this situation, the room for manoeuvre available to the President of the ECB is perhaps limited.
The ECB is responsible, in the field of money and credit, for applying a policy which is entirely favourable to employers in the European Union and, consequently, entirely unfavourable to the working classes.
In this capacity, he is responsible for a 'restructuring' plan at this bank that has resulted in half of the branches being closed and the loss of over 2 000 jobs, in other words more than a quarter of the bank's staff.
In his answers to the questionnaire, Mr Trichet reaffirms that price stability is a prerequisite for growth, 'by limiting the rise in unit production costs' - in other words, through wage restraint, reductions in real wages and increases in productivity, but only for employers, in this case.
This policy has stifled growth and stimulated the rise in mass unemployment.
We do not, therefore, want to see this disastrous dogmatism transferred to the European level.
We are not making this an issue of personality, however: we would probably vote against any other candidate, because it is the concept of the European Central Bank itself that we dispute on two key points.
The ECB should also be placed under genuine democratic control that goes further than the caricature of democracy that consists, as it does today, of voting for full powers to be given to a man over whom we will henceforth have no control whatsoever. . (NL) Today we have to choose a new president of the European Central Bank, but there is not really any choice at all.
As an argument in favour of his appointment it is now being said that, unlike the government in his country, he will adhere strictly to the 3% ceiling for national budget deficits in the Stability Pact.
Large Member States are not managing to achieve it; poor Member States will certainly not be able to.
I voted in favour of confirming Mr Trichet as President of the European Central Bank because it is in my country's and my constituents' interest that the ECB be well managed and that the euro succeed as a currency.
The euro zone is by far the most important destination for Scottish exports and source of our imports and tourists.
He will also maintain the requisite pressure on the Member States to pursue prudent financial policies and to reform their social structures in order to foster economic growth and development.
In six of the 12 candidate countries, unemployment exceeds 10%, leading to social exclusion and poverty.
This unemployment can be blamed on the rapid destruction of planned economies, linked to waves of privatisation and the complete opening-up of markets, which have caused severe disruption not only of economic activity but also of public services themselves, in particular in the field of social security.
The EU's efforts to achieve economic and social cohesion should be redoubled. . (PT) I voted in favour of this report on the Commission's communication on the progress made by the candidate countries in relation to their respective employment policies.
Its aim is to ensure that the candidate countries define employment policies which prepare them for EU membership.
As we know, employment, employment policies and their coordination constitute one of the main challenges facing the EU today.
The Lisbon strategy, indeed, defined the challenge of creating more and better jobs as essential to promoting truly humane progress, concerned not only with questions of economic growth, but also with the individual fulfilment of its citizens.
Lastly, I would also like to mention the importance attached to special programmes on equal treatment for disabled people and provisions to promote equal opportunities.
These measures make it possible to reconcile family life with a professional career.
There are so many relevant issues here that it is impossible to deal with all of them in this speech.
The Commission even attempts to appropriate the right to intervene in the workings of Member States, an ambition quashed by Parliament, thus ensuring that the Member States retain their prerogatives in this area and in relation to their international obligations.
In view of these facts, the establishment of a European Observation System for supply of hydrocarbons, charged with solving this key problem, could make a contribution, in particular, to our knowledge of the state of world stocks and to essential research into other energy sources, such as renewable ones. . (PT) As in the case of the concerns addressed by the Karlsson reports, which deal with a different set of substances, there can be no doubt that it would also be beneficial to begin aligning measures on securing natural gas supplies.
For my part, I agree with the rapporteur that market operators - businesses and Member States, in other words - are perfectly capable of safeguarding security of supply.
I feel that the European Commission should respect the legal nature of the proposed legislation - a directive - and, therefore, suggest general minimum safeguards and precautions, which could then be adopted by the Member States and operators in this sector, with enough flexibility to accommodate the specific circumstances of each country, and with the political freedom to enact concrete legislation in that framework.
I was in my car - a Renault Scenic - taking a pleasure trip in the company of Miss Italy, that is the most beautiful woman in Italy, Miss France, that is the most beautiful woman in France, and Miss Spain, the most beautiful woman in Spain.
We were going to Madrid, where I took part recently in a meeting of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, for a night on the town alla spagnola.
The report suggests various measures, which amount to a set of palliative steps.
While the European Parliament's proposed Amendments Nos 2 and 5 point to the need to reduce the demand for petroleum, mentioning renewable energy sources, researchers claim that what is actually needed is a reduction in supply over time.
The problem, however, is that the European Commission was using those concerns to mask an attempt almost to assert its right to interfere directly in managing the Member States' energy resources and to nurture a desire to affect the market on its own account.
I do not believe that this proposal would provide an appropriate or effective response in the event of an oil crisis.
Increasing the level of minimum stocks from 90 to 120 days would be an expensive measure to put in place in many States, due to the current inadequacy of stock infrastructures in the Union.
Lastly, setting up public oil stock bodies would impose substantial costs on the Member States whereas the European Commission would increase its intervention capacity for managing these stocks.
The Union must, therefore, protect itself against the consequences of the economic system on which its very existence is founded.
I hope that the decision in plenary to refer the matter back to the specialist Parliamentary committee will allow for improvements to the text of the proposal for a directive.
That, however, is not the case.
There is in fact a relationship here between Community trade marks and designations of origin or geographical indications, which brings to mind the case of Limiano cheese, from Ponte de Lima, and even the question of wines.
That is why Amendments Nos 1 and 2 in this report are dangerous.
Although he states that a commercial trade mark may in no event be at the same time a geographical indication or designation of origin, the rapporteur also says that the indication or designation may be included in the trademark when the products covered have the right to bear it.
The problem with this is that it may lead to trade protection for trade marks belonging to a titular holder, usually a company, thus threatening the designation of origin, as in the case of Limiano cheese.
Parliament is asked to make the scope of the original initiative even harsher by removing a passage that rejects transit for the purpose of expulsion in the event that the expelled migrant 'faces the threat of inhumane or humiliating treatment, torture or death'.
We, on the other hand, call for a complete halt to deportations, the immediate release of all persons being detained pending deportation and for all those in Europe without residence permits to be given the permanent right to remain. . (PT) This initiative by the Federal Republic of Germany with a view to adopting a Directive on assistance in cases of transit for the purposes of removal by air - which is to say expulsion by air of people accused of being 'illegal immigrants' - is one of a set of initiatives and measures whose aim is to build 'Fortress Europe'.
As the group of honourable Members who put their names to the 'Minority Opinion' appended to the report point out, the real objective of this initiative is to make a cynical attempt to improve and render more effective the machinery for expelling people accused of 'illegal' residence, with as little resistance as possible.
It is impossible, and even intolerable in human terms, to address the tragic situation of thousands and thousands of men and women by applying repressive measures designed to increase security. . (PT) I voted in favour of this report.
Assistance in cases of transit for the purposes of removal by air is a sufficiently important issue to justify laying down a code of conduct and clear provisions on the rights and responsibilities of transit states, as well as of the escorts accompanying third-country nationals during expulsion.
The state of 'legal limbo' in which both states and escorts accompanying persons in the process of being expelled found themselves was of no help in defining their roles and responsibilities.
I cannot, however, support minority arguments which irresponsibly advocate lifting all border restrictions.
This might appear to be funny but the fact is that we are sick and tired of hearing endless repetitions of all these speeches stuffed with human rights diatribes, these fine sentiments which mean that throughout Europe today, we are seeing the same things, such as uncontrolled immigration and States that are swamped and no longer know what to do with their illegal immigrants and whose only solution is to open temporary accommodation centres, which are temporary in name only. (Explanation of vote abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) Once again, whilst I was taking part in a programme on a major Italian commercial television channel and was answering the questions of pensioners who were asking me for information on how to claim their pensions, being so used to giving such replies, I fell asleep whilst we were on air.
It is true that mistakes were made in the early stages and a lot of these mistakes were due to confusion between the regional and national governments.
Heading the list of these measures are implementing the Community and international legislation in force and monitoring compliance with these regulations.
The measures set out in the two Erika packages must be implemented without delay.
This disaster is not, therefore, as some would have us believe, 'just' a Spanish matter.
Member States must indeed transpose the Erika legislation into their national legal systems as quickly as possible and ensure that it is complied with.
If these rules had entered into force sooner, the sinking of the Prestige could have been avoided.
By the same token, international legislation in force must be strictly observed and monitored.
It is of the utmost importance that all Member States ratify the protocol on additional International Oil Pollution Compensation Funds (IOPC) totalling EUR one billion for the compensation of victims from 2004 onwards.
A high level of compensation must be assured for the victims of maritime disasters, this must be provided by means of the IOPC fund, with the COPE fund being able to provide a more flexible method of European participation. . (PT) The Parliamentary committee incorporated some of our proposals into the report.
Some important proposals were rejected, however, including the following: tabling a proposal on the social, living and working conditions of seafarers.
There is absolutely no question here of one Member State in particular being targeted; what we are trying to do is to become aware of the loopholes that exist in the implementation of the Erika I and Erika II packages, to discover the reasons for the delays in the texts' transposition and to resolve them.
There is still a considerable risk of seeing 'floating dustbins' - genuine weapons of mass destruction - continuing to pollute our coastlines, destroy our beaches, attack our fisheries resources, massacre birds and bring our economies to a standstill.
The European Union does, however, have a legislative arsenal at its disposal in the field of maritime safety.
Since 1999, there have been countless reports on safety at sea.
The Erika packages only entered partially into force on 23 July 2003.
Moreover, there are still more than 37 500 tonnes of heating oil in the wreck.
We have supported the principle of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to shed as much light as possible on the ways in which responsibility for this disaster is to be apportioned.
We are voting in favour of this report because it strengthens the safety rules by demanding an increase in the number of ships inspected, the training of crews and the unlimited liability, in the event of disaster, of the oil companies and of the whole 'flagships of convenience' chain.
What is missing, however, is a system of monitoring and penalties that gives effective expression to everything for which we are voting in this House. . (PT) The sinking of the Prestige oil tanker off the coast of Galicia on 19 November 2002 caused a huge ecological and economic disaster, to which, I am very glad to say, Parliament devoted its full attention from the beginning.
I am speaking, moreover, as Member for a region where many of the shipping lanes running between the Americas and Europe come together, and which is thus extremely vulnerable to this type of disaster.
The island of Porto Santo has already suffered the terrible consequences of such accidents.
The ships are inspected on a commercial basis and by agencies who are in competition with one another and who fear that they will lose their customers if they are too strict.
The Spanish Government is persisting in its mismanagement and the rapporteur has largely chosen to ignore this.
They remain inadequate, however, as long as companies chase after maximum profits and countries try to keep costs to a minimum. . (PT) I supported this report and cast my final vote in its favour, in line with the speech I made during the debate.
It is deplorable that the socialists and other left-wing Members should have rejected the proposal for an oral amendment, tabled by the rapporteur himself just before the vote on a sensitive amendment - Amendment No 11, on the setting up of a temporary committee - which might have produced an even broader consensus on the final wording of this excellent and comprehensive report.
Despite all of this, I voted in favour of the report, and of Amendment No 11 in the rapporteur's original formulation.
The coasts of Portugal are always vulnerable in these situations.
Clearly, we must always be in the vanguard in matters of maritime security, therefore, and in making progress and substantial demands in this field.
In short, they must apply the Erika package of December 1999 indefinitely.
I have also voted in favour of setting up a temporary parliamentary commission to cast as much light as possible upon the Prestige disaster, to discover who was responsible and to take action for the future.
The mandate of this temporary commission would have been perfectly clear and would have appeared devoid of petty political ulterior motives if the oral amendment presented by the rapporteur had not been the subject of genuine obstruction by the socialist MEPs.
Whatever the case, it is, in actual fact, following the double disaster of the Erika and the Prestige that it appears necessary to take stock of the relevance of the measures adopted, of the initiatives taken by the Member States and regions affected by the oil slicks, of the issues of liability and compensation and, above all, of the persistent gaps in international law concerning ships in transit outside territorial waters. . (PT) Water quality in seas and rivers throughout Europe and all over the world is crucial to people's welfare.
The Prestige disaster hit our coasts and our populations hard.
A temporary commission will certainly have lessons to draw from this tragedy, but certainly not lessons to give to any government.
I regret this all the more, given that, following the loss of the Erika, our Parliament had marked itself out by its non-partisan work.
Out of respect for the victims, in Spain and France, of the oil slick from the Prestige, I hope that we shall fittingly pursue our work in the interests of safety at sea.
I had to be in my constituency early this morning, which is not far away - around 150 km - and would have arrived in time for the vote had it not been for the demonstrations that were being held in front of the building.
Mr President, we were all a little hasty because we did not want to delay the forthcoming debate on the submission of the budget needlessly.
I am making a point of order as I think that the Conference of Presidents and the President of this Parliament are violating the Rules of Procedure, in particular Article 3 of Annex XIII.
According to the agreement between Parliament and the Commission, however, the President of Parliament and the President of the Commission have to negotiate on this.
I think that it is befitting for our dignity and is also in our interest to ask most emphatically that this meeting be held in public.
I would therefore like to ask you, Mr President, to put these two questions to Mr Cox very emphatically.
Mr Parish, I take good note and I will be very happy when the citizens of Gibraltar can vote for the Westminster Parliament first.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour and privilege for me to present, on behalf of the Presidency of the Council, the draft budget of the European Communities for the year 2004, as established by the Council on 18 July 2003.
The budget for the year 2004 is of historic significance, first and foremost because it takes into account the enlargement of the European Union to 25 States next May.
The preparation of the institutions for enlargement started with the current budget.
At the same time, this is the first budget to be established according to the new Activity-Based Budgeting presentation.
The draft budget that I am going to present to you incorporates a number of items that were discussed at length during the traditional conciliation meeting last July.
I am sure that cooperation in budgetary matters, as set out by the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999, initiated with trialogues and the July conciliation meeting, will continue for the rest of the year, and that it will allow the two arms of the budgetary authority, with the assistance of the Commission, to adopt a budget for 2004 which is satisfactory in all respects by the end of this budgetary procedure.
The Council used the preliminary draft budget of the European Communities submitted by the Commission on 30 April as the basis for establishing the draft budget.
The preliminary draft budget contained figures for the 25-Member State Union but, for purely legal reasons, the Council adopted a draft budget for 2004 for the 15-Member State Union, while also agreeing on a position for the 25-Member State Union with a view to achieving a political agreement with the European Parliament by the end of the budgetary procedure.
The figures concerning the draft budget established by the Council that I will mention today thus relate to the 15-Member State Union.
The transition to a budget for the 25-Member State Union will then be made during the first part of 2004 by means of a specific amending budget.
The Council established a draft budget for 2004 that includes commitment appropriations for a total of EUR 100.066 billion.
It should be noted that this is the first time that the draft budget has exceeded the EUR 100 billion mark in commitments.
The total payment appropriations provided for in the draft budget amount to 0.98% of Community Gross National Income.
The draft budget for 2004 established by the Council takes into due consideration the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999 on budgetary discipline and improvement of the budgetary procedure.
Moreover, it is fully in line with the Council's conclusions on the budget guidelines for 2004 adopted in March 2003.
Lastly, it takes into account the conclusions of the conciliation meeting of 16 July 2003 between the European Parliament and the Council, with the participation of the European Commission.
In particular, we endeavoured to comply with the annual expenditure ceilings set by the Financial Perspective for 2002-2006, to leave, where possible, adequate margins below the ceiling for the various headings, with the exception of headings 2 and 7, and, lastly, to provide sufficient funding for the European Union's various priorities.
Concerning more specific points, the Council made some changes to the nomenclature proposed by the Commission in the preliminary draft budget and, as in the past, rejected the inclusion of the European Development Fund in the general budget.
The second guiding principle was honouring of the commitments written into the Financial Perspective for structural measures.
Regarding the level of payment appropriations, the Council, like last year, invited the Commission to present a preliminary draft amending budget if the appropriations included in the 2004 budget for the Structural Funds - as well as for agricultural expenditure - prove insufficient to cover the payments to be made.
Moreover, the Council noted that the payment appropriations included in the 2004 budget concerning programming periods prior to 2002 are intended for financing measures which have been suspended for legal reasons and similar situations.
The third principle was the identification of genuine requirements within the financial envelope for internal policies, taking into account the possibilities for implementation of appropriations and bearing in mind the need to maintain a margin below the ceiling for that heading of the Financial Perspective.
Concerning, more specifically, the common foreign and security policy budget, what is known as the CFSP budget, the Council included in the draft budget a CFSP budget amounting to EUR 52.6 million in commitment and payment appropriations, transferring EUR 2 million for the peace and stabilisation process - budget line 19 03 03 - to line 19 07 04 and also creating a new line to contain appropriations (transferred from the Council's section of the budget) for the Special Representatives.
Finally, with regard to administrative expenditure, the Council stresses the importance of maintaining a sufficient margin below the ceiling of heading 5 of the Financial Perspective in line with sound financial management.
While agreeing to a rigorous approach for heading 5, the Council stressed that the appropriations and the items necessary for the success of enlargement should be provided for in the 2004 budget.
The end result must, without a doubt, be a margin very close to the margin which resulted from the Council's first reading.
The Council considers that the opportunity afforded by the accession of ten new Member States should be exploited and additional endeavours made to increase the effectiveness of the organisational structures and management of the institutions.
Thus, in deciding the amount of payment appropriations to be entered in the draft budget, the Council duly took into account the rate of implementation of previous years.
Concerning the rate of growth of the overall payment appropriations, the Council stresses, in particular, the importance of budgetary discipline and sound financial management, and the need to keep the rate of increase of the overall payment appropriations as low as possible, taking into account the results of its first reading.
However, I would like to underline the main points of this draft budget in the fields covered by the different headings of the Financial Perspective: As regards heading 1, relating to agricultural expenditure, the Council has accepted an across-the-board cut of EUR 160 million in the appropriations requested in the preliminary draft budget for all budget lines under subheading 1a - Market expenditure - where the amount of appropriations is greater than EUR 1 billion.
This reduction is in line with the overall approach of controlled growth of payment appropriations.
I must stress the fact that this approach concerns both headings that include compulsory expenditure and headings that include non-compulsory expenditure, like subheading 1a.
As regards subheading 1b, dealing with rural development, the Council has accepted the amounts proposed by the Commission.
Regarding heading 2, relating to structural operations, commitment appropriations have been fully budgeted as proposed by the Commission, in accordance with the conclusions of the March 1999 Berlin European Council.
Concerning payment appropriations, an across-the-board reduction of EUR 138 million has been applied for the budget lines concerning Community initiatives, due to the under-implementation of corresponding budget headings in previous years.
Moreover, EUR 22 million in payment appropriations proposed by the Commission for the scrapping of fishing vessels have not been accepted, consistently with the rejection of corresponding commitment appropriations in 2003.
As regards heading 3, concerning internal policies, the Council has accepted the amounts proposed by the Commission for the 15-Member State Union relating to multiannual programmes adopted under the codecision procedure.
As regards appropriations included in the draft budget relating to codecided programmes for the 25-Member State Union, I must, of course, stress that they are provisional, pending an agreement on new reference amounts, which are currently under discussion.
Appropriations have also been reduced for subsidies for a number of agencies while, at the same time, account has been taken of the special situation of agencies that are new or starting up.
It has decided not to accept two new areas of preparatory actions relating to chemical products and to the security of supply of conventional forms of energy.
At the same time, the Council has accepted only partially the new preparatory action for European security research.
It has decided on an increase in appropriations for the Argo programme, to take account of the conclusions of the European Council of 19 and 20 June 2003, for the forest protection programmes and for Prince, an information programme, specifically the part dealing with the promotion of the European Union's role in the world.
I feel that the Council has provided adequate funding for priorities within heading 3.
A margin of EUR 77.78 million has been left below the ceiling of the heading, allowing the European Parliament to finance its own priorities and preserving the possibility of financing future requirements.
It has accepted the amount proposed in the preliminary draft budget for the CFSP budget, together with two transfers of appropriations, one from the CFSP budget to transitional civilian administrations for the Stability Pact and the other from the Council budget to the CFSP budget, giving a final total for the CFSP budget of EUR 52.6 million, as already explained.
The Council has left a margin of EUR 145.95 million below the ceiling of heading 4, allowing the European Parliament to finance its own priorities and ensuring that it will be possible to finance future needs.
As regards heading 5, relating to administrative expenditure, the Council's scrutiny of the institutions' administrative expenditure was based on the following principles.
One: leaving an adequate margin within the ceiling under heading 5, in the interests of sound financial management.
Two: making allowance, in expenditure, for the impact of the revision of the Staff Regulations following the political agreement reached within the Council on 19 May 2003.
Three: limiting the increase in current expenditure to 2.7% in 2003, this being the maximum rate of increase for the 15-Member State Union.
Four: accepting exceptional expenditure put forward by institutions, such as the move of the Commission to the Berlaymont building or the replacement of members of the Commission or of the Court of Justice.
Five: not accepting the creation of new posts or upgrading of posts for ordinary purposes, save in exceptional cases.
Nine: placing in reserve the appropriations intended for subsidies under the former Chapter A-30, in the absence of legal bases, which are currently under discussion.
The result is that a margin of EUR 128.45 million is left below the ceiling for heading 5.
I will end my presentation of the different headings of the Financial Perspective with heading 7, relating to pre-accession instruments, for which the draft budget includes the proposed commitment appropriations.
As regards payment appropriations, the Council requested a cut of EUR 100 million, in order to take into account underimplementation in previous years.
In conclusion, I think that this draft budget provides adequate funding for the European Union's various priorities while, at the same time, preparing the Union and its institutions so that enlargement can take place under the best possible conditions.
We all know that this budgetary procedure is only at the beginning and that there is still a long way to go until the final adoption of the budget for 2004 in December.
I believe that all the necessary conditions are there for a satisfactory budget to be achieved at the end of the year.
I am sure that all three Institutions represented here today - European Parliament, Council and Commission - will do their utmost to give the European Union the necessary means to take up the challenges that await us, bearing in mind that this budget is ultimately financed, as always, by the citizens of the European Union.
In particular, I hope that we will reach agreement not only on the 2004 budget for the 15-Member State Union but also on the figures that will be entered in an amending budget for the 25-Member State Union to be adopted in 2004, so that the integration of the new Members States into the Union will be a success. .
I do not need to remind Members that this is the last budget of this Parliament.
The conciliation process that takes place in November each year is a real conciliation.
I am not too sure whether the July conciliation still serves much purpose, but the November conciliation proves its worth.
I hope that the changes we have seen over the past four years will be taken forward when the Convention is finally ratified and Parliament given its rightful place as one arm of the budgetary authority, thereby maintaining its strategic role for future years.
This will probably be my last budget as Chairman - I hear one or two boos at the back there - but I am looking forward to seeing this budget through.
At the beginning of this year, someone asked me whether there were any problems ahead for the 2004 budget.
That is, however, if we do not include enlargement, potential problems with Iraq later on or activity-based budgeting.
The fact is that we now have to vote in a different way for a different structure, and hopefully get it right, as well as deal with enlargement.
The new Financial Regulation is also complicating matters, especially the A-30 lines.
The fact is that this budget has to ensure that enlargement is a success and that we treat the applicant countries as equal partners and not as second-class cousins.
Let us hope these next few hours give a real chance for dialogue and trialogue between our three institutions.
I will be interested to know how the Commission and the Council would react if we voted through this amendment to give an extra EUR 500 million next year for the rebuilding of Iraq. . (NL) Mr President, firstly I would like to express my thanks for the presence of the Council and the Commission.
When I look at the budget before us, this means that I can speak for about three seconds on each billion euros of expenditure.
It is the first year of the enlargement and we must do everything we can to make the enlargement a success.
Now that the last referendum in the ten new countries has taken place in Latvia, we know for certain that ten new countries will be joining on 1 May next year.
I think that it is of vital importance that we reach agreement on this before November of this year.
I think that we must try to develop more economic activity.
If Parliament approves this, I hope that the Council will take a more favourable stance despite its policy of not changing the allocations for the ten new Member States from what was agreed in Copenhagen.
Last year's expenditure pattern will play a particularly important role in this.
I think that this is especially important, now that there is strict budgetary discipline in all Member States.
It has been said once or twice before, but the Iraq question casts a shadow over Heading 4 of the budget.
I think that the Commission must come up with a very clear proposal and must indicate clearly why it thinks a specific amount is necessary and how it intends to finance it.
I understand that change is not possible from one day to the next, but perhaps the Commission could make a statement about this.
Other actions that were also proposed in the budget were not financed by the Commission.
The Council has announced that it does not agree with the Commission's proposals regarding additional human resources.
In this case it is often customary to give various people in the Cabinet of Commissioners attractive positions in the Commission administration, the practice known as 'parachuting'.
My last point; may I say how impressed I am with the good cooperation with the Council, the rapporteurs of the various committees and the Commission itself thus far.
Mr President, as we have heard, the 2004 budget will have some profound changes as a result of the historic enlargement due to take place in May 2004.
My objective has been to balance the needs of the institutions so that they can fulfil their tasks and equip themselves to meet the challenges that will be presented by an EU of 25 Member States.
At the same time, however, we must ensure that the principles of budgetary rigour and prudence are at the core of all our budgetary decisions.
This has become a useful tool for the decision-making process, and although we have an annual budgetary procedure, it is important to be aware of the likely multi-annual situation, so that the right strategic choices can be made, for example in buildings and staff policy.
I would like to remind everybody that we call upon the Commission and the other institutions that we have this annual report submitted to us by 1 September every year.
The Council's reading of the 2004 budget has been quite a surprise.
In the past we have said that the Council made horizontal cuts in the institutions without looking into real needs.
Therefore, I would like to ask the President-in-Office's opinion about the approach that I have taken on his decisions.
It is important that we do not have 'carte blanche' as regards enlargement and at the same time reject existing posts and existing staff policy issues - such as upgrading - which are important for the staff who are already working.
I do not wish to go into detail on all of the Council's decisions, but I do want to ask about buildings, which is the second biggest item of expenditure after staff.
However, we have a considerable margin in 2004.
It is about the importance of the adoption of the new Staff Regulation.
This issue has been dragging on for some time and it has implications for all institutions and for our staff.
Finally, I would like to call upon all the other institutions to take account of some of the changes and demands affecting them in the light of enlargement.
In most cases, the general public in the accession countries has said a resounding - indeed, a very forceful - 'yes' to the European Union.
Next year, the priority for policy-makers will be the successful launch of common policies in an enlarged Union.
Together, we - the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission - have put the conditions in place for this enlarged budget by adapting our financial planning to the needs of enlargement.
The budgetary framework for the next three years is therefore fixed and the 2004 draft budget naturally operates within this new framework as well.
Promoting stability in Europe and encouraging sustainable economic development - these are the further priorities for new initiatives in 2004.
Of course, my colleagues will be pleased to answer any questions posed during the course of the debate.
The Commission's priorities for the budget proposal are in fact very much in line with the priorities set for 2004 by the European Parliament and, indeed, the European Council.
The method by which priorities are discussed and elaborated jointly at such an early stage has proved its worth.
I would like to thank the other members of the Committee on Budgets and, of course, the other committees' budget policy experts as well.
I would also like to express my gratitude to the President-in-Office of the Council for his cooperation and the swift completion of the budget's first reading in the Council.
As far as it is possible to sum up the most recent budgetary procedures at this stage, I too would like to say that it really is time for the European Parliament to have a stronger role in the budget process, as envisaged, indeed, in the Convention's draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.
I certainly do not share some finance ministers' fears that it would be contrary to budgetary discipline if this House had the final say on the overall budget.
On the contrary, my experience over recent years has shown quite clearly that Parliament fully respects the guidelines on budgetary discipline in its proposals and decisions.
Indeed, next year's European public budget ratio will be even lower than this year's, showing that the necessary scope to fund enlargement has been created in the financial planning process.
At the same time, we can be certain that all the new Member States will be net recipients.
The fears of some new Member States that they would be net contributors are quite groundless, especially in view of the decisions that have already been taken, as well as the adjustment of the Financial Perspective and the proposals now on the table, which were not challenged by the Council in the first reading.
In its first reading, the Council made relatively few changes to the Commission's preliminary draft budget compared with previous years, and I would like to thank the Council for that.
We face the imminent prospect of enlargement and the accession of ten new Member States with 75 million people, and the Commission must guarantee, from the outset, the full integration of the new Member States by all the means at its disposal.
Indeed, we have examined the situation very carefully and calculated very tightly.
DG Budget, which is the directorate-general responsible, can be relied on to produce a very accurate calculation in this particular area.
The 780 new posts are the minimum required to manage integration.
In the foreign policy field, we face a new challenge as a result of the situation in Iraq.
Next year, we must also launch a strategy for closer cooperation with our new neighbours, but also with the European Union's old neighbours, as part of a genuine neighbourhood policy.
It is everyone's task to do our utmost to ensure that enlargement is a success, that the Union offers the stability which is sought by old and new Member States alike, and that through sustainable growth, positive living conditions are safeguarded for every citizen of the Union.
We hope it will not be his last time for presenting this report to Parliament as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, but there may be life after 2004.
As the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council said, there will be major changes as a result of enlargement, as well as activity-based budgeting.
We will also have three different Commissioners between May and November 2004.
We had great problems, in the last legislature in 1999, with negotiating a financial perspective which then tied not only the current Parliament and Commission, but also subsequent ones, to a situation where they could not revise it.
What we would like this year - and we have tabled an amendment to this effect with one or two other points - is to have not only a report about what the Commission has done, but also a report showing what has gone wrong with the reforms and what still needs to be done to ensure that there is proper communication - Eurostat is only one example, though a rather high-profile one.
We believe that, at this stage of international development, Europe needs to show that it is not only capable of acting on the world stage and assisting with humanitarian aid and reconstruction in Iraq, but can also put a figure for this item in its budget.
This figure pales into insignificance compared with the EUR 30 billion which the President-in-Office of the Council has said has been reimbursed over the last three years from the budget to Member States.
A figure of EUR 500 million for next year focused on Iraq would show very clearly Europe's willingness to cooperate with the United States and others in bringing that country to the path of prosperity.
In conclusion, we wish, as a group, to be able to be principled and responsible in this budget process.
We want to ensure that parliamentary priorities will be maintained.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have a budget before us which - contrary to what we otherwise hear about budget proposals - is shrinking, not growing.
Certainly, this budget is equipped with fewer resources.
As a response to what is happening in the Member States, we must undoubtedly say: yes, we must manage the taxpayers' money prudently, and as the Group of the Party of European Socialists, we will do that.
As we have observed, some estimates in Europe suggest that as much as twenty billion is being lost as a result of VAT fraud.
During this budgetary procedure, we will therefore be proposing that the campaign against VAT fraud be stepped up in order to ease the burden on the ordinary taxpayer, so that the money that should be flowing to Europe can actually do so.
We will have to debate this issue more often as part of the budget process from now on as well.
In future budgetary procedures - including the next one - we will ensure that citizens can see for themselves that dependability is guaranteed as one of our fundamental values.
We know that arrears have arisen in respect of commitments undertaken in the past, where payment has not yet taken place.
Anyone reaching agreement, after tough negotiations, on the Financial Perspectives, especially in relation to the Structural Funds and therefore structural and economic development in the European Union, must also accept that when it comes to implementation, he will be reminded of his commitments and we will demand payment of the appropriate amounts.
There have been various references already to the staffing issue.
We will be looking very closely at what staffing levels are actually required in order to ascertain whether every one of the stated vacancies is genuinely needed.
Here, it has been our frequent experience in recent years that whenever a crisis situation develops anywhere in the world, we have responded in the heat of the moment and immediately pledged to make additional resources available, sometimes at the expense of established policies.
However, I would like to cite two statistics which, while not relating directly to our budget, do give us food for thought.
Today, the United States of America and the countries of the European Union spend 460 billion every year on defence. 460 billion!
The answer is 'no', which is why we want to develop European policy further within the bounds of what is possible - and that is modest enough.
There will always be conflicts and our region, our Member States, must deal with that.
We see that the average population is ageing considerably, not only in individual countries but in all countries.
That has an impact on all institutions and agencies.
In many other areas, too, we will see that the numbers of young people are steadily dwindling and there are more and more older people.
The first is financial prudence, because we are dealing with our citizens' money.
Mr President, the European Union budget presented by the Council shows a very disciplined approach.
Payment appropriations account for just 0.99% of GDP, or, in terms of cash, EUR 11.4 billion below the financial perspective.
The Commission's budget has been drawn up as an activity-based budget concerning 31 policy areas.
This has long been our group's clear objective.
It will facilitate the monitoring of EU activity.
Efficiency can be more easily assessed, as can the relation between achieved results and money spent.
Next year's budget will be dominated by the enlargement of the EU.
The Council has had a strict view on posts in the Commission that are required for enlargement.
It is the opinion of our group that enlargement requires an adequate number of posts but it must not be used as a pretext for swelling the ranks of officialdom.
The administrative success of enlargement will depend not only on the creation of posts but also how existing resources can be reallocated and used more effectively.
We are worried about funding for human rights, as we are too about funding in respect of the International Court of Justice in the Hague.
We also hope that the Northern Dimension Action Plan will be taken proper account of in the budget headings.
Mr President, the grand total for next year's budget for an EU of 25 countries will fall to less than 1% of the total GDP for the Member States.
The Union does not seem to have any ambitious plans to support social cohesion between Member States.
The Commission is underrepresented in this parliamentary debate.
The Commission should have.
Our group in the cohesion countries would like to clarify on the basis of what condition of the 'sunset clause' the outstanding commitments to be cancelled have come about.
Member States have to obey the rules, and we demand an explanation of how the outstanding commitments have come about.
Reconstruction aid for Iraq will probably be charged to next year's budget.
The United States of America, in this case aided by Prime Minister Blair, attacks and destroys, and the EU pays for the reconstruction.
Our group takes a very critical view of that.
Objects of criticism by many members of our group in the end are the expenditure associated with the common foreign and security policy and the funding of Europe-wide political parties.
Mr President, I am very pleased that this debate is taking place as it enables us to put a number of questions to the Commission before we vote on the amendments in the budgetary procedure.
Mr Mulder, and also possibly a majority in this House, are not yet convinced that all the items that the Commission asked for before enlargement are really necessary.
I would like to know what the consequences are if it is discovered that EU-financed projects are violating EU legislation.
I would like to start by thanking my committee and its chairman - from whom I have learned so much - the staff of the Secretariat, my fellow Members and the rapporteurs, both for this budget and for the budgets of previous years.
As a young Member, I have been able to accrue a great deal of experience in the field, even becoming vice-chairman of the committee.
I would like to flag this point because this kind of monitoring will be essential.
This is an issue which we will be able to address when we get the results of a study we have commissioned.
Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, we welcome the proposed reduction in payment appropriations.
The arrears in the structural funds are impossible to explain to voters; they amount to more than EUR 66 billion, two-thirds of the current total EU budget.
For example, the fact that some people in this House want to use money for the EU budget for tourism is just one example of something that is preeminently a matter for the Member States.
Money for development aid is also going to countries in the southern hemisphere, whilst that is a duty of one or more Member States which have historical connections with these countries.
We are of the opinion that the 8.4% increase in the budget for the common foreign and security policy is inadequately explained.
The European Union must not set up an organisation in parallel with NATO.
Finally, the Commission must be more critical when supporting third countries in the Mediterranean region.
We must apply the human rights clause consistently in such cases.
At the same time we must stress that the extent of this necessary humanitarian aid should not be contingent on political differences of opinion between some Member States and the United States.
Where we could also make savings is on the supervisory boards of the agencies in which each Member State has three members.
This reduction is unwise, given the problems surrounding the management of this policy and the intensity of manpower required for proper control of agricultural expenditure.
Mr President, this is a historic budget - as one of the previous speakers has said - a budget proposed by the Council for the Fifteen which, with a view to enlargement, is 2.7% down on last year.
Although yet another statistic, this is a sign which speaks volumes, the sign of a Europe which is afraid of itself, of its budget and of addressing the problems of the world.
From this perspective, we welcome the amendment on Iraq, which, at least, sends out a signal, rather than of inconsistency, that Europe does exist, that it wants to do its part and that it has to equip itself to do so.
Many of the Members have highlighted the European Parliament's priorities.
It is important not just to state our priorities but - and I am addressing the Commissioner here - it is important that the Commission acts in accordance with Parliament's priorities.
I see this as a major issue, the importance of which must not be underestimated in our assessment of both the current budget and the budget to be adopted for 2004, for the measures actually adopted often fail to be consistent with Parliament's priorities.
The Council has 'only' cut the European Commission's original proposals for Heading 4, External action, which contained a 3.9% increase on the previous year, by 0.3%.
These relate to the fight against terrorism and organised crime, the reconstruction of Iraq, badly governed countries such as Afghanistan and Congo, the enlarged Europe, conflict prevention in the Middle East, and so on.
These are important matters and it is also clear that the people are in favour of a more assertive external policy: 67% of Europeans state that they support more European Union in the world.
Mr Patten is suggesting a possible EU contribution of about EUR 200 million in 2003-2004.
Others are suggesting an amount of EUR 500 million.
If not, Europe is at risk of becoming a political dwarf on the international stage. . (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a couple of comments on the budget proposals for 2004 from the point of view of development cooperation.
Funds intended for development cooperation should also fall under this section.
My committee finds this unacceptable.
After all, fighting poverty is the main aim of European development policy.
My second comment concerns our support for the reconstruction in Iraq.
Regardless of the amounts mentioned, it must be made clear that this money cannot come from the pot for Heading 4, External action, which is limited as it is.
The third and last point I would like to mention is the target percentage of 35% for social infrastructure.
The Commission has pointed out that it has achieved this figure in the last few years, but education and healthcare, which are after all two of the very important objectives of the Millennium Development Goals, still come off worst.
The budget lines dealt with by my committee are the most complex of any committee.
We cover something like 120 budget lines with reference to ten different directorates-general.
Mr President, the Commission's preliminary draft budget contains few surprises when it comes to those issues that fall within the area of responsibility of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
We therefore support its main features and have also clearly expressed our support for the amounts proposed by the Commission.
I nonetheless wish to make a few comments and recommendations.
Those measures that are supported within the framework of budget line 02 05 01 ('Industrial competitiveness policy for the European Union') - for example, for the purpose of analysing the effect of the information society on competitiveness and of stimulating the development of electronic trade - involve no genuine European added value and should therefore be discontinued.
We therefore propose that these appropriations be transferred to budget line 02 02 03 ('Programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship, particularly for SMEs'), where the funds could be of direct use to European businesses.
We are also concerned about the problems and irregularities in connection with Eurostat and therefore want the European Parliament to ask for 25% of the appropriations to Eurostat's administrative expenditure to be placed in Title 31 ('Reserves') until the Commission has given Parliament sufficient assurance that the problems have been solved and that the people responsible have been identified and appropriately penalised.
We also support the information campaign concerning the euro and welcome the fact that the Commission has proposed increases in the funding for this.
We are nonetheless still concerned about the implementation of this budget line in recent years and therefore want again to call upon the Commission to report each quarter to Parliament's relevant committee on the implementation of the programme in the current year and on the planning for next year.
We also want to call upon the Commission to ensure that additional funds for the information campaign concerning the euro are available if further needs should arise, for example as a consequence of referendums in any of those countries that do not at present have the euro.
As an aside, I regret that, following the result of the referendum last week, my own country, Sweden, will not be eligible for funds for the information campaign concerning the euro.
The number of foreign policy areas in which the EU is involved in common action is reflected in its Budget.
Together we have taken on responsibility for rebuilding Kosovo, and for bringing political stability to the Balkan States, and this is reflected in the Budget just as much as is support for the reconstruction work in Afghanistan.
I might point out, by the way, that the European Union is doing all that it undertook to do at the donors' conference in Tokyo.
A major feature of the 2004 Budget will be the crisis in Iraq and the European Union's aid for the people there.
This year already, the European Union has allocated EUR 100 million from the Community Budget for humanitarian aid.
Reference has already frequently been made in this House to the fact that, on 24 October, the donors' conference on aid for the reconstruction of Iraq will be taking place.
Commissioner Patten, who is today attending the UN General Assembly in New York, has made it clear to this House the great relevance of the budgetary constraints to effective aid in Iraq.
Next week - on 1 October - the Commission will propose the amount that we intend to pledge at the donors' conference, that being EUR 200 million.
This proposal will provide for funds amounting to EUR 40 million to be mobilised this year, for the margin under heading 4 to be used next year and for the partial mobilisation of the flexibility reserve as well.
I believe that, in terms of its size, this promise of aid stands up well to comparison with the EUR 214 million for Afghanistan next year.
Our promising EUR 200 million for Iraq has to be seen in context, in that Iraq is less populous than Afghanistan, which is a wretchedly poor country lacking access to income from oil reserves.
The Commission's draft envisages a total of EUR 507 million for humanitarian aid.
The Budget sets aside EUR 82 million for the fight against Aids, malaria and other communicable diseases, which have a catastrophic effect on many countries in Africa; this amount will also be used to fund our further donation to the Global Health Fund - that, too, will be the same amount as this year.
Let me announce right now that my fellow-Commissioner Mr Nielson and I will, in a few days' time, be presenting a communication to the effect that, in future - from 2007 onwards, to be precise - resources for the European Development Fund will be incorporated into the normal Budget.
Although the priority will still be the fight against poverty, the needs of the ACP States in particular require of us that we adopt a coherent policy approach.
Overseas aid in particular involves support for many projects particularly targeting the - often dire - situation of women in poor countries and crisis-hit regions.
This is described in the reports on the aid programmes.
The EU will soon have 450 million citizens, and over half of them are women.
Whilst women make up 70% of the staff in category C, not one of Parliament's Directors-General is a woman.
Our resolution on gender mainstreaming proposes a whole range of actions to set benchmarks for the horizontal task of deliberately bringing women into the institutions, such as monitoring the success of leave for educational purposes, retraining, career and personal development, and so on.
Commissioner, you are now encouraging high expectations of gender budgeting, the implementation of which will mean the professional 'gendering' of every committee, every policy area, and every one of the Directorates-General.
We need to identify women as a target group when thinking in terms of the visibility of information campaigns, particularly in elections, and that we should involve women in every area of foreign policy - for example, in the reconstruction of Afghanistan and Iraq.
In its resolution of 4 September, the European Parliament insisted that the amount of appropriations for the European Union should, within the framework of the draft Forest Focus regulation, be the same as in the previous 1992 regulation on the protection of forests from fires with a view to funding appropriate forest fire prevention measures.
I would like to know, nevertheless, whether the Commission agrees with increasing the amounts and including preventive measures in the Forest Focus programme.
Turning to East Timor: in its preliminary draft budget, the Commission has removed the specific aid line and reduced aid by around 70%.
We have, therefore, tabled another amendment with a view to restoring the amount of aid to the EUR 25.5 million programmed in 2003.
We hope that Parliament will support this amendment, as in the past, but I would also like to know how the Commission can justify this cut, given the discussions held on the budget during 2003 and the various difficulties and areas of instability still existing in East Timor.
Finally, in view of the fact that this draft Community budget is the lowest, in relative terms, since 1987, representing less than 1% of Community gross national income, I would like to know how the principle of economic and social cohesion in the European Union will be safeguarded.
I would ask, in particular, how we will fight for social inclusion and employment growth, given that enlargement in 2004 will see the accession of 10 new countries whose average per capita income is only about 40% of the Community average.
Mr President, various people have already complained about the Council's reduction of the money for Afghanistan.
From Kosovo to Serbia - the money transferred along too - and from Afghanistan to Iraq.
I also note that the committees and groups have submitted amendments for external policy which amount to EUR 841 million more than the Commission's proposals.
Is it true that we simply agree massive amounts, or do you in fact adhere rigidly to the ceiling of the financial forecasts after all, conflicting with the EU's priorities in the process, because there are many more needs in the area of external policy than you suggest?
My last question - very brief - is about North Korea.
It is disregarded for various reasons, probably because there is no specific monitoring mechanism in place.
However, the fact remains that, very often, we continue blithely to implement our budget on the basis of these agreements - which, as such, must clearly be observed - despite frequent disregard for one of the clauses.
There are serious, significant cases of systematically violated rights and of countries whose economies depend greatly, if not on European Union aid, certainly on the rich tapestry of relations they sustain with the European Union: I refer to countries such as Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia itself, where, as you are aware, the situation is currently very serious and there is a danger of a coup d'état taking place within the next few days, in contempt of the results of elections which Parliament itself declared - maybe rather prematurely - to be perfectly above board.
These are the reasons why I believe it is possible, not least through the lever of the budget, to send a clear signal to the beneficiary countries so as to make the human rights clause a genuine reality and to reassure Parliament, which is one arm of the budgetary authority as well as the promoter of the idea, that the Commission is not implementing the budget as if nothing had happened but is carrying out pre-emptive monitoring.
I believe that the consideration which I have just illustrated deserves, in all respects, as stated by the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, the support of the House in the final vote on the budget.
Our rapporteur placed the emphasis on the role of the European Union as promoter of human rights in the world.
We fully support Amendment No 445 which proposes EUR 47 million for conflict prevention activities - and, in my view, prevention is always less expensive than cure - and Amendment No 118, which proposes EUR 2.5 million by way of additional appropriations for information programmes in third countries.
There are two reasons why this amendment is unacceptable to the PSE Group.
While remaining open to the creation of a new budgetary line, we cannot envisage providing funds in the absence of any mandate from the United Nations for the reconstruction of Iraq and in the absence of reliable estimates from the Commission.
Finally, I should like to invite the Commission to inform Parliament regarding the use of the funds in Latin America and to tell us if the considerable increase proposed by a series of amendments is realistic.
That, in the end, is the thought inspired in me by this 2004 budget on development cooperation.
Indeed, how is one to believe that the objective of eradicating poverty between now and 2015 will be achieved when - and this is only one example - the financial commitments to the Middle Eastern, Latin American, Asian and ACP countries that are the concern of the OECD's Development Assistance Committee have not been honoured by the Commission, particularly when it comes to the health and education sectors?
Any reduction in, or financial pressure upon, the fundamental elements of Community policy, such as human rights or the duty to give assistance to those who are weakest, would have the effect of sending out a very negative signal indeed to peoples already largely excluded from the march of world progress - victims, no more nor less, of a globalisation that has more in common with the law of the jungle than with growth and the equitable distribution of wealth.
Developing countries are waiting for the European Union's ambitions to change, a fact witnessed to, I think, by the reactions at the last WTO conference in Cancún.
As a final word on the subject of development aid, I remain convinced that, without a serious review of the financial perspectives, the pressure upon this heading will become unbearable.
Regarding the amendments, I approve of those that could favour an annual evaluation of the results and anticipate a joint dialogue between the Commission, Parliament and the Council on the methods to be put in place in order to achieve the objectives.
In the same spirit and in the interests of genuinely democratic and effective development cooperation, I am in favour of encouraging the widest participation, at all levels, of all those active in civil society.
Finally, I am going to support my group's proposal aimed at creating a specific line of aid for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the territories under the administration of the Palestinian Authority.
The Israeli army's destruction, to the tune of almost EUR 40 million, of the infrastructure funded by the EU or the Member States was the product of criminal fury.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Schreyer, Mr Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by welcoming the fact that we are holding this new budgetary debate, which has already shown itself to be a useful and profitable experience for the Commission and Parliament.
From a general point of view, this is the year in which we should avoid the conflict between national and Community interests.
The principles of budgetary austerity in national budgets, which are at the root of the Stability Pact, must be reconciled more than ever with the complete implementation of the Community policies contained in the objectives of the Community budget.
Compliance with it must not be an excuse to interfere in the development of the great areas of expenditure of the Union's budget, but it must be another incentive to improve its implementation.
Providing our budget with sufficient payment appropriations does not mean failing to comply with the austerity objectives, but to help the European Union's growth by means of its policies.
We would therefore like to ask the Commissioner whether she agrees with this approach and whether the Commission believes that the level of payment appropriations in the Council's draft budget is sufficient.
On the other hand, our group has no particular reasons to disagree with the Council on this Budget.
This must be seen not only in relation to the strengthening of the common foreign and security policy - both its objectives and its budgetary appropriations - but to particular reconstruction actions in Iraq and Afghanistan, as part of the European Union's moral commitment to promote peace, security and human rights.
Development policy is not only directed towards the ACP countries, but towards all developing countries with a view to eradicating poverty.
Secondly, our policy for assisting certain groups such as the Saharan people, who for years have been objectively in a situation of humanitarian need, should not be called into question for administrative reasons.
And finally, the integration of the gender perspective into the Budget is one of our objectives.
The budget allocation we have proposed is dependent on that condition, and, even if we are talking in terms of one single euro rather than five hundred million of them, it matters that we should get this general concept and these framework conditions right.
From that point of view, the Budget today and Parliament's resolution tomorrow must be seen as very closely interconnected.
Secondly, if this leads us to say that we want to get the United Nations more involved, then we must give more attention to it and to our relations with it overall - and that is what Parliament and the Commission are currently working on.
As an issue in this House, the subject of the United Nations has been dormant in recent years, and the Commission's new document gives hope that we will now be defining our relationship with the UN in more political terms, even though the Commission has achieved the masterly feat of producing a document of nearly fifty pages that refers not even once to Parliament and the budgetary authority.
I think that any redefinition will also necessitate dialogue between the Commission and Parliament.
Now for a third comment, addressed to the Council.
As we do in every Budget procedure, we have put a number of Budget lines in reserve, as the Council still refuses to provide the information agreed on in the November 2002 agreement between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
We are sure that we will overcome this obstacle and come to an agreement with the Council that will guarantee the public and Parliament greater transparency in future concerning what is going on in the common foreign and security policy.
The amendments proposed to the agriculture chapter are aimed above all, in my view, to the promotion and quality of European products.
It is important to bear in mind the amendments I have presented, because one of our fundamental tasks is to protect and defend European products, because their production involves stricter methods with regard to quality and respect for the environment.
At this moment, when the whole of the common agricultural policy is being changed, it is important that the citizens know what this policy is and, above all, the opportunities it represents for European agriculture and livestock.
I have placed particular emphasis on the introduction of agricultural insurance systems and I would like this to take place and for it to be reflected in the 2004 Budget.
I am glad to see consensus on the need for the conditions to be met.
I also believe that we can also achieve consensus on other points relating to the conditions.
The EUR 200 million proposed by the Commission would also express well our sense of obligation, our awareness of the need for us to take on responsibility, and our willingness to do so together on the basis of the EU Budget.
It is also very important that this aid for Iraq should be seen in relation to the shared commitments that we have made in other areas.
Let me reiterate that EUR 214 million have been allocated to Afghanistan for next year, thus discharging in full the obligations into which we entered at the donors' conference in Tokyo.
I would also like to again lay stress upon the fact that we are allocating, next year, EUR 250 million as additional aid for Turkey, Iraq's neighbour, with 65 million inhabitants, and that must also, of course, be seen in its context.
For this we have allocated the same amount as this year.
Both the Regional Development Fund and the Structural Funds can be used for reforestation measures and also for measures to prevent natural disasters.
The question has been raised as to whether cohesion policy can be pursued at all successfully using a European Budget amounting to some 0.99 per cent of the Community's economic product.
The European Budget and its effects demonstrate that our support for cohesion policy is yielding fruit.
The four cohesion countries are the four net recipients from the EU's Budget, which is only right and proper.
Countries such as North Korea, in which humanitarian emergencies exist at the same time as human rights are being abused, always put us in a very difficult position.
Indeed, the Commission had also decided to step up humanitarian aid for North Korea, concentrating this aid on mothers, who are worst affected by the terrible conditions in that country.
Next year, although the candidate countries will be Member States, they will still be getting help with their pre-accession programmes, as these will still be in progress.
For a start, a distinction has again been drawn between the old or existing Member States and the new Member States.
A linear reduction has also been made, however, which amounts to a considerable sum in many cases.
This is also urged in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development's report.
It would be a good thing if the Council were to realise this, particularly given the fact that next year will be a difficult year; a complete review of our agricultural policy and the accession of new Member States.
It is true that we are aiming for a more market-compliant policy, but at the same time the Council wants to make too many cutbacks, which the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considers unacceptable.
To begin with the school market programme; we propose earmarking an additional 10.3 million for this.
A main objective was to restore or increase the budgets of the agencies on which we rely to carry out statutory and other tasks set by Parliament, namely those of the European Medicines Evaluation Agency, the European Environment Agency and the fledgling European Food Safety Authority.
Secondly, once again we expose the hypocrisy of a European Union that pays lip-service to health promotion by combating smoking-related diseases but continues to pour EUR 1 billion per annum into subsidising the production of low-quality tobacco, much of which is exported to developing countries.
European Union and US farmers are subsidy junkies and although the agreement does not spell an end to this transatlantic addiction, it may be a step in the right direction.
Although the Commission welcomes these amendments, I would like to remind you that, at the end of October, the Commission will be approving a letter of amendment to the preliminary draft Budget in respect of the European Agriculture Guidance and Guarantee Fund, in order to update the resources required.
These include, first, the depreciation of the US dollar against the euro, which has had consequent effects on certain export refunds or on aid; then, the decision to grant, as early as 2003 - that is to say, in the Budget year 2003 - certain advances against animal premiums for those regions that suffered particularly from the summer drought; and, finally, an agreement on the reform of the common agricultural policy, which, however, is expected to have little effect on the Budget for 2004.
Let me now return to the amendments that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development adopted.
The amendment relating to subheading 1b on rural development increases the estimates to such an extent that they would exceed the upper limit in the Financial Perspective by some EUR 100 million.
Finally, I would like to discuss some of the priorities set by the general rapporteur.
In this context, the rapporteur demands that a study be drawn up on how these indicators are worked out.
The second point has to do with the implementation of a preparatory measure to promote the introduction of insurance schemes to cover economic losses resulting from epizootics.
As the Commission is very much in favour of a public debate on this issue, to involve all the stakeholders, we are planning for next year a series of consultations and seminars, which will involve all the services and parties affected.
After evaluation, a decision will then be taken on the manufacture of other serums and the funding that this will require.
Let me draw your attention to the fact that the Commission has today decided that we will carry out a reform of the tobacco sector, which will result in these financial resources being completely decoupled.
I would, finally, like to point out to you that the Council has reduced the number of posts for expenditure connected with enlargement.
As you will all be aware, the common agricultural policy will be applicable in the new Member States from the day of their accession, with nothing left out.
With the exception of the United Kingdom and Denmark, though, not one Member State reported itself to be in any need.
The same is true of the attempt to have scrapping funds funded to the tune of an additional EUR 32 million.
Existing funds will not be enough for ten new Member States, and adequate funding for rural areas and their development, along with assuring the quality of food production, are equally indispensable.
The right road ahead does not go by way of across-the-board cuts, and this House wants what was provided for in the Convention's draft constitution - full powers of codecision and the abolition of the clear-cut dividing line between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure.
You can be certain that expert decision-making in both the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Budgets would then be guaranteed beyond doubt.
By topping up the funds for this area, the committee has made it clear that it is to this that we attach a higher value and that the cutting back of the market organisations demands that there should be compensation for farms that take themselves to market.
It would be fatal if the forces that want to put things back the way they were were to prevail, as the Structural Funds criteria for rural areas are not very favourable.
A 'Leader East' programme should therefore be set up for Bulgaria and Romania, in order to involve the ordinary population in the development of rural areas.
If something that is necessary from the point of view of rural development is now to be seen as a subsidy currently laid off and liable to be cut back, then we should discuss that in this House and make our position clear in the next round at the WTO.
Mr President, the common agricultural policy remains the single biggest item of expenditure in the Community budget.
Along with most colleagues, I welcome the fact that a series of reforms under the current and past Commissioners have brought agricultural expenditure under control.
Nevertheless, this will remain an essential mechanism for assisting heavily export-dependent sectors to maintain a position in export markets in periods when prices are plunging and markets are uncertain.
In conclusion, I welcome the statement from Commissioner Fischler on the proposal to decouple aid for tobacco producers, which will hopefully lead to a reduction in the production of this health-damaging crop.
Mr President, Commissioners, comrades, ladies and gentlemen, in the areas of environmental protection, consumer protection and health, we keep on, at European level, we keep on attempting to tackle very ambitious projects that are intended to improve the public's quality of life in every area: environmental action programmes, action programmes in the field of public health, consumer protection strategies, strategies for the environment and health, and so on and so forth.
But what about the resources that are needed if we are to be able to successfully bring these projects to fruition?
That, let me add, for a year in which the Budget is to be drawn up not for fifteen Member States, but for twenty-five, for which it must be adequate.
We know that the ten new Member States' institutions are in need of a great deal of reconstruction where the protection of the environment, consumer policy and health care are concerned; these are areas in which, despite the funds made available under the pre-accession strategy, they have as yet achieved nothing of any substance.
Not only have we learned that from the Consumers International report, but the Court of Auditors has also enjoined us to take good note of it.
Of course we want 'greening of the budget', consumer protection as a mainstreaming principle in all European policies, and awareness at every level of Europe, but, to do that, we need operational resources and resources in terms of personnel, and these have to be made available.
We agree with the sum of EUR 150 million proposed by the rapporteur.
The second, ladies and gentlemen, relates to the scrapping fund, for which the Committee on Fisheries proposes a sum of EUR 32 million.
The third issue I would like to focus on is the fisheries agreements.
For a start, I believe that we are, in principle, in entire agreement where the issue of rural development is concerned, but we must, on the other hand, all abide by the boundaries set by the Financial Perspective.
I did in fact get the impression from Cancún that this is where what one might term the sustainability department and the development department in some of the NGOs sometimes put forward quite contrary points of view, and I believe that this is something we should really hammer out together.
I have already indicated that the Commission can make a proposal on fisheries policy only if the Member States are willing to give us the necessary figures.
We are meant to - and we will - draw a distinction between the development component and that element in which we pay for the acquisition of fisheries rights under an agreement, but no new subheadings are needed for this in the Budget; it can be quite sensibly organised within one Budget line, and that is what we are going to do.
Following the normal practice within my committee, this year I have used the matters that we found during our discharge procedure to draw some budgetary amendments to get what the Committee on Budgetary Control would like to see from the Commission and other institutions.
We have yet to grant discharge to this committee for the 2001 set of accounts and, as more revelations appear about the state of its accounts and what has been going on within that committee, it is highly unlikely that we will do so.
Therefore we have tabled an amendment asking for 25% of members' allowances within the Committee of the Regions to go into the reserve until the rapporteur provides us with much of the information we have requested.
The main point concerns Eurostat and OLAF.
This achieved near-unanimity in the committee, because we have been unhappy with the way OLAF has been reporting to the budgetary authority, in many cases contravening its own rules.
We have tabled a number of amendments and, when it comes to the main budget debate, more amendments - that we shall be pushing on behalf of our committee - may be tabled by the political groups, because it is about time that someone took responsibility for the problems within Eurostat.
Mr President, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, when dealing with the issue of European jurisdiction, limited itself to seconding the proposal for the Commission's preliminary draft, which provides for increases for two reasons; the first being in consequence of enlargement, and the second in response to new tasks for European justice, in which context more funds are allocated for the purposes of documentation and translation.
What that means - no more and no less - is that the Commission's preliminary draft does not include any structural improvements in the conditions under which the European justice system functions.
Nevertheless, we went no further than doing this, and I would like to urge the Committee on Budgets not to reduce this still further, for, if we allocate only the funding relating to enlargement, and not the funds for the additional tasks, the situation cannot fail to deteriorate still further.
The Committee on Budgets will have to decide whether to take sides with the Council or with the Commission and the Court of Justice.
The second point that I would like to address has to do with the Academy of European Law, the work of which, over the past ten years, has met with immense success.
Over the past ten years, a total of 38 000 people from the European Union and the new countries have taken part in seminars and training courses.
All this justifies a commensurate increase in the grants to the Academy of European Law under the financial programme, not only for 2004, but thereafter. .
In the case of enlargement, we recognised the reality that new human resources - new posts - were needed in order to meet the fresh and very substantial demands arising from the historic change.
The rationale for the proposed increase is very straightforward: the accession of ten countries on 1 May 2004 will bring a 66% increase in the number of Member States, a 20% increase in the population of the Union and an 82% increase in working languages.
For 2004 - enlargement year - after 500 deployments of existing personnel within and between existing services, the net addition needed is 780 new posts.
To establish this figure, all current tasks performed by Commission services were classified on the basis of 'activity-based management'.
Calculations were strictly based on the additional workload that we know will have to be borne by the Commission as a direct result of enlargement.
In short, we based our request for additional human resources on a rigorous and comprehensive analysis of real and proven operational needs.
I believe that it is vital for this Parliament to be made aware of the sombre reality that providing less than the 780 enlargement-related posts which we have proposed as essential for 2004 would have a major and very negative effect on the Commission's ability to manage the fresh task arising directly from the accession of ten new Member States which, universally and unanimously in Commission, Parliament and Council, we strongly advocate and stoutly support.
However, the fact that those posts would be in the reserve would produce significant practical problems.
Amendment No 3502 proposes to reduce administrative and staffing costs by 10% in a number of policy areas and to place that 10% in the reserve with the aim of fostering the operational part of the programmes.
That means that the conclusive decisions on establishment plans must, in the final analysis, continue to be for the Commission to make on the basis of properly calculated and manifest needs.
I know that many Members will recognise the principle and its practicality.
However, I understand that the rapporteur proposes tabling an amendment to re-establish this routine practice.
Mr President, Commissioner, allow me to begin by telling you in public what I have already taken the opportunity to tell you in private, namely that I profoundly admire the courageous and direct manner in which you are facing up to your responsibilities in the Eurostat case.
I believe, in particular, that each Commissioner should have at his or her disposal an inspection, an audit, or whatever else they need in order to address the questions asked of them.
Mr President, firstly I wish to thank Commissioners Schreyer and Kinnock for their successful reform of the Commission and the reshaping of the Financial Regulation connected with it.
This budget is in fact the first activity-based budget.
Parliament will only decide how much money is available in a particular administrative area.
This may then itself decide on the creation of the most appropriate administrative structure.
As regards financial management, we have to be able to establish exactly what we require of the careful management of finances.
Different organisations and NGOs make up their own areas of specialisation, which the European Parliament has given its support to.
These 'earmarked' A-30 budget lines have been the budget's bugbear.
I am glad to see that Commissioner Vitorino has now arrived; we discussed this under the heading of information policy this morning.
We have topped up the funds for this, leaving nothing in the reserves, but, at ground level, there is no administration and the decentralisation to which you referred does not work either.
You have EUR 10 million at your disposal, and only EUR 1.5 million have been spent.
It is not your job to decide for yourself how the Budget is to be administered, but to ensure that the administration actually carries out what the Council and Parliament have decided.
I realise that if there had been a historic background of trying to keep confidentiality to a minimum, and transparency to a maximum, then it would be easier for this House to understand that, when it is critically essential that we use confidential procedures, it is done for absolutely the best reasons.
The report will be available under Annex III of the framework agreement procedure when it is ready.
But I consider that we have made substantial progress towards achieving that, on the one hand in the general ambit of the Financial Regulation, but more specifically in the reforms adopted by the Commission, in some cases as recently as July 2003.
Those guarantee an absolute requirement for reporting on management conduct and financial operation in a DG at least twice a year, specifically to the responsible Commissioner, so that Commissioners will in future continue to be au fait with the practical operational management of the directorate-general, as well as bearing their straightforward and obvious political responsibilities.
The response we got from the DGs - with very thorough analysis seeking to detect any practices remotely related to what we have observed in Eurostat - was rigorous and encouragingly thorough.
By making massive reforms that radically change systems and structures, we foster the kind of culture of transparency and accountability which is fundamental to the successful operation of activity-based management and of the activity-based budgeting which reinforces that process.
It was, after all, this Commission which - as soon as we had prima facie evidence that gave us legal security in undertaking certain actions - suspended contracts, opened disciplinary proceedings, established the strongest, biggest ever inquiry task force in the history of the Commission, increased the staffing of the internal audit examination of contracts from 9 to 24 persons and has had those reports coming in absolutely on schedule.
That ambition is shared universally by my colleagues and we could not have made the progress we have unless we had had massive cooperation from staff assuming these obligations in addition to their normal workload and if we had not had the full-hearted commitment of every single Member of the College of Commissioners.
More than any other measure, but in addition, reforms of structures and systems of audit control and management control that give us - insofar as any human organisation handling money can get it - real, strong safeguards against any form of repetition of what we have detected and are acting upon now.
I come from a parliamentary tradition where an elected House of Commons obtained its strength by having the vote on the budget.
I believe that people in this House know that my occupation of time is, generally speaking, very disciplined.
In a constructive dialogue, this House's specialists in social policy have made a package of these objectives and adopted them by an overwhelming majority in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Our priorities include industrial safety, by which I mean that our agencies should be adequately equipped and enabled, above all, to press on with the programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises and also micro-businesses, something that is especially necessary in the candidate countries.
We also seek a moderate increase in funding for the Community initiative EQUAL and for non-governmental organisations.
The Community initiative EQUAL is a specific instrument, within the framework of the European Social Fund, for realising our ideas and achieving our objectives, which are also those of the Lisbon process.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which has presented a certain number of amendments that I can combine in several chapters.
The first concerns the perspectives and priorities of the European Parliament, notably in the framework of the Prince programme.
We talked about the subject this morning in the course of the meeting on the issue of interinstitutional information, and we are very concerned about the non-implementation of a fair portion of the appropriations made to the priorities that Parliament recommends, has already recommended and will again recommend for next year.
The credits in question must, therefore, be implemented and put to good use.
So much for the first chapter of the amendments by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
We think that this tool, which is actually very cheap to use, really can enable people to keep up to date with what is happening in the European institutions.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to vote on a 2004 budget which is, in a manner of speaking, historic because it will be the first budget of a reunited Europe.
That is precisely what the college is discussing at the moment in preparation for future financial perspectives and for the content and proposals of the third cohesion report.
Mr President, I would, therefore, like to mention three points: the 2000-2006 programmes, the closure for the period 1994-1999, and the structural policy consequences of enlargement.
This is the fruit of the simplifications we have proposed and undertaken with the Member States.
At the end of August, we had already paid 25% more than at the same time in 2002.
For the first time, the 2000-2006 payments could even be higher than forecast and I anticipate asking for at least EUR 1 billion more in objective 1 appropriations when the overall end-of-year transfer is made.
We can also see here the effect of the n+2 rule about which we alerted ministers on 22 April last, as I informed your committees.
Between 1 January and 1 September, the governments reduced the backlog of payment appropriations that had to be dealt with in order to avoid decommitments.
To avoid any decommitment, I am also going to write to every government again and they will have to present us with another 5 billion in payments by the end of the year.
If their forecasts are to be believed, it will be done, but, ladies and gentlemen, to be perfectly honest I no longer give much credence to Member States' forecasts when I get them.
Having said that, Italy, which has got us used to miracles, accounts for 40% of the effort that still has to be made.
My second point is the 1994-1999 closure.
It was only on 31 March last that the Commission received virtually all of the some 2 000 files to be closed for these 1994-1999 programmes.
As soon as I had identified this risk in July, I alerted my colleague Commissioner Michaele Schreyer.
Together, we will shortly be proposing that the Commission submit a draft amending budget to the budgetary authority in order to cancel without delay the appropriations that would be unused.
Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I confirm my commitment to reducing the amount remaining to be settled in two ways: firstly by cancelling commitments not covered by a request for payment, for example when the project has been abandoned or cost less than expected (in this connection, decommitments are already being prepared; they will represent at least EUR 1.5 billion for the European Regional Development fund (ERDF) alone) and, secondly, by making as many payments as possible where the dossiers are now in order.
I think these few explanations on this point will satisfy Mr Seppänen's request.
My third and final point is the structural-policy consequences of enlargement.
The success of this enlargement, taking in 10 new Member States, is the Commission's top priority.
Cohesion policy is also a top priority.
The big challenge facing us is to complete negotiations with all the new Member States before the end of 2003 on the programmes that will have to be operational in a few months' time for the very short period 2004-2006.
What are the budgetary effects of this enlargement?
That is an increase of around 20%.
In terms of human resources, the number of posts requested to guarantee the success of this enlargement is, it seems to me, modest.
If you accede to the Commission's requests, the directorates-general concerned will increase their staff by only 7% to manage a 20% increase in appropriations.
However that may be, I thank you for your support in obtaining the human resources essential for guaranteeing the success of our cohesion policy in 2004 and beyond.
In conclusion, Mr President, what are the consequences of all this for the payment appropriations needed for 2004?
As was decided in Copenhagen, payment appropriations for the new Member States in 2004 have been confined to advances.
If Member States' forecasts are to be believed, that will be necessary.
It is true that if the Member States manage to avoid any decommitment under the n+2 rule, we would then need an extra 1 billion for the ERDF alone.
As you see, the Commission has adopted a prudent and realistic approach in the light of the implementation of earlier years.
If the payment appropriations turned out to be insufficient for the 2000-2006 Structural Funds and for closing the 1994-1999 period, the Commission would then ask for an additional amending budget during the 2004 financial year.
Finally, for the 1994-1999 programmes it is clear that we will need appropriations in 2004 to complete the closure beyond the Commission's preliminary draft budget.
I cannot yet say how much those appropriations will amount to.
At this stage, however, I would prefer to confront the Member States with their responsibilities and get them in the end to make realistic forecasts, even if that means increasing the appropriations under management in an amending budget when we have all the data.
I can confirm that of the 12 million available this year for information on the great debate on the future of Europe, 8.3 million are in the process of being or have already been committed.
We are thinking of a new document - we discussed it with some parliamentary officials this morning - that could be made available to Members of Parliament and European election candidates to show specifically what this new Constitution consists of and how it can be useful for specific policies to benefit the citizens.
That is why there are funds which have not yet been paid to the Member States and that is creating a problem both with the Community budget and, of course, with the national budgets.
By contrast, there are more positive developments in the new programming period from 2000 to 2006, although here too, of course, we must be very, very careful.
I noted with satisfaction that this year we are doing better than last year from the point of view of the take-up of appropriations and trust that the n+2 rule, despite the criticism it sometimes receives, even here in Parliament, is a rule which will result in proper management on the part of the Member States as regards programming and managing the sums of money.
These, broadly speaking, are also the reasons why, in our committee at least, we propose to return essentially to the preliminary draft budget initially submitted by the Commission as far as category II of the budget is concerned.
As far as the other matters are concerned, I should like to comment in particular on the trans-European networks and to say that, even after the van Miert report of 30 June this year, and pending the proposal to reform the trans-European networks, our committee wishes to note their importance and to stress that words and deeds must coincide at some point.
Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, still on the subject of regional policy, transport and tourism, I have to say to you that we are quite worried, not to say disillusioned, by our reading of the draft budget.
The problem has been clearly explained: to see the budget lines for essential policies cut so drastically by the Council worries us extremely.
Whatever the decision-making procedures, whatever the reports highlighting the European Union's development needs, the same thing has happened for years: whenever budget time comes the Council makes the most astounding cuts to its programmes, which are nevertheless among the most important ones for encouraging development in the European Union.
Hence our concern and hence the Commission's unanimity in seeking to use amendments to get the level of expenditure provided for in the preliminary draft budget reinstated.
I will return for a few moments to the issue of the Structural Funds and I would like to thank Commissioner Barnier for all the explanations he has given us.
We do in fact see, however, how the budgets and the payment appropriations have been significantly cut back, both in the Commission's and the Council's proposals, and, in the light of what you are saying today, it has of course to be wondered whether it is right to take matters so calmly, confident that there are enough payment appropriations, and whether a proposal for the supplementary budget is enough to solve the problem, if it emerges that the money is being used up more quickly than we anticipated.
In recent years, we have of course seen that there has been a huge amount of money left over from the agricultural budgets in the autumn, but will that continue, with a falling dollar and other growing expenditure?
I also think it right to look at the problem constituted by the fact that it is not possible to have confidence in the reports we obtain from the Member States.
Neither the Commission nor the Member States' finance ministers have confidence in the reports obtained as to what needs exist.
Mr President, I should like to make one or two observations with regard to social policy.
It is regrettable that some areas leave something to be desired.
I also hope that provision can be made for this in the budget during the course of this budget procedure.
This is probably more important than approving the occasional additional budget.
Erasmus Mundus is a master's course programme to improve the attractiveness of Europe for nationals of third countries.
Likewise, we must guarantee the financing of the European Year of Education through Sports and improve opportunities for youth organisation activities in the new Member States.
It is a positive sign that enlargement is being taken into consideration in the Socrates-Youth programme and Culture 2000 programme.
Switching to an activity-based budget will mean the opportunity to establish a legal basis for the financing of European cultural organisations.
If we are firm and prudent we will create legislation that serves the cause of cultural cooperation and at the same time goes further to meet the requirements of transparency and good management.
Rule 19 in our Rules of Procedure states that the President shall possess all the powers necessary to preside over the proceedings of Parliament.
Mr Hatzidakis, what applies to this period is not n+2 but, you might as well say, n+11.
That is the objective reason for the amount of work we have to do to process and check the 2 000 files received.
Mrs Guy-Quint, we are at this moment making progress on programme appraisal.
The future objective 2 policy in particular will enable us, in partnership with the regions and governments, to implement directly the major objectives of Göteborg and Lisbon relating to competitiveness and sustainable growth.
I am not sure that we will need the supplementary budget I mentioned just now, but as I am being transparent with you I am mentioning it to you at this stage.
So far as 2003 is concerned, we do need an amending budget.
Regarding the cultural cooperation of which you spoke - even though it is not my subject, I am sensitive to what you have said in this regard - in the forthcoming debate on regional policy after 2007 I intend proposing an increase in our appropriations for Interreg and a simplification of that programme's rules, in order to target cross-border cooperation in transport infrastructures in particular.
In that field, too, we need cultural and university cooperation.
There you are, Mr President, I have taken more than a minute but less than 11 minutes and I thank you for your understanding.
Mr President, I make this statement on behalf of the Committee on Home Affairs and as its rapporteur.
Our monitoring centres in Vienna and Lisbon, along with Eurojust in The Hague are three agencies in need of active support, and that will cost money.
I take it as read that my fellow-MEPs who sit on the Committee on Budgets will join with us in seeing the need for this and in giving us their support in this House.
The creative industries in Europe contribute some 12% to Europe's GDP.
Firstly, in its culture budget each year, Parliament helps a number of cultural organisations and networks such as the European Youth Orchestra and the Yehudi Menuhin Foundation.
If these organisations are to survive, let alone flourish, then they not only need our financial and moral support, they need legal certainty.
The public learn about Europe through television.
We have Euronews, an excellent independent channel, but like all public sector broadcasters, it needs funding.
I hope the Commission will take these points seriously.
Nevertheless, from a statistical point of view the budget for justice and internal affairs has increased by 252% this year.
In reality, however, much of that increase is the result of the decision taken in Copenhagen to create the Schengen facility, at a cost of EUR 317 million, to help the seven future Member States to adopt and incorporate the Schengen acquis.
Another EUR 13 million are for transitional measures for Lithuania in connection with transit to and from Kaliningrad.
So far as justice and internal affairs are concerned, the most important changes from the budgetary point of view are therefore the enlargement-related increase in appropriations for programmes (EUR 16 million) and the increase in appropriations for control of the external frontiers, which has been a major European Union priority since the Seville and Thessaloniki summits.
I would like to stress the importance of the ARGO programme in support of frontier control operations carried out jointly by the Member States; this is given an extra EUR 15 million.
I would also like to highlight the creation of a new budget line for development of the VIS project, a visa information system, to which EUR 10 million will be allocated initially.
This year 2004 will be marked by a number of important factors affecting budget management.
There is therefore a contradiction between the fact that capacity is being increased and the comment.
I would like to draw your attention to that.
I am also pleased with the two amendments which the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has proposed concerning the VIS system and the new generation Schengen information system, SIS II.
Following the feasibility studies, it is in fact necessary to reprogramme expenditure for these two systems so as to spread the cost over the following three financial years 2004 to 2006, 2006 being the deadline for the SIS II system to become operational and therefore ready to fully integrate the countries that will join on 1 May 2004.
Finally, I would like to thank Parliament for its idea of creating an Erasmus programme for judges; the Commission will try to conduct a pilot project.
Following the adoption of the Bayona de Perogordo report, 2003 was the first year in which we developed a new information and communication strategy for the general public.
You will remember that the cornerstone of this strategy is cooperation with the Member States, the establishment of partnerships with the Member States.
I am pleased to say that the interinstitutional group on information and communication has managed to reach broad agreement on what should be the priority subjects for such public information and communication campaigns.
I am speaking not only of the euro, but also of enlargement, the future of Europe, the area of freedom, security and justice and, for next year 2004, the role of Europe in the world, including a specific line to support information campaigns in the field of defence.
For example, EUR 4 million were reserved for such partnerships with the Member States for the information campaign on the Future of Europe.
Up until now, however, only three Member States have said they are willing to reach an agreement with us in order to develop the campaign on the future of Europe.
Since partnership is built on a voluntary basis, what the Commission has done is to allocate those EUR 4 million that were not used by the partnership with the Member States to other funds.
For this year 2003 we therefore have EUR 4 million for an audiovisual information strategy on enlargement, EUR 4 million for the Future of Europe and EUR 8.5 million for audiovisuals providing general information about the European Union, including the Euronews channel.
We have granted Euronews EUR 1.5 million in accordance with the framework agreement signed with Euronews in 2001 and we have taken into account the further sum of EUR 3 million voted by Parliament.
We have therefore suggested to Euronews that it submit to us programmes for information activities and we are perfectly willing to assess them and finance them by releasing the EUR 3 million by the end of the year.
This aspect is not my direct responsibility but I do know that the Commission has already put forward proposals for the creation of legal bases for a number of entities, including Euronews.
I will eagerly await Parliament's position on this matter.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, the way speaking time is organised is so mischievous and bizarre that I now have to speak again about transport problems and agencies.
I would like to take the opportunity, Commissioner, to respond to the problem of the policy of providing information to European Union citizens.
This subject will really be one of the most important in the years ahead.
The most important thing, however, is that all institutional communication should get as close to ordinary citizens as possible.
That would be a great step forward for the democratic future of our Union.
I would just point out that there is an item of some EUR 225 million for studies relating to it in the budget, whereas the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, of which I am a substitute Member, says that they do not want more studies but more action and implementation on the ground.
With regard to the Marco Polo programme on transfer to other modes of transport, away from road traffic and the congestion which it causes, I give that my full support.
On the other institutions, we have had useful discussions in the last day or two.
Whereas Parliament's budget is only going up by 13%, the Council's by 21% and the Commission's by 8% or 9%, the Court of Justice, for example, is asking for 57%.
The Committee of the Regions asked for 63% and was knocked down to 54%.
We must get the best possible value for money from these other institutions and ask them to re-examine their budget spending.
Madam President, in the preliminary draft budget, a sum of EUR 39 million has been earmarked for the European Refugee Fund to cover the present fifteen Member States.
As long as three years ago, I, backed by this House, asked the Commissioner to make an assessment of how much money he would actually need in order to realise the Fund's objectives.
It is particularly important to give this a lot of consideration, because the Commission will be presenting its plans for the financial perspectives in mid-November.
Mr Vitorino, I therefore rely on your courage.
In fact, the Member States now want forced repatriation to be paid for from the Refugee Fund.
However, the question as to who can stay and who has to go is still the subject of a debate between Member States, and is simply a national decision.
It is quite clear to us that small and medium-sized businesses are of particular significance in terms of Europe's economic development.
I believe that such guarantees will play an essential part in the future of small- and medium-sized enterprises.
Support of this kind is especially important when businesses are being set up.
My second point is that we have just got through the failed assembly in Cancún, the failure of which is attributable to the presence in the ministerial conference of certain persons who make a very healthy profit from their own system and are therefore unwilling to do for their national economies something that we would see in a favourable light.
This leads us to believe that there is an urgent need for a parliamentary assembly in this area.
We want to lend our active support to this in future and to discuss the possibilities with parliamentarians from the countries in question, with the opposition in certain countries also being given the opportunity to state its position on international issues.
I think a successful information policy is a policy that gets as close as possible to the citizens.
That is why we developed this strategy of partnership with the Member States, including regional and local authorities.
It is an approach which also enjoys the support of the Committee of the Regions.
But if this approach is to succeed, there must be the political will for a partnership.
That is why I hope, so far as the campaign on the future of Europe is concerned, that the European elections, the national debate on ratification of the Constitution and the referendums that will be held in some Member States will next year all be further incentives, further reasons for the Member States to join in partnership with us to conduct information and communication campaigns on the future of Europe, on the content of the Constitution, and to conduct those campaigns as closely to the citizens as possible.
I am expressing here my complete agreement with the strategy that Commissioner Michel Barnier has just explained in answer to Mr Dell'Alba's question.
I thank Parliament for its support for the proposals I have presented.
With regard to reaching these targets it is unfortunate that cuts in the area of research into energy have been proposed in the budget.
The basis of transport policy must be the development of a versatile transport network, decongestion, improved safety and the promotion of sustainable transport.
The Union, for its part, must set aside the necessary funds for both the old and the new projects and take account of the needs of an enlarging Union.
For the internal market to function there have to be flexible transport connections between the different regions of the Union.
With regard to the trans-European networks, I have said very clearly, with a view to the next financial perspectives, that the amount dedicated to trans-European networks must not be increased by 5, 10 or even 15%, but, in my opinion, by 600 or 700%.
These trans-European networks of a trans-European nature are necessary in view of the reality of the internal market and for the competitiveness of the European economy as a whole, and I can therefore only agree with the honourable Member but, I would insist, this cannot be done by modifying budgets, but by reviewing the new financial perspectives, given the great importance of the issue.
When I talk about these Euro-Mediterranean energy networks, I am talking about Europe as a continent, not the European Union.
These networks also take account of neighbouring countries such as Russia, Belarus or the Ukraine.
Madam President, as the day draws to a close, I would like to thank the Commissioners and Members of Parliament who have taken part in the debate and reflect briefly on what has been said.
This is clearly a constituent phase and, not least in the new Constitution, for instance, the European Parliament will be given wider, more extensive powers.
That said, we must focus for a moment on the points made during the debate.
Without mentioning any one issue in particular, I would like to stress that the Council is quite prepared to look at all the recommendations made.
Moreover, it must be said that, even in the introductory report and in the meetings which have taken place thus far on all the issues - including that of the availability of new posts for Commission staff and other matters such as the cut in preaccession funds and so forth - the Council has been completely open to reassessing the proposals on the basis of new approaches, new information and new decisions.
For precisely this reason, I would ask the Members not to make the mistake of attempting to criticise the intentions of others, for we all have the right to criticise our own intentions but, above all, we have a duty to display full confidence in others.
Politics is the management of power harmonised according to a cultural model.
The importance of enlargement goes without saying, and it has also become clear how important the other priorities are for the 2004 Budget.
When I compare that figure with the numbers required in the Member States and compare the quality involved, I can say loud and clear and with a clear conscience that the service is first-rate.
I would like to say how very grateful I am for this debate, and that I am confident that we will be able, once more, to produce a good European Budget for 2004, one that will do a good job of promoting enlargement. .
Mr President, I just want to thank those Members who have taken part in this debate.
As I said at the beginning, it is rare to have ministers here.
Thank you, Mr Wynn.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the Commission statement on the situation of the Alstom Group.
Madam President, am I right in thinking that there will be an opportunity for questioning the Commissioner under the catch-the-eye procedure at the end of his statement?
The decision has, however, already been taken: you will not be able to ask the Commissioner questions at the end of his statement.
The subject of your invitation this evening, Madam President, is a specific file which is currently under examination and about which I must therefore observe a measure of discretion.
The decision to initiate the review procedure regards the support measures adopted by the French State on 2 August under an agreement with Alstom and a number of banks then the Commission was notified.
This decision to initiate this procedure was taken by the college on 17 September.
It concerns one specific part of the support plan that was decided and announced on 2 August but has not yet been put into effect: state participation in Alstom's capital.
The Commission was unable to agree to an immediate participation by the French Republic in Alstom's capital because a measure of that kind, unlike other contributions of liquid assets, was likely to have irreversible consequences for the markets on which the Alstom Group is active.
On 17 September, the Commission therefore found that the conditions were such that the French authorities should be asked not to go ahead with a State holding in Alstom's capital.
The French state will not therefore become an Alstom shareholder in the immediate future and will not adopt any measures likely to constitute equity capital, that is structural measures to which the Commission cannot agree without prejudicing the findings of the competition inquiry it will be conducting.
The state participation in the capital increase will be replaced by a fixed-term floating-rate note redeemable in shares.
It is a liquidity measure that may be converted into equity only if the Commission decides that the state participation in the capital increase presents no problems for competition on the markets in question.
It was our duty to prevent the conditions of competition on the market from being immediately and irreversibly changed in Alstom's favour before the Commission had even been able to begin looking at the effect of the aids on the markets in question.
The changes made would probably have entailed an increase in the overall amount of aid granted.
This shows the knock-on effect of a capital increase and its irreversible effects.
In other words, it would never have been possible to restore the status quo.
The aim is to enable the undertaking to be restructured while at the same time preserving the proper working of the internal market, which is the only guarantee of sustainable employment.
In the course of its assessment, the Commission will check the undertaking's long-term viability and the proportionality between the amount of aid granted and what France will be willing to accept in return in order to preserve the conditions of competition on the markets in question.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasise that there is absolutely no position of principle involved on the part of the Commission concerning the system of ownership of undertakings in the Member States.
The Commission's desire was to prevent aid-constituting measures from producing irreversible consequences on the markets in question without the Commission's prior approval, that is in violation of the rules of the Treaty concerning state aid.
As I have always stressed, it is not the Commission that asks a Member State to open the capital of public undertakings like the French Government is doing with Électricité de France, for example.
What the Commission does have a duty to do under the Treaties is to ensure that undertakings, whether public or private, comply with the competition rules.
As I said, I would like to stress the quality of our cooperation, based on a constructive spirit and one of confidence, with the French Government and Minister Mer in particular.
I am well aware of the Alstom Group's importance in the European industrial and social fabric.
Commissioner, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking as I do on behalf of my group, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to make three things very clear, especially to those who, following Commissioner Monti's statements, have forced today's debate upon us.
Any criticism of the Commission is unfounded, and there is no reason to change competition policy; on the contrary, indeed, we owe a debt of gratitude to the Commission and, above all, to Commissioner Monti, whose actions over recent days have been marked by calmness, consistency and frankness, and who has been willing to engage in dialogue.
On 17 September, we read in Agence Europe that Commissioner Monti had said, 'We are open to dialogue, and I am still confident that we will find a solution capable of safeguarding the integrity of the Common Market without distorting competition.
This is, of course, a sensitive case, but it is an issue of state aid.
I can speak for my group when I say that no, we would not, even though our hearts are in the right place where the associated problems are concerned and there is adequate awareness of the problems associated with it.
Let me remind you of three articles in the new constitution.
My group has committed itself to the social market economy, and hence also to social responsibility.
We are committed to the internal market and to competition, on which the creation of new jobs and growth depend.
Madam President, Commissioner, at our initiative, the Alstom trades union representatives have visited the European Parliament on several occasions.
On 17 February 2000, here in Parliament, we adopted a resolution expressing a warning about the future risks facing the business.
After that, this enormously important affair places certain major questions squarely on the agenda of the debate on the future of the European Union.
The first of these issues is the social dialogue, or rather the essential new rights of employees.
The second issue is that European industrial policy does not exist.
Yet in the present case, conversely, if there had not been any state aids, world economic competition would have been seriously distorted, given, on the one hand, what would be left of European industries in the strategic sectors of energy and the railways and, on the other, American giants such as General Electric, or those of Japan such as Mitsubishi.
Finally, the Alstom case is a powerful reminder of the essential political choices to which the public debate on the European constitution will be leading us.
For all these reasons, it was well worth adding this item to our agenda.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear about this, the Alstom affair, in its European dimension, is first of all a matter of form.
The Commission was perfectly right to sanction the French Government for the arrogance and contempt for the common rules which it has demonstrated in this affair.
For this shameful statement I should like, on behalf of the great majority of French people who are aware of the fact that Europe is not a foreign country but rather our joint home, to offer our apologies to the Commission.
Having said that, Competition Commissioner, I should like to say a few words about the substance of this affair.
The disappearance of Alstom, which would have caused the collapse of Asean Brown Boveri, would have greatly reduced the European supply of electricity turbines and high-speed trains, just at the time when the climate crisis and the Kyoto Agreement are calling for enormous investment in these two areas.
Then again, what applies in the case of network infrastructures, where economic theory shows that monopolies and public subsidies are sometimes preferable to pure competition, often applies, ipso facto, to the oligopoly which is responsible for constructing and maintaining those networks.
Finally, the brutal way in which the Raffarin Government was put in its place was perceived by the employees and the people who live in the regions concerned as a piece of brutality and inhumanity directed against them personally by a Europe which is once again being experienced as a foreign and hostile institution.
Madam President, Commissioner, the people of France have had the feeling that, quite apart from the debate about any aid which the French Government may or may not decide to provide, there is an ego problem between Mr Mer and yourself.
The question we have to consider is simple: does Europe, the European Union - and more specifically the Commission of which you are a member - have a clear industrial policy?
The answer is 'no'.
As for having blind faith in you, the decisions which have been taken by the Court of Justice, which have overturned three of the decisions which you had taken, demonstrate only too well that this is not possible.
At all events this affair has revealed that even the European Commission, whatever its claims, when confronted with an exceptionally serious problem involving one country, cannot do anything either.
All Europeans now know that Brussels can sacrifice 120 000 jobs without losing sleep over it, that it can ruin such prestigious industrial sites as Belfort or St-Nazaire, simply in order to get its own back.
You are playing with communities, Mr Monti, simply in order to satisfy unimportant dogmas and your own vanity.
Madam President, following on as it does from the debate in France about the budget austerity pact, the arrogant and dogmatic handling of the Alstom affair by the European Commission is symbolic, and full of lessons to be learned for the future.
It is not a Europe of industry, growth and employment that the Commission is preparing, but rather a vast industrial wasteland, a Europe of delocalisation, unemployment, economic decline and social vulnerability.
Finally, an agreement obtained only after a hard fight will not hide for long the vital need for the French people to recover their freedoms, their economic and social independence, their political sovereignty and, quite simply, their dignity.
I would argue for temporary support to avoid structures breaking down and to allow them to change, but I am concerned that even in this way uncompetitive structures will continue to be supported.
It is precisely this mindset in Europe of not wanting to allow structural change, the belief that state money should, as a matter of principle, be used to avoid structural change, that is damaging for Europe as a business location.
The elimination of businesses that cannot sustain competition is part of the market economy, and, let me add, also part of the social market economy.
It was important that the French state should not put before the Commission a fait accompli without being asked.
I can only invite all national states to heed this law.
We have to remind ourselves of what we are trying to address tonight, which is the reality of 110 000 jobs.
This House needs to recognise that we must come together to create better social dialogue and a better awareness and social responsibility for those in employment.
In the United Kingdom alone, 10 000 jobs rest with Alstom.
There are already concerns that plants in Washwood Heath (Birmingham), Rugby and Stafford face an unnecessary and uncertain future.
What we need to say is that Alstom will survive, and we must do everything possible to ensure that survival and protect those 110 000 jobs.
Madam President, Alstom, that great and excellent undertaking, has almost been done to death on two occasions, the first time by the management mistakes of its former chairman, and the second time by the intransigence of the Commission.
The Treaty itself poses a problem, because its wording, in the 'competition' part, goes back to the Treaty of Rome.
It proves that our vision of competition is now too narrow, too focused on the internal market, whereas we should be taking a more global view of the strategic, national and European interests at stake in what is now worldwide competition.
In this way it was demonstrating that a nation state, democratically responsible, was perfectly capable of assessing whether state aid should be given in order to save, in exceptional circumstances, industries that are strategically important for the economic independence or cultural identity of the country.
In the meantime, we deplore the fact that Mr Monti, in his statements just now, has continued to allow the sword of Damocles to hang over the plan to rescue Alstom, and we deplore the fact that the Commission has absolute power in this area.
Finally, will he look at the competition implications in the transport business, and at the fact that within the United Kingdom the majority of railway rolling stock is manufactured outside the country, whereas other countries seem quite capable of introducing into their contracts provisions to ensure that rolling stock is made in their own country?
Madam President, Commissioner, we welcome with relief, even if it is only a stay of execution, the Commission's decision to allow the Alstom rescue plan to take its chances.
Let us not deceive ourselves: behind all the good reasons put forward by one side or the other, this issue will be a political test of the first order for the European Union as far as public opinion is concerned.
This issue, which concerns one of the jewels in the crown of industrial and technological Europe, on which hangs the future of 118 000 employees throughout the world, is a practical test of both the European project and the Commission.
Believe me, we are the first to suffer, we the elected representatives of France, when we see the Prime Minister of our country prostrating himself here in order to ask you to accept record deficits, and, at the same time, the reduction of VAT for his voters in the restaurant trade.
For all that, Commissioner, this episode, which can only be the herald of others like it, given the worrying movements towards deindustrialisation and delocalisation which are affecting the brightest jewels in our industrial crown, should make us, as Europeans, ask ourselves about the place and the status of our policy on competition within the Union.
It is becoming increasingly outrageous and intolerable that our competition policy, in a context that is quite different from that of the Treaties by which it was established in 1986 and 1992, should remain bound by the impassable horizon of being simply a policy of the European Union.
Many voices - too many, and increasingly credible - are being raised to claim that Europe cares more about the inexorable law of the market than any of the most free-market countries in the world, starting with the United States of America.
It needs an industrial policy which is capable of protecting its national champions, of safeguarding its priceless technical heritage and its precious savoir-faire.
It needs a social policy which aims to maintain living standards and the employment of the greatest possible number of Europeans.
What is at stake here is, first and foremost, a social issue of primary importance, but also the competitiveness of Europe in the world at large.
Mr Wurtz, thank you for pointing out the different occasions - 1999, February 2000 - on which the trade unions brought to the attention of the European Parliament, inter alia, the deterioration of Alstom's financial situation and position within the industry.
Mr Wurtz said that the Commission has discretionary power in the field of competition which is not subject to control.
It is not, therefore, such an inflexible, blinkered policy as might be imagined at first glance.
Mr Pasqua, too, mentioned the need for a clear industrial policy for Europe.
Mr Abitbol talked of the 'orgueil blessé d'un commissaire européen'.
Total-Fina-Elf, the result of a merger authorised by the Commission, has become a major industry leader, to say the least, in France, as has Carrefour-Promodes.
I therefore believe that it is possible to reconcile consumer protection, which is the primary task of competition policy, with the creation of large structures which can compete at international level.
At the same time, Mr Cashman is in favour of aid to the Alstom group, provided that this does not harm the British workers.
In any case, I can assure you that the preservation and expansion of employment is something to which the Commission attaches great importance.
If we look back at cases of state aid authorised by the Commission for restructuring plans and at the occasions when it was employed, we see that, in many of those cases, the state aid did not help: in other words, those companies, those jobs, were not saved in spite of the state aid.
Thank you very much for your thoughtful contributions to this debate, both those expressing support and those expressing criticism.
He is right that I referred to the 10 000 jobs in the United Kingdom and specifically those in my constituency, Birmingham, Rugby and Stafford.
However, the record will show that I said we had a care of duty - a responsibility - to the 110 000 jobs.
Thank you Mr Cashman.
The debate is closed.
Romania will be a consistent and reliable European Union member.
The European Union will gain much more than just a new EU Member State of over 22 million inhabitants; it will gain a firm believer in European integration, a Euro-optimist by choice.
Connected to Europe throughout our entire history, we believe in the system of positive values now underlying the European construction: democracy, respect for citizens' rights and liberties, justice and social equity, tolerance, solidarity within and among nations and accountability to future generations.
The second handicap was represented by our isolation from the world and our autarchic tendencies.
All this occurred against the background of a deeply-rooted, historical delay in economic and social development.
Assisted by friends and partners of Romania - who are very many, and some of whom are present in this Chamber today - we have mapped out and adopted a modern and democratic constitution, we have trained people to cope with the new demands of a working democracy.
Politically, over the past 14 years, Romania has developed its functional democracy, which has twice successfully passed the test of alternative governance.
Meanwhile, civic society has emerged and asserted itself ever more strongly, thus presenting - by way of its organisations - a necessary and useful counter-power, and forming a catalyst for public debate.
Our country is a realm of tolerance and dialogue and of fruitful cooperation between various ethnic groups; such treatment has become a tradition and a culture of dialogue and consensus has developed.
At the moment, we are focusing on making better use of the programmes for the economic and social integration of the Roma minority.
Such delays are the result of a whole host of factors, both objective and subjective, as well as the consequence of a particular historical reality.
We have often been criticised for not having carried out shock therapy, and for our gradual approach to reforms, which has prevented us from scoring the results envisaged.
The first days of 1990 saw the most astonishing shock in the Romanian economy: the complete and unconditional renunciation of the planned, centralised economic system, the dismantling of the institutions and mechanisms characterising the state-controlled economy.
The economic reform which began in the absence of the market institutions and mechanisms has entailed extremely high and hardly bearable social costs.
Poverty is our main problem in the social sphere.
We are aware that we cannot succeed in alleviating poverty significantly without continued economic reform, without speeding up the creation of new, more stable and better paid jobs.
Responses to the economic and social problems facing Romania need to be formed, first and foremost, from within the country, mainly through a concerted effort by all the accountable political forces, so that the principles and institutions of good governance can be established.
We have made good progress in that direction, but we are aware of the many problems that still await adequate responses.
The logic applied to state modernisation and the preparations for accession to the European Union also applied to the revision of our constitution, which has been carried out through the active participation of representatives of all parliamentary political parties and through consultation of civil society.
Freedom of choice and freedom to set up and implement alternative political, economic and social projects provide the democratic system with better opportunities.
It has acquired new foundations for national cohesion and social solidarity.
As you know, an adoption at first reading is of major importance for the timely execution of the 2004 consumer policy budget.
I very much appreciate your support for the key principle of this proposal - that the Consumer Policy Strategy sets the scope, political orientations and priorities for the programming of expenditure on consumer policy.
It is essential that we spend our money on actions designed to achieve the objectives of this strategy: a high common level of consumer protection, better enforcement of consumer protection rules and the closer involvement of consumer organisations in the making of all EU policies that affect consumer interests.
Regarding accession countries, I fully share Parliament's view that the application of the acquis communautaire in the accession countries must be given high priority in the consumer policy budget.
The Commission will ensure that specific projects undertaken by consumer organisations and aiming to accelerate the effective implementation of the acquis communautaire on consumer protection in the new Member States can be eligible for a financial contribution of 75%.
I also share Parliament's view that the integration of consumer interests in other EU policies must be given high priority in the consumer policy budget.
Secondly, in order to improve the quality of project applications and project management, initiatives are already under way to offer professionals of consumer organisations training in project development.
The consumer policy budget must and will be executed in strict accordance with the rules set out in the Financial Regulation.
Mr President, as this Parliament enlarges, Commissioner, you and I get physically further apart, but we are drawn closer together by the consequence of enlargement, which is that consumer protection is a prime concern now for a Community of 450,000,000 people.
I would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their solidarity which includes their presence here tonight, my own assistant Laura Sullivan, the consumer NGOs and the Council Presidency, all of whom have brought us to a position where we can tonight demonstrate that the total support in Council is overwhelmingly replicated in Parliament.
If passed, the second bloc of amendments to the fifteen original ones would fall.
We have had to find legally sound ways to extend those provisions up to 2007, in cooperation with our friends and colleagues on the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Events unfolding today before other committees suggest that this caution is necessary.
The Commission has told us that it accepts with good grace the requirement to supply an assessment of applications within three months.
I am glad that the Commissioner has stressed that his best endeavours and those of his team will go towards making early consideration of all these applications as effective as possible and that there will be seminars and other instruction particularly for those making applications for the first time and, sometimes, from a country which is itself a new Member State.
This is a first reading which can result in instant agreement between the three institutions if we all accept that none of the three have been pushed beyond their limits.
The Commissioner knows that there has been a certain exasperation over some of the committees that have been set up and the discussions that have been held about consumer protection, not just in this institution but elsewhere too.
We have to accept the limits of what we can do in saying who can meet where and do what in relation to consumer advice.
My colleagues have wisely decided on that score that they would not push some of the amendments that came before the Committee, although we support and indeed sometimes salute the principles that inspired them.
I supported it in the Committee because I felt that we needed to make this point: there is exasperation where sometimes - and the Commission I think accepts this as the case - applications have not been considered not just within three or four months, as the Commission would have preferred, but within five months and beyond.
The Commissioner will understand that I do not mean this in a Swiftian sense.
Mr President, I am very happy to see that the European Union and the Commission, and all of us together, are supporting the consumers' associations.
I would also, however, like to stress certain aspects which seem to me to be very positive.
Since we also have the challenge of the new democracies in the Eastern countries, it is essential to incentivise the creation of small associations in every part of the Union.
The previous speakers have already mentioned the situation in the candidate countries.
For those reasons too, approval is important so that the candidate countries become part of the required network.
In Parliament's amendments, we indicate the importance of genuinely integrating consumer issues into other areas.
This has been an issue especially close to my heart.
As MEPs, we see how strong the lobbying is in other areas.
The work we have done together - and I want to emphasise the word 'together' - may be genuinely groundbreaking in bringing about rapid procedures and quick responses in place of a situation in which applicants are constantly forced to communicate when there is no need to.
The definition of such bodies must be strict.
The report follows this line, while at the same time guaranteeing the participation of a panel of organisations.
Of course we must keep those organisations which demonstrate the necessary technical competence, but we must also ensure the independence of representative bodies.
On the other hand, we must maintain our relations with the cooperatives, which take consumers' interests into account in their charters.
The expansion in the sphere of competence is important.
The bodies in the food sector have now been joined by consumer protection organisations in the services sector and, more broadly, in the non-food sectors.
Access to information is an essential guarantee of consumer protection.
Mr President, I thank the rapporteur for his kind mention of my Amendment No 11, which referred to Article 6, paragraph 5a (new).
The purpose of this flowed from an experience of one of my constituents in the West Midlands who had to wait for over a year to get paid his due from - I have to say - the Agriculture DG rather than your own, Commissioner, but who none the less came across two particular individuals who were not only incompetent but also unhelpful.
So this amendment was not tabled out of malice, but out of experience and a desire to be helpful, in my usual style.
I have to say gently, but firmly, Commissioner, that those are fine words but we shall be watching you.
But I must say to the Commissioner that such a policy should not just apply to us; it should apply to everyone in authority and especially to those in public service.
It is also necessary to change our consumer behaviour, and the small consumer organisations are very important in this context.
I particularly want to discuss the aid given to small consumer organisations and, in particular, to the new Member States.
The compromise amendments proposed have reaped the benefit of the combined expertise of all three institutions.
The Commission can accept this compromise package, consisting of Amendments Nos 1, 2, 12, 14, 15, 22, 23 and 29 up to and including 59.
Nevertheless, the Commission wishes to remind Parliament of the importance of not deviating from the imperatives of proper evaluation and the full respect of rules on financial and budget management.
For example, the training courses we offer to consumer organisations to help improve their managerial capacity and the contribution of consumer representatives to EU policy development are open to the staff of regional consumer organisations.
Specific projects that promote the objectives of EU policy at regional level are eligible for cofinancing from the EU budget.
In the important debate about services of general interest, that followed the adoption of the Commission Green Paper, consumer interests are amongst the core issues on the table.
We hope that the progress achieved so far - in air transport, for example, with the charter on passenger rights and the denied boarding regulation - will serve as a reference for the improvement of passenger rights in other modes of transport.
In addition, this Committee will become the essential forum for discussion and advice on the implementation of a new type of action - those that are jointly financed by the Community budget and the Member States.
These joint actions will in particular be used for the Commission's future activities in the area of administrative and enforcement cooperation and to consolidate the existing networks of European Consumer Centres and the Extra-Judicial network.
The Committee, therefore, has a key role to play in the implementation of the proposed framework.
We are accountable to Parliament and Parliament is of course accountable to the elected Members.
I take note of what he said in relation to us nourishing our children rather than devouring them.
Your reference to my fellow countryman points to the title 'A Modest Proposal', which, of course, is inappropriate in this instance.
Mr President, we are concerned here with the Commission's Communication on Adequate and Sustainable Pensions and with an analysis of whether, in their first Strategy Reports, the Member States have complied with the three overarching aims of the common pensions policy.
The third is whether pensions are sufficiently up-to-date to cope with the new situation, characterised by atypical jobs and more and more women in the labour market.
The Commission has carried out a sound analysis.
It is at least as important, however, for us to address the social aspects that affect people's living standards.
Women's pensions are not as large as men's.
In some cases, that has to do with the pensions systems, but the main reason is women's position in the labour market.
The absolutely most important thing if we are to meet our commitments in the future is that we obtain growth and full employment.
It is therefore important for us to link these aims to the Lisbon process and to the employment and economic guidelines and for us to take a global view.
In view of demographic development, it is, however, at least as important that we talk about solidarity with future generations so that we ourselves - and I personally belong to the generation born in the forties - do not indulge ourselves too much now with the result that future generations of earners have to contend with unreasonably high costs when we become pensioners.
We are concerned here with financial incentives, but we are also concerned with matters such as lifelong learning, the organisation of work and problems involving the working environment, so that older people can also remain in the labour market.
Finally, I wish to thank all those who have helped us obtain a broad, if not complete, consensus in the committee.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate and thank Mr Andersson.
Reforms in each country are, of course, a national responsibility, but I would say that we are turning a blind eye if we fail to look at the European dimension and the need for cooperation, not only because there is a very close economic dependency between the economies of the Member States, but also because our analysis has resulted in convincing conclusions that the causes of the crisis in the pension systems are precisely the same in all the countries.
The reference in the report to the link between pension systems and the labour market is important, and I shall explain how the Commission is meeting the demands made in the report with a series of initiatives.
Within this framework, both the European strategy on employment and the European Social Fund are being called on to play an important role.
The second important issue is that the Commission, on the orders of the European Council, is continuing to apply the coordination method.
In 2005, we shall move to a new report on the monitoring of the systems, while the Social Protection Committee will examine the contribution of social systems to the extension of working life.
Finally, we are constantly monitoring the indicators to which we committed in Barcelona and we have agreed on the need to increase the actual retirement age by five years by 2010.
The Commissioner has stated that the pension schemes are in crisis, and I share her view.
Many countries are taking measures for that reason, and because of many of these measures, women are hit harder than other groups in the population.
In this context, I should like to make a reference to America.
I should also like to draw your attention to a regrettable fact, namely that the Commission has never implemented Parliament's proposals to force Member States to make arrangements to deal with the problem that parts of the pension rights accrued during marriage are at risk of being lost in periods when one of the partners decides to care for the other.
I should also like to urge Member States to ensure that people continue to remain part of pension accrual schemes during maternity leave or care leave for children or other dependants.
This is already the case in a number of countries, and I think that those countries set a good example for other Member States that have not done this to date.
As I have stated before, it is an all-embracing problem, in fact, whereby, often, women are at greater risk of losing out than others.
Finally, I hope that the Commissioner will particularly take the position of women into consideration.
I hope that the same thing will happen in tomorrow's vote.
I am equally pleased to pay tribute to Commissioner Diamantopoulou for having endeavoured thus far and for continuing to make every effort to ensure that the reforms which the 15 Member States are attempting to carry out do not bring extreme poverty for the elderly, who are already too poor and, in many of these States, whose only source of income is their pension.
In Italy, for example, each worker carries pension costs of 34%, in Switzerland, contributions of just 10% lead to pensions which are just as respectable as Italian pensions, and, in Portugal, for example, the figure is 7.6%.
Moreover, I would like to say that there are two ways of paying debts: there are debtors who, when they have to pay the debt which has fallen due, do not show up and run away; then there are others who do without a summer holiday and give up their car in order to pay their debts.
Mr President, few things concern the European citizens more than the health of their pensions, few things in their family life or their social life demands such constant attention throughout their lives, perhaps because for millions and millions of Europeans pensions are the only significant asset they accumulate and the only security they have against the risks of biological life or economic life.
This is an important legislature because the European Parliament, also following excellent communications and excellent initiatives from the Commission, has introduced the issue of pensions into the Community agenda for the first time.
We now have a doctrine, a strategy, which together with this important issue, we have enriched and supplemented with the objectives and needs of the European citizens.
It is therefore very important that we help to overcome these fears amongst the population by presenting reforms which are not just cuts, but which are aimed at satisfying their current and future needs within a more secure, fair and equitable framework.
Tomorrow, the Socialist Group will support the Andersson report and the work of the Commission because we believe that in fact the changes proposed are not frivolous, or opportunistic, but that they respond to our social commitment to this generation of workers, to these citizens, and also to those who will live in Europe in the next generation.
How countries organise their pensions systems falls within the sphere of national competences, but I think that the report, with its objectives of adequate, sustainable pensions and flexible pensions systems may provide inspiration and give rise to sensible debates at national level.
I also think that an interesting conclusion has been reached, namely that, in general, there is a high degree of redistribution and solidarity in the Member States' pensions systems, but that women are disadvantaged in many countries because of their special position in the labour market.
With this in mind he recommends a sufficient level of minimum guarantee pensions and increasing the employment level among women in a bid to promote equal opportunities.
Unfortunately, this undertaking is contradictory and causes the rapporteur to call into question fundamental social principles in the name of financial criteria.
Indeed the vote in the committee was not unanimous.
We are opposed to this kind of reform, which imposes increased working time and yet does nothing to resolve the employment issue.
The report claims that the Member States have taken measures that are heading in the right direction, which is to say towards increased working time.
Given that a majority of workers in France, Austria and Germany have demonstrated that they reject a move towards increased working time and funded pension provision, do we wish to settle the European debate on pensions without public involvement?
With my group's support, we are tabling amendments that seek to reflect these aspirations.
There are other ways to resolve the issue of financing in the long term that are more viable and characterised by greater solidarity.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Andersson, first of all, thank you for the work of both the rapporteur and the Commission.
I welcome the fact that we are gradually applying the open coordination method to pensions.
The proposal offers, among other things, a number of guidelines.
However, as I have already stated, they are long-term measures.
In the Netherlands, 20 000 people have taken to the streets in protest against the largely Liberal Christian-Democratic government that has thought out all kinds of measures to encourage the participation of the elderly in the labour market in the long term.
For example, by cutting back on early retirement, the early retirement scheme (VUT), extended unemployment benefit (WW), general unemployment benefit and similar schemes.
This means that people are currently protesting against a government in the Netherlands that is intent on taking measures of this kind.
As I stated before, 20 000 demonstrators have taken to the streets in protest.
The report is not a disaster.
Fortunately we, as a society, have developed in our attitude towards giving future protection to the elderly, those in need of pensions and the most vulnerable within our society.
One thing that we have all recognised in the past is that we have not made proper provision for the future needs of changing demographics, a reducing workforce in certain cases and limits in taxation expenditure.
But if you ask an anthropologist or anyone involved in any of the sciences, this was highlighted 15 years ago as an issue to be dealt with by 2015.
In Ireland we have a system whereby we are now putting 1% of GDP towards our future pension requirements every single year.
It gives a guarantee to those people who will need pensions in the future.
In my view, it is a little bit of a mixture of the best that the Italian and Swedish cultures have to offer.
It is extremely regrettable that the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left should have tabled these amendments.
We are facing real problems in Europe in the area of pensions.
Naturally, we could maintain the pension system, but the best way of eventually destroying it is to do what has been proposed in the amendments by the GUE/NGL Group: to act as if nothing is wrong, while the system does show up inadequacies.
After all, when this system was agreed upon, the average lifespan was 63 years, two years under 65.
Mr Andersson is pointing in a certain direction, and this direction receives our support.
Pension schemes are slightly different in every country and cannot be compared, but the worst thing is that some people are behaving as some did on the Titanic who, when the ship was sinking, thought that nothing was wrong.
I hope that the majority of this Parliament - and I have every faith in them - want to distance themselves from attitudes of this kind and want to commit themselves to the people who really matter.
I would also like to thank the Commission and the Council for their joint report.
I hope that you, Mr President, can pass on a request to DG I that maybe one of these days they could organise a daytime debate for an important social dossier such as this one.
The Andersson report really underlines the need for both the employment strategy and the Lisbon strategy to begin to deliver in several important respects: continuing gross gender inequality in terms of access to and participation in the labour market is reflected in gross gender inequality in pension entitlement.
We therefore need to consider flanking measures along the lines suggested in the report by, for example, promoting the individualisation of pension rights and urging Member States to guarantee continuity of membership of pension schemes during parental leave or leave to take care of children or other dependants.
Sustained long-term efforts will be needed to change attitudes and tackle that culture.
The joint employment report from the Commission for 2002 reported that only four Member States have put in place fully-fledged national active ageing strategies.
The same report showed that the efforts of most Member States to provide education and training to older age groups are still woefully inadequate.
The final point of the report I should like to emphasise concerns atypical workers.
It is a terrible shame that several Member State governments - my own included - have set their hearts and minds against the proposed directive on temporary employment agency workers.
Mr President, pensions schemes, administered through common and universal public programmes, are acknowledged as a fundamental means of achieving social inclusion.
Any modernisation of state social security systems must, therefore, take this fact into account.
The stubborn resistance of workers to measures threatening their fundamental rights in this regard is well-known.
Mr President, I also congratulate the Commission and the Council on the quality of their joint report, and especially the rapporteur on his own powerful report on this key issue.
I trust that Member States in particular will take note that the problem of adequate and sustainable pensions is a problem today, will be an even bigger problem tomorrow, and requires action now.
Indeed I am grateful that he has seen fit to accept five of mine: on defining the objective; to provide adequate and fair incomes to older people and prevent poverty in old age; on defining the gravity of the problem; on the importance of promoting pension portability; and, in particular, on the disgrace that certain EU institutions continue to discriminate against allowing older workers to apply for jobs - a point I have raised on several occasions with Commissioner Kinnock with, I regret to say, only bluster in response.
Because the rapporteur has accepted so much it would probably be churlish of me to lament his non-acceptance of my amendment declaring that secure, inflation-proof pensions for public sector workers, such as Members of this Parliament, are seen as increasingly unfair by those in company schemes that depend on stock market performance in the real world.
In the next 50 years the number of over-65s will double from 25% to perhaps 50% of the population.
In rural areas, including large parts of my own constituency of the West Midlands, the percentage could be higher still.
His report deserves support from across this House.
Nevertheless it is an attempt to ensure that there is a fund there for the future.
We are fortunate in that we have a demographic lag of about 20 to 25 years, so that the bulge that is hitting the rest of Europe at the moment will not hit Ireland for some time yet.
There is a need to address that issue.
Mr President, I and the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left take the basic view that a pensions system must be based upon solidarity between the generations.
In my own country of Sweden, which has been singled out as a model in certain quarters, we have moved in the direction of a capitalisation of pensions arrangements and of greater dependency upon the capital markets.
With the victory for the 'no' side in the Swedish referendum on the euro, we have obtained slightly greater freedom when it comes both to economic and to pensions policy.
I would like to begin by saying that retirement, while still being a technical/legal and economic/actuarial issue, has become an issue of the greatest media interest and has won the status as a central issue within policy in general, and within social policy in particular.
Within this context, a long-term perspective is necessary in the field of pensions and, despite the fact that dealing with pensions and pension policy are essentially the responsibility of the Member States, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the European contribution appears to be necessary, both in the exchange of best practices and in increasing consensus, and in the common regulation of certain aspects necessary in order to ensure the possibility of transferring pension rights of all types and their viability.
Pension systems through public schemes linked to income - first pillar - through private professional schemes - second pillar - and individual retirement pension funds - third pillar - must offer Europeans the opportunities to maintain their standard of living following retirement.
Mr President, the proposals contained in this report simply relay the retrograde policy pursued by all of the European Union's Member States on pensions.
If the fruits of productivity were distributed differently, with a little less being given to employers and the wealthiest members of society so as to enable workers who have spent their lives making them rich to grow old with dignity, there would be no problem in providing an increasing number of pensioners with a proper pension.
Old age these days no longer means poverty, because statutory public pension schemes and the private occupational pension schemes and private insurance policies that supplement them are a guarantee to many Europeans that they can maintain their standard of living even after retirement.
At Community level we need coordination in the taxation of occupational pensions to make it easier for people to move from one country to another and comprehensive internal market legislation for institutions offering occupational retirement provision.
At European Union level we can play a part in defusing the pensions bomb by promoting the development of cross-border personal pensions and savings schemes.
Mr President, the European Union considers that pensions are yet another expense which needs to be cut back within the framework of the financial discipline imposed by the Stability Pact and is indifferent to the needs of those who have retired from work.
On the pretext of the ageing population, it is promoting an increase in the retirement age, an extension of working life, cutbacks in pensions, the dissociation of pensions and wages and increased financial contributions by workers.
At the same time, the European Union and the Member States, with the recent reforms, are using pensions to support the profitability of big business.
We support a different policy, where pensions will respond to modern social needs.
We and the workers are calling for a reduction in the retirement age and working life, for pension funds to be financed from the national budget and for an increase in employers' contributions, coupled with a reduction in employees' contributions.
This sort of social insurance system can only be imposed by the workers, by fighting against the choices of big business and the European Union.
The debate is closed.
Because the compromise text significantly modifies the Commission's 1997 proposal, the Commission has asked the Council to reconsult Parliament.
This is mainly due to the decision-making process and the unanimity requirements in the Council.
Co-decision and qualified majority voting would undoubtedly have led to a better result for the internal market.
However, I am very happy to see that Parliament's committees responsible for the analysis of the text - the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy - have supported the compromise.
This future directive remains a positive step, both for the internal market and for sustainable development policies.
To that extent, nothing has changed in comparison with the rapporteur's view on the initial proposal in the 1998/1999 session.
As you may remember, Mr President, it was said then that the proposal was 'modest but useful'.
It is of crucial importance that the opinion of Parliament be adopted as soon as possible, so as to allow the directive to enter into force on the scheduled date, 1 January 2004.
I will reply at the end of the debate giving the Commission's opinion on some of the amendments.
Mr President, Commissioner, as you yourself underlined, this proposal goes back a long way.
Firstly, the minimum rates set by the Council to be applied from 1 January 2004 are, almost without exception, lower than those proposed by the Commission in 1997 and by the European Parliament in 1999.
Such a step backwards stands in flagrant contradiction to the undertaking given by the Council, and in particular the European Council, to provide instruments that seek to break the link between economic growth and energy consumption.
The text of the directive is littered with them.
Having referred to the position adopted by Parliament in 1999 and taken into consideration new political material such as the Gothenburg European Council's declaration in favour of a Sustainable Development Strategy, as rapporteur I therefore proposed to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that we should reinforce Council's position on certain points, while retaining a moderate stance bearing in mind the different political sensitivities.
In principle all renewable sources of energy should be fully exempt.
I confess that it came as an unpleasant surprise when all of the amendments were rejected by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - and I do not share your approval, Commissioner.
It is true that in many cases they were rejected by a majority of one single vote and that not all Members of the committee were present.
I therefore think that the logical step for me, as rapporteur, is to re-table these amendments in the plenary.
If it were to be confirmed in the plenary it would mean that Parliament was denying the very timeliness of this proposal for a directive because we recently adopted a directive on emissions trading.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my task this evening is a simple one: it is to give you an account of the unanimous votes in the ITRE Committee in favour of my report for opinion and all of my amendments, apart from one, in relation to the Council's common position of 3 April 2003.
As everyone has said, the Council took a great deal of time to reach this agreement, since the Commission's initial proposal dates back to 1997 and Mr Pat Cox's report to 1999.
Although there are many areas with which I and my fellow Members are dissatisfied, as rapporteur, so as not to threaten the agreement in the Council, I only proposed amendments that enhance that agreement.
Although the agreement reached by the Council does not go as far as the Commission's 1997 proposal or the European Parliament's vote in 1999, it still remains a first step, in my view and that of my fellow Members, towards establishing a common framework for taxation in Europe.
Common minimal levels of energy taxation are needed and the polluter pays principle is important, as long as we remember to give attention to the effects on competition and employment.
Furthermore, emissions trading, which is beginning to be implemented, is an important means of regulation, and we can therefore also avoid regulation overlapping with it, as would be the case with taxation of energy products and the various exemptions proposed thereto.
In the matter of energy taxation, in general renewable natural resources should be treated favourably, and in the same way there should be tax relief on new fuels that are particularly environmentally friendly.
In this way we can use financial incentives to steer both consumers and industry in the direction of environmentally friendly energy use.
The Commission proposal on tax incentives with regard to certain biofuels is worthy of our firm support.
Although this directive does not directly deal with hydrogen, for example, it is a good, and will in the future be, an important energy source that in time could clearly replace oil for transport in particular.
We have to remember, however, that any form of taxation that deviates from neutral taxation has an impact on market activity and for that reason any such support measures as these should be temporary and exceptional in nature, in order to promote new fuels and production methods.
These fuels, such as peat, for example, which is important in my country, are of no importance to a viable internal market, but at local level they may well be very important and necessary sources of energy and employment.
Commissioner Bolkestein also made it very clear that this minimum solution is a small breakthrough, but that the European Union has not actually succeeded in a consistent approach to energy taxation.
This consistent approach remains coherent though, and after the experience with fiscal coordination we can almost be grateful because once again we had to experience how much the unanimity rule in fiscal decision-making hampers the functioning of the internal market.
It is extremely regrettable that the fourth Environment Action Programme, which envisaged that sustainable development and economy could be stimulated not only by environmental regulation but also by tax regulation, could not be implemented, and so this directive's tale of woe goes further back than just 1999.
I believe that we have actually always agreed that there have to be derogations for energy intensive enterprises, but that these derogations should at least incorporate conditions enabling the situation to be tackled.
That is a good thing, because we know that it is renewable energy that gives not only Europe, but also world civilisation, a chance, since we all profit from the tax incentives for using environmentally friendly forms of energy.
Thus the steering effect of tax incentives for energy use is an important addition to the EU Environmental policy and, I believe, also to emissions trading.
I welcome the fact that in the meantime we can at least have the possibility of reaching a European agreement.
I share his view that the proposal is a small step in the right direction.
Just as the Commissioner says, the long period required for discussing this issue shows how important it is for us to obtain a sensible decision-making procedure.
The EU's environmental policy must be developed by means of more stringent minimum rules and environmental charges.
It must be possible to take decisions on such rules and charges by qualified majority voting.
The EU's and the Member States' task in the energy sphere is to formulate requirements concerning safety and the environment, to check that the requirements are being complied with and to promote research and development in the energy sphere, aimed at replacing fossil-based energy production with environmentally friendly energy sources.
A rational energy policy is best promoted through free trade and the free production of energy.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party will support most of the amendments.
Even in Russia, a clean environment has a price tag, despite the pledges of financial support and cooperation.
To bring this need to attention in Moscow is all the more difficult, given the fact that we in the European Union are already so reluctant to pay a price for a better environment.
The Council's draft directive for energy taxation is a striking example of the lack of unanimity in making efforts to bring about a better environment.
My first observation is that the Council is still lacking the vision and audacity to take decisive action and move the tax pressure from the area of labour to environmental pollution.
In this way, employment can be promoted and environmental pollution given a real price.
A second point of criticism concerns the many interests of the Member States and industries which are taken into account in the proposal.
As such, the amendments that aim to restrict the conditions for exceptions receive my support.
Secondly, I should like to point out that it is important for the proposal on emissions trading to be taken into consideration.
The Council has declared a commitment to adopt instruments to be able to decouple economic growth from energy consumption.
The Commission has also committed itself to such aims, and so has Parliament.
The directive now up for discussion offers an opportunity for this and it is our responsibility to implement it soon.
In the integrated European economy the solution must be more coherent than ever.
While energy taxation satisfies the parliamentary needs of Member States, at the same time it provides the means to lighten taxation on labour and employment and is an effective and precise tool for guidance in what is, ecologically speaking, the right direction.
Taxation on energy products is the link that has long been missing which ties all the small parts of sustainable development together.
I would furthermore like to raise the matter of the connection between energy taxation and the Directive on emissions trading that was recently completed.
That way, every company, through taxation, will be looking at a maximum price that is the equivalent of the marginal cost to society.
A formal modification of the Commission's proposal would significantly postpone the entry into force of the Directive, and might even endanger its adoption during this legislature.
But as the Council will be examining the proposed amendments in early October, the Commission will do its best to have the relevant amendments included in the Directive.
In that context, the Commission could agree in principle with amendments 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, 12 and 13.
The real issue behind amendment 4 is that of establishing a common definition for reference units in the Directive.
The Commission is pursuing this goal in the Council's working group.
Furthermore, despite some sympathy with amendments 6, 9, 14 and 15, the Commission considers that reopening these issues might endanger the whole compromise.
The Commission furthermore does not support amendments 5, 10, 11, 16, 17 or18.
The Commission has proposed very modest changes to the unanimity rule in the form of qualified majority voting in the areas of simplification, modernisation, co-operation against fraud, and the establishment of a harmonised tax basis for company taxation.
Yes, one can use hydrogen in cars and maybe in the future in aeroplanes, but in order to use hydrogen one must first get it.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his good work.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon tomorrow.
Our objective is to announce a common position that we could also take to the United States because the negotiations that fundamentally matter must be brought to a successful conclusion over there.
In the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, a number of suggestions have been made, such as whether it would not be possible after all to put an end to the existing situation earlier than within the suggested two months, for example by imposing a push system on the airlines at this stage.
The issue of data storage also requires further attention.
In my view, the period of storage should not exceed the duration of the stay.
It is also extremely important to our committee that passengers be given the opportunity of having incorrect data corrected promptly, efficiently and independently and that there be a clear judicial process in the US.
This matter has, meanwhile, also been raised at international level.
As you know, a conference took place in Sydney on 12 September last that involved the members of the data protection committee.
A resolution was adopted on this matter, and I should like to hear the opinion of the Commissioner about the proposal to conclude an international agreement in this area.
A few days ago, I read in the paper that it had become known in the US that the airline company, Jet Blue, has secretly transmitted personal data of more than 1 million passengers to a bureau of the Pentagon.
The US is lobbying for its own standards, but should we not be doing the same thing in the US?
In my view, the solution is two-pronged.
So far, the United States has refused to limit its use of passenger name record data to the fight against terrorism.
The Americans also want to cover other serious domestic criminal offences.
Second, as far as the scope of the data required is concerned, the United States requires 39 different PNR elements, which it is hard to regard as necessary for or proportionate to the purpose.
The Commission is seeking a reduction in the list of 39 data elements from the United States.
Mrs Boogerd-Quaak has stressed that they last six to seven years.
Fourth, American undertakings are insufficiently legally-binding, since the available extra-judicial redress mechanisms are not fully independent.
An adequacy decision will only be possible, however, if the United States is ready to improve significantly its undertakings.
However, progress in the United States' commitments is in any case necessary for any kind of solution, whatever its legal form - be it an adequacy finding or, if supported by the European Parliament, a bilateral international agreement.
That was a useful meeting in which we discussed all the main issues and agreed to put our officials to work to make further efforts to find a solution in the coming weeks.
But being entirely inflexible on the European side will not necessarily obtain more flexibility from our counterparts.
Regarding passenger consent, which was mentioned by some Members as a possible way out - at least in the short term - this would not, in our view, constitute a legally-secure, longer-term solution.
These measures reflect to some extent the options for possible courses of action that I outlined in my meeting with the LIBE Committee earlier this month.
It is clear that the course we shall follow will fully involve the Parliament and the Council.
I should like to assure the House that the Commission will continue to devote its unstinting efforts to finding an agreed solution with the United States on this important but also very delicate issue.
The second date is 15 March 2003.
Just a week later, with timing worthy of an even greater cause, Parliament adopted the resolution calling for enforcement of the 1995 directive and the 1989 regulation on the protection of privacy.
The third date is 23 September, today: six months after the adoption of the resolution, it would appear that nothing has changed; the United States has not responded to the Commission's demands.
We might ask whether the Americans are deaf or whether it is the Commission that is unable to find the rights words to get through to them.
Thus, still today, travellers to the United States find themselves asked, in addition to the usual general questions, about their religion, their taste in food, where they last went on holiday and their close and distant relatives.
It would, however, seem appropriate to mention another date too: 11 September 2001.
Part of the responsibility for this unlawful situation lies with the European Commission, for the US legislation requiring the disclosure of this information dates back to November 2001 and was updated in May 2002, while the system did not enter into force until March 2003.
The Commission must, therefore, make more vigorous endeavours to achieve a genuine international agreement with the United States as soon as possible which regulates the matter on the basis of fundamental principles: respect for the principle of reciprocity, on the basis of which, if the Union gives US citizens the same rights as its own citizens, then the United States must do the same for European citizens; respect for the principle of proportionality; respect for the principle of informed consent and the right of the person concerned to appeal to an independent authority or judge.
As already stated, the influential UCLA, the American Civil Liberties Association, qualified this as 'a highly un-American system' and condemned the fact that, in this way, every passenger is turned into a suspect.
It would be useful to clarify this, because I think that we will find a ready audience in this respect, also among the public in the USA.
Article 2 of Regulation 22/99 bans the disclosure to third parties which are not party to a transaction of personal information on a passenger without the passenger's consent.
Commissioner, you stated that responsibility for enforcing legislation lies with the Member States.
This is true where directives are concerned but not when it comes to regulations.
I believe, first and foremost, that where there is a law, it must be respected, and that a condition of any reform - even reform of an international agreement - is compliance with procedure.
Commissioner, you would acquire greater clout in international negotiations if the Commission were to demand respect for the law without delay, for it has the power to do so as well as the Member States.
If no action is taken, we have two months in which to appeal to the Court of Justice.
This data can be used in an appropriate and legal manner.
Secondly we can fight international terrorism only on the basis of trust between the USA and Europe, trust that was damaged through both sides apportioning blame and must be re-established.
Trust can only arise when genuinely transparent rules are created, ones that the public can understand, otherwise we will fuel mistrust of both the USA and the European Union itself.
Commissioner, I do not think that we can wait until international rules are in place, nor can we rely on the current fifteen and future twenty-five Member States implementing the law.
It is much more a fluke that the Commission, with you as a spokesman for the European Union, which will soon have more inhabitants than the USA and Russia together and must be a partner of the USA, is acting on this important issue, but intentionally and on the basis of the law.
The debate is closed.
I would remind the House that the vote on possible motions for resolution will take place on Thursday 9 October in Brussels.
It certainly improves the Commission's text in some places, while ensuring that the goals of high investor protection and market efficiency are adequately respected.
We know it was a very difficult debate, but Parliament has demonstrated a great willingness to compromise and find a workable solution.
In particular, we welcome the efforts of the rapporteur in reaching a compromise on two major points.
Firstly, as you know, pre-trade transparency was one of the principles of the Commission's proposal, in order to ensure market efficiency and investor protection.
Secondly, we appreciate the work carried out on the suitability test - Article 18.
It should properly distinguish between retail and professional investors.
The type of regulation that is absolutely essential for consumers can be damaging, disruptive and unnecessary if applied to professionals.
The markets where competition is already allowed in this way are successful, transparent and highly liquid.
Competition in this context will deliver a good deal for the consumer, as it has in so many other areas.
I agree with the Commission that the best way to protect investors is through a strong combination of competition, conduct of business rules, conflict of interest rules, best execution rules and transparency.
However, there are important areas where the compromise agreed in the ECON committee has greatly improved the Commission's proposal.
I strongly urge the House to support the ECON Committee's compromise because these amendments are essential to remedy or, at any rate, reduce some very serious problems caused by the Commission's original text.
I genuinely believe that the ECON compromise would be good for all Member States.
I would have liked to delete Article 25, but I have conceded that it is not feasible or appropriate, and I have conceded the need for a pre-trade transparency requirement.
I believe this compromise will be good for the national interests of Luxembourg, France, Italy, the UK and indeed all Member States.
I can support some of the plenary amendments: 145, 148, 151, 156 and 157, and I will be delighted to continue discussing the other plenary amendments.
We had a very serious debate in committee on the word non-professional: a whole range of interest groups from around Europe said they could accept the compromise if non-professional was deleted; now it has been.
The original Article 25 would have severely damaged liquidity and liquidity is vital for the health of our markets and our economy.
It allows price improvement: without price improvement the compromise is not workable.
Finally, it is vital that we accept the committee's amendments on execution-only business.
What that means is that, if I take markets as sources of prices - of meaningful market prices - then this cannot be allowed to lead to liquidity being damaged in future and markets no longer being meaningful.
As for transparency, we must ensure that the market is transparent for all as a place where prices emerge, and that everyone can understand how prices evolve there.
Neither the City of London nor any other financial centre in Europe has won.
Also we cannot say that the markets or the investment houses should have won, but everyone should be in this market together in the future, in order then to attract customers with the best offer.
Thank you, Mr President.
The principle that a large financial market offers greater liquidity and greater economic weight is well known.
It can also offer greater competitiveness and, consequently, better prices to transacting parties.
The Commission proposal is based on the unification of the financial markets, on the so-called 'European passport'; in other words, it offers investment banks the right to develop their activities in all 15 Member States, provided they comply with the rules of approval in just one Member State rather than in 15.
But the Commission has complemented its proposal with the thought that, if a financial market really is to be able to operate without frontiers, the transacting parties must feel the same security wherever they place their money in Europe.
Thus, there is a risk of multiple fragmentation of the market which the directive, in one of its most controversial provisions, is trying to overcome, by forcing investment banks to communicate with the market transparently and before and after their commercial transactions are closed.
The debate and the amendments by the Committee on Economic Affairs in general reinforce the Commission's work, thanks to the huge contribution by the rapporteur, whom I want to congratulate on her endeavour and her conciliatory approach.
I hope that this conciliatory approach will prevail until the end and that the amendments proposed by our group will be supported, so that the report can be approved by a large majority.
Now, we are obtaining competition and freedom of choice and, Mr Katiforis, sound protection of investors.
I want briefly to comment on the two sensitive articles, namely Articles 18 and 25.
Where Article 18 is concerned, we think it important that the suitability test be reserved for services where advice is given and not, for example, Internet-based dealing in securities.
We shall therefore vote in favour of the committee's Amendments Nos 53, 54 and 55.
The most discussed article in the proposal is Article 25, which deals with the internalisation of trade and the publication of price information prior to transactions that take place outside the regulated markets or MTF platform.
There has not been sufficient political support for the removal of this article, but we think that the committee's Amendments Nos 33, 86, 87, 88 and 89 should remove the negative effects that the proposed rules on the publication of prices would have on the market.
Mr President, the new directive on investment services seeks to order competition between three major structures: exchanges, the Internet and companies using internalisation.
Other companies such as Deutsche Bank or ABN-AMRO are launching out into the trade with ambitious business plans.
I observe that in carrying out our task as legislators we have singularly lacked a sound economic analysis clarifying the nature of the competition entered into and its implications.
In this House we are accountable to the general interest and not the interests of individual countries.
That is why we have supported two main principles: quality of information and fair competition.
They manipulate it but they need it, which is why pre-trade transparency is crucial to the quality of price formation, in particular to prevent volatility, speculation and insider dealing.
She has given ground, but a large number of traps and mines were adopted in the committee on her initiative that drain this requirement for transparency of much of its meaning and create legal uncertainty.
As it stands, the report that was adopted proposes a system of regulation that is inferior to that enjoyed by the United States.
The first considered that investment firms - businesses practising internalisation - should be authorised to forge a strictly bilateral relationship with their clients, which had the disadvantage of not enabling these clients to benefit from the best possible price on the market, or even to learn what that best price was, or even quite simply to ensure price formation, which can only emerge from a general confrontation of bids and offers.
In this respect the Commission text was very satisfactory.
But we can live with this compromise, because it is, as we have just been reminded, relatively satisfactory.
It allows us to defend true principles and to act on them.
The first concerns the issue of price improvement.
The issue with price improvement is that it makes it possible for investment firms to apply a different price from the one that they publish and thus to prevent the market from contributing to the formation of fair prices.
Mr President, the negotiations on the directive on investment services and regulated markets have once again shown how difficult it is to bring together the different European market philosophies and traditions, in particular the continental model of stock exchanges, which have in the meantime lost their public-private character to a large extent and have been privatised, and the investment banks' new internal trading systems.
That being so, I hope that the compromise, which was reached through very tough negotiations in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, will encourage the Council to come to similar compromises so that this important legislative act on implementing an integrated financial services market can actually be passed in this term.
I thereby believe that we have reached the right decision in this House, as is the case for the disclosure requirements in Article 25.
I hope that with this directive competition of all trading systems will have a chance without the protection of investor interests being neglected.
Mr President, the compromise that we agreed upon in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs took a great deal of work and nerve for those involved.
The Commission proposal provides for pre-trade and post-trade transparency.
It is regrettable that pre-trade transparency is provided for despite this.
If the financial institutions concerned achieve this, then so much the better, it is in the interests of the customer.
I am against this, as the two markets are structured in very different ways.
The proposal for the directive also requires financial institutions to get the go-ahead from customers when the order is to be executed.
The compromise as it was adopted in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs goes a lot further than what was required to create a single market that functioned well for financial services.
We are currently involved in the first reading and perhaps those who agreed with the rapporteur in her first version will come round and then perhaps we can find a better text than we have at this first reading.
Mr President, everyone is congratulating the rapporteur, so I will do likewise, and I recognise the progress that has been made between what she referred to as the 'Prodi amendment' and the text that is on the table today, even if influences from outside the continent have had a significant bearing on our debate.
On this basis, I believe that the text that we have drafted is expected by all traders.
Secondly, for competition to be genuine, information must be made available to all players.
Finally, in the vote on Thursday, I think that we should try to restate the position that we in Parliament adopted on the 'delivery' regulation, which is to say that we should ask the Commission to draft a directive on this point.
Further, I would like to make it clear that Parliament wants to pass this directive in this term and we hope that this compromise will also help the Council to come to one of its own.
Firstly, investor protection.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs have come up with a wording that is acceptable to both small and large financial institutions.
We hope that this compromise will make for fairer competition between banks and stock markets, from which the consumer will benefit most.
I would ask everyone to vote in favour of the compromise the day after tomorrow.
I should like to outline two objectives.
Secondly, protecting small private investors.
On the one hand, by laying down unambiguous rules that are closely monitored and, on the other hand, by optimising these small investors' choices in terms of investment products, institutions and methods.
It is the latter point that formed the subject of the debates concerning the directive.
In my view, the small investor should be able to have access to stock exchanges as well as his own home bank.
This requires transparency, but must not adversely affect price forming and liquidity on the financial markets.
I concur with everyone who has stated that it is important to reach compromises and to encourage the Council to do the same.
But if the financial services plan is to work, this directive has to be in place.
If we do not look at what is happening with the global financial position then Europe, its investment, its potential for growth, all the risk capital action plan issues of the Lisbon European Council go by the by.
As in so many of these issues, as before, we in Parliament, as elsewhere, have often been distracted by our own national concerns as opposed to what happens with the European economy.
As regards pre-trade transparency obligations for investment firms, Article 25, all the amendments related to pre-trade transparency, that is to say Amendments Nos 33 and 86 to 90, can be accepted at least partially or in principle, but we are not convinced of the necessity to allow for price improvement.
The purpose of adopting level 2 measures is always to ensure uniform application of EU legislation in all Member States, so any vague formulations proposed in that respect cannot be accepted.
On the division of responsibilities between competent authorities, in the case of branches we consider that in order to ensure a correct functioning of the single market the principle of the host Member State regulation should only apply as an exception for determining the conduct of business rules and record-keeping.
In this context the Commission is in a position to accept a large number of amendments, some of them in their entirety, but also a large number partially or in principle and with adaptations.
The Commission's opinion on the individual amendments has been provided in writing The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon tomorrow. (The sitting was closed at 12.05 am.) I have today in the European Parliament chosen to follow the Group of the Party of European Socialists in relation to Mr Olle Schmidt's report (A5-0210/2003).
I am, however, aware of the fact that the proposal is covered by Title IV of the Treaty establishing the European Community and does not therefore apply to Denmark, cf.
I am, however, aware of the fact that the proposal is covered by Title IV of the Treaty establishing the European Community and does not therefore apply to Denmark, cf.
