Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 20 March 2003.
We are greatly saddened today to learn of the death after a long illness of our former colleague Mr José Aurelio de Barros Moura on 25 March 2003.
That is why many Members of Parliament and members of staff have decided to wear black armbands during this week's part-session.
We would ask for your understanding for this mark of solidarity with all the victims and with public opinion, which has come out against this war.
I shall speak later on the subject of Iraq but, while our attention is focused on that country, there are atrocious activities going on in other parts of the world.
I refer in particular to Zimbabwe, where in the last few days police have arrested over 500 people - including Members of Parliament - and hospitals have treated more than 250 people with serious injuries.
The next item is the statements by the Council and the Commission on the outcome of the European Council of 21-22 March and on Iraq. (Several Members on the left held up placards denouncing the war in Iraq) Ladies and gentlemen, the spring Council met in Brussels to discuss the economic and social situation in the Union.
As you all know, the objective of the Lisbon strategy is to make the European economy the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
The Presidency did not agree with these views.
However, this does not mean that we should abandon our main mission, by which I mean our policies for economic development and employment in Europe, especially in the current climate of recession and unemployment.
The European Council concluded that the slowdown in the economy had lasted longer than anticipated and that the current prospects of a recovery were overshadowed by the war, global political risks and economic uncertainties.
The European Council also concluded that considerable progress had been made with the Lisbon agenda, now entering its fourth year.
For example, five million new jobs have been created since the start of the Lisbon strategy - 500 000 of them in 2002 despite the less favourable economic climate, with unemployment declining by 2 million.
The third priority is to strengthen the single market and connect Europe.
At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that, as the conclusions show, considerable progress has been made with the Lisbon strategy during the Greek Presidency.
For example, significant results have been obtained as regards agreeing on better coordination of budgetary policies, agreeing on a transparent and cheap Community patent, fourteen years in the making, putting into place an integrated Europe-wide financial market, setting the direction for the revised European Employment Strategy, introducing a Tripartite Social Summit, establishing a Tripartite Social Summit, agreeing on energy taxation and setting targets in sectors such as renewable energy, increased energy efficiency and bio-fuels.
The European Council issued guidelines.
The Council took a series of decisions in specific sectors, such as employment and modernising the European social model.
This issue was discussed repeatedly in the Security Council without any agreement being reached.
It would therefore have been pointless for the Presidency to hope that the differences which have emerged over all the past few months would be overcome at the Council.
We believe that, now that the war has raised even more questions, the European Union has a duty to send out a message about restoring peace in the region and dealing with the aftermath of the war.
The future is every bit as important as the present.
The decision on Iraq was a decision based on the premise that the European Union has a voice and must have a voice in international affairs.
It is therefore a symbol of the efforts being made to create a balanced Euro-Atlantic relationship in which Europe maintains its independence, takes special initiatives and has its own role.
That we want an independent Europe is clear from another point in the conclusions referring to greater research capabilities in the defence sector and the creation of a European defence capabilities development and acquisition agency.
This presupposes that the United Nations, through its institutions, will issue the main guidelines on what is to happen after the war in Iraq.
The decision emphasises the central role of the United Nations.
Policies in other sectors are also taking shape.
We also need to look at the future prospects of Europe and the world.
The Brussels Summit showed that, despite our differences, we still feel Europe is the best way of preventing one new superpower from monopolising our cosmos.
The spring Council in Brussels may not have answered questions, but it issued guidelines which will allow us to put Europe's role into practice, if we cooperate, if we live in harmony together, if we fight together for a multipolar world.
A war which, like all wars, brings death and suffering in its train, even if it ultimately brings the fall of a dictator.
We should also bear another fact in mind: the extra funds requested for this operation - USD 74.7 billion - are much higher than the total amount of aid the world gives the poorest countries each year, which is only just over EUR 50 billion.
We must not lie to ourselves or to our fellow citizens.
I am not just referring to the experience consolidated some time ago now in the integration of European armed forces within multinational corps such as the Eurocorps, Eurofor and Euromarfor.
Let us cast our minds back to Saint Malo in December 1998.
Lastly, on 18 March 2003, the Council decided to launch the first military operation in the history of the Union and take over from the NATO forces operating in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia at the end of this month.
Think of the remarkable cooperation between the Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank after September 11 and the constant dialogue between the US Trade Representative, Robert Zoellick, and our own Commissioner Lamy.
I therefore call on this House and all the institutions represented in the Convention, and I appeal to all its Members directly not to miss this opportunity.
Our progress in implementing the reform strategy decided at Lisbon three years ago is too slow.
As this Europe of ours does not belong to any one party family alone, but is our common possession, what I desire for you and for us all, gathered here, is that, in the remaining weeks of your Presidency, you will be successful in guiding this European Union in the right direction for the future! (Applause from the right) At this time, we think of the coalition troops in Iraq, some 30 000 of them from a Member State of the European Union.
I hope that what was so well expressed in the Conclusions of the summit here in Brussels will indeed come to pass, and that all Iraqis will very soon be allowed to live in freedom, dignity and prosperity under a representative government that will be at peace with its neighbours and an active member of the international community.
Nobody is in any doubt about my position on the Iraq issue, and that is why I tell our American friends that the European Union is also in the American interest.
Hence my plea to our American friends that they take the European Union seriously.
It always reminds us a bit of Nikita Khrushchev, who, in the 1960s, always wanted to overtake the USA, and we know what the result was!
I hope that a statute for European political parties will come about before the end of the Greek Presidency, and, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I urge you to ensure that we achieve a result on the issue of the financial package with the prospect of enlargement.
Then, success will be ours under the Greek Presidency of the Council, a success that I wish, not only for you, but also for us all, and from the bottom of my heart.
On behalf of my group, I should like to express our heartfelt condolences to the families of all the victims of this war.
Once again, I must emphasise that the present unilateral action is in breach of the United Nations Charter and of international law.
We are all involved in a conflict which is becoming increasingly horrific.
My point is as follows.
So before turning to the conflict with Iraq, I will say a few words about economic reform.
The truth is that the process of economic reform is running into the sand; with the European Union set to enlarge to 25 countries, we will have to run just to stand still.
First, at 1.9% of GDP, our investment in research and development is well below levels in the USA and Japan, and with only two of the accession countries spending more than 1% of GDP on research and development, we will be hard pressed to reach the 3% Lisbon target by 2010.
As the incoming Member States will naturally face some teething problems in implementing law in the early years, this implementation deficit is in danger of growing further if we do not redouble our efforts.
But the scale of the task ahead becomes clear when we note that unemployment in the EU as a whole rose last year to nearly 8%.
On Iraq, I welcome the forward-looking nature of the European Council conclusions, brokered by the President-in-Office, and their focus on humanitarian assistance, on rebuilding Iraq and the central role to be played in this by the United Nations.
We see from the situation in Basra just how important that is.
The horror transmitted through our television screens shows us just how necessary it is to get our relief agencies in and working.
Liberal Democrats will support the rapid approval by our House of your request for the release of a further EUR 70 million from the emergency budget reserve.
The EU has been damaged by the divisions of recent weeks.
This could presage a new effort to heal the political wounds, but it is hard not to agree with the Luxembourg Prime Minister when he says that problems cannot be resolved unless they are discussed.
Our dialogue must be extended to cover reform of the United Nations and the role of international law, but the United States must accept that nothing durable can be established without institutions and rules.
We must wait and see whether 2003 is an annus mirabilis or an annus horribilis for the European Union, but since we are now in the Year of the Goat, I would congratulate the Greek Presidency on its tenacity, persistence and determination in pushing through its agenda.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like right now - and without repeating too much - to draw your attention to three primary problems.
For a start, my group continues to insist that this war be brought to an immediate end.
Secondly, there is no doubt that this war puts the USA in breach of international law.
You are well aware, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that there is no exception to the ban on the use in armed conflict even of non-lethal gases such as CS gas, contained both in the Geneva Protocol and in Article 1 of the Chemical Weapons Convention.
That is the problem confronting us today.
In my view, what needs to be made plain in this resolution is that inspections should have been continued and that we are opposed to those who put an end to them and resorted to war.
If we are prepared to make compromises I am confident we can win this moral victory over the advocates of war tomorrow. (Applause) Mr President, we cannot deny for one moment that the last number of weeks have portrayed the European Union in a very poor light.
Consensus building - which is at the centre of policies being pursued by the Greek Presidency - could not become a reality because of the polarised viewpoints on the war in Iraq taken by different countries in Europe.
The Greek Government tried valiantly to secure a common political position on Iraq and Europe, but notwithstanding its tenacious and determined efforts, this objective could not be secured.
The European Union has brought political stability to the people of Europe for over 50 years.
The European Union as a political and economic entity has brought prosperity and a sense of political purpose to the people of Europe.
We have an internal market, we have a single European currency and the European Union is shortly to increase in size to 25 Member States.
These are all real political achievements which are contributing to the standard of living and the quality of life for many people in Europe.
We can all be proud of these achievements because we all played a key role in making them a reality.
The events of the last few weeks have rocked the European Union to its foundation.
I welcome the conclusions of the Brussels summit and the commitment of the European Union to rebuild bridges with America and to support the transatlantic relationship.
The European Union must carry out its moral political duties in ensuring that the humanitarian problems of Iraq are addressed with vigour and determination.
We must continue to work with the United Nations, whose authority has also been very badly shaken in recent times.
The atmosphere here today is muted, but that must not disguise the fact that the European Union does have a lead role to play in ensuring that the humanitarian needs of the Iraqi people will be fully addressed.
Mr Prodi, you referred to a European defence system.
The European defence system will not be created within NATO any more than the single currency was created in Fort Knox.
Our secular - or Christian if you prefer - task is to find for us all, tomorrow, as we are doing in Italy by identifying one or two feasible political objectives for the future, a path which will make it possible, instead of staying in your 1938 Munich world, Dany, to go to a world where, at the weekend, we will all fight together for free Italians, free Germans or free Iraqis, instead of sacrificing everything to the moloch of peace, to the moloch of an absolute whose boundaries you are totally unable to define.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, when we debated the Iraqi crisis in Strasbourg a fortnight ago, there was still an albeit faint hope that it would in the end prove possible to avoid violence and to exhaust every means for a peaceful settlement of the problems, as set out in the relevant Security Council resolutions, especially Resolution 1441.
On the contrary, we need to turn our attention to the future and support the overwhelming majority of nations and governments by trying, even before the war ends - which we all hope will be sooner rather than later - to restore the prestige of the United Nations, which will undertake to restore normal conditions in Iraq, strengthen the transatlantic relationship within a framework of cooperation and on an absolutely equal footing and consolidate European unity, so that the sad events we have witnessed over the last few days never act as a future precedent and are consigned to history as an example to be avoided.
I should like to suggest to the Presidents that the traffic jams in Brussels were the only visible result of the summit.
The must-have list even includes a study on the means the European Union could deploy to assist the people of Iraq to live in freedom, dignity and prosperity.
You shall have to do a report to answer that question, Mr Goebbels.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to endorse the statements made by Mr Watson, the leader of my group.
Mr President, at this Spring Summit the Council needed to show itself capable of reversing its neoliberal political guidelines and to adopt a policy that gives priority to employment, public investment, inclusion and economic and social cohesion, in order to address the economic slowdown, unemployment, poverty and social exclusion, which remain at high levels in the European Union.
In this way, it waters down principles laid down in the Treaty and impedes their implementation, specifically in the fields of economic and social cohesion, solidarity, environmental protection, public health and food safety, public services and social rights, sustainable development and the quality of life, which is unacceptable.
Instead of suspending the Stability Pact in order to review the irrational criteria for nominal convergence and committing to a policy of economic development that is capable of addressing international uncertainty and instability, which has been made worse by the unjust, illegitimate and illegal war against Iraq, the Council is reaffirming the need for these objectives to be met.
Instead of implementing urgent measures, as Parliament called for during the last part-session in Strasbourg, to address the increase in restructuring, relocations and closures by European and multinational companies, which are making thousands of workers redundant and which call into question the regional development of huge areas in crisis where there are few alternatives forms of employment, the Council has opted to attach absolute priority to companies' competitiveness, insisting on structural reforms of the labour market, on worker mobility and on making labour more flexible and precarious in order to adapt to the current economic climate.
He is a prime minister who, one hundred years on, wants to turn the Spanish State into a new colony of the United States; into a new Puerto Rico.
As we all know, economic uncertainties and global political risks confront us and make alterations difficult.
To create and sustain jobs, the European Union must become the most competitive economic area in the world and I am delighted to welcome the Council's decision to establish the Competitiveness Council.
We must ensure that when we hand down our countries and our continent to future generations, they are in a better condition than they were in when we inherited them.
Whatever we feel about the rights or wrongs of the conflict in Iraq, the most important thing to do now - and I congratulate the Greek Presidency on trying to achieve a consensus on this - is to bring all of Europe together with regard to humanitarian aid, facilitating the rebuilding of Iraq and ensuring that its people have the right tools to make their own decisions.
In these circumstances in particular, it was surprising and positive that the Member States were actually able to issue a joint, forward-looking declaration on Iraq in which the European Union also exhibits a sense of responsibility by promising both humanitarian aid and implicit help in reconstructing the country.
Finally, the declaration shows great appreciation of the United Nations.
I would, however, like to emphasise that this organisation cannot operate unless all, and I repeat all members (particularly of the Security Council) take responsibility for the actual enforcement of the international rule of law and the continuity of UN resolutions.
As for the glorification of the CFSP in conclusion 69, this is clearly what surrealist writers term automatic writing.
I will not mention the situation in Iraq because my group chairman has already done so and my fellow countryman and colleague Arie Oostlander will be doing so.
I must say that the Spring Summit delivered more than I had anticipated.
What really matters now, however, is its implementation, and that is why my group - and I am pleased to see that this has also been adopted by other groups - has proposed compiling a roadmap in which the European Commission sets out in more detail what steps need to be taken in order to achieve the Lisbon targets by 2010.
And however much our foreign policy divides us at the moment, our economic policy is equally well able to unite us.
If we are to achieve this truly admirable and ambitious objective, we must make the macro-economy work more efficiently, integrate the financial services market in Europe and strengthen the spirit of enterprise, research, education and the integration of the European networks.
But how can we integrate the European networks when, as the President of the Commission pointed out, we only spend EUR 20 billion a year and it will take twenty years to complete the programme?
That is where our duty lies.
The UN needs to be reformed, and we must get a broad discussion under way about what international law really entails and about how it might be able to protect people in future.
This is why we must prevent Iraqi, British and American citizens dying.
Europe must be united, of course, but it must be united in saying 'no' and in ending this war.
The war against Iraq is completely without justification and must therefore be condemned.
The Council remains silent about that, Mr President.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your distressing verbal statement proved the Union's failure and powerlessness.
Is there, however, sufficient formal basis under international law for the coalition's military presence?
The debate at the time was about whether intervention should take place immediately, after one or two weeks or after six weeks.
The UN per se and its services will be more important than ever in post-war Iraq.
Mr Oostlander, if you quote Max van der Stoel and say that the basis may not be convincing, but that, in moral terms, the action is justified, you can also try putting it the other way round and saying that an action is justified only if it is taken on a truly convincing basis.
There was, though, also a minority, to which the Pope could have given his apostolic blessing, had they nonetheless voted for this war because they had forged a coalition - not of the willing, but of the wilful - which wanted this war to happen come what may.
That is one way of looking at things, but not in the least does it alter the fact that these two gentlemen I have quoted showed us a peaceful way forward, and I have heard all those in this House - including those in your group, Mr Poettering - who have said that this was the right way to go.
If this was the right way to go, why do you not summon up the courage to say that the war is the wrong way?
I shall try and reply briefly to two or three questions.
And we do not want division, especially in these difficult times.
There are a number of issues where I believe, if you pass a resolution, the Presidency and the Commission and the European Union will be able to move forward, such as the need to safeguard the territorial integrity of Iraq, including - as one member said - on the Turkish border, the need to deal with serious humanitarian problems by mobilising the aid provided for and the central role of the United Nations in the political, economic and social reconstruction of Iraq.
And, of course, we must not forget the peace process in the Middle East and the importance of transatlantic relations.
And we want a strong Union.
It is also clear from the text that war can upset the best-laid plans.
It is important not to panic, not to believe that we need to take measures here and now or here, there and everywhere.
I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is one of the main messages of the efforts made in Brussels; that despite the adversities, despite the difficulties, we have a great deal in common, a great deal in common, which we cannot put to one side, which is why, especially in these difficult times, we need to try and express what we have in common and move forward together.
If we did in fact have to be backward-looking, we could have made better use of our time and energy in working out how to condemn the Iraqi regime, which for 12 years has ignored every UN resolution.
It is not the coalition that is responsible for the war in Iraq; it is Saddam Hussein and his regime.
By an unfortunate turn of events, Saddam Hussein has succeeded in dividing our world, and we must hope that the day will soon come when he can be brought before an international court and tried for his crimes against humanity.
Now, we must look forward, as in part does the resolution, I am pleased to say.
Mr President, a new resolution on Iraq cannot be more conciliatory than the resolution we adopted by a large majority a few weeks ago.
That resolution was and still is in keeping both with the real problems in the world and the feelings and reactions of the citizens in our countries who, in their reactions to this illegal, immoral, pre-emptive and therefore subjugating war, expressed themselves as European citizens, and formulated the only serious and reliable basis on which we can continue to build Europe.
Many of us here are concerned about the future of the world and of Europe.
The only thing we have a historical duty to do is to prepare our contribution to a more balance world, insofar as this is still possible; to make a quantum leap, as quickly as possible, on the road towards political unification, especially in the field of foreign policy and defence.
Those of us who have no intention of letting Europe and the world change into a sort of Jurassic Park must move forward.
The power of the bombs dropped by the Americans and the British on that unfortunate country has doubtless already exceeded that of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
I hope that one day those who are responsible for this war - Bush, Aznar and Blair - will have to answer for their actions before an international court.
Secondly, the Iraqi people must then have the opportunity to take their own decisions, and the United Nations - rather than one of the belligerent parties - must assume responsibility for the reconstruction of the country.
Fourthly, we must reinvigorate the transatlantic partnership and rebuild a relationship of trust with the United States of America, which will, for the foreseeable future, remain the only power capable of guaranteeing order and security on a global and regional scale.
It is for those reasons that I am in solidarity with the United States, even though this solidarity has a critical edge to it from time to time.
After those events we all agreed that the world had changed.
We appreciated that global terrorism, a terrorism well-financed and organised with no clear political objective beyond creating chaos, required a new approach to security.
We can no longer sit on the sidelines tut-tutting when faced with dangerous, repressive regimes prepared to murder their own people, threaten regional security and nurture terrorism.
If we continue that process the world will become much more secure because every issue and every crisis will be divisive as we try to gather around separate poles.
In that case we should be working to the future, thinking about how we rebuild Iraq with United Nations support and how we secure peace in Iraq whilst respecting the rights of Iraqi people to their own future.
Mr President, naturally I too regret that the United Nations have not found a solution to the conflict in Iraq.
After all, we all agree that Saddam Hussein has been categorically opposing the United Nations for the past 12 years.
Throughout his rule he has oppressed his people and violated international law in many areas.
This does not help international law and the Iraqi people in the slightest.
The crisis once more makes it painfully clear that we need a European foreign and security policy and ultimately a European defence force so that we can play a role in the next crisis.
To conclude, therefore, I warmly welcome Commissioner Monti's initiative in investigating the banned state support for the French energy group Electricité de France.
The complicity of the European Union was also confirmed by the European Council, which basically covered for the members of the European Union taking an active part in the war and all the other countries providing every sort of facility for the invaders, with the Presidency's country at the top of the list.
Mr President, I must admit that it feels slightly surreal wanting to talk about other aspects of the Summit apart from Iraq, particularly given that some of the other things that the Summit dealt with are not exactly going to help us towards a more equal or a more peaceful world.
For example, Paragraph 60 onwards of the Presidency Conclusions mentioned promoting sustainable development on a global scale.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of Iraq seems to have divided the world into two opposing camps.
However, the peace demonstrators have stood up in the whole of Europe and throughout the world in order to protest against the strongest military power in the world.
Without the backing of the UN Security Council, the United States has attacked Iraq, but we now know that their battle plans had been ready for a long time.
We believed that a peaceful solution was possible in Iraq, thanks to the intervention of the inspectors, but the decision had already been taken.
We need to move, to make the Convention a success and to make our future together a success too.
Mr President, if EU leaders were actually to deliver the goals set last week of the central role of the UN, an EU capacity in foreign and defence policy and strengthening the transatlantic partnership, most of the public would cheer.
I absolutely agree that Iraq must observe the Geneva Conventions on prisoners of war, but how hypocritical it is for Rumsfeld to insist on this while denying such protection to those prisoners illegally detained in Guantanamo Bay.
Mr President, the war being waged against Iraq is an imperialist war.
The present war is directly in line with so many other wars fought in the past by the great powers, by Britain and the United States, but also by Germany and France, acting sometimes together and sometimes against one another, in order to exploit the Middle East and to plunder its wealth.
Words such as liberty, democracy and the condemnation of Saddam Hussein's dictatorship are merely hypocrisy to conceal a war of banditry.
Mr President, of course a democratic process is needed in Iraq, but war is never a solution.
At the next meeting of the UN Security Council, Member States must take a wide-ranging initiative in order to impose the force of law as against the law of force.
Mr President, divisions have emerged within the Council over the choices made this week but, if we care about having a Europe which is politically influential, we have to look to the future and work for the Europe of the future.
Europe has to have a single foreign policy and a single defence policy, to take a leading role on the international stage and to be able to guarantee peace outside its borders.
Clearly, as far as he is concerned, being pro-European means always saying yes, but if we sometimes say no, we might build a better Europe.
The Italian Government's statements which move in this direction certainly give us hope, and I believe President Prodi will be in agreement with the Italian Prime Minister when he meets with him in Rome on Friday.
The strong, influential political Europe of the future cannot, however, be created with an anti-American stance.
Mr President, on 17 February, the European Council declared that the United Nations must remain at the centre of the international order and that it wished to attain the objective of disarming Saddam Hussein peacefully, saying that this is what the European people want; it declared that its support for the United Nations inspectors although saying that it did not want the inspections to continue indefinitely, and, in fact, the inspectors had put forward a plan for disarmament which also had a time limit.
Today we are here in Parliament, not least on behalf of those European people, of that public opinion referred to by the Council, to hold to account first of all those European governments which have supported, are assisting and are participating in a unilateral war which we condemn unreservedly.
Then there is the Middle East.
Certain interventionist quarters have said that this war will resolve the Middle East question.
We can see that things are getting increasingly worse: on the one hand, this war is helping the extremist, group Hamas, and, on the other, the Israeli army is continuing its actions.
Lastly, I would like to ask the European governments: what are you gaining from this terrible experience?
We acknowledge the strong moral and practical support for the coalition from the governments of Spain, Portugal, Denmark, Italy, the Netherlands, Bulgaria and so many other European countries.
It is this same vitriolic anti-Americanism which inspires so many in this House and elsewhere to try to build separate EU structures to replace those in which our American friends have a key role.
Mr President, Thomas Friedmann, an American, gave it as his opinion that 'this war is not a war of necessity, but one that is clearly deliberate'.
In 'Le Monde', Alain Pellet took the view that 'aggression is still aggression, even if it is on the part of a great democratic empire and directed against a bloody tyranny'.
I am particularly struck by the fact that a section of Europe's governments is the cause of many deaths and injuries, and, indeed, of massive destruction in an already poverty-stricken country, or at least regards such things as acceptable, for private wars such as this can also be uncommonly contagious.
Europe's citizens give us cause for hope, and their love of peace should be the foundation on which we construct a common foreign and security policy.
Taking it for granted as I do that nobody will have anything like the decisiveness required to implement the UN's resolutions on Palestine and Israel, it will again be Europe that has to take action for a just solution in the Middle East.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that the war currently raging in Iraq is the USA's private war.
Saddam Hussein himself could certainly have prevented it, if he had kept to at least one of the seventeen resolutions passed by the UN Security Council.
We can but hope and try to do whatever we can to prevent these innocent people from having to pay a high price for this regime and for the war it has caused.
If we are to stay in, the first thing that will be needed is a reshaping of the trans-Atlantic relationship, and the second will be a definition of the fields of action in which the European Union has to assume responsibility in the context of security policy.
Mr President, entirely in line with the people of Europe, on 30 January last the European Parliament, with a comfortable majority, declared itself to be against unilateral military action in Iraq.
Such a war, we said, would not be in compliance with either international law or the United National Charter.
Instead of condemning it and calling on the Security Council to ensure that international peace and regional peace are respected immediately, the European Council of 20 March was unable to agree on anything other than an anodyne declaration.
This declaration said that the United Nations must continue to play a central role during and after the crisis.
The word 'continue' here is doubtless a bad joke which slipped into the text by mistake, because before the crisis the United Nations, as we all know, had been flouted and swept aside by the United States, with the complicity of two Member States of the European Union.
President Bush now has the war he always wanted, the war that he decided to wage a long time ago.
Well, political Europe will be constructed without them, in the same way as monetary union was.
If a country like the United States, with its relatively low taxes, can reduce them further, so too in all likelihood can the EU Member States, throughout which taxes are significantly higher.
We do not need any more fine words or proud declarations.
The year 2010 will continue to recede ever further into the future.
The situation in Iraq, though, is quite different.
Unfortunately, though, it will not be possible to get that point across to the Muslims in Iraq.
Mr President, I deplore the war and I deplore the fact that it started without a UN mandate and without having exhausted all the ways of achieving a peaceful solution.
Most of all I feel sorry for the victims and regret the human suffering that is without doubt much greater than we can imagine.
Regretting and hoping that the war will soon be over is not all that there remains for us to do, however.
We must strengthen our relationships with Arab countries and give the Mediterranean dialogue a real chance to succeed.
We must invest as much as possible in a definitive peace process in the Middle East.
Last but not least, however, we must do all we can to eliminate the divisions in the European Union.
Mr President, I am glad that Commissioner Prodi pointed out the disparity between the financial costs of this war and those available to meet the needs of humanity.
There is something surrealistic - and in fact disgusting - about squandering money on a fully-contrived war and then handing out lucrative contracts to favourite local firms to repair the damage caused by that very war. (Applause from the left) I will, however, move on now to the economic part of the Spring Summit, focusing upon two aspects: progress in innovation and enterprise, and environmental protection.
Every Spring Summit seems to me like a non-stop re-run of the Delors White Paper.
This is a programme that was presented many months late by the Commission - it should have started in January this year.
If we do not want the war to halt the path towards the Constitutional Treaty and towards joint foreign and defence policies, we have to prevent the rift which has divided Europe in recent weeks deepening.
We were in agreement in condemning Saddam's regime; however, we had different opinions on pre-emptive, unilateral war, since mainly innocent victims pay the price for war and since the post-war situation is still completely unclear.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Item E of the Council Conclusions states that the European Union is committed to keeping its leading role in sustainable development, both at home and abroad.
For the war in Iraq is not sustainable; it is bringing suffering and devastation upon the people and is weakening across the board the industrialised countries' position in the global context of sustainable development.
Secondly, I get the feeling that sustainable development is being relegated to the bottom of the list even within the European Union.
So clear benchmarks are needed for what we want and for the methods that will enable us to monitor it; sustainable development needs clear goals and clear indicators in the same way as employment policy does, for sustainability is not a fig leaf, but a modern garment that would suit the EU well.
Secondly, the Council has decided to set up a European employment task force, and in the debate in the plenary session held in preparation for this summit this plan, which was the bright idea of Blair, Chirac and Schroeder, took me by surprise because these self-same governments are making impending concrete policy plans more difficult.
I myself was very surprised that the Council's conclusions are now mentioning December 2003, whereas on 6 March the Council of Ministers was talking about efforts to arrive at a common position by the June session.
The third point concerns pensions.
I am assuming - and I would also appreciate confirmation of this - that the interim evaluation that was scheduled for 2004 is still in the planning stage, and I would in particular like to see the Commission and the Council put forward concrete proposals to solve the labour mobility problems and fiscal problems surrounding pensions.
I am here to talk about Lisbon, however, and I think that the agreement reached at the Council about common action by the European governments is an important element of political stability with the present split in Europe.
It was important, in these difficult times, for the European governments to express a common political will to continue their efforts in the social field.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe the discrepancy between words and deeds to be a fundamental problem running right through this whole debate.
The Barcelona Summit decided on a study of what are termed the Basle II effects on small and medium-sized enterprises and banks.
I take the view that if any study is completed only after the Basle Committee has produced its resolution and after the Commission has decided on a draft directive, it amounts to the squandering of money, to a betrayal of trust and to treating with disdain the resolutions of Parliament and of the Council.
No sooner do we decide on the Stability and Growth Pact, than people question it - some because of Lisbon, some because of the war in Iraq, and others because they lack the courage to reform or because it threatens their comfortable positions.
We will find our opportunity if we stop setting national interests against European objectives, what nations do against what Europe resolves, the trans-Atlantic alliance against a self-confident and enlarged European Union.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it has been with much concern that I have followed this debate and the preparation of tomorrow's motions for a resolution.
In particular, how do we save a multilateral world founded upon compromise and upon mutual respect?
The United States cannot decide, alone and on the basis of its own national interests, what is right in this world and what is not.
Generally speaking, this conflict brings three thoughts to my mind.
Firstly, how can we learn from our differences, so that the European Union can find itself again at last, and can speak with a united voice in international affairs?
My second thought is about the future of Iraq.
This time, the United Nations must fully play its part in the reconstruction of Iraq, so that the country can provide itself with a representative government which is willing to live in peace with its neighbours and is capable of playing an active part within the international community.
In order to welcome the candidate countries in the best possible circumstances, it seems that three conditions will need to be met.
My most cherished hope is that, after this war and after we have passed through this crisis, the Union, whether it has fifteen or twenty-five Member States, will be independent and finally able to speak with a single voice.
I salute the courage of EU candidate countries who have backed the coalition with specialist forces.
This war is morally and politically justifiable and its legality is vested in current UN Security Council Resolutions 678, 687 and 1441.
However, the appeasers in this House might like to explain why they embraced a war in Kosovo that involved no weapons of mass destruction or threats to neighbouring states and that had no UN authority whatsoever, and yet find it so difficult to take action against a genocidal dictator who has started two wars responsible for the deaths of almost a million people and who has gassed his own people.
We must end this tyranny and free the Iraqi people once and for all.
It is pointless, therefore, at times of crisis, to think of what Europe could be but is not, and throw everything away on this bitter contradiction: throw away 50 years - as President Prodi said - of intelligence, unity, peace, admirable institutional structures and positive results.
The United States and the United Kingdom liberated my country 60 years ago, and gave it back democracy and freedom.
For the past and for the present, I simply say 'thank you' to the United States and the United Kingdom.
The debate is closed.
I have received 12 motions for resolutions, 6 on Iraq and 6 on other matters discussed at the European Council, under Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure.
The vote will take place tomorrow.
I must inform the House that the Greek Presidency told the European Parliament some time ago that the President-in-Office of the Council would have to leave for the airport straight after his speech in order to be in Greece this evening ready for tomorrow's meeting of the Council and the representatives of the countries of Latin America.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to use all my speaking time, Commissioner, as this is a matter of public knowledge.
This has to do with Parliament and the candidates for accession not being dealt with in the same way as the other Member States.
This is quite clearly a legal problem, and it is also a problem in terms of a fundamental issue.
Those of us who sit on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy take an interest in the equal treatment of the candidate countries, but - as Parliament's fundamental rights are involved - we especially support the position of the Committee on Budgets as well, for budgetary law is the prerogative of any Parliament, and must not be set aside even in a situation such as this.
The first one, in the first paragraph, is our commitment to making sure that enlargement takes place on 1 May 2004.
Let us be clear: that it is an objective which we all want to reach.
Paragraphs 3 and 4 spell out some pretty clear pictures.
Paragraph 3 warns the Member States that if Article 32 and Annex XV are maintained in the Accession Treaty in their current form, Parliament will regard this as an infringement of its prerogatives in budgetary matters.
Paragraph 4 goes on to say that the Parliament 'considers the Member States' approach to be a breach of the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions' and that it 'interprets this approach as a signal that the Council intends to abandon the Interinstitutional Agreement and the Financial Perspective included therein'.
I now turn to Paragraphs 6 and 7 in the current text of the report.
There will be an amendment from the PPE-DE and PSE Groups to Paragraphs 6 and 7, to remove the figures, to delete Paragraph 7, and to put in a statement which will mention our rights again, because this is what this debate is all about.
If we get that agreement, it would certainly be the minimum that I could accept because what we will be doing is agreeing a declaration on how to violate the Treaty.
For many years this Parliament and the Committee on Budgets have fought for the rights and the prerogatives of this institution.
Even if we can agree figures for category 3 in this declaration, do not take that as a sign of Parliament selling itself just for a small amount of money.
I may be the only person in this room to do so but I will certainly vote against because I feel that strongly about it.
The loyalty of this House, as Elmar Brok has said, is to get enlargement in place.
But I will tell you one thing, colleagues: you will not have an interinstitutional agreement and war will have been declared as far as the budget goes for 2004.
And, as President-in-Office, I can assure you once again that the adjustment of the financial perspectives will be exercised in full application of Article 25 of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
The Presidency asked for this item to be retabled at the tripartite dialogue scheduled to be held in Brussels on 27 March, tomorrow in fact, with a view to settling the matter.
In conclusion, therefore, may I say that I trust that the obstacles to a positive vote by the European Parliament on 9 April will be removed and that we shall have the pleasure of witnessing the signing, on 16 April, in the presence of the President of the European Parliament in Athens, at this historic moment for the European Union.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is approaching a very great event.
This brings to its conclusion a work process lasting many years, and, in Copenhagen, the candidate countries and the Member States were able to come to a good result even on financial issues, which are always tricky.
The Commission had advised the Council to make explicit reference to the Interinstitutional Agreement, and particularly to Article 25.
The Commission proposal for adapting the financial perspective to enlargement was submitted as long ago as the beginning of this year.
It is made on the basis of Article 25 of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
This would be done on the basis of Part C of the Interinstitutional Agreement, and the proposal could contain an increase in the upper limit for Heading 3, that is, of the budget for internal policies.
We should make every effort to resolve this issue before the treaties are signed and before Parliament's resolution, so that, in time for 9 April, the financial perspective can be adapted to enlargement.
I am convinced that all the parties are aware of their great responsibility and will make it possible for us to do what history requires of us.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you may be quite sure that the European Parliament will play its part with all the power at its disposal and with great commitment - a commitment shared by all the groups and by all the committees that are particularly concerned with Heading III, because it involves over thirty codecision procedures that will be affected by these decisions.
Being conscious of the political responsibility involved in ensuring that the timetable for enlargement is kept to, we have also indicated our willingness to adapt the financial perspective, and to do so if possible before the enlargement agreements are put to the vote.
It is obvious that, despite all their efforts, the Commission and the Council have underestimated the institutional dead-end into which their stubborn refusal to let go of Annex XV and its integration into primary law have led us all.
Mr President, in the course of the last few months I have had the privilege, on a number of occasions, to declare to this Parliament that the Group of the Party of European Socialists strongly supports the accession of 10 new Member States to the EU on 1 May 2004.
Over the past few weeks our group has actively supported all the preparatory work to enable the European Parliament to give its assent to the accession treaties with all of the ten future Member States.
We sincerely want the official signature of the Accession Treaty to take place on 16 April in Athens.
On every occasion I have emphasised the importance of this enlargement process for the further development of the EU and its contribution to the strengthening of democratic structures.
The Council's decision to include, as part of the treaties - for the first time ever - the negotiation results in the final aspects of accession must be considered as a serious limitation of Parliament's budget rights.
Our colleagues in the future Member States must be aware that this attempt to limit one of Parliament's most fundamental rights is unacceptable, particularly at the moment when the European Convention is considering a further democratisation of European institutions.
For those who are already Members, as well as for those who soon will become Members, Parliament's rights will be strengthened as a result of the enlargement process and not weakened.
That is why we believe that the financial framework resulting from the negotiations must be considered as a minimum amount, not a maximum amount.
We are convinced that the future MEPs from the new Member States will support our demands.
I am sure that the Council will find a solution to this unnecessary conflict, but it must fully respect Parliament's budget rights so that we can ensure that the final stage in the enlargement process will proceed without any delays.
Mr President, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party strongly supports the accession to the European Union of the candidate countries and the swift handling of the Accession Treaties.
My group, however, is very sceptical as to whether the good levels of cooperation that have existed up till now between the Council and Parliament in budgetary policy can continue.
When the Copenhagen Summit approved the Accession Treaties for the new Member States it also endorsed the necessary financial framework.
Parliament's budgetary authority is defined in Article 272 of the EC Treaty.
Mr President, I wish first of all to congratulate Terence Wynn and Elmar Brok on their initiative of tabling this motion for a resolution, which is unquestionably of the utmost importance and extremely timely.
Indeed, we cannot easily accept the way in which the Council position clearly relegates the powers of the European Parliament to second place and clearly limits these powers, in patent breach of the Treaties and of the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary matters.
I shall not dwell on this issue of the sums earmarked for enlargement, since our position on the matter is already common knowledge, but it is nevertheless worth underlining that, if anything can be emphasised with regard to the position adopted in the motion for a resolution on increasing appropriations for category III of the financial perspective, it is the terms laid down and the obvious clear-headedness of the approach to the matter.
It is crucial, however, at least at this final stage of the process, to ensure a minimum of objectivity, transparency, and respect for the candidate countries and that an end is put to the tight-fisted policy of providing limited means, which has dogged the enlargement process from the very beginning.
It is also crucial, in our opinion, and for this very reason, that a rigorous and firm position of the European Parliament does not collapse at the first sign of rejection or of limited agreement by the Council, which, incidentally, must fully assume its responsibilities for the potential consequences of its unacceptable attitude, which is in clear breach of norms and practices that have been agreed and signed.
Mr President, I am still not quite clear as to whether the problems we are having are caused by an enormous blunder on the part of the Council or whether this is part of a clever strategy.
Either way, neither of the two options is particularly attractive; let us suppose that the Council just stupidly forgot that the Interinstitutional Agreement in Article 25 specifies that the Council and Parliament must take decisions on changes to the financial perspectives on account of enlargement together.
Drugs are banned under criminal law, but the government and parliament have agreed to tolerate their use.
Anyway, my group regards this action as an infringement of the Interinstitutional Agreement, and we will therefore not hesitate, if necessary, to make full use of our rights under Article 272 in the next Budget procedure.
Mr President, the accession of an unprecedented number of new Member States looks likely to bring with it an unprecedented conflict between the Council and Parliament.
The Council and Parliament are the two arms of the budget authority and must respect each other in that.
That is why we also have the Interinstitutional Agreement of 1999.
We do not want to jeopardise the Interinstitutional Agreement; still less do we want to jeopardise the signing of the accession treaties.
The Presidency has informed us that it has not managed to remove Annex 15 as it is about impending primary legislation.
So Article 272 of the Treaty, the budget right, is valid primary legislation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while there is a real war raging, we shall not run the risk of having an inter-institutional war.
Parliament must defend its prerogatives, and it is right to do so.
The Commission, for its part, must defend the spirit and the letter of the Treaties.
All this is part of our agreements and of straightforward cooperation between institutions.
One can understand the political reasons which led the Council, in Copenhagen, to adopt a certain number of measures.
However, that must not be done at the expense of the integrity of the prerogatives of the institutions, starting with Parliament.
My group is of the opinion that such delicate implementation calls for a stable and permanent financial framework, recognised by all.
The results might not have been remarkable, but the conclusions were acceptable and took account of the balance between the institutions.
The new Member States must of course implement EU legislation on the working environment, but what really counts is what is happening out there among businesses.
There is a need to change the culture and to bring about greater awareness, both among businesses and employees, of the need for a secure working environment, and that is something we can do through our agency in Bilbao and by way of the social dialogue.
Mr President, I must admit I was astounded by the polemic launched by the European Parliament against Annex XV to the Accession Treaty, which is accused of violating both the inter-institutional agreement of 6 May 1999 and at the same time the rights of this House, by fixing ceilings for additional spending linked to the arrival of new Member States for the period 2004 to 2006.
If Parliament's powers had been cut in favour of a ministerial committee, an obscure committee, I could understand its protests.
Mr President, in order to avoid potential misunderstandings, I too want to emphasise that I am in favour of enlargement, by which I mean enlargement as soon as possible.
The states that want to join us have undertaken a great endeavour, but the resolutions passed by the European Heads of State and of Government in Copenhagen have needlessly created a grave and extremely difficult situation.
The debate is closed.
I first became engaged in the whole project of the human resources reform in the Commission at the end of 1999 when I was first appointed provisional rapporteur - and subsequently confirmed as rapporteur - for Parliament on the overall strategy.
The report we have put before you tonight, colleagues, contains 55 proposed amendments to the regulation package.
The Commissioner has spent enough time and has had enough trouble dealing with that process.
In these reforms across the institutions we also introduce a new category of contract staff.
My colleague, Mr Medina Ortega, will say more about this, but the major new point of principle is to propose to you that the existing pension system in today's world ought to be simplified by removing the current weighting system that is based on a pensioner's final place of residence.
We are following the negotiations in Council very closely and we know that pension issues are very important there.
At present, we have 25 000 civil servants who administer a substantial budget on behalf of a Community of 15 countries and a population of 380 million people.
Thanks to this work, the draft regulations drawn up by you, Commissioner, now constitute, together with the amendments which I hope you will accept, a balanced whole which should give the staff of our institutions regulations which bring together both tradition and modernity.
My concern follows the Council's reactions, in particular, to two important questions which are marginal to the regulations but which the Council wants to add to them in order to make an overall package.
This is why several groups, including ours, have tabled an oral question about pensions, so that you can give us the information that we need before we give the definitive green light to the reform of the staff regulations.
I think it will assist the House if I begin by referring to the issues raised in the oral question tabled by four political groups in the House.
To help to ensure clarity I should like to ask the House to refer to the draft guidelines that were adopted without change as the conclusions of the General Affairs Council of 18-19 March 2003.
I regret that it is only in French and English at this juncture.
If Members then turn to Paragraph D, they will see that the Council called on the Commission to 'table by April 2003 a detailed, technical working document setting out a proposal to guarantee actuarial balance as from 1 January 2004'.
Examination of those paragraphs will show that the only request to the Commission was for a proposal for the methodology for a study which would then facilitate calculation of the contributions required to ensure actuarial balance in the pension system.
As honourable Members will know, this has always been the obligation under the present Article 83(4) of the Staff Regulations, even though the requirement has not been made consistently operational.
The Commission's proposal on modernisation of the staff regulations has always, therefore, included a commitment to ensure actuarial balance.
All that the reference in the General Affairs Council conclusions relates to is the need for an up-to-date actuarial study that will enable the Council and the EU civil service to know, well before 1 January 2004, exactly what the contribution rates by Member States and by staff will be.
Meanwhile, the instruction to Coreper in the General Affairs Council conclusions is to provide a more detailed position on adaptation of the pension system that, in the words of the conclusions, is more consistent with the trends prevailing in Member States.
That reality has in fact ensured that several Member State delegations have put forward a paper on pension parameters for the European Union civil service, and it is being considered by the Council.
Those facts are, in brief: first that that average starting age of employment in the EU civil service is 32 years and 34 years for policy grade officials.
Any calculations that made a full pension dependant on more than 35 years of employment and payments would consequently be entirely unrealistic.
Second, there is the fact that, as your rapporteurs point out, whilst the official pensionable age in the EU civil service is relatively low at 60 years, the average real retirement age of 63.1 years is about three years later than the average retirement age in Member States and one year later than in the Member State with the highest average retirement age.
In this and in all other matters we have strongly emphasised the need to ensure that the acquired rights and legitimate expectations of present staff are properly respected.
That clearly manifests our position.
In addition and to complete the picture, the GAC conclusions include Paragraph C that proposes further discussions on the weightings that are currently applied to EU civil service pensions in different Member States.
The issue is a source of general concern in this House and indeed in the Council.
Since we are in negotiations, the Commission can only say at this juncture that we hear those concerns and while we may not support the amendments that have so far been offered, we are aware of the need to deal with this matter within the overall balance of the negotiated final package.
I think you will understand that I wanted to give full answers to the questions on this important issue of pensions.
I warmly welcome the fact that the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market before this House for debate reiterates strong support, as we have heard from the rapporteurs, for the overall reform package and does so in serious, practical terms.
In particular I welcome the realistic commitment to the importance of maintaining competitive levels of pay and pensions; a commitment to the introduction of what has become known in shorthand as a promotion guarantee on a collective basis - and I emphasise a collective basis; and a commitment to the inclusion in the staff regulations of 'the method' as the rational, economical and stable means for adjusting pay and pensions.
The Commission is prepared to accept Amendments Nos 52 and 54 on the limitation of levels of function of contract agents and on the duration of those contracts; Amendments Nos 14, 15, 26, 29 and 30 relate to central provisions in the context of a new career system, Article 5(3) on the criteria for appointments to the administrator and assistant function groups; Article 31 on the organisation of competitions for higher grades, including middle management grades, and Article 45 on the certification procedure for transfers from assistant to administrative function groups.
On the certification procedure, Article 45a now makes provision, in Paragraph 2, for the European Personnel Selection Office to determine the contents of all examinations organised by the institutions in order to ensure that the basic requirements of a transfer are met in a harmonised and consistent manner.
That should make Amendment No 30 redundant.
On Amendments Nos 58 and 59 on Members' assistants, this House knows the Commission has been and always will be very aware and sympathetic to the concerns about this issue in Parliament.
On Amendments Nos 71 to 74 inclusive, on the recruitment of third country nationals with a permanent right of residence, the Commission is aware that there is a discussion amongst political groups about the possibility of finding a compromise arrangement on this issue which is of concern to many honourable Members.
While sympathetic, the Commission is not in a position to accept these amendments as they are currently formulated and therefore I have to reserve my position on this question for the time being.
This very substantial report from honourable Members recognises that practical reality and is a significant step towards the fulfilment of our commitments.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like previous speakers, I should like to thank all those who have spoken on this subject, a subject we have debated on many occasions.
I am speaking now, however, as the spokesperson for the opinion of the Committee on Budgets and, as such, I welcome the Commission's assurances regarding the cost of reforming the staff regulations of the European Civil Service.
If the working hypotheses are confirmed, the reform as a whole will be of limited cost to the Union's budget and it ought, in any case, to be possible to finance it in the context of the current financial perspective.
This is absolutely essential and I should therefore like to give Commissioner Kinnock full marks on this point.
This cannot be done, however, without acting gradually, over a period of time, and above all in a spirit of consultation and dialogue.
Thirdly, and finally, on a broader level we must not lose sight of the objectives of this reform, which led us to encourage reform in general and the reform of the staff regulations in particular.
We likewise know that the European Union is promoting a series of policies, such as measures to improve employment standards, combat discrimination, reconcile working and family life and introduce flexible employment.
Time is short and I should therefore like to focus in my speech on three amendments.
The Commission proposal to introduce a weighting to adjust pensions to the purchasing power in the pensioner's place of residence runs counter to the Community principle of equality and the right of free establishment.
I support the amendment by our group to secure a climate of peace within the institutions' administrative services.
It is important to emphasise that, in the new working world which is emerging, safeguarding mutual trust on all sides is the key to increasing productivity.
Finally, I think that we should vote in favour of adopting the amendment by our group changing contracts of fixed duration to contracts of indefinite duration where five-year contracts are renewed for a further five years.
We wanted to ensure that the ELDR voice was heard tonight, heard to congratulate our rapporteurs and the Commissioner and to say that we very much support the work that is being done in this reform process.
I will not rehearse all the many good things that other speakers have referred to that rightly find their place in the Regulations.
But I would like to say something about the pension question.
Amendments Nos 58 and 59 are there to try to regularise and give status to those who serve us as individual MEPs.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, obviously I join with other Members in thanking our two rapporteurs, but I should also like to pay tribute to the European civil servants.
Just imagine: 25 000 people manage this unlikely continent which invents a new future for itself every day.
I shall concentrate on Amendments Nos 58 and 59 which would enable us to treat parliamentary assistants as contract staff of the Communities.
These amendments are very positive.
If the Council needs a moment to reflect, that will in no way detract from its responsibilities towards the European Parliament with regard to the Gillig report, a report on the same subject which has been awaiting attention for too long.
The fact that the Council has not yet reacted shows a lack of respect for the agreement which it concluded with Parliament, and in legal terms it places it in an utterly impossible position.
This is an anachronism in a Europe in which we have a labour market where people can move freely from one country to another.
Equally, the pensions issue where, frankly, the hysterical reaction from some of the trade unions masks the fact that something does need to be done to bring the pension system into line with the outside world.
I would also like to focus on the one specific issue previous speakers have already addressed, which is the question of parliamentary assistants.
It is very sad that, so far, this House has been unable to ensure that all parliamentary assistants are properly paid and have adequate social security cover.
The political groups have now tabled a joint amendment which could help us break the deadlock.
I sincerely hope the Commission will back our amendment, despite what the Commissioner just said, and help us convince the Council that something must be done.
I believe, however, that his proposals do not meet this criterion, because he only wants to treat so-called non-traditional forms of cohabitation as equal if the people concerned can provide formal recognition by a Member State and only in cases in which they do not have access to legal marriage.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
There is also a broad consensus that the present legislative framework is inadequate and must be supplemented by a Community strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides.
That is why in my report I also welcome in detail all the Commission's proposals.
Given the resistance to the report and the vote on it in the Commission that we Members of the European Parliament have all experienced over the last few days, I would nevertheless like to linger for a moment on a number of challenges regarding this problem which concerns us all.
We are talking about much more than that, however; our drinking water, our surface water and our groundwater contain more and more residues, and these days even rainwater no longer complies with drinking water standards.
For all these reasons, and for so many other reasons too numerous to mention here due to a lack of time, I want to emphasise in my report that we need a strategy to reduce use as well as a strategy to reduce risks.
A sustainable solution for the future also lies in a systematic reduction in the use of chemicals in favour of preventative and other alternative measures.
Yes, the agricultural sector is extremely important, but governments - particularly local authorities - amateur gardeners, industry and the railways are also major users and it really would be foolish not to include these in our strategy.
In our report we are asking for the precautionary principle to be applied and for GMOs not to simply be used as a safe and sustainable alternative.
In Europe we have still not properly added up what the use of pesticides actually costs society.
That brings us to the use of taxes and levies.
Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the present regulatory framework is inadequate.
More than 150 comments were received via Internet and following a stakeholder conference with almost 200 participants, the Council adopted conclusions in December 2002 and the European Economic and Social Committee did so in January 2003.
With this report of the European Parliament, the consultation process will be concluded.
The numerous detailed comments and requests contained in the resolution will be fully taken into account in the development of the future thematic strategy.
However, I would like to draw the attention of the Parliament to three particular issues raised in the resolution, where the Commission could face some difficulties with implementation.
I can assure you that it has always been the Commission's intention to cover all uses of plant protection products.
I would like to underline once more that there is no direct link between the quantities of pesticides used and the risks they can pose to health and environment.
Such targets should, however, be considered by the Member States when they establish their national action plans.
Lastly, Parliament's report urges the Commission to develop a regulatory framework for taxes and levies on pesticides.
Secondly, it is not clear whether the Commission considers that organic farming should be the future model for agriculture to be applied throughout the European Union.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is, in principle, in favour of the proper and up-to-date use of plant protection agents.
Above all else, a legally-binding 50% reduction in the use of plant protection agents would involve additional risks.
With the present problems in fruit-growing and horticulture in mind, I urge that, before the substitution principle is introduced, the effects of the reduction in the agents permitted in the EU - from over 800 to some 300 by the end of 2000 - should be analysed.
Countries such as Denmark and Sweden have shown us that pesticide reduction programmes can achieve a reduction in pesticide use of up to 70% within only a few years, without agricultural yields suffering as a result.
Our problem is that, where the control of pesticides is concerned, the control authorities in the Member States are groping in the dark, because, to take one example, the German authorities do not know what pesticides are used in Spain or in Greece.
Mr President, the use of pesticides will remain a necessary evil for the time being.
These binding national programmes must, however, take the current situation and the national and regional action programmes into account.
It is better to try to achieve an equal level of use throughout the different Member States.
It is therefore better to leave the introduction of any taxes to the individual Member States.
Finally I would like to argue in favour of accepting some of the Amendments put forward by the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, particularly Nos 1, 3, 6, 8 and 9.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the use of agricultural and non-agricultural pesticides has returned today, entering by way of sustainable development.
It is necessary to check pesticide levels in fruit and vegetables, as well as in foodstuffs of animal origin.
Moreover, as two speakers have pointed out, reducing the use of pesticides by half over the next ten years will only be feasible if there are reliable and less harmful substitute products available which do not, in particular, give rise to additional production costs which are incompatible with a market which has already been rendered vulnerable.
Finally, the point which raised more questions for our delegation than any other concerns Natura 2000.
Finally, on behalf of the farming world which I am seeking to defend here, allow me to express my concern about the direction that the rapporteur has chosen to take.
Mr President, naturally I extend my compliments for the work on the motion for a resolution but, considering it very carefully, I also have significant doubts, which I hope are not caused by some sort of accumulation in my subconscious.
This is a point which we have included in our Parliamentary position, but, following a logical thread, I get lost, because immediately afterwards I would like to understand the reasoning behind item 2 of the motion for a resolution - I am referring to Amendment No 10 - which proposes a minimum objective of a 50% reduction of the use of pesticides.
Mr President, the European Parliament has produced a comic strip book, entitled Troubled Waters, to inform young people about the workings of the European Parliament.
We all want to reduce our reliance on chemicals in agriculture but I regret that this report does not give us the solutions we want.
Mr President, we are all in favour of a reduction in the use of pesticides, but to suddenly decide upon a 50% reduction is neither realistic nor practical.
Consumers want a very good quality product.
I am almost committing a sin by actually mentioning it, but many crops are sprayed and, because of this, they are of a very good quality.
Farmers in the European Union also want to grow many varied types of crops.
That cannot be right; it does not work that way.
I cannot see any sign of that in the report, and I would like to wholeheartedly advise everyone in Parliament to vote in favour of the PPE-DE amendments, as that means that we will get our feet back on the ground a little and at the same time work together to try and do things even better in the future.
Mr President, I will keep it short, but I would like to say something to the people who might be listening to this debate there - who knows.
We must make sure - and this is one of the amendments I have submitted in the plenary session - that the efforts that have already been made by the other Member States and the efforts we still need to make, which differ from Member State to Member State, are also taken into consideration.
The debate is closed.
Furthermore, the proposal sets a strict limit for chromium -6 in cement, as chromium -6 has been shown to induce disabling and allergic eczema, especially among cement workers.
I am very glad about this successful work together, and I hope that this important directive can now be finalised.
The 2000 water framework directive classifies them as hazardous substances.
The Commission proposes to put an end to the use of these substances in eight specific fields, and the Committee on the Environment, on that basis, proposes that the area of application be extended to include co-formulants in pesticides as well as active substances and co-formulants in biocides.
The addition of a reducing agent, usually ferrous sulphate, reduces chromium VI to a harmless chemical form.
The Committee on the Environment proposes that the addition of a reducing agent be extended to cover all cements containing more than two parts per million (ppm) of chromium VI, with an exemption restricted to cases where the cement is used in closed-circuit fully automated systems.
I would point out that we have a figure for Germany of EUR 36 million per year in compensation, which enables us to measure the economic impact of this problem.
The Committee on the Environment is therefore asking for two things.
Firstly, with regard to the directive on the protection of workers against risks from chemical agents, it is asking for an amendment introducing a limit value for the concentration of dust in the atmosphere.
Secondly, it is asking for provision to be made, in other sectors which use chromium VI in various products, for legislative initiatives of the same kind as those that have been adopted for end-of-life vehicles and for electrical and electronic equipment.
The Commission's proposal, as I have already said, was very good right from the start, which made our task easier and enabled us to envisage, after discussion with the Council's representatives, consultations before the plenary vote, so as to obtain agreement at first reading.
The vote in the Committee on the Environment enabled us to take this step, and it was accepted by the representatives of the various political groups within the Committee on the Environment, for which I thank them.
I should therefore like to thank, officially and most sincerely, the Commissioner and the Commission officials, as well as the Greek Presidency of the Council, for allowing us to reach an overall agreement which will be put to the vote tomorrow.
Mr President, I am very pleased that the political groups have reached a compromise position on this report, which actually consists of two reports rolled into one.
With the Council's acceptance of this compromise, the measures contained in this report can be brought into force without delay.
As the rapporteur has said, dosing cement with ferrous sulphate counteracts this problem.
The second issue regarding cement was the risks of long-term exposure.
The rapporteur has talked about the carcinogenic and mutagenic problems of chromium-6 but, of course, nobody is realistically suggesting that the levels of chromium-6 in cement pose a risk.
I am pleased that we reached an agreement and avoided a second reading and possible conciliation.
Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group I would welcome this report and the work done in particular by the rapporteur and all the others concerned to reach a first reading agreement and therefore hasten the implementation of this proposal.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a directive has set ambitious aims for itself: to protect health and the environment.
We can readily agree with the proposal and the rapporteur with regard to the care that needs to be taken with nonylphenol and with nonylphenol ethoxylate, the dangers of which are well known and which cannot be addressed by any means other than a proposal for a directive.
We are therefore opposed in particular to Amendments Nos 31, 32, 33, 34 and 43, and if these are adopted we shall, unfortunately, feel obliged to vote against the report.
The debate is closed.
For my fellow Members' information, I will therefore very briefly describe the measure which we will be voting on tomorrow and, as Commissioner Liikanen already said, represents common ground which the Parliamentary delegation to the Conciliation Committee has supported, endorsed and which it commends to the House for a positive vote tomorrow.
As Commissioner Liikanen has already said, this is an amendment to the twenty-third amendment of Directive 76/769 relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (substances classified as carcinogens, mutagens or substances toxic to reproduction).
The proposal, based on Article 95 of the Treaty, has two main objectives: to safeguard the internal market by introducing harmonised provisions on the marketing and use of the above-mentioned substances and to achieve a high level of protection for human health and the environment.
During the last year and a half to two years of work, Parliament adopted at first reading, in February 2002, two amendments which the Council, in June 2003, partly accepted by adopting its common position.
At its second reading in 2002, Parliament adopted an amendment to the recitals.
Well, the agreement on the sole point at issue during conciliation stipulates that the Commission must submit as soon as possible a legislative proposal aimed at banning the use of products - products this time - containing substances classified as carcinogens, mutagens or substances toxic to reproduction where, however - and emphasising this is very important to the rapporteur - there is scientific evidence that these substances are released by such products, thereby exposing the general public to the risks described above.
Admittedly the argument that these substances are present in 30 000 products and it would be difficult to carry out assessments of such a large number of products makes good sense.
At first reading, the European Parliament asked the Commission to extend the directive to include the sale of consumer products, and we requested a proposal by 2002.
Mr President, I welcome this report and some of those we have seen going through Parliament in the last few months.
What is becoming clear to us all is quite simply that present analysis of chemicals and the present chemicals on the market are not satisfactory.
The debate is closed.
In the absence of a new agreement, a significant number of Community vessels from Galicia, Andalucia and Portugal that operated within this framework were forced to stop their fishing activities.
The European Parliament therefore agreed at its plenary session in December 2002 that we should immediately re-programme this money to help with the Prestige disaster in Galicia.
For example, public aid is granted only to fishermen who have undertaken to scrap vessels, change the purpose of their vessels, or agreed to the permanent transfer of a vessel to a third country through joint venture agreements.
I need hardly remind the House that in our March 2003 plenary session in Strasbourg two weeks ago, by an overwhelming majority of 507 votes in favour to 6 votes against, the European Parliament supported a resolution proposing EUR 150 million to be paid as compensation to fisherman affected by the draconian cod recovery measures now in place in the Irish Sea and the North Sea.
On the subject of items 1 and 2 in your motion for a resolution, I can, then, tell honourable Members that we will come to a decision without delay as soon as we have all the data we have requested from the Spanish Government and have the opportunity to examine it.
Item 3 of your resolution does, of course, have something to do with this.
When this agreement was not achieved, we went out of our way to ensure that the budget that had been earmarked for the agreement would go instead to the fisherman affected.
This is the purpose of the resolution we will vote on tomorrow, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries.
The draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Fisheries rightly calls on the Commission to put forward an amendment to improve this regulation and make it sufficiently flexible.
The Commission told us a few weeks ago that it could not propose amendments to the regulation because the Spanish authorities had not submitted the required information to the Commission.
Commissioner, in Andalusia alone, fishermen have made 800 visits and 1 500 enquires.
The Community Fisheries Agreement with Morocco expired on 30 November 1999.
Portugal neighbours that country, has obvious maritime connections, and a considerable part of its fishing fleet was directly involved in the fishing activities covered by this agreement.
Portuguese and Spanish fishermen have been hard hit by the non-renewal of the agreement because in many cases they have been unable to fish, which means that they have been unable to work.
It is regrettable that legislation should have been drafted in the aim of resolving situations such as this one but, instead, has further complicated the lives of the fishermen affected.
The lack of flexibility of the 2001 Regulation and the various administrative difficulties concerning the deadlines set for implementation have prevented or could invalidate access by fishermen to the exceptional support actions that have been planned, particularly to socioeconomic measures, the allocation of which turns on requirements that their beneficiaries cannot meet.
I shall conclude, Mr President, Commissioner, in the hope that this situation is duly corrected and that the Commission rapidly submits its proposal in the aim of effectively correcting the injustices created following the expiry of the Fisheries Agreement between the Community and Morocco.
The first, and perhaps the most important - to which various Members have already referred - is the excessive rigidity with regard to the payment conditions for aid of EUR 12 000 to crew members.
The second element of rigidity concerns the fact that, at the time the agreement with Morocco lapsed, some shipowners were building vessels to fish in that country's waters.
As the agreement lapsed, these shipowners had to convert these vessels and refit them for other fishing grounds.
I think it would be fair, under the current regulation or under any other, for Community co-financing to be provided to cover this rise in shipowners' costs.
Secondly, it is true that we have been paying in instalments so far, but the reason why the final instalment has not been paid is that we have not so far received a request for payment from either Spain or Portugal.
Thank you, Commissioner Fischler.
The debate is closed.
