Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (SK) I should like to state that the European Parliament's resolution on Israel and Palestine is not quite appropriately timed in view of the latest developments, whereby Israel last week released another 198 Palestinian prisoners.
This position may well be politically correct; I think we will live to regret it. - (NL) Mr President, I also voted against the resolution on the Palestinian prisoners in Israel, because at the very least this resolution conveys the idea - and I will put this in a friendly way - that we as the European Parliament are not really serious when we condemn terrorism.
The resolution argues for the release of people who have been involved in terrorist activities.
Moreover we support all the Israeli NGOs that are working to promote human rights and international law. - (NL) Mr President, in the debate yesterday I already had the opportunity to mention briefly that the Flautre report on the human rights policy of the European Union really is quite a good and balanced document.
Wealthier and larger countries that are good business partners for the European Union should also be exposed to the threat of sanctions, and need to be aware that the European Union may resort to the latter. (SK) I consider the joint motion for a resolution to evaluate MDG 5 on maternal mortality to be well balanced.
Unfortunately, these amendments were accepted in today's vote.
This is why I voted against this motion for a resolution. - (NL) Mr President, I voted against this resolution, not only because I really am opposed to yet another piece of propaganda for abortion that is contained in this resolution, but at least as much because I find the position of Parliament in general on this issue to be really rather hypocritical.
It is precisely this immigration policy that is resulting in a huge brain drain from the developing countries to Western countries, and it is precisely this policy that is robbing the developing countries of the best workers that they need, including health care workers, doctors and nurses who are needed much more in Africa than in the West.
By expressing ourselves as we have this afternoon, we have exhibited a presumption, an arrogance, and a desire to arrogate power to the centre and to overrule the national traditions of our constituent members.
There we saw queues of young women - in fact they were really just girls of 13 or 14 - and there was a stream of urine coming down the street from where they were queuing.
I also think that people like Daniel Hannan really ought to read and find out about what is going on in this Parliament. (PL) Mr President, this is a particularly important report.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of Timothy Kirkhope's report on the code of conduct for computerised reservation systems.
The new code of conduct will stimulate competition between the computer reservation systems, thereby benefiting the price and quality of services.
An alternative rail offer for flights of less than 90 minutes gives the customer another option and enables him or her to make an informed choice.
in writing. - (PL) In the course of the roll-call vote and in connection with Amendment 48, I voted against infringement of equal rights for competing entities by singling out three European Union countries and granting them a privileged position on the market.
in writing. - (SV) Standing up for human rights in the world around us is one of the political tasks of the European Union in its capacity as a union of values.
After careful consideration, we have chosen to vote in favour of the amendments proposed by the European Parliament to the Commission's proposal, despite the fact that some of the amendments are not precisely in line with our principles in this respect.
I hope that in future this European Union of ours, which has such an interest in peace in a part of the world so close to us, will be able to play a more effective mediating role than it has done in the past.
Around 10 000 Palestinians are currently detained in Israeli jails, including hundreds of children, under inhumane conditions and subject to humiliating and degrading treatment and also ill-treatment, including torture.
Furthermore, Section 7 provocatively calls on the Palestinian Authorities to police the Palestinian people's resistance.
The European Parliament should demand Israel's compliance with the principles of international law and the relevant UN resolutions.
in writing. - (SV) The situation of Israel and Palestine is complicated.
However, it is always important to uphold international law.
I therefore chose to participate in the negotiations on the European Parliament's resolution on the situation of Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails.
As I see it, it is important not to condemn Israel, as was the case in Mrs Flautre's report on the evaluation of EU sanctions as part of the EU's actions and policies in the area of human rights, where the facts had not been studied.
in writing. - (PL) The resolution on the situation of Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails adopted by the European Parliament is biased and therefore does not provide an accurate reflection of the conflict in the Middle East.
Israel is still under constant threat of terrorist activity originating in the Palestinian territories, despite ongoing peace negotiations and goodwill gestures such as the recent decision to free 198 Palestinian prisoners.
That is why we voted against the report.
in writing. - In the context of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, the EU applies restrictive measures, or sanctions, to ensure compliance with the CFSP objectives.
I believe that the Commission should play a more proactive role in defining a clear EU policy on sanctions.
I believe that the EP must be very precise when talking about sanctions, and especially when calling for EU action in response to violations of international law, as the House did in this report on Israel.
in writing. - I voted in support of Hélène Flautre's report on the evaluation of EU sanctions as part of the EU's actions and policies in the area of human rights.
in writing. - (SK) The EU considers respect for human rights to be the most important principle and therefore includes clauses on human rights and implementing mechanisms in all new bilateral agreements concluded with third countries.
I therefore welcome and have voted for Hélène Flautre's report, which brings a new philosophy to the application of sanctions and a change of ideas in the area of human rights.
This is why I abstained from voting on Amendment 4.
I also wish to state that I clearly condemn Israel's persistent violation of international law, but regret that the text of the report fails to mention those violations of international law committed by other countries in the Middle East.
This appears to be a case of double standards and that is why I voted against Amendment 5.
In spite of the fact that there are aspects of the Flautre report that are worthy of criticism, I am voting in favour of the report in order to show support for the battle for human rights.
in writing. - (PL) Sanctions imposed by the European Union are instruments that ensure the effectiveness of the CFSP.
They may be diplomatic tools but they are most commonly economic ones, and they serve to ensure compliance with the fundamental principles of international law, democracy and human rights.
Furthermore, I also believe that priority should be given to developing economic sanctions that do not impact negatively on society and do not violate the human rights of citizens of the countries sanctioned.
That is why I also supported the report on a review of EU sanctions as regards the area of human rights.
Should it prove necessary to impose sanctions, I believe that it is important to introduce positive measures so as to help the citizens of countries on which restrictive measures have been imposed.
in writing. - (PL) I voted against paragraph 57 during the roll-call vote.
I would like it to be recorded that I voted against the original text of paragraph 57 of the document.
Here is a damning fact: in sub-Saharan Africa one woman in 16 dies in childbirth.
This figure has hardly changed in 20 years.
in writing. - (PT) Each year there are around 536 000 maternal deaths (95% of which occur in Africa and South Asia).
For every woman who dies, 20 or more experience serious complications, ranging from chronic infections to disabling injuries, which could be easily avoided if there were universal access to basic and emergency obstetric care and reproductive health services.
The figures from today are exactly the same as the figures from 20 years ago.
The fact is that maternal mortality could be avoided through the provision of better health care and by guaranteeing access for all women to comprehensive sexual and reproductive health information and services.
We therefore support the resolution adopted and are pleased that our proposal to protect access to effective contraception and to legal and safe abortion has also been adopted in plenary.
We have therefore abstained in the final vote.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of this resolution because there is a high maternal mortality rate not even in the countries under development, but also in the new EU Member States.
in writing. - Mr President, having supported the amendments concerning the condemnation of the US Global Gag rule and of the ban on the use of contraceptives advocated by some churches, I voted in favour of the resolution.
I voted for the Resolution on maternal mortality before the UN High-Level Meeting of 25 September, designed for the review of the Millennium Development Goals, due to the fact that its text requests the Council and the Commission to expand the provisions on maternal health services and lay emphasis on programmes of prenatal care, maternal nutrition, adequate delivery assistance that avoids excessive recourse to caesarean sections, post-natal assistance and family planning.
That is why I voted against this resolution.
in writing. - (SK) I voted against this resolution.
Mothers in developing countries are at present faced with a pandemic with no access to basic health care, aspirin or a cup of drinking water.
On the other hand, the GATS will be another step towards the dismantling of public services, a process begun by the Commission some 15 years ago in the name of competition and the single market.
That is why we voted against the resolution!
in writing. - (PL) Services account for more than three-quarters of the European economy.
Trade in services largely involves the transfer of specialised knowledge between countries.
Consequently, free trade in services plays an important part in all development strategies, because it facilitates swift and effective transfer of know-how on a large scale.
It should be borne in mind, however, that negotiations on trade in services must serve the interests of the EU as well as promoting the development of the poorest countries.
Indeed, services are playing an increasingly important role in international trade.
The European Union, which is the world's largest exporter and largest provider of services, has to promote greater access to the services market for both the developed nations and the developing countries alike.
I also voted in favour of Amendment 5 that in the context of the EPA calls for universal, accessible and sustainable public services to be guaranteed for everyone.
in writing. - (SV) Trade in services has today become a necessity for all economies.
However, the opportunity to offer public services run by private companies is also crucial.
To me this is obvious, whether it concerns our internal market or trade in services in other countries, outside the EU's borders.
in writing. - (PL) The report on trade in services aims to emphasise the role of trade in services as a sector instrumental in the creation of new permanent jobs and in improving the citizens' quality of life.
Amendment 2, submitted by the Socialist Group, emphasizes the need for a differentiated approach in the context of opening the market in services of general interest and, in particular, the need to make a distinction between commercial and non-commercial services.
I consider amendment 5 extremely important, which calls for universal, accessible, sustainable and affordable public services, with high-quality standards to be ensured for all and amendment 10, which calls on the Commission to take stronger action against counterfeiting, particularly via the Internet and requests the Commission to submit to the Parliament and Council a proposal with a view to providing the Community and its Member States with qualitative and statistical data at European level on counterfeiting, particularly via the Internet.
Radical changes in the services sector are already evident.
I therefore believe that the EU should make every effort to improve the quality of trade in services, as this sector promotes well-being and job creation in all of the world's economies.
In fact, some European ports are already managed by authorities or companies from third countries.
in writing. - (PT) Despite agreeing with the concerns and proposals contained in the report, we consider that this does not reflect essential elements of national policy in this strategic sector - with social, economic and environmental implications - particularly that of establishing this system within a strong public sector and the need to combat the systematic violation of, and non-compliance with, the rights of workers which can be seen in segments of this sector.
in writing. - (DE) I am voting in favour of Michael Cramer's report for a sustainable and efficient logistics and freight transport system in Europe.
I support all these approaches.
I voted in favour of the Ries report which acknowledges that owing to the influx of new technology since the 1999 report, it is out of date.
The Irish Government has published a recent report concluding that, so far, no adverse short- or long-term health effects have been found.
in writing. - (PT) We voted in favour of this report, despite certain contradictions.
in writing. - I voted in support of Frédérique Ries's report on the mid-term review of the European Environment and Health Action Plan 2004-2010.
