rapporteur. - (PL) Madam President, this report on the strategy of the European Union in Africa, and the EU political partnership in the horn of Africa will be the European Parliament's response to the European Commission's communiqué of last November.
We must make full use of dialogue based on Article 8 of the Cotonou Memorandum, cooperation between Parliament and the Commission on creating a common strategy with the involvement of Africa, and searching for African solutions and strengthened African organisations.
The second level concerns a structuring action for the prevention of conflicts in the medium term.
The aim is to tackle from the root the problems that affect the countries in the region by addressing common development problems that also have an impact in terms of security and stability.
The Commission already organised, on 23 April, a conference with the personal representatives of the Heads of State or Government.
In Darfur, the UN says that some 200 000 people have died and two million have been displaced since that conflict began in 2003.
Now we see intense fighting in Somalia, where about a thousand people have died and where Ethiopian troops have been very active, fighting on behalf of the transitional government in Somalia, but of course - as we all have to acknowledge - with covert assistance from the United States.
In the Horn of Africa, neither the African Strategy nor Articles 8 and 11 of the Kotonu Agreement are working.
I would like to emphasise that the EU must coordinate its support and actions in the Horn of Africa with other countries such as, for example, China, India and the USA, which have economic interests in the countries of the Horn of Africa.
Turning to Somalia, let me say that I am astonished that it should be said that we were not saying anything to the transitional government, and I would point out that I was literally obliged to make available EUR 15 million to the Ugandan stabilisation force in Somalia, virtually without conditions attached, even though I had been completely opposed to this if the principle of inclusivity were not adhered to from the outset.
I will also say - and it is on this point that I will finish - that I have also sent a letter, couched in extremely precise and strong terms, to President Youssouf in order to remind him of his commitment to inclusivity in resolving this conflict.
The debate is closed.
