In a previous debate on 25 April 2007, when Parliament had to decide on this standard, we were unequivocal in stating that we felt the conditions were not in place for us to be able to do this.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I would like to warmly thank the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs for the excellent work they have carried out regarding the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) 8 - Operating Segments, the new standard on segment information.
Before reaching a final decision, the Commission and Parliament agreed in May 2007 that the Commission's services would carry out an analysis of the potential consequences of adopting IFRS 8.
On the basis of almost 200 contributions, my services have prepared a report which was provided to Parliament on 10 September 2007.
The report's main conclusion is that the benefits of adoption of IFRS 8 would outweigh its costs.
Further, many constituents stressed that a swift endorsement of IFRS 8 would remove uncertainty about the treatment of financial statements for the period ending in December 2007.
Some constituents were concerned that IFRS 8 lacks strict requirements on detailed geographical information because it allegedly does not require sufficient detail on a country-by-country basis.
Discussions with constituents revealed, however, that IFRS 8 is rather expected to improve this kind of disclosure.
We agreed that IFRS 8 should not be adopted solely for the sake of convergence, yet we believe that it is crucial to see the issue also in the broader context of the European Union adopting a set of standards which are truly global.
On 7 November the European Commission, the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the Japanese Financial Services Agency made a joint statement announcing their agreement to seek certain changes to strengthen the institutional framework of the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC) Foundation.
The swift adoption of IFRS 8 is important for two reasons.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, the IFRS 8 process is symptomatic of where we stand today with regard to implementation, endorsement, of IFRS in Europe.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, adoption of the IFRS 8 standard will enable our companies to use the standard for the current financial year and put an end to uncertainty.
So IFRS 8 is a win for both the companies and the investors.
