I said then that one in two flights were being cancelled.
I would ask the President to come to a better arrangement with Air France.
Since the agenda is extremely full, the only way to include this point without having to remove something else would be to cut short Question Time.
Some carriers were exempt from attention and in the EU as a whole the discrepancies between the way different nation States treated this issue led to loopholes and weaknesses in what should be an area of cooperation and coordination.
The French Presidency took the initiative but I hope my report has improved upon that initiative in a way that will be seen to be fair and reasonable in dealing with what is undoubtedly a very difficult problem.
My report ensures that carriers' liability extends to all transport to the EU of third-country nationals who are undocumented.
I also believe, however, that the responsibility of carriers should be limited.
It is important that we deal with this matter.
The European Union governments committed themselves to this in the Tampere conclusions and it also requires the necessary cooperation of the countries of origin and especially operators involved in the transport of passengers.
The problem is how to harmonise the various legislation of the Member States and to seek formulas for approximation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in summary, the Union' s governments should make the greatest possible efforts so that transporters, border police and customs police fulfil their obligations in a duly coordinated fashion, and prevent mafia networks from trafficking in human beings.
Mr President, I would like firstly to acknowledge the work and efforts of Mr Kirkhope.
In particular, I acknowledge the difficulties we know he has faced during his work on this initiative.
Also highlighted was the need to adopt a broad focus on the management or regulation of migration flows, including political issues, human rights issues, development issues and, of course, the fight against illegal immigration and human trafficking, which involves the countries of origin and of transit.
For all of these reasons, I believe it is essential, not only in the case of this initiative, but of others which we are going to deal with next today, and of those which we are no doubt going to continue debating over the coming years, that the European Union adopt clear and fair principles which, of course, comply with the United Nations Geneva Convention of 1951.
The European Union' s response to illegal immigration should not be restricted exclusively to strictly controlling it.
We must regulate migratory flow through all the mechanisms at our disposal, but we must accept that a sufficient number of people can be received so as to prevent illegal immigration and eliminate the mafias that control it.
I would like to remind this House of Article 31 of the Geneva Convention, which states that there must be a real and well-founded fear of persecution in order to justify illegal entry into the territory of a country of asylum.
In these cases, such people may use false documents as the only way to escape from imminent threats to their life or freedom.
Our objective is to improve the management of migratory movements within a framework of close cooperation with the countries of origin and of transit, stepping up the fight against this type of immigration and combating the criminal elements involved, while at the same time safeguarding the rights of the victims.
It is a pity that this text presented by the Swedish Presidency does not offer any real progress in relation to the initial text of the French initiative.
Unfortunately, the reality of immigration requires global, coherent and coordinated initiatives and not one-off actions, like this one, which is limited to implementing Article 26 of the Schengen Agreement.
We have therefore deemed it necessary to request the withdrawal of the present text in the hope of achieving a better initiative, which would contribute to the creation of a real Community policy on this issue.
Mr President, two factors play a role in this proposal.
The other element is the right to asylum.
Today' s proposal is not about whether we should or should not introduce penalties for carriers.
All Schengen countries have had such a scheme in place for many years and apply it.
Today' s proposal only aims to harmonise these penalties.
All in all, the ELDR Group is of the opinion that these two factors must be brought into closer harmony with each other.
But they can also help combat the criminal network by reporting the fact that there are people being transported in their lorries illegally.
Additional problems can occur for people who are in fact travelling with documents, but ones which are difficult to verify.
In my opinion, there are not enough people available to check all documents.
Mr President, this proposal is about dealing with symptoms of an exceptionally serious disease.
Unfortunately, it is a proposal which not only ignores the disease but also exacerbates both the symptoms and the disease.
We need more international cooperation between law enforcement agencies.
At the same time, asylum issues are growing in importance.
According to the UNHCR my own country, Ireland, came third in Europe after Slovenia and Belgium in the number of asylum seekers it received last year, compared to the size of the total population.
Asylum seekers in Europe were mainly from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Iraq and Afghanistan.
These people do not get the welcome in Ireland that one would expect, especially considering our own history of migration.
It is a new phenomenon to us, but it saddens me to see people that I believed to be decent and compassionate acting in a racist and xenophobic way - and that includes many of the people in my own constituency.
It is perfectly reasonable to expect carriers to check the documents required for entry into the destination country along with their travel tickets or flight tickets.
A criticism that may be levied at this proposal too, however, is that important aspects of a common policy on immigration and asylum should be considered within the framework of an overall concept and not sneaked into the legislative process prematurely as individual measures.
The Council' s tendency to introduce repressive aspects, when the reference frameworks for an essential common immigration policy are still not clear, is a problem, Mr President.
I would like the Commission to also provide us with a document which defines both human trafficking and common penalties, and that this should fall within the framework of a common immigration policy.
Like others, I also believe that this is an initiative which is wrong in pragmatic terms, being part of a piecemeal approach to creating a common immigration policy, which we have seen far too much of in this House already.
I would commend to the House the amendment which has been supported by three groups: Amendments Nos 10, 11 and 13.
There are other amendments to this report also worthy of consideration.
I shall be supporting Amendment No 12.
Mr President, the Kirkhope report is not a contribution towards a progressive common policy on asylum and refugees.
The obligation laid down in the Schengen Convention to return passengers, a practice that has failed and has quite rightly been condemned by church and human rights organisations, is to be extended and tightened.
The Member States are simply creating the conditions that guarantee the profits of the gangs that engage in human trafficking.
The EU will become even more of a community of closed doors.
More than 2 000 people lost their lives last year on the external borders of the Union, according to the estimates of the anti-racist human rights organisation UNITED.
If we want to go down the road of common European framework legislation in matters relating to asylum, then we must also see to it that asylum-seekers are able to come to us.
Please allow me to conclude with a remark about my own country.
Vote against the Kirkhope report!
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is absolutely no question that we are all in favour of sensible management and control of immigration, including by means of protecting the external borders of the Union.
If we are in agreement about this too, then we must also acknowledge, Mr Kirkhope, that if we want to do something, then we have to engage in discussions with the carriers themselves.
I am currently engaged in discussions with representatives of the international transport trade unions and I think there is still room for finding common ways forward on this.
In my opinion, however, it is not a crime to help needy people who wish to enter the EU actually to do so, simply because this is illegal; the crime is the closed-doors policy of the EU.
We do not even have the right to present an amended proposal, we just participate in the debate.
So, it is difficult for the Commission to take the floor and defend the proposal, or attack the proposal, because, up to a certain point, we are sidelined in this debate.
We have tried to give some support to a coordinated and integrated approach to illegal immigration and to immigration as a broader issue but we need to address the initiatives that Member States raise such as the current one.
Such a well-balanced approach is extremely difficult to achieve because it is necessary to take into account the legitimate interests of all sides, not only the Member States but also the persons in need of humanitarian protection, and the interests of the transport industry.
I think that the management of immigration falls within the responsibility of Member States, of public authorities, but we have to call upon civil society to be engaged in the management of immigration.
This broad concept brings not only the responsibility of carriers but also the commitment of NGOs into the common management of immigration policy.
The initiative should be welcomed if it provides added value to the already existing provisions of Article 26 of the Schengen implementing convention.
Therefore, the Commission, for its part, will assume its responsibility on this issue and we will try to prepare the ground in close cooperation with all interested parties for a more harmonised European approach.
The debate is closed.
However, it already appears that the Council meeting of Ministers for Justice will fall short of the goals which have been set.
This also applies to the setting up of a reception scheme for displaced persons.
The present draft directive is the third proposal which is being presented to the European Parliament, no less than four years after the first one in 1997.
The European Parliament endorsed the first two, but the Council of Ministers is struggling to reach a decision on these.
This proposal provides for situations such as those which occurred a few years ago in Bosnia and later on in Kosovo, situations in which the mass influx of displaced persons has to be absorbed by the European Union, situations in which people are being driven away from house and home, where villages are burned to the ground and where people are at their wit' s end.
And we can already foresee that, when a similar tragedy soon strikes Macedonia or maybe Algeria, the European Union will, once again, not be prepared.
The sharing of responsibility among the Member States has now been included in the scheme and is now inextricably linked to it.
And there are many other aspects which have been arranged far more efficiently than in the previous proposals but which I will not elaborate upon at this stage.
The Council of Ministers must be tied down to deadlines when it takes decisions on the implementation of the temporary protection of displaced persons, and the European Parliament - this, too, is an old complaint, Mr President - must be more involved in the decision-making process.
In the case of Bosnia and Kosovo, countries such as Germany, the Netherlands and Austria received large numbers of displaced persons, whilst other Member States did too little.
The Commission now proposes, first of all, to share the financial burden on the basis of the Refugee Fund.
This is first of all about implementing the EC Treaty which expressly stipulates that the Council must help strike a balance between the efforts of the Member States in this field.
The word 'balance' encompasses more than the word 'solidarity' which is in the proposal at present.
More than anything, we need to distribute the displaced persons across the Member States proportionately: hence Amendments Nos 4 and 11.
Also, the provision must be deleted whereby Member States can opt out altogether from receiving displaced persons.
What we are dealing with here is the issue of sharing the burden of receiving refugees from civil wars.
In the Bosnian war, for example, my country received more than twice as many refugees as all other countries put together.
This is why I am grateful to you, Mr Vitorino for taking up these problems energetically after Tampere.
I would like to add that, unlike the previous agenda item, this is not an initiative by a Member State but an initiative of the Commission and the Commissioner responsible.
If, Mr Vitorino, you adhere to the principle known as two-sided voluntary action, meaning that refugees should be able to decide for themselves which Member State they wish to enter, and that Member States should only take in refugees voluntarily, then everything will remain exactly as it is and absolutely nothing will change.
The second point, Mr Vitorino, relates to family reunification.
The indeterminate concept of the family that you use cannot be imposed upon all the Member States.
This is our second serious objection.
This temporary protection needs to cover not only spontaneous mass influxes into the Community territory but also non-spontaneous influxes, when people have been airlifted out of difficult areas by Member States, or perhaps other parties, and possibly assisted to come to the EU.
I am fully aware of the logistical and organisational difficulties that this presents, but action needs to be immediate and an emergency Council meeting is a small price to pay for ensuring that those in need receive protection.
Amendments Nos 45 and 46 concern the rights of individuals.
When they are in Member States they have the right to asylum and protection.
Member States must try to do more to integrate refugees into society.
My group will be supporting this with the amendments to which I have just referred.
Mr Wiebenga has added some useful, strengthening amendments to the clause already in the Commission proposal: for instance, on insisting on non-refoulement, to insist that the Dublin Convention shall not apply and that the host Member State shall consider the asylum application, and on the involvement of UNHCR.
Mr Wiebenga's report is based on a Commission proposal in line with the Tampere conclusions and the scoreboard.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to congratulate rapporteur Wiebenga on his report.
Some Member States recognise the right to work and family reunification, others do not.
The proposal forms part of the recent Commission initiatives with regard to the asylum policy on account of the new Convention.
The Commission recognises this risk when it states that temporary protection is a responsibility which is of crucial importance to the European Union, but it needs to spell out that it does not intend to undermine the protection of refugees.
We therefore share the rapporteur' s opinion that the proposal for a directive contains a considerable number of improvements on the previous two proposals.
The sharing of the burden among the Member States is no longer separate from the stipulations.
Mr President, I should also like to thank the rapporteur for his report and the Commission for the fact that this proposal has finally been presented and will hopefully soon be put into effect.
Mr President, I would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report, which really addresses the problem, and to thank him for it.
So not only is the call for more equitable burden sharing as regards receiving refugees justified, but also burden sharing itself is an expression of solidarity between the peoples of Europe.
As various Members have already pointed out, only a few Member States bore a share of the burdens resulting from the civil wars in former Yugoslavia.
The second important point is family reunification.
Here, too, a fundamental principle of our Community is at stake - subsidiarity.
I urge you to vote for the fair traditions of this House and for the fundamental principles of our Community of values, and not to be swayed by purely national interests and party political calculations.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort he has made to improve this report.
I wish to say on behalf of my group that we are in favour of distributing responsibilities amongst the Member States.
I am not going to use the word burden because, having seen the faces of men and women in refugee camps in Macedonia, who are just like you and me, Mr President, it seems to me to be horrendous and repugnant to call them a burden.
I believe that it in doing this we must take clear account of the situation and show a degree of flexibility, which the rapporteur acknowledges, simply to listen to the will of the refugees and to prevent them, as a result of their temporarily weak position, from effectively becoming a burden to be transported to where we, completely regardless of their views, decide.
I also wish to congratulate the rapporteur on the effort which he has made to clarify the time periods, to clarify that, in this case, it is especially important to respect the time periods within which things are decided, and to support the amendment which our group has presented in order to specify and to reduce these time periods.
I hope that the Council does not make us wait another four years for a decision on this issue.
Although we offer our unqualified support to the report as a whole, my group would now also like to make a few observations, of which I should like to mention two.
The first concerns the much-debated Article 13(1).
The Commission proposal relies on solidarity among Member States and their generosity in offering reception capacity, but there is no big stick.
Pursuant to Article 24, the Refugee Fund has to provide for financial solidarity.
But this fund has a maximum of EUR 10 million annually at its disposal for displaced persons.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive defining a European temporary protection regime in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons from third countries replaces the proposals for joint action on the same subject that we discussed in 1997 but that were not implemented because of what I regard as justified reservations on the part of several Member States.
Unfortunately, although today's proposal is more flexible on certain points, it remains open to several serious criticisms.
But the Commission proposal only provides for a qualified majority decision, which, in our view, was not legally necessary and basically seems quite inadequate for such a serious issue.
Mr President, within this disordered debate on certain aspects of immigration, we are dealing with a proposal for a directive of great importance because it attempts to regulate the fair and coordinated efforts which the Member States are obliged - and I stress, obliged - to make to receive displaced people and refugees from third countries.
The problem is also that a great number of asylum requests are rejected because they do not come from genuine political refugees, but from economic immigrants.
The issue is to resolve the problems created by the current asylum procedure, and thereby make the number of asylum seekers much more reasonable and make the distribution of responsibilities fairer.
The amendment presented in committee by the Spanish delegation of our group endorses a vote in favour of the report despite some of our reservations on certain aspects of it.
Mr President, the draft directive on displaced persons represents a new step towards European asylum policy.
But we are a long way off the ultimate goal, not least because the Council has hitherto appeared unable to reach decisions on Commission proposals.
The Council will perhaps be able to deal with this temporary protection directive more promptly, as it is not being 'hindered' by a codecision procedure in this case.
It is, however, questionable how much further problems have to escalate before the Council can rise above the mutual differences and can adopt a truly European approach.
First of all, the drive with which the Commission acquits itself of its task as legislator in the European Union and the care it applies to keeping the balance between the national interests and the ultimate goal of Tampere are quite remarkable.
Mr President, the Italians have an expression which I have always loved tutto il mondo e i paesi and today we are talking about a variety of legislation relating to what is clearly one of the most passionately debated and in many cases inadequately legislated for issue in our Community.
Many colleagues today have spoken on the basis of experience in their own countries of how these issues are handled.
It is our duty as one human being to another, but what we must absolutely insist on in all our immigration policies, not just in the context of mass displacements of people in the event of civil war, is that we must have a much better thought-out, much more humane and generous, and, above all, merciful policy towards those who come to us for help in these tragic situations.
I also believe it is fair to congratulate Commissioner Vitorino, because it is evident that the proposal for a directive, the draft presented to us today, greatly improves on the proposals which have previously been presented to this House.
I believe that it is important to stress the guarantee of the right of these displaced persons to family reunification on the same basis as holders of residency documents and, although this may be a personal view, I believe that the issue of unmarried couples has not been sufficiently dealt with.
Another issue which I feel to be important is clarity on the distribution of responsibilities between the Member States in the event of a massive influx of displaced persons.
The Member States must deal with this type of situation in a homogenous and cooperative way.
It is also important to make it clear that people who have benefited from the temporary protection system also have the right to make a request for asylum and that the Geneva Convention must be respected to the full, including its principle of not returning asylum seekers to their country of origin.
The role of the European Parliament must be strengthened and, in cases of temporary protection, it is essential that it be consulted.
We must all prevent visa restrictions, which were imposed in the case of Kosovo, for example, which brought shame on every one of us.
I believe that on this occasion Parliament has done its job.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our view the Commission's proposal for a directive on temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of displaced persons forms part of a global vision of how to establish a European asylum system.
The European Union needs an exceptional mechanism at its disposal so that it can react rapidly to mass influxes and respond immediately to the need to protect displaced persons, a situation we have seen in Bosnia and Kosovo.
And we know that the European Parliament is extremely concerned with this principle.
I know that the financing of that fund is not very ambitious, but perhaps this is an area where it would be more rational to ask how the fund can help to strengthen financial solidarity.
At the same time, let me emphasise, in this proposal we have adhered to the principle of sharing the burden with regard to the physical reception of the refugees.
I understand Mr von Boetticher's problem and even agree with his comment about the difficulties.
The idea of ensuring voluntary action by both sides first came up during the German Presidency and has gained ground.
That is why, from the outset, the decision to grant temporary protection specifies either the capacity of Member States to absorb refugees or the exceptional reasons that prevent them from taking in any more displaced persons.
And that transparent decision-making system is essential, for peer-group pressure has a role to play here: it must persuade everyone to agree to cooperate in the matter of reception, including the physical reception of beneficiaries of temporary protection.
But in any case I want to say that we have taken careful note of all the amendments that were tabled.
Some of your amendments modify the level of beneficiaries' rights and the Commission remains very keen to see a fair level that cannot be revised downwards.
The debate is closed.
on the initiative of the Republic of Finland with a view to the adoption of a regulation reserving to the Council implementing powers with regard to certain detailed provisions and practical procedures for examining visa applications [11834/2000 - C5-0559/2000 - 2000/0805(CNS)]; II.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the main object of the initiative of the Republic of Finland which we have before us today is to reserve to the Council implementing powers with regard to certain detailed provisions and practical procedures for examining visa applications.
The first is a political error against the Community spirit and against the spirit of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
By reserving itself implementing powers, the Council would, in effect, be rejecting the spirit of the Treaty of Amsterdam and, in practice, perpetuating the intergovernmental methods that used to apply.
The second mistake is, I believe, an institutional one.
Let me remind Members that Article 202 of the EC Treaty is not just any old article.
The Council committed a third mistake, this time vis-à-vis the Commission.
To justify reserving itself implementing powers, the Council maintains that visas and border control policy are a sensitive area.
That argument does not stand up to analysis, especially when we remember that the regulation laying down a uniform format for visas expressly allows the Commission to take implementing measures, which are in fact secret, in what is clearly a particularly sensitive area.
By reserving itself implementing powers - and I want every Member to realise this - the Council is completely depriving the European Parliament of the information to which it would have been entitled under the usual comitology arrangements.
This refusal to provide information is all the more serious because some decisions already are and will continue to be taken in the framework of procedures classified as confidential.
If the Socialist Group and the PPE-DE Group so wish, then perhaps even small groups may also be permitted to draw up reports on matters of interest.
When we deal with these subjects, however, I think it might be a good idea if, once in a while, we were to take stock of what we are actually doing when we take these initiatives, which are, of course, all offshoots of the Schengen Convention and ideas about the 'area of democracy, freedom and justice' we talk so much about.
That is why it is so incomprehensible that we should continue to keep people out of our area, that we should accept that people will die en route to the EU, that we should be prepared to see the corpses of refugees or of people seeking a better life washed up on the coasts of the EU and that we should prefer to see these people as corpses than as citizens or as useful individuals in our part of the world.
My own country, Denmark, is among the worst.
The liberals in my country think that all refugees should be assembled in camps in the world's poorest countries.
In the light of this, I am glad that my country is not involved in the common policy on refugees and, as a result, does not have any influence on those policies the EU is drawing up at the moment for, in spite of everything, the situation is a bit better than if Denmark had had any influence.
When the Wall came down in 1989, we all believed in a Europe without walls, but we are well on the way to putting walls up.
It is evident that the Commission is in a better position than the individual Member States to promote the Community interest, whereas individual Member States tend to concentrate on their own interests.
This initiative dates back to the end of the French Presidency, at a time when the Presidency's achievements were threatening to look very slim indeed.
That is a lesson we have just learnt from the European Court of Justice's ruling on the tobacco advertising directive.
In that case too there was a legal objective which very much deserved to be debated, but the ECJ made it clear that there has to be a legal basis in the European treaties.
However, in this case we are talking about all the Member States mutually recognising expulsion decisions and other similar decisions reached in accordance with their respective national legal frameworks.
As we have been rather more careful recently about whether the European Union and in particular the Community aspect of it can do everything it would like to do, we in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs were firmly of the opinion that while we support the legal objective pursued by the initiative, we can see no legal basis for it.
It is perfectly clear that this difficult situation could be resolved if there were a European expulsion law.
That would solve all the problems associated with this initiative.
Mr President, given the way this morning' s debate is going, I wonder whether we are in a seminar, in a big lecture, or in a Parliament whose obligation is to legislate and to provide solutions to European society' s current problems.
Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very worrying that this Parliament has rejected en bloc Council initiatives such as the ones we are considering here and that this demonstrates great disarray in the legislative process which the Treaty obliges us to follow.
Free movement, for example, is a fundamental aspect, which requires legislation that is crystal-clear to both the citizens of the European Union and to those from third countries.
The same can be said of Mr Nassauer' s report, in which he has expressed himself well and in which he rightly criticises the lack of legal rigour of the French Government' s initiatives on the mutual recognition of decisions regarding expulsion.
We should truly be considering whether the European institutions are providing a rigorous response to European society' s current demand that we create a policy on immigration which respects the principles of freedom, equality and justice that go hand in hand with European culture.
The majority groups in this House, as happens in our own countries, must reach a consensus on the great principles enshrined in Chapter IV of the Treaty and its legislative implementation.
No to these three initiatives.
I am a keen supporter of the EU and have wanted for a long time to see common rules within refugee and asylum policy, but we Liberals are not prepared to accept some kind of fenced-in Europe.
Mr President, as I rise to speak in this debate I cannot, of course, help thinking about the situation which the Spanish public is currently facing as regards the serious issue of immigration.
Less than a month after the tragedy of the East Sea that ran aground on the French coast, with 908 people crammed into the holds of an old tub, including three babies born during the crossing, we run the risk of perpetuating the image of a Europe that is suspicious of foreigners and wants, above all, to strengthen its borders, while alleging that the intention is to combat the trafficking in human beings.
They follow on from the pictures of the 58 Chinese immigrants who reached Dover only to be found dead among crates of tomatoes, of the fugitives from Bangladesh, Pakistan, Albania, Iraq, Africa or any other region stricken by poverty and war.
Article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution.
So the time has now come to strengthen the right of asylum as set out in the Geneva Convention; the idea of temporary protection, which does not prejudge recognition of refugee status, goes in that direction.
We must impose severe penalties on those who organise and are responsible for this trafficking but we must also look into the reasons why individuals, exploited in a cowardly way, find themselves shunted from country to country, from continent to continent, in their search for El Dorado - all in the name of liberal globalisation.
We must guarantee that freedom of movement.
The debate on these three reports, but also on the Kirkhope report, highlights an extremely clear-cut problem: we are not concerned with the merit of the proposal but its method.
I therefore hope that, during this voting session, Parliament will once again heed the advice of the rapporteurs and the vote of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, which calls for the Council's and Member States' proposals to be rejected.
I hope, in particular, for a political solution, for Parliament to regain the dignity which a democratically elected institution which represents the citizens ought to have in matters of justice and home affairs, if only in terms of Parliament's institutional role.
It is an outrage that the work of Parliament and the work of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs are, in fact, sidelined in favour of proposals which we are forced to discuss, proposals put forward by individual Member States, by groups of Member States, by the Council or by the States holding the Presidency, proposals which do not have a proper legal basis.
Frequently, almost without exception, these proposals are the political manifestos of Member States which are perfectly aware that their proposals will never be adopted by the Council.
Mr President, I wish to speak about the French Republic's initiative on the mutual recognition of decisions on the expulsion of third-country nationals, which aims to prevent the free and unchecked movement within the Union of foreigners who are the subject of an expulsion decision.
Despite the advantages of this proposal, the European Parliament's responsible committee is rejecting it for two reasons that I do not find convincing.
The French Republic's initiative on the mutual recognition of decisions on expulsion therefore certainly deserves to be approved.
These two proposals undermine Article 202, which establishes the general principle that the Commission alone has powers to implement the rules which the Council lays down, although the Council may also reserve the right, in specific well-founded cases, to exercise directly implementing powers itself.
This initiative only covers the second of these categories, thus fragmenting the right to travel of third-country nationals without indicating to what extent these rules revoke, replace or modify the Schengen acquis.
The Nassauer report also - and quite rightly - proposes that the French initiative should be rejected.
Given that there are three proposals that we intend to reject, I would like to make an appeal to the Commissioner, António Vitorino, and to the Commission, that they should take the initiative in this area, thus ensuring the overall consistency of the Community framework of which it is the institutional guardian.
Today the Council wants us to believe that visas and border checks are a specific case and to reserve for itself the implementing powers which belong to the Commission.
At the same time, of course, it is ignoring the European Parliament and the required consultation procedure by amending decisions without consulting the European Parliament.
There can be no doubt whatsoever that, if we want to create a common European area of security and justice, we need to oppose unilateral initiatives by Member States and make standard arrangements.
Of course, we hardly need stress yet again that fortifying the borders and policing measures will do nothing to reduce migratory pressures and illegal border crossings as long as there is a huge prosperity differential between our countries and our neighbours.
So what the Council should do is to authorise the Commission, on the basis of the Tampere procedure, to take the necessary initiatives so that we can use assent procedures to introduce, as quickly as possible, a common immigration policy which regulates all outstanding issues fairly and is based on our common humanitarian European values and democratic tradition.
Mr President, the three reports being debated today have a common subject: the application of European Union policy to immigrants.
They respond to demands by the Member States of the European Union either for greater flexibility as regards the period of residency of immigrants and a more lenient Community institutional framework, as in the case of Portugal, or for faster action on the decisions taken at Tampere on mutual recognition by all the Member States of decisions on the expulsion of third-country nationals, as in the case of France.
All three reports have been rejected by the competent committee on formal grounds.
My country, Greece, is currently discussing a bill along these lines on so-called immigration policy which, to put it bluntly, treats immigration as a crime and anyone who fails to denounce or who assists an immigrant as an accessory to the crime.
I will begin with the aspects relating to the provisions that come within the Schengen framework.
The Commission does, in fact, believe that it should be possible to amend, adapt or update some of the provisions in the joint consular instruction, in the joint handbook and in the specifications of the Schengen consultation network, by a simplified method based on comitology.
We can also subscribe to the initiatives of the Republics of Finland and Portugal, but we cannot subscribe to the majority of the proposed measures, which reserve implementing powers to the Council without, however, providing any circumstantial evidence that this really is a specific case that is an exception to the general rule laid down in the Treaty.
Joint consular instruction, the joint handbook and the specifications of the Schengen consultation network have been integrated as the legal basis for Articles 62 and 67 of the Treaty of the European Communities, under Title IV.
However, Title IV contains no institutional derogation from Article 202 of the Treaty.
They constitute no more than the practical formulation of political decisions taken by the Council in primary legislative acts, which are themselves governed by the appropriate provisions of Title IV.
The Commission can endorse the aim of the Portuguese proposal for a regulation concerning the period during which third-country nationals who are exempt from the visa requirement can travel freely within the territory of the Member States.
Indeed, Article 62 of the Treaty invites the Council to adopt, within five years following the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, measures laying down the conditions under which third-country nationals can move freely within the territory of the Member States for a period of not more than three months.
Finally, I come to the proposal for a directive on the mutual recognition of expulsion decisions, which the French Presidency presented last July.
Taking the long-term view, it would seem desirable to allow an expulsion decision taken in one Member State to be executed in another Member State, without the latter having to take a new expulsion decision.
The French Republic's initiative should be regarded as no more than a very first step towards achieving this objective, which we must recognise as an ambitious one.
So far, no common policy on repatriating asylum-seekers has been formulated in the framework of asylum and immigration policy.
With a view to defining such a policy, and as stated in its programme of work for the year 2001, the Commission will draw up a communication on a common policy on repatriation.
The most important common principle is to give primacy to voluntary return over forced return.
The European Refugee Fund supports Member State efforts in this field.
This proposal was then accepted by the French Presidency and the Swedish Presidency, which intend to establish this network of information and exchange of experiences and best practices to prevent crime through a proposal for a legislative initiative.
In my opinion, we are simply showing the citizens that Europe is in the process of creating a genuine area of freedom and justice.
European crime prevention network (continuation) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we have before us to create a European crime prevention network is intended as a response to the growing need to fight crime.
The necessity for greater and more effective international cooperation in this area, especially at EU level, has been recognised.
So this network is intended to promote cooperation and the exchange of information between Member States, and the collection and analysis of information on actions undertaken and best practice in the field of prevention, with the aim of assisting future decision-making in this area.
The role of the EU in preventing small-scale crime should be limited to promoting exchanges of information between national authorities so as to encourage an exchange of best practice and research while respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
The citizens of the European Union are justified in calling on the Union to efficiently tackle the problem of the growing threat to their freedom and rights caused by crime.
The network is also very important as regards the candidate countries, as it can help to get a better handle on the problems that can result from transition periods.
Within the European Union a new institutional framework to fight against organised crime has been put in place following the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
It provides for the development of common actions in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters while preserving Member State responsibility for maintaining law and order and safeguarding internal securities.
The enhanced role of Europol certainly represents a major step forward in this context.
The conclusions of the Tampere Council meeting present a strong political message, reaffirming the Union's wish to overcome difficulties in prosecuting all forms of cross-border crime while protecting the freedoms and legal rights of individuals and economic operators.
It is important that all EU institutions work together to ensure a coherent strategy against organised crime.
The primary motive of much organised crime is financial crime.
The EU policy in the fight against financial fraud is pursued simultaneously under the first and third pillars of the Treaties.
Certainly from an Irish perspective, the establishment of the Criminal Assets Bureau in 1996 has proved to be very successful in tackling this area of crime.
A considerable number of actions to fight cyber-crime are already under way in international fora.
The European Commission has also presented a legislative proposal on child pornography on the Internet, in line with the provisions of the Council's European cyber-crime convention.
I support the framework programme being brought forward by the European Commission to combat the traffic in human beings by developing effective cooperation across the European Union in judicial procedures in this regard, and also by establishing closer links with the accession countries.
Mr President, it would almost appear that we have to vote on a issue which is a foregone conclusion, that is on whether Parliament is for or against crime.
As yet, we fail to understand what the concept of crime prevention is, for it is not defined anywhere in the proposal or the report.
This is why we are going to vote against the motion: primarily because it supports this European network.
Mr President, the French and Swedish initiative on cooperation between national bodies in the fields of juvenile delinquency, crime and drugs is a follow-up to the Tampere Summit.
This European strategy is based on the principle that EU intervention is bound to give added value to Member State policy.
Some of the measures are, in fact, rather anecdotal, such as the provision in Article 3 concerning the annual European Crime Prevention Awards.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report and to say very simply, given the late hour, that the Commission supports the Franco-Swedish initiative to create a European crime prevention network.
This is an initiative which represents a good example of Member States' use of their right of initiative, because it was worked out in close cooperation with the Commission itself.
The debate is closed.
We are certainly keeping the precedent set by the Ceyhun report in mind, Mr Watson.
Mr President, we are about to conduct a strange vote, as we did last month, on this strange new method of a legislative initiative by Member States.
Mr President, I am the rapporteur who was in the same position last month.
the initiative of the Republic of Finland with a view to the adoption of a regulation reserving to the Council implementing powers with regard to certain detailed provisions and practical procedures for examining visa applications [11834/2000 - C5-0559/2000 - 2000/0805(CNS)] II.
the initiative of the Portuguese Republic with a view to adopting a Council regulation reserving to the Council implementing powers with regard to certain detailed provisions and practical procedures for carrying out border checks and surveillance [5736/2001 - C5-0044/2001 - 2001/0802(CNS)] President.
I should remind the House that the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has proposed that this initiative be rejected by the House.
The House should therefore vote against it so as to be consistent with the proposal by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms. (Parliament rejected the initiative of the Republic of Finland) President.
The same procedure applies. (Parliament rejected the initiative) President.
Mr President, I was unable to make it on time for the votes today due to the extremely bad flight connection between Amsterdam and Strasbourg.
It is unfortunate that Air France is unable to provide this connection without any serious delays.
The French director of the French Caisse des retraites explained to us how the Caisse des retraites works - or rather, does not work.
The Member States allocate specific regions and quotas to the sugar manufacturers and this sugar is then sold within a protected national market.
The reason why I voted against the modified proposal was that the report proposed to maintain a system that has not been reviewed for 32 years.
Finally, the budgetary resources allocated to the system (EUR 300 million per annum) could be redirected towards other agricultural expenditure.
The second principal concern about this report is that Daul's amendments extended the current regime until 2005-6 contrary to the Commission's proposal of an interim regime lasting 2 years.
Such a system threatens to jeopardise the EU's credibility in relation to impending enlargement and WTO obligations.
This report also ignores the conclusions of a recent Court of Auditor's report denouncing the regime as wasteful and mismanaged and stating that the current system leads to substantial costs for the EU budget and consumer.
Although we cannot agree on the content of the current sugar policy, we have voted in favour of the amended report because, more than anything, policy is about keeping prior arrangements, as in the case of Agenda 2000.
We should also like to make a general remark on rapporteurs and their possible vested interests in the topics of their reports.
The ACP countries and India have told us how important the price guarantee that the Cotonou Agreement offers them is to the development of their sugar industry, allowing them to prepare themselves for a global economy.
The European Union must emphasise the commitments it entered into towards them.
We endorse the call on the Commission to present impact studies of the various aspects of the COM in sugar, of the possible alternatives to this production.
We all wish for and are committed to a comprehensive overhaul of the common agricultural policy, but this is more likely to happen in a thorough and systematic way if reforms of other sectors are considered as part of a general package in 2006, and besides, there is no absolute guarantee that an earlier ending of the sugar regime would necessarily deliver immediate cheaper sugar prices to the consumer.
Kirkhope Report (A5-0069/2001) Mr President, along with the majority of Parliament, I voted against this document which seeks to harmonise the Community penalties for those who smuggle illegal immigrants onto Union territory.
I feel that it is much more important - and so do all the pensioners who sent me to the European Parliament - and would be much more useful to combat illegal immigration into Europe by stepping up controls at Europe's borders.
I supported the proposal for a Council directive on the harmonisation of penalties imposed on carriers transporting illegal immigrants into the territory of the Member States.
In fact, this proposal provides for penalties only in the case of illegal immigrants who have no documents whatsoever, and that is clearly something a carrier would have to take note of.
Following its usual strategy, the European Parliament began by voting for amendments that completely destroy the balance of the proposal.
In particular, it has exempted carriers from any penalties if an illegal passenger seeks asylum immediately after arriving on the territory of the country of destination.
After upsetting the balance of the text in this way, the European Parliament then rejected it, expressing its annoyance that Member States were presenting such 'repressive' texts, on the basis of the right of initiative they still have, for the time being, in this area.
A first text was presented to the European Parliament in September 2000, on the initiative of the French Presidency.
The aim of this directive is to supplement Article 26 of the Schengen Convention and to define its implementing conditions.
This French initiative defines the obligations of carriers who bring foreigners whose application for asylum has been rejected into the Union.
It is confined to improving the situation in only a very limited way within the actual scope of Article 26 of the Schengen Agreement, although, pursuant to the Protocol integrating the Schengen acquis into the framework of the European Union, a far more significant step forward could have been taken.
In the same context, the carrier is exempted from the penalties if the person carried is granted refugee status or leave to remain under a subsidiary form of protection.
While I entirely endorse the initiative and the approach of the French Presidency, I found some of the amendments made to the proposed text unacceptable.
The European Union and individual countries must do more to address the problems and circumstances in the countries of origin that cause people to seek refuge in the European Union.
All the companies who own the lorries and other vehicles and all carriers of all types must take responsibility for their actions - corporate responsibility from the top downwards.
This in turn means that all Member States, Britain, France, Belgium and the others alike, must ensure that there are proper systems in place and that the laws are enforced.
In supporting some parts of the Kirkhope report we recognised the complexities of the issue and will continue to work for a full and comprehensive common asylum system for the European Union, one that has humanity and the interests of the most vulnerable at its core. . (DE) With regard to the harmonisation of penalties imposed on carriers transporting third­country nationals lacking the documents necessary for admission into the territory of the Member States, I wish to say, on behalf of those Members of this House who belong to the Austrian Freedom Party, that although we are in favour of effective measures to prevent illegal entry, these should be taken within the framework of and taking account of the national systems of sanctions which have developed organically.
The severe sanctions proposed by the Council constitute a significant threat to the right of asylum.
But it is also a misconception to think that we can keep Fort Europe closed to people who have to, or want to, leave the world outside Europe.
It appears that those people are willing to part with a great deal of money and take huge risks to enter Europe.
As I already said on 15 February in the context of the Ceyhun report on illegal entry, it is crazy to penalise the solidarity of action groups and churches with political refugees and war victims. - (SV) We Swedish Christian Democrats appreciate the set of problems that has given rise to the proposal but nonetheless choose to refer this back to the Council and the Commission whom we call upon to develop a proposal taking a more holistic view of the EU' s asylum policy.
The present proposal is problematic because there is a risk of transferring responsibility for making prior checks on asylum seekers to carriers who do not have the required knowledge or authority.
These are simply common-sense measures that will help prevent people being smuggled into countries across Europe.
Wiebenga Report (A5-007/2001) Mr President, this morning, I talked to Mr Fitto on the telephone.
I voted against the Commission's proposal on temporary protection in the event of a mass influx of persons fleeing upheavals of various kinds in third countries.
However, Commissioner Vitorino has just presented the situation quite differently.
According to him, Article 25 does indeed provide that a Member State can declare itself unable to take in these persons, but it will have to justify that declaration and the justification must be genuinely exceptional.
The European Parliament went even further by adopting amendments that make it totally impossible for a Member State to dissociate itself from a majority decision on the physical allocation of these refugees.
Moreover, the European Parliament endorsed the Commission's proposals on organising the situation of temporary refugees as though they were to remain in the host country for good, in particular by accepting the right of families to be reunited.
In a world of increasingly open borders, the flood of refugees is not about to dry up.
The arrival on the French coast on 19 January of a group of 910 Kurdish refugees clearly illustrates the growing involvement of networks of organised crime in illegal immigration.
Above all, however, this massive influx of refugees quite plainly raises the question of the right to seek asylum on European soil today.
It needs to be strengthened because refugees face more than just state persecution and because very often it is not just individuals who are targeted but whole families.
The proposal before us today seems to tend broadly in that direction, yet the measures it advocates are very limited in terms of achieving the objectives involved in implementing a genuine common European asylum system.
It is time for the European Union to genuinely overhaul the right of asylum without further delay, for the situations in which the displaced people find themselves are too urgent and serious to allow time for institutional discussions. - (SV) A common policy on temporary protection for displaced persons is to be welcomed, especially so as to ensure that all Member States are involved in taking care of people forced to flee from regions affected by war.
However, it is important that such temporary protection, which applies for two years at the most, should not constitute a threat to the right to seek asylum.
The right to asylum under the Geneva Convention and to a permanent residence permit must always be safeguarded.
Temporary protection in the EU' s Member States must not prevent people from seeking asylum as soon as they arrive in the Member State responsible or during the period that the temporary protection applies.
Deprez report (A5-0066/2001) Mr President, I too voted against the Republic of Finland' s and the Republic of Portugal's request for a directive regulating visa applications and border controls because, in effect, it is not within the remit of these States to table such documents in this way.
However, it pained me to do so, Mr President, for the issue raised by these States is right and proper, and I wonder why we are waiting to regulate the border control procedures at Europe's frontiers with a directive which would be immediately applicable throughout the European territory.
Frahm Report (A5-0075/2001) Mr President, the Frahm report - I am saying this for the benefit of those who are listening to me now and did not take part in the vote - concerns the requirement to obtain a visa for those who come to Europe and who move around within our territory but are not citizens of our Member States.
I voted against this initiative of the Portuguese Republic as well, because, in effect, it was not acceptable.
I have to say that the French Republic did well to present this initiative, even though it was rejected.
Once again, therefore, I am taking the opportunity afforded by this proposal for a directive to call strongly for a European regulation on the procedures, conditions and rules for expelling undesirable immigrants from Europe.
The purpose of this proposal is, quite patently, to make it easier to take measures to expel third-country nationals.
This would be in line with the conclusions of the Tampere European Council of October 1999, aimed at better migration management.
Not measures which, like this initiative, are basically aimed only at establishing a security policy under which foreigners, perceived as a threat, can no longer enjoy their rights and freedoms and the word justice has become meaningless.
That article is concerned only with immigration measures taken in specific circumstances, and in particular the conditions under which a third-country national can be sent back or expelled, against his will, to his country of origin.
The present proposal for a directive does not address these matters.
The proposal does not, therefore, set out to lay down Community rules on expulsion.
Hatzidakis Report (A5-0040/2001) Mr President, a policeman stops an articulated lorry in Germany because it is going too fast.
Persons exposed to radiation levels of 200mSv or more are subject to an increased risk of cancer.
The debate on the pros and cons of nuclear energy takes place first and foremost in each of the Member States, where it follows its own course.
This report concentrates on the question of transport as such, and its different aspects: rationalisation, compliance with legislative provisions concerning transport, information on the transport of radioactive material, etc.
Although a number of European Union Member States have decided to stop reprocessing or gradually to 'go non-nuclear', it will still be necessary to send consignments to those countries which have signed reprocessing contracts, in order to return to them their nuclear waste currently stored at reprocessing facilities.
The increase in consignments generally and the frequency of the use of road, rail, waterway and air transport increase both the likelihood of accidents and the need for safety standards in the transportation of radioactive material.
Let me conclude by emphasising the importance of transparency in this field.
I have voted for this report although I have reservations about some aspects of it.
The disasters in Harrisburg and Chernobyl had a decelerating effect on the further development of nuclear energy, and some countries have either abandoned it completely by now or are in the process of doing so.
Schwaiger Report (A5-0076/2001) Mr President, the European Parliament had to make a statement on this issue, especially given the sense of uncertainty that prevails on the eve of another WTO round.
The European Parliament is sending out a clear message, which offers a coherent vision of the future of the WTO.
I am satisfied with the clear and precise mandate given to the European Commission on the use of the precautionary principle in the WTO with regard to agriculture.
At the same time, the opposing positions and antagonisms within this world imperialist system cause difficulties and delays which the popular movement can turn to its advantage.
Agricultural production in Greece and other countries is being sacrificed in order to protect industrial produce from central and northern Europe and ensure that it gains a stronger foothold on the international markets.
The rules which govern international economic relations and trade should serve the interests of the workers, leave fundamental social rights be, help less-developed countries to develop, respect the environment and serve the right of every nation to exercise its own controls and decide on its own future.
Democratisation presupposes respect for and the protection of the rights of the workers.
With the European agriculture model, we have a common agricultural policy in mind.
In the end I voted against the Schwaiger report despite its good qualities, because the debate we held yesterday, and in particular Commissioner Lamy's replies to my three questions, left me very dissatisfied.
In reply to my first question - and is it not dangerous to negotiate the Built-In Agenda separately? - Commissioner Lamy said that the ongoing negotiations in Geneva on agricultural trade and trade in services are not really negotiations but just preparatory talks.
Perhaps that distinction is valid from an abstract point of view, but in practice I do not think it holds water.
In any case, the European Parliament has just underpinned that position by explicitly rejecting two amendments calling for the Blair House Agreement to be renegotiated.
In his reply to my third question - before opening new negotiations, should we not first define more clearly how the negotiators are to be monitored? - Commissioner Lamy referred mainly to the framework agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission.
That is certainly a matter of some significance, but basically my question concerned scrutiny by the Council, which sets the Commission's negotiating objectives, and by the national parliaments, which in my view have the final say.
It stated that the Presidency and the Member States may accompany the Commission to WTO meetings, that the Commission must forward all the documents at its disposal without delay, that it has a binding obligation to respond to the wishes of a Member State to open a consultation procedure, that the common position upheld by the Commission is established by the Council, and that the Council may at all times address negotiating directives to the Commission.
The competition is forced to choose between cheaper deliveries or going under.
Despite this, there are sound reasons for raising production costs and for protecting production from cheaper competitors.
The next item is the communication from the Commission on the final agreement on the reform of the system for international transfers of footballers.
Indeed, the Declaration on the specific characteristics of sport, adopted by the European Council in Nice in December 2000, fully supported this approach.
Today, following intense discussions between the Commission departments, FIFA and the other interested parties, I am pleased to be able to announce the result we have obtained.
The discussions have led to clear progress in at least three key areas.
Firstly, a goal which the European Parliament has always sought, protecting young players moving within the European Union, guaranteeing them an appropriate general and sporting education.
These principles will be included in a code of conduct drawn up by the football federations, and I attach special importance to this point since in my opinion it is far more effective to support the work of these young players rather than to impose restrictions on their movement, which would, in any case, not be compatible with the principle of freedom of movement.
Let us not forget that, in football, many are called but few are chosen, and not every player is destined to be a football star.
With these provisions the Commission hopes to send a clear message to all those young players who put a lot of effort into football: although they will not all make it at the professional level, they will all be treated with due consideration in human terms and in terms of their individual development.
The second component involves encouraging and compensating the effort made by clubs to train young people, thereby giving their sports activities a social dimension, which, moreover, is a characteristic of the European dimension of sport.
We are convinced, then, that it is possible to find a balance between a player' s mobility and the necessary compensation of the training club within the limits laid down by the Court in the Bosman case.
I should like to point out, too, that throughout this affair, the Commission has emphasised that the discussions between it, FIFA and the other interested parties in no way affect the compatibility of FIFA' s revised rules with national laws in force, and in particular with employment law.
FIFA has announced that the principles thus agreed will be implemented by a revision of FIFA rules at its world congress in Buenos Aires in July.
The Commission has urged FIFA to seek close dialogue with the other interested parties with a view to such implementation, most particularly, of course, the players.
In the Commission' s opinion, the discussions on transfers have clearly shown that dialogue at all levels is becoming a necessity and that all possible avenues for organising dialogue should be explored, including collective agreements at the European level.
To conclude this statement I would remind you that, after the first two years, FIFA will draw up a report on the application of this system.
On the basis of the Treaty provisions and also taking into consideration the views of the Heads of State and Government as expressed in Nice in the Declaration on the specific characteristics of sport, the Commission has established a framework together with FIFA, while acknowledging an element of autonomy for sporting bodies and the procedure they are now going to use to settle details.
We have indeed succeeded in providing more than a solution to the problem of Community law pure and simple; we have also guaranteed stability for young people and also solidarity and protection.
The second component is the solidarity fund.
My hope - and this has been my objective in negotiating - is that the money will get back to the clubs at grass roots level which are so necessary in giving European sport a social dimension.
We preferred not to prevent the free movement of young African players or, as you said, youths from third countries so as not to hinder the free movement of European youth, but we did seek to impose some conditions on the way that third-country nationals were treated by clubs offering training.
The problem arises not in their travelling but in the way they are treated in the host country.
The code of conduct is intended to ensure that the clubs offering training actually take proper charge of these young people and do not train them simply as sportsmen but offer them an all-round education and preparation for life, for of course not everyone who has received sports training will become football stars or even have a professional career in the game.
This is a unilateral decision by FIFA which must therefore apply to citizens from third countries.
Thank you, Madam President, and congratulations to Commissioner Reding on the result of this protracted football match.
All these considerations, which are specific to the sport, led us to put in place measures to ensure the stability of contracts.
I must inform you that we did not want disciplinary measures to be taken solely against players, because clubs often sell their players for purely commercial reasons rather than reasons related to sport.
Thank you, Mrs Reding.
Of course, the proposal contains some sound points, such as compensation for training costs.
The current situation is that no compensation is paid at the end of a contract - the Bosman judgment stipulates that training compensation should be paid on the condition that the compensation is in line with real costs.
Like many of my colleagues I am interested in the impact on clubs in the north-west of England, which is, after all, the home of football.
In today's Times newspaper UEFA and FIFA are clearly indicating that this will lead to lower transfer fees, which has a knock-on impact, particularly for smaller clubs in my area.
On Tuesday, I met the English Football League and representatives from clubs in the second division.
Of course, we must see how things turn out in practice in the clubs.
I must also inform you that the criticism made by the Football League was not directed at the Commission, but rather at the UEFA management and those running European football in general, who said that they had never been consulted.
The Football League never discussed the matter with UEFA and yet I believe that, in a democracy, which is also called upon to play a role within our sporting federations, discussions between the main parties should be the order of the day.
On this point, I must also inform you that my colleague, Anna Diamantopoulou, who is responsible for the free movement of workers, has been taken aback by the lack of talks between clubs and players, for example.
Transparency must also play a part in the world of sport.
Commissioner, you mentioned the ongoing evaluation that you will be making over the next two years.
There has been a lot of talk about football here today, but you mentioned sport and this is specifically a sports remit.
Other sports have transfer fees and I wonder which other sports you have discussed this with.
I find it very interesting that players now have different rights depending on their age - 23 being the case in point here.
This recommendation means that the smaller the club, the smaller the amount of money the club will receive in compensation for training costs.
My second point, which reiterates what I said in my introductory speech, is we believe that solidarity is an extremely important factor.
Furthermore, only in December 1999, a Commission statement on the social dimension of sport was submitted to the Heads of State and Government at the Helsinki Summit.
However, ladies and gentlemen, this will not mean an end of the right to competition, free movement, or any of the fundamental rights enshrined in the Treaty, because people in the sporting world are not above the Treaty.
Madam President, I too am pleased that the negotiations have culminated in an agreement, and I believe that it is indeed positive that another evaluation is planned in two years' time to check whether we have actually promoted what we set out to promote.
The Commissioner says in that connection that she hopes that this will benefit the smaller clubs.
I would like to find out what guarantees are being built in so that the solidarity fund will actually benefit the smaller clubs and the training clubs, and can actually contribute to the social function of the sport.
In my view - and, furthermore, I intend, during the Belgian Presidency, to present a proposal on this issue to the Ministers for Sport - these measures could be extended to cover other sports, because the protection of young people concerns all other sports as well as football, and the same goes for solidarity between the clubs in the premier division and the small clubs who put in the initial work.
Madam President, I wish to begin by congratulating Commissioners Reding, Monti and Diamantopoulou.
The principles that have been established, especially around the specificity of sport, are extremely important.
That is why we talked with both parties throughout the developments in this matter.
Madam President, I would also like to thank the Commissioner for all the effort she has put into these negotiations.
The FIFA world congress takes place in Buenos Aires at the beginning of July, and FIFA will then be aiming to incorporate into its rules all the broad principles that were collectively agreed.
These broad principles must be put into practice when applying the new rules of world football.
I have my own view on this, and, no doubt, you do as well.
There are very distinct responsibilities and national and European federations have a fair share of responsibilities to shoulder in the system.
The rules in national law, and particularly the rules in employment law, could be changed in Member States to take account of the specific characteristics of sport.
Therefore, if this commitment is put into practice on the ground, in the Member States, this will apply to football and to sport as a whole.
In particular, I welcome the fact that the Commission has succeeded in emphasising the aspects related to solidarity towards small sports clubs as well in an agreement which is economic and legislative in nature, valuing their enormous dedication to training young people.
In a statement on sport that I will be sending firstly to the Commission and then to Parliament, I will therefore propose that 2004 be declared the European Year of Sport and that, in this way, school children be introduced to this other aspect of sport, which is distinct from the business side of things, in other words, the sport of fair play, the true values of our society.
Obviously everybody is looking into the detail now and although we were very excited when we first got the agreement, I think a lot of people would agree that it is going to be quite difficult to find out whether it is going to benefit some of the smaller clubs - in particular, academy clubs - as much as we hoped.
It is therefore up to the judges in the Court in Luxembourg to decide on their course of action.
We have discussed huge transfer sums, but not the hundreds of thousands of people who give their private lives and free time to work with young people and their sports clubs.
I think that when we discuss information for young people in schools and clubs, we will also discuss the subject of voluntary work, because these activities are an integral part of the social dimension of sport in Europe.
Thank you, Mrs Reding.
The debate is closed.
I would like to thank all the Members who spoke, as well as the Commissioner for her detailed and thorough answers.
It approved it not because of any bias against the use of government or State initiatives when it comes to creating a European area of justice, as anyone not quite paying attention might imagine given what happened this morning.
This means that without a legal instrument covering the Union's 15 Member States and those that may join subsequently, not all members of the public taking legal action through the courts will have the same legal remedies; it will depend on whether or not their country or the requested country has ratified the Convention.
Under this new regulation, all courts will be covered by the same law, and all EU citizens will benefit from the same protection given that this Community instrument will facilitate direct contact between courts in different countries.
Ultimately, this will remove obstacles to the creation of a European legal area, either by creating a standard European form to be used by the courts in the requesting States in the language of the requested courts, so as to facilitate communication between the two, or by creating a central authority in each country which will receive and forward requests originating from another State for the taking of evidence from a national court, or by establishing the principle that the entire request must be responded to, and obliging requested European courts to execute this request within six months, at the end of which, if they have not complied, they will have to provide an explanation to the requesting court.
Lastly, in view of these innovative arrangements, which will greatly speed up the proceedings of courts in all the Member States, which seems to me to be one of the key aims of the German initiative, I have proposed that only in exceptional circumstances should the direct contact between courts envisaged in the regulation be superseded by traditional consular channels, which I believe are inevitably cumbersome, bureaucratic, somewhat remote from events and in many ways responsible for the delays in litigation in cross-border disputes or proceedings.
I would like to thank you very much for preparing a subject which at first seems very technical, but which, as you quite rightly stressed, has a very substantial part to play in creating a citizens' Europe, because cross-border business is on the increase.
The taking of evidence is generally at the heart of any legal dispute, as matters of law are often easy to settle, but there are often widely varying interpretations when it comes to the facts.
If it is necessary to determine the facts of a case which took place in another Member State, then the present situation as regards mutual legal assistance is simply anachronistic, and involves using the Hague Convention through diplomatic channels, making matters very complicated and time-consuming, and also unreliable.
That is why it is so important that the Federal Republic of Germany has brought forward this proposal, and that is why my group is so firmly supporting this initiative, because it provides for greater certainty, swifter administration of the law and, last but not least, greater justice for the citizens of the European Union.
Anything that represents a deviation from these procedures is at odds with the original concept of the constitutional state which all of us here have in our sight.
The single market needs an efficient legal system, failing which all our efforts to create competition and increasing prosperity in the European Union will come to nothing.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this report.
The establishment of an area of freedom, justice and security confers on members of the judiciary an essential role to play in the effective workings of the Union.
Judicial cooperation is important because it complements the workings of the internal market and the single currency, as already stated.
As mentioned by the rapporteur, whom I would like to congratulate on his excellent report, this question was addressed in the 1970 Hague Convention on the taking of evidence abroad in civil or commercial matters, which has to date only been ratified by 11 of the Member States of the European Union.
This is why it has become necessary to adopt clear and effective rules on cooperation between courts in the Member States with a view to facilitating the taking of evidence in such situations.
Accordingly, this regulation will enhance the value of European citizenship and of protecting and guaranteeing our citizens' individual rights, and it is also of not insignificant economic importance, in that by facilitating the taking of evidence, it will make swifter and more effective administration of justice more economically viable, and in particular administration of justice more in line with the necessities of a new economic reality, of the single market, the single currency and electronic democracy.
Furthermore, the Commission does not have any bias against initiatives by Member States, especially when such initiatives are in line with the priorities defined by the Tampere European Council.
The German initiative also gives us an opportunity to move forward and modernise the rules of the 1970 Hague Convention, with the added value of adopting a Community instrument that can be uniformly and directly applied to the legal system of each of the 15 Member States.
This is an initial phase, the central objective of which is to create the mechanisms needed to strengthen mutual confidence between the legal and judicial systems of the 15 Member States.
We therefore welcome the support the rapporteur has given to this initiative.
I can assure you that for our part we will closely monitor and assist the discussions on this initiative in the relevant Council committee, with a view to producing a text which precisely reflects the concerns expressed by Parliament in the Marinho report.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1999 was a year of great progress in fighting fraud.
After the old Commission resigned, it was only a few weeks before agreement was reached on the legal texts establishing the new European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF.
Parliament, the Council and the Commission had to and were therefore able to demonstrate that the EU was capable of taking action in the fight against fraud, corruption and mismanagement.
Full implementation of what was agreed over two years ago has, however, proved to be somewhat more difficult than originally assumed.
The first annual report by the OLAF Supervisory Committee accordingly quite rightly sounded the alarm.
When it comes to appointing new members of the management team, the Commission wants to precisely supervise and be involved in every single step.
Mrs Schreyer, this transfer took place despite explicit warnings from this House.
This was proposed by the five independent experts in their second report on the reform of the Commission in September 1999.
For the avoidance of all doubt, let me say that a public prosecutor of this kind could not, as the law currently stands, himself appear as a prosecutor in the national courts; his role would be to support and advise the relevant national public prosecutor's offices.
It must now demonstrate that it really is serious about fighting fraud and is doing everything possible, displaying originality and political courage, on the basis of the current Article 280.
The arbitrary and unlawful decision made by the Delors cabinet in January 1994 ultimately led to a situation in which this company was able to play an important role in a fresh fraud scandal concerning traffic in adulterated butter between 1995 and 2000.
If on its own authority the Commission withholds documents classified as confidential, or gives them to some Members but not to others, that amounts to a blatant infringement of fundamental constitutional principles such as equal treatment and non-discrimination.
Mr President, Commissioner, the main subject in the 1999 annual report on OLAF is, of course, the dismantling of the criminal organisation responsible for adulterating butter and fraudulently obtaining public funds, an organisation based in Naples but with influence at the heart of Europe.
In addition to congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report, I think that a special compliment is certainly due not just to OLAF but also to the Italian and French judicial organisations whose joint work led to this organised crime network being broken up.
The first question that comes to mind here is how it is possible that a policy that is supposed to help rural communities and farmers can end up systematically financing major agro-industrial complexes, and that those complexes frequently turn out to be no more scrupulous in respecting the Community budget than they are towards consumers and the farmers in whose name they are financed.
After the persistent revelations of fraud concerning the use of subsidised powdered milk for feeding calves, of bogus butter exports and revelations regarding adulterated dairy products, the Commission still seems unwilling, despite this huge scandal, to carry out a thorough review of its entire system of intervention in dairy products.
The pan-European nature of this fraud, which involved major dairy product companies in countries such as Belgium, France, Italy and Germany, means that it is unacceptable for the policies needed to combat food adulteration to be permanently left in the hands of the Member States.
The Commission has refused to divulge names, to arrange special surveillance or to take preventive measures against the innumerable dairy product companies involved, on the grounds of legal confidentiality and the presumption of innocence.
However, I am bound to say that the Commission's discretion in this case is very much in contrast with the way it dealt with the widow of an adviser to an ex-Commissioner.
What is also at stake here is whether we are all equal in the eyes of the Commission, or whether when it comes to major companies and big interests, some are evidently more equal than others.
That is why the jury is still out on the butter fraud, a case which is indeed probably very extensive, on the flax fraud in Spain and possibly in other countries too, on New Zealand butter and on Stockholm.
The Director will need to avail himself of his rights and will, as far as we are concerned, be backed by Parliament.
We also endorse the remarks about the European Public Prosecutor, although I must admit that a minority in my group feels differently about this.
Switzerland is a key country in Europe when it comes to combating fraud, and we do well to bear this in mind.
The nature of OLAF' s work is such that certain aspects must remain confidential and perhaps even secret.
Third sore point: the cooperation between Member States.
The tobacco case in New York versus Reynolds and Philip Morris is indeed a good illustration of how the European Commission actually acts vis-à-vis tobacco giants.
We should be able to spell out in this report what went wrong in Spain in the flax case and in Italy, Belgium and Germany in the case surrounding butter which was tampered with.
Parliament will be taking on a huge political responsibility if it grants discharge; before it does so it must have guarantees that fraud will be prevented and its perpetrators discovered.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has expressed in detail what it sees as matters of confusion to the Commission.
Mr President, butter, flax, cigarettes and employment agencies are becoming synonymous with fraud in the European Union.
So sanctions should also be taken against those Member States which are not supporting OLAF's work, in the form of fines imposed by the Commission, which would also provide some financial compensation for fraud offences allowed to occur.
I must congratulate Herbert Bösch on his excellent report.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work that he has carried out.
I shall, however, focus my attention on the problem of fraud and irregularities.
In a previous report, the Committee on Budgetary Control stated that the slightest fraud of the Community budget must no longer be tolerated.
I would like to express my concern about this position, for which I have two reasons.
On the one hand, we must ensure that our fight against fraud does not anticipate the conclusions of inquiries that various bodies are undertaking.
On the other hand, we would be running the risk of discrediting the European Union' s policies within the European Union itself if we announce levels of fraud in criminal cases that are much higher than reality shows them to be.
The European Commission and the European Parliament should work together more closely in combating fraud.
This does not mean, however, that the European Parliament has to give up its power to penalise the Commission when it does not fulfil its duties, particularly with regard to protecting the European Union' s financial interests.
This cooperation is needed because it involves our credibility in the eyes of the citizens of Europe who have put their trust in us.
The report also shows clearly how important it was to establish OLAF in 1999.
That is why it makes sense to locate new institutions in places where they are geographically close to other EU institutions which they will have to cooperate very intensively with in the future.
And his conclusion that there have not yet been any appreciable improvements in the fight against fraud also coincides with the OLAF Supervisory Committee's view.
Unfortunately, an opportunity was missed in Nice to strengthen OLAF by creating a European Financial Public Prosecutor's Office and putting it under judicial control.
Another point: what is the Commission doing to overcome varying national interpretations of Community law on the recovery of own resources, as described in Paragraph 7(1) of its report?
The initial subsidy in 1994-95 amounted to ESP 411 million, whereas by 1998-99 it had risen to ESP 10 000 million.
I would therefore like to comment on a few points that have been mentioned in the debate.
This report does not establish or seek to establish what the European Parliament's view on this case is.
It would certainly be very helpful for the discussions on the budget discharge if the Commission could reconsider the views it has already expressed on this case, and take advantage, for example, of the opportunity presented to it next week by the meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
As I understand it, the decision-making process in one Member State was described by the Committee on Budgetary Control as if responsibility had been shifted from national to regional level.
On behalf of my group I would like to say that regardless of the internal organisation of the individual Member States, we want to ensure that responsibility towards the European Union at national level for the correct implementation of EU programmes is respected.
It takes as its starting point the Commission's Annual Report on protecting the Communities' financial interests and the fight against fraud, which the Commission presented on 13 November 2000 and which also contains statistics on cases of irregularities and fraud reported by the Member States, as they are obliged to do.
A few months earlier, the Commission had presented an extensive strategy report in which it set out an approach to fraud prevention at a wide variety of levels and which contained a wide variety of instruments ranging from checks on legislation, in order to make it less susceptible to fraud, to a proposal for a European Public Prosecutor which the Commission put forward in Nice and which was unfortunately not accepted by the Heads of State and Government at that stage.
In 1999 the Council and Parliament created the legal basis for OLAF, and that is, of course, also the basis for action by the Commission on this.
This also means that if, for example, problems or irregularities arise regarding the behaviour of Commission officials within OLAF, the Commission would be held responsible.
In view of this, the Commission has said that, exactly as with the other institutions or other departments of the Commission, it wishes a transparent procedure to be in place for appointing those in senior management positions in OLAF.
In the case of OLAF, the Director makes the final decision on the recruitment and appointment of staff.
I think it would also be in the interest of the various parties concerned if they could enter into a dialogue, as the Supervisory Committee has now set further conditions so that the rectifying budget can finally be brought in and this issue resolved.
The legal basis for the establishment of OLAF clearly provides that it is the Director or Director-General of OLAF who makes decisions about reports and not the Commission.
As regards OLAF's fitness for purpose, or rather the work done and successes chalked up so far, I would say that uncovering the fraud that we now refer to as the butter case, that is the butter adulteration affair, is one of OLAF's success stories.
As regards the Fléchard case dating back to 1991 or 1994, the Commission will also explain its position to the Committee on Budgetary Control and it will, of course, respond in reasonable time to the questionnaire that has been drawn up.
The Commission has also introduced a more effective early warning system within its bookkeeping procedures, so as to alert the various administrative offices as quickly as possible if, for instance, there are plans to enter into a contract with a party already known for irregularities.
For that reason, and we have already had occasion to discuss this in this Chamber - the Commission will now be being bringing forward a proposal for a directive designed to transfer the provisions of this Convention into a directive, so as to put greater pressure on the Member States to incorporate in their national law a uniform definition of the offence of fraud against the interests of the European Communities.
I hope that will happen in April.
The Commission is working with OLAF on a Green Paper concerning the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor's Office, because we do not intend to give that idea up and will now be seizing the opportunity for a more open and wide-ranging debate.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The debate will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The directive on public access to environmental information was already an excellent and ambitious proposal when it left the hands of the Commission.
Access to information is an important horizontal instrument in EU environmental policy, and the revision of the directive has taken a long time.
The proposal for the directive has three principal aims: to benefit from the experience gained under the old directive dating from 1990 and to correct the shortcomings identified in it, to incorporate the relevant parts of the Aarhus Convention into the new directive, and to adapt the old directive to developments in information technology.
A member of the public must be able to know what documents are available and what authorities are responsible for what.
I deemed it necessary to introduce a whole new article on the quality of environmental information.
In all cases, however, a reply is required as soon as possible.
Viewed generally, we can imagine this directive will set a standard for Member States regarding the transparency of environmental information.
The contribution from my committee on practical arrangements incorporated in the final report includes a number of amendments which I am glad were taken up by the Environment Committee.
Secondly, I believe that where the environment is concerned, one of the main problems stems from the fact that as a consequence of the principle of subsidiarity environmental protection is solely in the hands of the citizens.
Mr President, Commissioner, information is a basic principle of democracy.
In the light of the signature of the Aarhus Convention and progress in information technology, the Commission has submitted a new proposal for a directive which covers most of the aforementioned points.
The directive relates to environmental information and must include information in all accessible forms, such as written, visual, aural etc.
Any person or organisation may request environmental information without needing to prove a legitimate interest.
As regards the deadline by which the administration must respond to a request for environmental information, I think that a period of two weeks is long enough, so as to ensure that interested parties can use the information before it is out of date.
The directive stipulates that the public authorities may make a charge for supplying information.
Clearly, our present and future environmental problems must be solved at all levels.
That is why we should like to see Amendments 6, 16 and 30 adopted by Parliament tomorrow.
These amendments set a limit of two weeks, and in difficult cases of four weeks, within which authorities and companies are to answer questions.
I can say that we have here a model example of a committee really seeing its work through to the end and bringing to Parliament a virtually unanimous decision on a proposal in which differences of opinion, such as there are in this case, have been limited to a minimum.
The rapporteur has now drafted a report that concerns the implementation of the first task of this Convention, which relates to the right of the public to have access to environmental information.
The following tasks are then the right of the public to participate in decision-making and the right of the public to acquire rights in situations in which they are being treated inappropriately.
Where many environmental issues are concerned, the public' s interest in a good environment is often pitted against strong private financial interests.
The proposal we are now discussing is largely based upon the Aarhus Convention, which we consider to be an unusually positive and far-sighted example of international cooperation in this area.
The legislation we are now discussing does not cover the institutions of the EU, but these will be referred to in a later proposal.
I hope that the US and the European Union can strike a proper agreement that will ensure a sustained reduction in the level of greenhouse gases.
The fact of the matter is that the greater the reduction of greenhouse gases, the greater the effect it has on climatic change which in turn will have a devastating effect on coastal communities and island communities, not only in Europe but world-wide.
Ten years after Rio, expectations have not been met.
The pressures on the environment have worsened and poverty continues to win ground in the world.
The Community Fifth Environmental Action Programme protects people from the adverse effects of air pollution.
Since it is clear that the long-term goal set out by the Fifth Environmental Action Programme would not be attained easily, the Commission has rightly decided on a step-by-step approach setting out its so-called interim environmental targets for the year 2010.
The Environmental Committee will continue to play an important coordinating role in this regard and I would congratulate the rapporteur on the report.
In February 2000, I had the impertinence to request the annual publication of the scientific, technical and financial balance sheet of the Life programme, which receives a package of EUR 613 million.
Mr President, the overall aim in amending Directive 90/313/EEC on access to information on the environment is to enable the Community and Member States to comply with certain provisions of the Aarhus Convention on access to information, public participation and decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters.
I have no substantive problems with that amendment, but I am concerned that some parties might attempt to revert to the original proposal from the Commission on 2(2)(c), which refers to "the operation of services of general economic interest which affect or are likely to affect ...".
In Ireland, for example, Telecom Éireann, which is now eircom, would be included as a former public authority.
As this directive applies to all documents in the environment area, in many cases the files might be in storage off-site and perhaps not computerised.
One of the most important features of the Commission' s proposal for a new directive is that it would provide the right to information on the environment instead of freedom of access to information on the environment.
The Commission' s proposal covers the most important obligations under the Aarhus Convention and, in certain respects, goes further.
The main objective is to establish basic conditions for ensuring public access to information on the environment.
I am currently investigating various alternative ways of ensuring that the Community' s institutions also fulfil the obligations under the Aarhus Convention and I intend to come back to you on this matter as quickly as possible.
It is precisely this problem that is dealt with in the discussion of Article 255.
The Commission is able in principle to approve Amendments 13, 17, 19, 20, 21, 23 and 24.
The Commission is unable, however, to approve Amendments 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 16, 18, 22, 27, 29 and 30.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Question Time (Commission) The next item is Question Time (B5-0018/01).
In order to help overcome the lack of confidence in meat producers, can the Commission envisage proposing the introduction of compulsory labelling of meat products with their place of origin, either on a national or regional basis, so as to improve information to consumers?
With regard to the labelling rules for beef and veal products, which cover all types of food preparations containing beef or veal, the Commission must adhere to the timetable laid down in Article 21 of Regulation (EC) No 1760/2000, which means that it is required to present a report to the European Parliament and the Council by 14 August 2003 on the labelling of these products, including any appropriate proposals it sees fit to make.
It is therefore important that this information concerning the origin of meat and other agricultural products should be available as soon as possible.
Question No 48 by (H-0193/01): Subject: Aid for the livestock sector in countries affected by BSE In recent years, cases of animals affected by bovine spongiform encephalopathy have been discovered in various countries after the United Kingdom had exported animal meal to them at a time when sale of the product had already been banned in the UK.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to address the problems posed by the first BSE crisis, when the export of beef and live cattle from the United Kingdom was banned, Britain introduced the so-called 30-month rule, whereby the meat of all animals slaughtered over the age of 30 months was destroyed.
A calf-processing premium was also offered for the early slaughter of calves, not only in the United Kingdom but also in France, Portugal and Ireland.
In the four years from 1996 to 2000 in which the 30-month rule has applied in the United Kingdom, the cost to the EU budget has been EUR 1 275.4 million.
The Community action to tackle the first BSE crisis, however, also included full funding of public storage and an early-marketing premium for calves as well as additional direct aid amounting to EUR 1 309.9 million.
This direct aid - the early-marketing premium and the grants for public storage of more than 700 000 tonnes of meat - benefited all the Member States.
To tackle the present crisis, the Commission has not only provided EUR 238 million for interventions and 700 million for the destruction strategy but has also recently presented the Council and Parliament with a proposed package of measures for the beef and veal sector, comprising both intervention measures and other special market measures designed to reduce the production of bovine meat in the period from 2001 to 2003.
In addition to the sum of around EUR one billion that has been voted for the 2001 budget, this entails further expenditure of 157 million in the year 2001 as well as additional expenditure of 1 145 million in 2002 and 181 million in the 2003 budget.
The storage of intervention stocks will be fully financed by the Community as hitherto.
Mr President, annexed to the package of measures we presented a fiche financière, which shows quite clearly the items of expenditure that will be incurred and how we intend to finance them.
We expect to remain below the limit agreed in Berlin for the 2002 budget too, especially in view of the development in the euro/dollar exchange rate, which was not foreseen in Berlin, and because our export trade, especially in wheat, is continuing to flourish, while expenditure has been lower than anticipated in some other areas.
This is an Objective 1 region affected by BSE where a model plan to combat the disease is being strictly implemented.
This is also quite a different situation to the first BSE crisis, because at the time of the first crisis the old agricultural guidelines were still in force, and they were far more liberal.
The slaughter premium is regulated in the common organisation of the market and is the same for all animals.
Question No 49 by (H-0137/01): Subject: 1996 Convention on the Protection of Children The 1996 Convention on the Protection of Children is widely regarded by those of us who are involved in child protection as a very valuable instrument which will make an essential contribution in a wide variety of areas of child protection.
This regulation sets out rules on jurisdiction, automatic recognition and simplified enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility for children.
As a result, in these areas, accession to the 1996 Convention on Parental Responsibility, to which you refer, has become a matter of Community competence.
This means that in these matters that I have mentioned, Member States can no longer proceed to ratify the 1996 Hague Convention on Parental Responsibility on their own.
We must recognise that it is necessary to clarify the way the Union can accede to the Convention, to improve the conditions under which Member States can ratify the parts of the Convention that do not fall under Community responsibility.
Once we clarify that, it will pave the way for Member States to ratify the rest of the Convention with the full support of the Commission because the Commission is committed to solving its own problem without delay.
The reason is that the convergent costs of currency are only one element of the total transfer costs.
The Commission will continue to monitor the situation and keep pressure on the EU banks for the establishment of more efficient cross-border retail payment systems.
The Commission can urge the banking industry and national administrations to intensify their efforts in the following areas: standardisation, infrastructure of payment systems and simplification of reporting obligations.
There are two different aspects involved here: first the cost of transferring money, which was the original question put to me, and secondly the cost of currency exchanges.
The latter will, of course, be a thing of the past for the twelve "Euroland" Member States as from 1 January 2002.
Question No 51 by (H-0226/01): Subject: Safeguarding jobs in the merger between Aceralia, Arbed and Usinor The three steel companies Aceralia, Arbed and Usinor have announced in Brussels that they are to merge in order to form a new company which will control 60% of the European steel market.
On the very day of the merger, Usinor announced the closure of the blast furnace in Charleroi.
The Commission appreciates that citizens and workers need to feel secure in this difficult time.
Thirdly, nothing is more important than the social dialogue.
There must be timely, effective and comprehensive information and consultation with workers' representatives and this must, of course, be before initiatives are launched or publicly announced.
Under the existing European legislation, employee representatives in merging companies may be informed and consulted on the potential social consequences of the announced measure.
They have been duly transposed into the national law of the Member States and any conflict or litigation arising from the application of the rules should be assessed by the relevant national authorities.
In my first point I concentrated on the social dialogue and the implementation of the existing European legislation.
My second point concerns the three enterprises concerned by the merger in particular, because they have considerable experience with restructuring and dealing with the social consequences and social dialogue and social partners.
In particular, if social measures were to be taken to assist the workers affected in order to redeploy them, to provide them with temporary income support or remove them from the labour market by early retirement before the ECSC Treaty expires on 23 July 2002, the Commission could, at the request of the government concerned, provide additional aid under Article 56 of the Treaty.
You will, however, understand my concern when I tell you that I live in Asturias.
The problem in Asturias, where there have been retirements and early retirements, is that young people today have no prospects because more than 30 000 jobs have been lost.
But you know that the entire area - Valencia and Asturias - belongs to Objective 1 of the framework support.
Within this framework the government of Asturias can possibly make some changes to the proposed programme for the next six years and maybe they could acquire some money, according to the regulation on implementation of the European framework programme and according to the governmental rules.
What we are trying to do in this case is to find a combination of actions within the framework of this information and consultation.
I mean, we believe it is much simpler to guarantee employment through providing companies with an efficient enough environment to allow them to compete with companies elsewhere than to maintain a restrictive social policy that often works against the interests of the workers themselves.
As far as this merger is concerned, this is a field with many problems.
After every merger or restructuring in the industrial field we must see not only the number of jobs lost, but also the number of jobs saved.
So what we have to do now is to address both: to support the competitiveness of our companies and to see how we can address the implications of these mergers in our societies.
In this case there are three main elements.
Question No 52 by (H-0134/01): Subject: Incorporation of the occupied territories of Cyprus as part of Turkey The Turkish Government has decided to implement a plan to incorporate the occupied territories of Cyprus as part of Turkey.
Mr President, the Commission is informed that Turkey has approved a financial protocol worth USD 350 million over the next three years in favour of the northern part of Cyprus.
These measures are likewise intended to contribute to the economic support of the northern part of Cyprus.
This applies both in political terms and with regard to the provision of the requisite information on the aspects of established Community law and practice that should be taken into account in any settlement of the Cypriot problem.
The Cypriot question is one of the subjects of the intensified political dialogue between the European Union and Turkey that the European Council launched at its Helsinki meeting in December 1999.
The position of Parliament on this question is no different to those of the Commission and the Council.
Question No 53 by (H-0220/01): Subject: Transitional arrangements for Poland and the Czech Republic What is the Commission' s position in the present debate concerning the transitional arrangements for Poland and the Czech Republic in the fields of freedom of movement, freedom to set up in business and freedom to purchase land?
In the strategy paper on enlargement which the Commission adopted on 8 November of last year and which President Prodi and I presented to Parliament on the same day, the Commission has laid down principles governing the treatment of requests for transitional arrangements.
The Member States have endorsed these principles, and they now form the basis of our work in this area.
Firstly, do you consider it conceivable that there might be no transitional phases at all for these two countries in the three areas in question?
I find it conceivable that we shall be able to define interests of both sides that need and merit protection in the three areas to which you referred and that, having defined these interests, we shall indeed arrive at a highly flexible, highly refined and highly specific system of transitional arrangements.
Question No 54 by (H-0238/01): Subject: Local organisations and enlargement In the information campaign for enlargement in both the accession countries and Member States, how does the Commission intend to promote enlargement to local organisations, such as councils, schools and so on?
Questions to Commissioner Reding I beg to inform the honourable Member that the Commission, in its communication strategy for enlargement, strongly advocates the involvement of local players such as communal authorities, town councils, members of regional assemblies, schools, chambers of commerce, craft and trade associations, unions, churches, societies and voluntary organisations as credible representatives of civil society.
The communication strategy will be implemented on a decentralised basis.
Our delegations in the capitals of the candidate countries will select cooperating partners there as part of a strategy designed to satisfy national and regional information requirements.
Each of the institutions and organisations to which the honourable Member referred is a suitable vehicle in my eyes.
We shall speak about the economic benefits of sustained growth in an area of Central and Eastern Europe stretching from the Baltic down to Istria.
We shall speak of the efficient use of the division of labour that will develop smoothly in the enlarged single market, which is now assuming continental dimensions and which must compete successfully on a global scale with the Far East and North America.
We shall speak about the application of EU standards in the candidate countries - environmental standards, transport-safety standards, competition rules, provisions relating to internal law and order, food-safety standards and the many, many other benefits accruing to citizens of the Union.
I thank the Commissioner for a very thorough answer and ask him three questions.
Secondly, applications to take part in this project must indeed pass through our offices in the national capitals, because the whole project is decentralised, as I said before, and because we naturally wish to tap into the synergetic potential that exists in our Member States and in the candidate countries.
Mrs Reding has agreed to answer Questions Nos 56, 57 and 58 together when their turn comes.
With regard to football agents, the Commission' s departments are still working on a process based on the rules of competition and the discussions that have taken place have led FIFA to change the ways in which the profession is organised.
Some Member States also chose to pass legislation in order to supervise more closely the activities of football agents.
The second problem is that of commercial transactions which involve young players.
The Commission was recently given the opportunity to show its concern about this matter.
Generally speaking, all the issues concerning the exploitation of young African footballers are the subject of in-depth consideration by public authorities and, in the Nice Declaration, made in December 2000, the European Council expressed, I quote, its "concern about commercial transactions targeting minors in sport, including those from third countries, inasmuch as they do not comply with existing labour legislation or endanger the health and welfare of young sportsmen and women.
As the Commissioner is under pressure of time, I will forego my right to ask a supplementary.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 56, 57 and 58 will be taken together.
Question No 56 by (H-0219/01): Subject: Impact of European Year of Languages on regional and minority languages 2001 is the European Year of Languages, which has just been officially inaugurated.
I can inform you, though, that already the whole of Europe is involved in an extensive debate.
There is an extraordinary fascination surrounding this event in our regions, universities and amongst the general public and it is not just for official languages, but for all languages, which is very significant.
Furthermore, several events and projects that have been funded for 2001 will fuel this debate and will even focus exclusively on regional and minority languages.
At the end of 2001, the situation will be much clearer, thanks to all these initiatives, all these discussions, studies and research projects, enabling us to consider our options, instead of the various legal, political and practical commitments, which will shape the action we take in this area.
It will, therefore, only be at the end of the European Year of Languages that the Commission will be able to draw conclusions from all these activities and to determine what initiatives can be taken to safeguard linguistic diversity in Europe.
The issue was dealt with entirely openly in all the Member States.
I think that this is very important and is a marvellous thing, and I would also like to reiterate that linguistic diversity is highlighted in Article 22 of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
This linguistic diversity has been put into practice in the Member States for the European Year of Languages.
In a Europe made up of regions - and I am pleased that the Commissioner responsible for a Europe of the regions is sitting beside me - we must learn the language of our neighbours, especially in cross-border regions in order to have a successful Europe of the regions.
All they have to do is follow the example of Luxembourg, where children start learning several languages at the age of five or six, and this is a successful formula.
Commissioner, first of all I should like to thank you for your answer and very briefly request that, since the Commission is the Guardian of the Treaties and the Treaties state that the Community must contribute to the enhancement of the cultures of the Member States and to respect for regional diversity, it should ensure that those Member States within which several languages that also have official status coexist can take part in organising the events planned for the European Year of Languages.
That in itself is good news, but it is not enough for them to be able to take part.
It is very important that representatives of the peoples that use these languages should also be able to take part in the body that is to organise the events, as stated in the report we approved at the time, in order to guarantee their presence and enhancement.
I tried to ensure that Europe' s linguistic diversity was represented in the range of projects that were selected, and I am very pleased to see that things are getting off the ground and that, perhaps due to the European Year of Languages or perhaps because the time is right, we are adopting a more flexible approach to the language issue.
Thank you, Mrs Reding, for your answers and for confirming that Catalan will enjoy a strong presence in 2001.
Mr Papayannakis, the term 'major projects' has a very precise meaning in the rules on the Structural Funds, since it refers to a project which is granted a budget of more than EUR 50 million.
Since there are quite a number of projects of this type in Greece, which receive cofinancing from the Cohesion Fund or the Regional Fund, mainly in the transport, environment and energy sectors, it is difficult for me to give a very accurate and thorough answer now, in a matter of minutes.
Some of these projects have also been undertaken with or on the basis of concession contracts.
I would like to repeat that, in accordance with the new rule for the Structural Funds, of which you are aware, Mr Papayannakis, we should remember that expenditure on programmes, which are part of these major projects, must evolve in line with the programme, and the Member States risk financial penalties if this does not happen.
Not long ago, on 29 January, the Commission' s departments requested detailed information from the Greek Government on the independent checks that had been decided for the cofinanced projects in Greece.
The European Anti-Fraud Office has also said that it has not yet received any communication from the Greek authorities pursuant to Regulation No 1681/94 concerning irregularities and the recovery of sums wrongly paid in connection with the financing of the structural policies and the organisation of an information system in this field.
The second point obviously relates to quality.
If you look at this list objectively, all the projects, the major projects, have been started and some of them have been completed.
That is why, for example, I took as much time as was needed before this week approving the first operational programmes, so that I could verify that every one of these operational programmes, which will be granted a great deal of money, some tens of billions of euros, will be managed by a properly-run agency.
The factory at Shotton, where there will also be redundancies, is also in the Objective 3 region, East Wales.
In the same press release, I also clearly stated that even if the current programmes could be refocused or redeployed, there is no possibility of the EU making extra funds available, either within the rules of the Structural Funds or of other policies.
On 28 February, our departments met with a delegation from the National Assembly of Wales.
The proposals that were considered on that occasion relate to aid for professional training, business development, site renovation, support for communities, infrastructure aid and as part of these discussions, we hope to receive more detailed proposals on the basis for regional partnership.
I should like to add, Mrs Kinnock, that aid from the European Social Fund may be granted using the Objective 1 single programming document, which covers the West Wales and The Valleys region and represents EUR 591 million.
The East Wales region is covered by the Objective 3 programme, which receives a budget of EUR 132 million.
Secondly, Commissioner, my Labour Welsh colleague and I wrote to you last week inviting you to come to Wales to see first-hand what the problems are, what needs to be done and also to have an opportunity to meet some of the key people in the National Assembly and other areas.
I promise that I shall act very quickly as soon as I receive these proposals for reallocation, concentration or redeployment to target more specific funds in the region for the men and women affected by these restructurings in the steel industry.
With regard to East Wales, which is an Objective 2 region, I hope that we will be able to finalise the adoption of the Objective 2 programme before 31 March 2001.
Question No 61 by (H-0144/01): Subject: Quality of projects in receipt of delayed spending under the 1994-1999 structural funds in Italy Twenty-five per cent of the funds granted to Italy for the 1994-1999 programming period have not yet been spent.
A similar situation arose in respect of the 1989-1993 funds, which resulted in the loss of around 3% of the funds allocated.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would also reiterate that the rules governing financial management for the 1994-1999 period do not allow us to reprogramme the resources after the deadline for making payments.
The last reprogrammings to be carried out in this way were in 1999.
In relation to the 2000-2006 programming period that has just started, I would like to inform you that coordination between our departments has again been improved, in order to achieve better interaction between the Habitat Directive and Structural Funds programming.
Mr Celli, I share your concern to ensure the environment, biodiversity and sustainable development are respected in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
Commissioner, I would like to know whether, in effect, all these projects, which have been reviewed and maybe altered, are genuinely in line with adequate environmental impact studies.
If irregularities or infringements do come to be identified - whether you inform us of them, whether we carry out inquiries or evaluations or whether Member States also inform us of them - the Commission will, by virtue of the regulation, be able to eradicate the irregularities in conjunction with the Member State and consider reducing or sometimes even withdrawing some financial assistance.
Thank you, Commissioner Barnier.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 62 to 113 will be answered in writing.
Mr President, thank you so much for giving me the floor.
Despite all opposition on the part of a number of Member States and despite all warnings and protests from some interested parties in the electricity sector, my instinct tells me that we can amend the original regulation without any problems.
The technical facilities are already widely available and, in a large number of the EU Member States, the modified rules are already prescribed and are hence normal policy.
The environmental requirements which, in a number of countries are prescribed for large furnaces, are invariably stricter because the acidification of our environment is still ongoing.
Add to that the issue of ozone - you will be aware of the fact that many citizens suffer from respiratory disorders, which are partly caused by nitrogen oxides originating from traffic and the sector at issue today - then surely it should be more or less a point of honour for everyone in this House to address these problems when it is possible to do so in a simple and effective manner.
The original Commission proposal to amend the 1998 directive was not what you would call a runaway success: standardisation was poor and existing installations were kept outside the range of the directive.
Rule 144(1) states that "referral back to committee may be requested by a political group or at least thirty-two Members when the agenda is fixed or before the start of the debate or the final vote" .
Of course there is room for argument about whether particular exceptional arrangements can be extended for a year or two in the case of small power plants.
It will affect our air quality, our water quality, the general quality of our environment throughout the whole of Europe and beyond in the coming years if we bring it to fruition.
We have insisted very strongly at first reading that the most stringent measures are taken to control gaseous emissions from large combustion plants throughout the Union because of the acid gases that are formed, because of the effects upon the environment, and because of the effects upon human health.
It seems to me that we are confronted with a very difficult choice tonight because we must decide if what we vote tonight is at least in some way acceptable to the Council.
The Council has indicated that it is unwilling to accept further amendments from Parliament.
That cannot be a bad thing in terms of the recognition of the ability of this Parliament to achieve a high level of environmental protection for the people of Europe.
It seems to me that what we can do tomorrow in the vote is to take a few more steps forward to achieve a little bit more in terms of benefit to the environment.
We must take this step forward, but inevitably we must also allow for the fact that this step needs to be accommodated not just by the environment but economically as well.
You have in front of you a report with the amendments, the majority of which the Socialist Group can support, some of which we feel go too far.
The report on large combustion plants, take two, is also an important report.
At the same time, the energy market has been liberalised.
Perhaps this one-sidedness at the expense of solid fuels comes from a willingness and an intention to promote natural gas, which serves certain interests in the European Union.
Mr President, all large combustion plants together account for 63% of the sulphur dioxide and 21% of the nitrogen oxide emissions in the European Union.
The amendments which we have tabled in tandem with the Green Group include limit values of 400 for small plants and 200 for large plants.
Thirdly, the offshore gas turbines must also meet emission requirements.
In the event of different fuels being mixed, the ultimate emission limit value in both directives is calculated in a different way.
I have proposed an adaptation in Amendment No 43.
Mr President, I want to begin by congratulating the President on having handled the first part of this discussion so well that we do, in fact, have an actual document to discuss.
I have said it before and I shall say it again: Parliament supported a strategy on acidifying air pollution three years ago.
It is about half a million people who, in different places on this earth of ours, die each year because of the use of fossil fuels.
It is we who have the opportunity to set the pace if 314 Members have the courage to take up a definite position tomorrow in favour of the more ambitious alternative.
Minimum environmental requirements are needed in order to create common ground rules.
It is technically possible to upgrade them, but in many cases it would be cheaper to build new gas plants and retro-fit these stations with exhaust scrubbers.
The main plank of our air quality strategy in this area is the national emission ceilings and, as long as they are met, Member States should have a degree of flexibility.
How a Member State meets its obligations is an issue of subsidiarity.
Some of the proposed amendments will be counterproductive.
For example, the inclusion of an end date of 2012 will result in old plants being run harder to use up the time remaining and will increase pollution during those four years.
Mr President, this directive is important for the EU in terms of the environment, energy production and competitiveness.
The amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy would mean investments that were not cost-effective in terms of ecological benefit, and difficulties for the combined use of energy-efficient wood and peat and the combined production of power and heat.
The common position was developed in tandem with the proposed NEC directive and represents a coherent and balanced approach to achieving environmental objectives over time.
The proposed amendments are not justified in terms of environmental benefits and associated costs and other impacts and would disturb the balance achieved.
Some amendments will even have a perverse effect.
Proposals to tighten ELVs are not proportionate regarding costs and benefits and fail to recognise that the common position is a balance between improving environmental performance and avoiding excessive costs and other impacts.
One amendment I have difficulty with is the proposal to reduce NOx emission limits from 650 to 200.
Mr President, air pollution remains a real threat to citizens' health and well-being in many parts of Europe.
It is an issue where Europe can and must act since air pollution knows no borders and this directive will make an important contribution to reducing atmospheric pollution.
The question of existing plants has been the major point in the debate on this proposal, both at first reading in the Council and now at second reading.
After a very difficult discussion in the Council, the common position was achieved with unanimity.
It now includes significant new and tougher requirements for these plants and this will result in considerably reduced emissions of sulphur dioxide from the large combustion plant sector of the existing Member States and ultimately in an enlarged Community.
However, in the case of nitrogen oxides the effect will be less significant as the standards that apply to existing plants are not very demanding.
In the case of new plants, economies of scale which reduce the cost of compliance allow for further tightening of emission limit values for both nitrogen oxides and sulphur dioxides.
In this context, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 3, 4, 7, 8 in part; 9, 12, 13, second part; 14, 16, 17 for plants over 300 MW; 18 and 19, both for plants between 100 and 300 MW; 21, 28 and 29, both in part; 39 and 40.
However, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 6, 13, first part, 15, 24, 25, 26, 30 to 38, 43, 44, 49, 50 and 51.
I should like to make a short comment on the other proposed amendments.
Let me assure you that the Commission has considered carefully all the 50 amendments tabled.
Overall we can accept 23, either fully, in part or in principle.
The Commission can accept Amendments Nos 10 and 11, which will simplify the obligations for refineries, and Amendment No 23 in principle, subject to ensuring that its implementation is compatible with other legislative requirements on access to this type of information on emissions.
The Commission can also accept in principle Amendment No 1, dealing with economic instruments; Amendment No 2, concerning the alignment of the definition of biomass with the recently adopted directive on the incineration of waste, and parts of Amendment No 5 requiring further examination of emissions of heavy metals from the LCP sector and emissions from large combustion plants in the maritime sector.
However, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 20, 22 and 27 as they would detract from the common position or introduce inconsistencies with recently adopted and related legislation on waste incineration.
It is preferable to await the outcome of the review in 2004 before including gas turbines in offshore applications.
Thus Amendments Nos 42, 45, 46, 47 and 48 are not acceptable.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
We are in a rather special situation in the sense that the committee in the second reading was even able to improve on the results of the first reading, and this is due - thanks again to the committee members - to the adopted amendment, which combined the best aspects of the first reading and the Council' s common position.
The proposal for a directive also contains the call for a review of the situation in 2004.
The proposal for a directive under discussion places a demand on Member States to reduce the proportion of pollutants in the air to a level that is safe for people' s health, although the Member States themselves can choose the remedies they need to attain results.
Mr President, the present draft directive concerning national emission ceilings tackles the main atmospheric pollutants.
The salient points of this directive, therefore, concern the reduction of emission levels of the said substances to below the critical levels and loads.
The directive' s key element, or rather the most talked-about part of this proposal is, of course, the table which lists per country the permitted annual emission for each substance.
A key concern in the discussion on this subject matter was that when at UN level, the 36 countries, including the EU Member States, agreed upon other, and often less strict, standards for the same substances, this met with a storm of protest.
Moreover, our continent suffers the direct environmental effects of the emission of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and volatile organic substances and, albeit to a lesser extent, ammonia.
The Commissioner is as aware as we are of the problems involved in implementing the nitrate directive: in actual fact, none of the Member States meet the standards specified therein.
I would add to this that the effects of ammonia emission are also partly a local phenomenon, and that a lower goal can therefore also be justified.
Finally, I must also say that the working relationship with this rapporteur was highly successful, and that the work on the large combustion plants was excellent too.
These two documents form the basis for the acidification strategy that we adopted three years ago.
Mr President, at first reading the Liberal Group gave its support to the Commission's proposals.
Parliament was right, then, to back the Commission.
The Commission has said that it has made a firm agreement with the Council and is sticking to it.
It will not support the amendments tabled by the PPE-DE or the Socialist Group.
I would like Member States to be more ambitious.
But at first reading, Parliament supported proposals based on a Commission model which I find fiendishly complicated.
In the absence of the Commission's support now, I do not see how we, as legislators, not technical experts, can propose more ambitious targets for individual countries unless we pull figures out of the air, which seems to me a rather poor and amateurish way of making law.
The problem of ammonia must be solved at local and national level.
The common position is hardly more ambitious than the Gothenburg Protocol.
The right of veto on environmental legislation has been abolished within Europe.
It is true that it is printed on page 112 of the original proposals.
According to the Commission's estimate, this will cost them an additional EUR 338 million a year.
If Parliament accepts that, we have an even greater right to ask how far the Member States will actually agree to abide by these proposals.
Commissioner, I assume that, as you already stated in the debate at first reading, we can expect a fairer distribution of the burden, also for small Member States, during the review in 2004.
That is why I will be voting against Amendment No 10 which has again included the Commission' s old table in Annex 1.
Mr President, the acidification of forests, fields and watercourses is the single biggest environmental problem in my own country.
Almost all acid rain comes from the burning of fossil fuels used in energy production in other European countries.
Acidification is therefore a problem 'imported' into our country.
Without being able to put my finger on the exact figures, I would venture to maintain that, over the years, Sweden has, in financial terms, invested more in liming in order to combat acidification than certain Member States have invested in reducing acidifying emissions.
Moreover, reducing combustion emissions is an important health issue in quite a few EU countries.
After some long and hard negotiations the Council achieved consensus on national emission ceilings.
The Commission, for its part, supports the Council' s common position.
In this respect I am in agreement with the views expressed earlier by Mr Davies.
The Commission must check that there is continued improvement in all Member States, and promote measures to help industry to make the necessary changes.
Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her work on this important proposal.
The proposal for a directive on national emission ceilings aims to tackle acidification, eutrophication and ground level ozone simultaneously.
It is therefore highly significant for two of the four priority areas identified in the Commission's proposal for a Sixth Environmental Action Programme: nature and bio-diversity and health and the environment.
There are still important areas of the Union where nature and biodiversity suffer from the impact of acid rain eutrophication and citizens are affected by ground level ozone, as has already been commented on by Members of Parliament.
We must solve these problems.
Amendments Nos 10 and 13 seek to reinstate the emission ceilings originally proposed by the Commission.
In their common position the Member States endorse both the long-term goals and the interim objectives of the proposal.
I am very concerned that it would be exceedingly difficult to have successful discussions on Amendments Nos 10 and 13 with the Council.
There are different requirements for each Member State and fifteen points of view in the Council.
The Commission therefore does not accept Amendments Nos 10 and 13.
The Commission can, however, accept Amendments Nos 11 and 12.
We will indeed have to look again at the Commission's original proposal for emission ceilings in 2004 and decide whether it would be better to share the burden differently in the light of more recent developments.
Amendments Nos 11 and 12 explain this very clearly.
Of course the costs are higher for some countries than for others because of where the pollution emissions come from.
That was also noted in the discussions in Council.
Amendment No 4 would set dates by which the long-term goals of this directive should be met and it is still the Commission's view that, with our present knowledge, any date would be mere guesswork and we should not put it in a legal text.
The Commission must therefore reject Amendment No 4.
We would however prefer to quote Directive 99/30 more directly.
We cannot accept Amendment No 5, nor the first part of Amendment No 7.
The Commission can accept Amendment No 8 in part and in principle.
Bringing forward proposals on economic instruments is something that we will look at as part of our review of the directive in 2004.
We can accept in part and in principle the second part of Amendment No 7 and Amendment No 9.
I thank Parliament for its time and look forward to progress on this very important dossier.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The European Parliament's delegation wanted to see this recommendation on environmental inspection cast in the form of a directive.
This is very sad but it is a situation which we have unfortunately had to live with because, if we had not agreed to the texts which we now have in front of us, we probably would not even have had a recommendation.
Many of my colleagues - I hope all my colleagues - feel that we are dealing with a very unsatisfactory situation.
In effect, we are constantly adding to the burden of European Union legislation on the environment, with the very good intention of improving our environment, but the Member States are signing up to legislation which they are in many cases unable to put in place in the form in which they adopt it.
In some instances the Commission is still very much in the dark about whether Member States are really complying with legislation because the Member States are very slow in telling the Commission about the state of implementation in the reports that they are obliged to send to Brussels.
We are telling them that we have very forward-looking environmental legislation but in instances such as the nitrates directive and the urban waste water directive we find that in fact Member States are taking much longer than required to comply with legislation.
Indeed the case of the fine that the Greek Government is still paying to Brussels for failing to comply with a waste directive shows that it can be a quarter of a century before a Member State is even taken to court for failing to comply with legislation effectively adopted in the 1970s.
Parliament felt that the way to deal with this was to take what was originally a recommendation on environmental inspections and use it as a way of enforcing common standards throughout the Member States by upgrading it to a directive which Member States would, we had hoped, want to take more notice of.
As I say, the Member States were against this.
We hope that we will have the support of the Commission in making that reassessment in 2003 a really serious exercise.
We want to make sure that more people in Europe are interested in the issue of compliance - more people throughout the Member States, not simply in a selection of the northern ones.
And finally, might I draw attention to the fact that, although we could not formally record this, we have said that we will put a standard clause into directives that will simply say "Member States undertake to have in place, by the date of entry into force of the directive, systems of environmental inspection which will enable them fully to comply with the provisions of this directive".
We do not see how any Member State can possibly oppose that.
I believe the parliamentary delegation to the Conciliation Committee fought very hard before reluctantly consenting to the result of the conciliation process, and that is also how my group will vote in the Chamber.
At the present time, proceedings for infringement or non-observance of current environmental legislation are pending in more than 150 cases.
The conditions we imposed, namely the coordination of inspections between Member States in cases of cross-border environmental crimes and the publication of inspection reports two months after each inspection, represent an improvement.
Since I do not quite trust the very wishy-washy wording of this revision clause, which now states that the Commission should present such a report as soon as possible, rather than in two years' time, I must ask Commissioner Wallström to reaffirm her determination to ensure that this report will be on the table in slightly more than two years from now.
This report gave us the opportunity to take some practical action.
It seems to me that for more than a year and a half we have had a dialogue of the deaf and the result is that we have achieved nothing worth having.
With hindsight, I believe it would have been better for Parliament to have let the conciliation process collapse.
The Liberal Group will be voting against adoption of this recommendation tomorrow.
The amendments will tighten up the requirements in the recommendation.
Its work on minimum criteria for inspections helped in the drafting of the recommendation and they are a very important instrument.
The recommendation would now require Member States to report to the Commission on the operation within two years.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, I should like to begin by pointing out a technical correction.
It refers in Annex IV, 2.2, to gauge pressure of 500 HPA, where in fact it should actually refer to 0.5 HPA.
There are two further amendments on this.
Both are very technical and have been suggested to me by the industry.
The very fact that I have stood up here and said that two further amendments have been submitted to me by the manufacturers highlights the dilemma Parliament faces with this type of directive.
I do not know how I am expected to know the difference between 0.5 HPA and 500 HPA.
Mr President, I really can only echo what my friend and colleague, Mr Miller, has said.
I can also reveal to him that not only have I been nominated for this task in the Legal Affairs Committee, but I currently have on my file six other technical regulations - wearing my other hat - for the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
There may be then, in the case of EC regulations, simply a right of veto at the end or, if we feel that the work has not been done properly, we will simply not accept it until it comes back in its finally completed form.
I know that Commissioner Liikanen is interested in seeing this process streamlined, not only in the fine technical detail, but also by looking at the ways in which the industry itself can be encouraged to develop its own technical regulations within an overall public policy framework and indeed, on crucial issues like safety, to be able to move beyond those and to use its own technical resources to help make better, safer and more environmentally-friendly vehicles for us to use.
The answer is that it is a matter of extending the scope of the directive.
I really hope that we can find some solutions so that the Commission, the Council and Parliament can concentrate on issues of political importance.
The proposal amending the Council directive relating to heating systems for motor vehicles is aimed at extending the scope to include all vehicles and not just cars.
I am therefore pleased that the rapporteur largely agrees with the common position.
He has proposed two technical amendments regarding the specific requirements of combustion heaters.
The Commission can accept these amendments as they do not interfere with the current safety requirements in the proposal.
The Commission will further investigate specific requirements for LPG combustion heaters to be added in Annex VIII.
This report will pave the way to a speedy adoption of this directive.
In conclusion, the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In my view, the Commission is too cautious in its assessments.
If we extrapolate from these figures, we find that consistent implementation of this programme could create about a million jobs in the European Union.
The second issue is the protection of resources.
We also believe that the share of combined heat and power generation in the energy market could be increased to 18% by 2010 and 25% by 2015, because that would also put electricity supply on a secure basis.
We are backing renewable energy in particular, and there are encouraging examples in this domain, such as pellet-fuelled heating, with which heat and power can be cogenerated very efficiently.
It is also important that the European Commission steps up its coordination effort in this area.
Coordinating European initiatives is a highly demanding task, if we think of programmes such as SAVE, Altener or the Fifth Framework Programme for Research and Energy.
Many programmes are available, but the important thing is to ensure that they are carefully targeted.
Mr President, congratulations to the rapporteur, who has achieved a quite remarkable level of consensus right across this House.
Thank you, too, to the Commissioner, who works within the limits of a very inadequate Treaty.
That is what disappoints me about this action plan.
It does not seem to be part of a coherent energy policy with short-term, medium-term and long-term strategies.
In many Member States, there is no requirement to even look at demand site management.
A 1% per annum improvement would be very easy to achieve.
The Sixth Framework Programme gives us an opportunity to look at research and I hope that tomorrow, Commissioner, you will join with us in looking forward to a more intelligent use of energy in the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that in the European Union, across all sectors of the economy, and also in the world of the private consumer, there is great potential for boosting energy efficiency levels.
It is therefore essential that an effective strategy be developed.
Such measures constitute a considerable encouragement to promote energy efficiency, and I believe that we must urge everyone to actually make this happen.
I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his determined effort to put this right, both in his report and the initiative that my colleague has referred to for an energy-intelligent Europe - although I confess that I would describe efficiency and conservation more as common sense than intelligence.
The challenge lies in persuading members of the public of the need to change their ways.
Mr President, the Commission has given us a good basis for discussion.
The second problem I should like to address concerns administrative matters.
We, for our part, must ensure that we do not support the distortion of competition in the name of free competition at the cost of caring for the environment.
A Member State that manages its carbon dioxide emissions responsibly, for example, must not be allowed to get into a situation in which countries that produce their energy with a proportionately greater quantity of polluting fuels have a competitive edge over it.
There is a danger that, with the liberalisation of the electricity market, Member States that attend to their obligations with regard to emissions may lose their electricity markets to countries that ignore their obligations.
The Green Paper put forward by the Commissioner is an important instrument for energy policy in the European Union and clarifies some of the priorities in this field.
We do not want to forgo this well-being, but we can make it more sustainable, especially in the construction and transport sectors.
As indicated in the Green Paper on the security of supply and the Kyoto commitments, issued by the Commission in December, energy efficiency and energy savings contribute to energy policy, since every kilowatt saved is the equivalent of needing to produce one kilowatt less.
The scope of the report and the constructive opinions it contains will help us push forward and consolidate the implementation of the energy efficiency action plan.
I know that for some of you it seems rather unambitious to set ourselves an objective of a 1% increase in energy efficiency to be sustained over the next ten years.
On the subject of the directive on the energy performance of buildings I hope to be able to make some progress in this direction.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
