It is therefore necessary to amend the existing Council Regulation (EC) No 1543/2000 in order to prevent an overlap between the old and the new regulations.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which approves a Commission proposal amending (and preparing for the repeal of) Regulation 1543/2000 (a Community framework for the collection and management of the data needed to conduct the common fisheries policy).
The Commission aims to bring in a new, more comprehensive data collection regulation in 2008; this amendment allows for a better transition by removing current requirements to submit six-year national programmes for the collection and management of data from 2007 to 2012.
in writing. - (PT) We regard as essential the need expressed in the Commission proposal, and highlighted in the parliamentary report, to increase transparency, both in the financing of the common agricultural policy and in the provision of accounts in respect of the expenditure practices of the EU institutions.
In addition, there is some ambiguity, both in the Commission's proposal and in the EP's report, with regard to the continued publication of information.
in writing. - (PT) The Commission's proposal to make certain amendments to Council Regulation (EC) No 1290/2005 on the financing of the common agricultural policy (CAP) is necessary in order to make this process more transparent.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which proposes a range of improvements to the transparency of the CAP.
The UK already does this, and I would like to see other states doing the same.
Austrian organic farmers were getting around seven schillings - equivalent to around 95 cent - per litre of milk before accession.
I likewise supported the need for Member States to ensure annual ex-post publication, via the Internet, of the beneficiaries of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the amounts received per beneficiary under each of these Funds.
in writing. - (PT) The negotiations conducted by the European Commission under a mandate received from the Council have the central objective of establishing an Open Aviation Area (OAA) between the EU and the US, going beyond the bilateral agreements that currently exist between individual Member States and the US.
We therefore restate our opposition to the pursuit of the liberalisation of this important public service in each country.
in writing. - (PL) I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the Council and the representatives of the governments of the Member States of the European Union, meeting within the Council, on the conclusion and temporary implementation of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, on the one hand, and the United States of America, on the other hand (8044/3/2007 - - C6-0210/2007 -.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this report, which endorses plans to liberalise air transport arrangements between the EU and the United States of America.
The number of Polish Members would be reduced from 54 to 51.
I voted against this report and I acknowledge that the composition of the European Parliament is a difficult issue.
in writing. - In regard to the future composition of the European Parliament, I voted against the unwarranted attempt (Amendment 26) to inflate the representation of the Republic of Ireland to 13 MEPs.
Clearly, the Republic of Ireland already is very generously provided for and should count itself lucky to hold 12 seats.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats voted in favour of the report.
The report gives Sweden 20 seats rather than the 18 we would get if the Treaty of Nice were to apply.
It is therefore important for the treaty to be adopted.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by my colleagues Alain Lamassoure and Adrian Severin on the composition of the European Parliament.
in writing. - I voted against Amendment 25 because, while the UK is still a member of the EU, the number of MEPs representing the UK should not be reduced at all.
Therefore, to vote in favour of 74 MEPs would have been to vote for a reduction of four.
in writing. - During the vote on the Lamassoure report we have voted consistently for a fair distribution of seats between the Member States and in particular for 13 seats for Ireland.
Unfortunately the Irish Government did little to support the campaign to retain our current allocation of 13 seats.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the Lamassoure report on the distribution of EP seats after the legislative elections in 2009.
I also support the idea that the new distribution ought to be reviewed well in advance of the 2014-2019 parliamentary term in order to ensure a fair and objective system for the distribution of seats in Parliament, taking account of population changes, which would prevent the usual log-rolling between Member States.
in writing. - (PL) I am sorry it has not proved possible to find a new and permanent solution for the distribution of seats in the European Parliament between the various Member States of the Union.
in writing. - (SV) We are firmly opposed to the idea of one constituency across the entire EU with perhaps 10% of the European Parliament's seats.
Both the Christian Democrats/Conservatives (PPE-DE) and the Socialists (PSE) would seem to have a hidden agenda of trying to create a two-party system in the European Parliament.
in writing. - (PT) We must be clear on this as there are many numbers: 1.
in writing. - I am voting for Amendment 26, which argues that Ireland should retain the 13 seats it currently has.
This report gives Ireland an allocation of 12 seats - three less than the 15 that Ireland had for the 1999-2004 term, which means we will lose 20% of our quota from 2004.
In the context of the request by the Council for an opinion by the European Parliament on the future composition of the European Parliament, British Conservatives have abstained on the Lamassoure-Severin Report.
These factors have determined our position in voting on this report.
Some countries are underrepresented, such as the Netherlands, which was foolish enough in 2000 to settle for fewer seats in Parliament in exchange for more votes in the Council.
We reject future reductions in the number of seats per Member State if they do not result from population decrease, but from the maximum of 750 seats or from the search for scope to elect a proportion of Members from transnational lists.
in writing. - I voted for and welcome the Lamassoure-Severin Report on the composition of the European Parliament.
in writing. - (PT) Given the need to alter the composition of the European Parliament due to past and future enlargements, I believe that the solution adopted in this report has the virtues of being consistent with what has already been agreed (Nice), of not increasing the control of the most populous states over the others, by maintaining a model of balance between states which is quite understandable, and of helping to reduce the difficulties associated with the adoption of the Reform Treaty.
Therefore, despite having preferred, as apparent from the voting, a model based on the concept of citizenship and not residence - given that the link between citizens and the European Union must be one of citizenship and not residence - I voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - Today's vote was crucial for the future working of the EP.
in writing. - (SV) The importance of the issue should not be overestimated.
The Greek Communist Party in the European Parliament voted against the Lamassoure-Severin report because it further strengthens the confrontational nature of the European Parliament.
in writing. - I voted against Amendment 25 because, while the UK is still a member of the EU, the number of MEPs representing the UK should not be reduced at all.
Therefore, to vote in favour of 74 MEPs would have been to vote for a reduction of four.
in writing. - (SV) Sweden should hold a referendum on the new constitution in order to obtain exceptions and an 'opt-in' clause (like the United Kingdom).
The consequence of the Treaty of Nice is that Sweden gets only 18 seats, two fewer than Sweden gets under the proposal for a new EU constitution, and two fewer than Sweden is entitled to given the relative sizes of the EU Member States.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the resolution on the humanitarian situation in Gaza.
in writing. - (PT) Given the terrible situation in which the Palestinian people have been put, the European Parliament has adopted a resolution which, while recognising the extremely serious situation not only in the Gaza Strip but also in the other Palestinian occupied territories, does not hold Israel liable or condemn it for its deep-rooted responsibility, particularly for the destruction of the Palestinian National Authority and its supporting institutions and infrastructures, including those meeting the most basic needs of the population, and for seeking to prevent the creation of a sovereign, independent and viable Palestinian State.
A fair and lasting solution for the Middle East will only be achievable through respect for the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to their own independent and sovereign state, respecting the 1967 borders and with East Jerusalem as its capital.
in writing. - I voted in favour of this resolution, which draws attention to the plight of people in the Gaza Strip.
In calling for an international peace conference, an end to the blockade, and in asking for the Commission and the Council to work towards this, I join most other MEPs in advancing ideas that can make the situation on the ground better for those suffering the consequences of the status quo.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the EP resolution on the Gaza Strip.
in writing. - I wish to stress the importance of the humanitarian situation in the Gaza Strip.
In Gaza there is a responsibility to end attacks on Israel, and we all have a responsibility to support a viable state for Palestinians, so that the Palestinian people can live securely in peace.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by our Spanish colleague Raül Romeva i Rueda on the murder of women, or feminicides, in Central America and Mexico and the role of the EU.
in writing. - (PT) We voted in favour of this report, which expresses the European Parliament's solidarity with women suffering violence throughout the world, including in our own countries of the European Union, but with particular emphasis on the serious situation in Mexico and certain Central American countries, where there is a real culture of feminicide, with thousands of violent deaths of women in recent years, which cannot simply be attributed to a widespread climate of violence.
in writing. - (SV) The June List believes that human rights must be upheld in all societies throughout the world, both in the EU Member States and in other countries.
in writing. - I fully support the report.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which I strongly support, and which is part of a global strategy for the eradication and prevention of feminicide and proposes EU actions in the framework of partnership agreements.
The report also sends out an important signal that the human rights clause agreed in the so-called 'Global Agreement' between the EU and Mexico must finally be acted upon.
in writing. - I voted for this report recommending that, in order to prevent fraud, transit movements be computerised, the legal framework be revised and the Commission and the Member States improve physical checks based on common risk analysis.
in writing. - The EPLP supports the aims of the Philip Morris agreement to combat fraud and illicit cigarette trade in the EU.
Although it highlights that responsibility for planning airport infrastructures must lie with the Member States, it advocates a 'global EU approach as regards the need for extra capacity, the constraints on future investments in additional capacity and the strategic axes'.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, I voted in favour of the report by Mrs Jensen on 'Airport capacity and ground handling: towards a more efficient policy'.
in writing. - I voted for this report, which calls on the Commission to present before 2009 a master plan for enhanced airport capacity in Europe, in order to promote and better coordinate European initiatives for building new airport capacities dedicated to international traffic and to make better use of existing capacities.
in writing. - (SK) I voted in favour of the Jensen report on 'Airport capacity and ground handling: towards a more efficient policy' because I regard it as fundamental for ensuring sustainable regional development.
I therefore voted in favour of this report as I consider that its ratio is contrary to the position defended by the Democratic and Social Centre/People's Party (CDS-PP) for Lisbon which involves the 'Portela +1' option.
in writing. - (SV) Anne Jenssen's report deals with a problem that is trans-national to the highest possible degree.
The biggest problem with the report was that in its final version it became too detailed.
in writing. - (SV) The own-initiative report on airport capacity contains high-flying plans for what can be achieved through central planning on the part of the EU.
