I ask you please to observe a minute's silence. &#160;&#160; – Mr President unspecified allegations of misconduct made about me and about some of my colleagues are appearing in the German press.
This is something we have already discussed in this House.
If there is, then I ask that you forward all the documents, at once, to the European Court of Justice or to the Court of Auditors and to OLAF.
It would of course be good of you to inform those against whom the media are making what are really very nasty, dirty and unpleasant accusations, of what precisely they are being accused – that is, of whether they have been bad at their jobs or have broken the law. &#160;&#160; Mrs Roth-Behrendt, I find it extremely unfortunate that you should have to defend yourself, as someone with very good standing in this House, precisely with regard to what you are elected to do and the leadership you give in your committee and in so many different aspects of the work of this House.
As you will know from my statement at the last part-session, I have invited a Member of this House, who has been prominent in the German-speaking print and broadcast media, to forward to me whatever specific allegations there are so that I can fulfil my duty of care to this institution and to its Members and their reputation.
I cannot see the European Parliament meekly accepting this sort of thing without a word of criticism.
Before Easter, Mr&#160;President, I wrote to you to submit a series of points that, from a procedural and regulatory point of view, do not seem to me to be in line with our Rules of Procedure.
We are clear about the lack of a legal basis and yet we have a genuinely unique situation whereby significant reference is being made, in this report, to a study document drawn up by a third party not authorised according to the standard procedures for our Parliament.
It is a document which, moreover, claims to be entirely provisional since the situation has only been examined in eight out of 25 countries and since the comparisons that are due to be carried out at the end of June have not been completed.
This is why, Mr&#160;President, I wonder how this report can be debated in this sitting and I ask you, therefore, to refer it back to the competent committee in order that the Committee on Petitions can make its substantial contribution.
We have asked the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs to meet this evening to consider the issues raised by the Rules-related observations you have made, and to consider around 350 amendments.
If I have understood correctly, you have asked for a referral back to committee and therefore a removal of this item from the agenda.
However, Mr Podestà, if you are prepared to wait for the committee to meet this evening to consider the question as it relates to the Rules and admissibility, and to consider the question of the number of amendments, then we could proceed to invite our colleagues on the committee to discuss those issues later today.
Mr Podestà, do you now wish to make a request to refer back, or are you satisfied that this should be dealt with today in committee? &#160;&#160; I agree with you, Mr&#160;President.
I believe that it is appropriate for the committee to consider the issue, but above all – and I am also saying this on behalf of my colleague Mr&#160;Gemelli – for replies to be given based on your assessment, Mr&#160;President, on the strength of the details that the services will provide you with. &#160;&#160; I shall do that in writing once I have received definitive advice.
I must compliment you on your thorough understanding of our Rules of Procedure: it is so much more thorough than my own knowledge and thus I am badly in need of advice on this matter! &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, given that you will have to carry out this important check, my request is that this is done with the utmost respect for the wishes of the competent committee; indeed we have already had huge problems concerning the tabling office, not least over a report – by my colleague Mr&#160;Voggenhuber – which is to be debated soon.
Nevertheless, I have read the amendments and this evening, we in the relevant committee will see what we can do with them all and make sure that an opinion is brought before Parliament.
I should like to have this issue resolved and heard beforehand. &#160;&#160; Several other colleagues have asked to speak but I do not want to replace the work the committee will do on our behalf this evening.
For now, then, let us refer the work to the committee for its meeting tonight and see what emerges from that. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would like to wind up the discussion on the Boogerd-Quaak report.
I therefore believe – and I am, of course, speaking on behalf of my group – that the report should be referred back to committee. &#160;&#160; Mr Fiori, I thought that we were simply inviting the committee to look again at the Boogerd-Quaak report.
If, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, you insist formally to refer the report back to committee, I can take one speaker for and one against and we could have a vote. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the claims made by Mr&#160;Podestà and Mr&#160;Fiori seem to me to be totally unfounded.
The Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs was simply appointed, pursuant to Rule&#160;130a of the Rules of Procedure, to check something that is obvious: to see if a tenth of committee Members support each of the 330 amendments tabled with the intention of stonewalling.
Clearly, since they were tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the amendments will have the support of a tenth of the Members and, therefore, having carried out this check, we will have fulfilled the task given to us by the President. &#160;&#160; Mr Fiori, I have been looking at Rule 144 on referral back to committee.
Let me explain that you are within your rights to move a referral back to committee, but I should have been notified 24 hours in advance.
If you wish, you have the right to move referral back when we come to vote on the report, if indeed we get there this week, and if the committee prepares the way tonight.
The committee has had its last meeting and, since I am not standing again, a referral would sound the death knell for this own-initiative report.
Firstly, as she has said, this is our last chance to examine this report.
The second reason is that it has given rise to a considerable amount of work in committee.
We are all aware that it has been the subject of many disagreements, but the committee has succeeded in finding a compromise.
We may be in favour of this report, we may be against it, or we may want to amend it, but I believe that the worst thing we could do would be to give the impression that we are unwilling to deal with this subject.
That is why, Mr President, I should like to insist, on behalf of our group, even though I am aware that the agenda is relatively crowded, that this question should be included in the agenda for this part-session. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to say that, much as we could endorse a lot of what is in it, this report is, as a whole, unbalanced; parts of it make no sense and contradict each other, and everything is repeated time and time again.
I would also like to remind him that all of us in this House do of course expect the Commission to comment on it tomorrow.
I do not think it makes any sense to impose on Parliament a procedure that is intended solely to promote harmony within the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats after the British Tories failed to get enough signatures for a motion of no confidence in the Commission.
Many of the tricks that are used to provide grist to the mills of the election campaigns are too obvious not to be noticed, and, having noticed them, we have to vote against them. (2) I have received a request from the Verts/ALE Group for Council and Commission statements on the situation in the Middle East. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this session is particularly complicated but unfortunately the world is also complicated.
We believe that, at this point in time, it is worth opening a debate in Parliament and making a decision, but above all it is worth hearing what the Commission and Council have to say to us. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I think this does indeed represent a very significant change in, or clarification of, the American position, and a position of this sort can indeed drive a new wedge between the United States and Europe.
I should like to signal that, because Cyprus needs a space on our agenda.
The context in which this question is asked is also clear.
If the Commission does not indicate its willingness to follow Parliament's wish expressed in its Resolution of 31 March – namely to replace the present 'light' agreement and adequacy finding with a more substantive international agreement – Parliament will vote to seek an opinion from the European Court of Justice on the legality of the agreement currently before the House.
Firstly, Parliament wishes to know whether or not the proposed international agreement modifies the Data Protection Directive as far as data exchange with the United States is concerned, and, therefore, whether or not the agreement is well founded as far as both the protection of fundamental rights and the European Parliament's prerogatives are concerned.
Secondly, Parliament wants the Commission to clarify the situation regarding data transfers by the United States to third country governments.
In particular, the rapporteur raised the question of whether the Commission had come to a firm conclusion that there is adequate protection or whether these further talks meant that this question remained open.
Our discussions with the United States on third country transfers have not yet been concluded.
These talks are not designed to bring about any changes in the documents you have seen, but rather to clarify how the undertakings will be applied in the case of the transfer of PNR data to other countries.
They will seek to ensure, in particular, that the purpose limitation agreed in paragraph 3 of the undertakings is respected, even when data is passed on to third countries.
My colleague Chris Patten will be addressing this House tomorrow evening on the international agreement.
This may well be informed by what the Commissioner has just said, but I should like to remind you that the full debate on PNR will take place tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, where this issue of an appeal to the European Court of Justice is concerned, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is being entirely pragmatic in its approach.
With this in mind, we are grateful to the Commission for its efforts, and have, as a group, expressed our opposition to an appeal to the Court of Justice not only in the course of the debate in the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, but also in the resolution of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, for more than a year, a majority in this Parliament – although the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are of the opposite opinion – has claimed that it is a serious violation of the fundamental right of European citizens to data protection to demand that all European airlines are obliged to process European citizens’ data contained in their computerised reservation systems as requested by the United States Department of Homeland Security, Bureau of Customs and Border Protection and in line with US legislation.
The only way to solve the matter – as to if it is true or if it is not true that a right in the Treaty has been breached – is to ask the Court of Justice for a ruling in advance, before signing the agreement, so that we do not end up nullifying an agreement that has already been drawn up, since this would damage relations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on behalf of the ELDR Group I would like to congratulate the Commission, and Commissioner Bolkestein in particular, on his efforts to try to reach agreement with the United States on such a difficult matter.
My Group cannot agree on the choice of legal basis.
There have been three debates and votes in this House on the matter.
Three committees have examined it and all recommended a referral to the Court of Justice.
As has already been said, this Parliament has often said that it is against this agreement.
We are therefore calling for Parliament to be able to take the opinion of a third, much respected and authoritative authority, such as the Court of Justice, and thus be able to freely decide whether to say yes or no to this agreement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I do not wish to repeat what has already been said either, since my group endorses what Mr&#160;Watson, Mrs&#160;Paciotti and Mr&#160;Di&#160;Lello&#160;Finuoli said.
Paragraph 4 of the agreement itself states that all data of European passengers will be processed according to US constitutional requirements.
The request for the prior opinion of the Court of Justice, as Mr Lehne, from my own political group has quite rightly said, will only postpone the signing of the agreement and leave a legal vacuum in place in relation to the treatment of personal data by the US authorities, seriously prejudicing the European public and the air carriers themselves.
We also believe, naturally, that this agreement can be improved but also that the fight against terrorism and cooperation with third countries in the field, with the United States in this case, is a priority for the European Union.
I would also like, Mr President, to take up Commissioner Bolkestein’s proposal that we listen to what Commissioner Patten says to us tomorrow afternoon with regard to the agreement and delay the vote scheduled for tomorrow morning.
That is why I am glad that the committee accepted by an overwhelming majority the report on respect for, and promotion of, the values on which the Union is based, which I am presenting to you today.
I am grateful to the Commission for, by its communication, making an essential contribution to the dialogue between the institutions and to close cooperation between them, which I regard as indispensable where the application of Article 7(1) and (2) is concerned.
Although the rapporteur and the committee both had criticisms to make of the Commission communication, I do believe that we have, today, been able to make a number of proposals as to how this position might be further developed.
Although the acceptance of this by all the institutions and the governments of the Member States does not make it binding in law, it is binding in a political sense, so that decisions taken by reference to Article 7 are discretionary and political, and can therefore be taken only on the basis of it and in full accord with it.
In my report, I originally proposed an interinstitutional agreement to embed these principles and make them binding on the other institutions, but I wholly accept the committee’s decision to initiate an interinstitutional dialogue on this.
The principle of confidence states that it is for our Member States, through their constitutions and institutions, to take active steps to defend the fundamental rights and values of the Union against breaches and the risk thereof; we are also persuaded that they must also be willing and able to do so.
Secondly, with regard to the principle of plurality of opinion on the basis of democracy and the rule of law, we reaffirm Parliament’s intention that Article 7 must never be used as an instrument of political opposition.
The principle of equality also applies, despite the widespread misgivings about it, and it is intended that it should be embedded, in other words, that Member States should be treated equally, irrespective of their size, their contribution to the Budget, or the length of time they have been Member States.
Although neither I nor anyone else here wants things to go that far, this procedure will, if it does so, give rise to major tensions.
The debates at the start of this session showed us how very difficult it will be, in a state of emergency, to implement such a procedure with confidence, wisdom, and fairness.
It is my belief that, in the event of such a procedure, Parliament would need a great deal of public credibility and so, contrary to what the Commission proposes, it is not a separate procedure that such circumstances require, but the absolute openness of all procedures, which the possibility of sanctions makes all the more necessary.
In that communication, which was addressed to the European Parliament and the Council, the Commission aimed to provide a framework for analysis of the conditions for the application of Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union in order to initiate a dialogue with the other two institutions responsible for implementing this important provision.
Fundamental rights and the rule of law are the foundations of the European Union and a significant departure by any Member State from these values threatens to call into question the common values upon which the Union was built.
As the draft resolution rightly stressed, the Union must first and foremost have confidence in Member States and their own institutions, for example the constitutional courts.
However, as part of a preventive approach it is undoubtedly necessary, as has in fact been requested by Parliament, for the Union to monitor respect for fundamental rights, and for independent European expertise to be developed in this area.
Prevention also requires cooperation between institutions and the Member States, dialogue with citizens and information and education of the public.
This is in line with the European Council's decision in December 2003 to extend the Centre's mandate to convert it into an Agency for Fundamental Rights, which is supported by the Commission.
As I said before, this is in line with the aim of the Commission's communication, which was to institute a dialogue with the two institutions in order to develop a common approach. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and point out that I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and on behalf of a fellow Member who has not been able to speak.
There can be no question that the PPE-DE Group has always defended the fundamental rights and values that we in the European Union represent.
My group largely supports his report, although several amendments have been tabled, but we will vote in favour of the proposal the rapporteur has made in this report.
We also support his proposal to establish an interinstitutional mechanism to promote dialogue between Parliament and the Council as from the next legislature. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on whose behalf I have the honour of speaking, also thanks the rapporteur for a very important report, one that is a key element in making the European Union a democracy capable of defending itself.
In both Conventions – both that on the Charter of Fundamental Rights and that on the Constitution – our group was very active in contending that the EU is not merely an economic community, but also a community of values, one whose foundations have been laid over centuries, and one that is willing to defend democracy, freedom, human rights and the rule of law throughout its territory.
It certainly is not the market that constitutes Europe, but rather the sense of solidarity derived from our values.
The public would find it incomprehensible if a Member State were to get out of hand without the EU doing anything about it.
I see Parliament as having a particular role to play in this, and that has been emphasised in the report, for which let me reiterate our thanks to Mr Voggenhuber. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, exactly seven years have passed, and still neither the Council nor the Commission have proved themselves capable of devising a procedure to implement Article 7, an article once trumpeted abroad, at the time of the Treaty of Amsterdam, as a vital policy innovation in the EU Treaty.
Such a situation is not exactly calculated to make the European Union more credible in the eyes of its citizens; you are all aware to what a depth that credibility has fallen in all our Member States.
Putting it politely, I have to say that I am disturbed by the Commission communication that this report takes as its starting point.
That really is something to be savoured; the Commission regards a law, in a Member State, abrogating fundamental rights, as no more than a clear risk rather than as a serious breach, without even mentioning the possibility of penalties.
In relation to this, I have proposed a number of amendments aimed at making the draft text more precise.
Paragraph 3 of the report gives a good example of this when it suggests that States which tolerate, and I quote, ‘a climate or social conditions in which individuals… feel threatened’ could be condemned.
This sort of definition can go a very long way, particularly since Article 7 applies not only to the rights provided by the Union, which may be increased in future by the Charter of Fundamental Rights, but also to purely national competences, as the Commission communication clearly explains.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has delivered a very negative opinion on the report and it is right to do so.
Let me say, while we are on this subject, that I well recall the arbitrary treatment meted out to my own country, Austria, in relation to what we are talking about.
Never again must principles of this sort be applied in this fashion, whether in party politics or in affairs of State, for without transparency there is no democracy.
It is precisely for this reason that tracing the course of these events and making them accessible to the public is so very important. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
A loss of consumer confidence – even by a small amount – can have significant repercussions for our economy and collective wealth.
Not addressing these confidence barriers would not only be irresponsible but also very damaging to the interests of consumers and businesses alike.
The proposals we are discussing today will allow us to maximise the benefits of the single market for consumers.
Rogue traders who seek to cheat consumers have spotted this and are more prevalent in cross-border cases than in domestic ones, targeting consumers across borders through the post, by e-mail or via websites.
To deal with this, the proposed regulation sets up a network of public enforcement authorities, with at least one in each Member State.
This regulation will send a strong message to European citizens, telling them that the EU is relevant to their day-to-day concerns and that they can have greater confidence in shopping throughout Europe.
The compromise that was negotiated between the institutions ensures that enforcement authorities will at last have the necessary tools at their disposal genuinely to cooperate in cross-border cases.
I am aware and indeed concerned that some of you would prefer the opinion of the lead committee, which is expressed in Amendment No 29, over the compromise solution contained in Amendment No 76, which has been worked out with the Council.
The amendments tabled and supported by some in no way enhance the effectiveness of the mechanism, neither do they present a meaningful contribution to safeguarding established national mechanisms and traditions.
This is the last legislative part-session of this Parliament before the elections.
It is therefore also your final opportunity to ensure that when you have to inform your voters about precisely what you have done to further consumer interests and the enforcement of law, you have a tangible example to show them.
The market and the products have evolved considerably since the mid-1980s and the existing directive is no longer adapted to new developments in the area of credit.
It is desirable in order to achieve a high level of consumer protection in line with the consumer policy action plan endorsed by the European Parliament.
In areas that fall outside the scope of the directive, Member States remain free to maintain their own national provisions.
Full harmonisation will improve the overall level of consumer protection in the EU and facilitate the provision of cross-border credit.
Last, but not least, I come to the framework directive on unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices.
This proposal aims to put in place a high common level of consumer protection against unfair business-to-consumer commercial practices EU wide.
In doing so, it will stimulate consumer confidence and ensure that rogue practices can be addressed wherever in the EU they arise.
In most cases of fraud, the national authorities can provide help.
I am working on the assumption that, in these states the norm will be for tasks to be handed over to time-tested bodies such as consumers’ associations or business self-regulators.
We were, unfortunately, obliged to consider a Commission proposal that was not entirely consistently thought through, that was sloppily worded and had not taken account, above all, of the serious consequences it would have for consumers, for example on their access to credit.
I can tell the House that what the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market wishes to do by means of this proposal is to send out three signals.
We want the standards of protection not only to enhance public confidence in commerce and in buying by mail order, but also to encourage the public to seek out offers throughout the internal market in order, eventually, to find credit on favourable terms.
Mr President, Commissioner&#160;Byrne, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive concerning unfair commercial practices takes over a large part of the Green Paper on consumer protection, referred to by the Commissioner in his report.
The reasons underlying the directive, which is designed to achieve higher consumer protection, are of an economic nature, and therefore relate to the completion and smooth operation of the internal market.
In order for these general economic goals to be achieved, it is necessary to have a consumer protection policy to create European consumer confidence and to give a fresh impetus to international and European commercial transactions.
The benefit of economic growth in the internal market ought to translate into both higher profits for businesses and higher protection and financial benefits for consumers.
Through a joint policy for consumers and the harmonisation of the internal market it will also be possible to achieve price convergence.
The creation of a European legislative framework covering unfair commercial practices based on an appropriate level of harmonisation and aimed at clear and effective protection of consumers within the European Union will result in enhanced consumer confidence, an increase in international trade and will allow businesses to compete in a situation of legal clarity.
In this regard, we have tabled an amendment concerning the legal basis, that is, a proposal to include, in addition to the legal basis proposed by the Commission in relation to the internal market, a legal basis based on Article 153 concerning consumer protection, so that we can reconcile the objective of harmonisation and mutual recognition of the internal market with the possibility for the Member States to maintain legislation which goes further to protect consumers.
In this way, I believe that we can respond to the fears of those who think that greater harmonisation could lead to downward levelling of consumer protection or entail a step backwards with regard to existing legislation in many Member States.
We also feel that it is important – with regard to the definition of consumers – to refer to a particular group of consumers, specifically vulnerable consumers who, as a result of various factors such as age, physical or mental abilities, their level of literacy or disability, need greater protection.
Similarly we also think, in relation to codes of conduct, that the distinction between national and Community codes is slightly artificial, and we therefore point out the need to provide for appropriate, efficient mechanisms for monitoring and enforcing compliance with the codes.
Therefore, as my fellow Members and Commissioner&#160;Byrne also pointed out, adoption of this directive and tomorrow’s report is of the utmost importance both for the development of the internal market and for consumer protection.
I will conclude by thanking all my fellow Members who sought to improve this document and find a solution with their contributions.
Let us bear in mind, however, that consumer goods are goods for which credit is a particular kind of credit, inasmuch as, as soon as that credit is contracted, the goods are no longer the subject of credit but rather, in a way, of a debt, since the goods lose their value as soon as they are purchased.
There are two points to which my attention has been drawn in particular, Commissioner, and, of course, these concern the scope of this directive.
As you are aware, practices and conventions vary within the European Union, so that between mortgage credits, between personal loans, and between credits allocated there are very different balances from one Member State to another, and we have to face up to the reality of the mechanisms and risks of dumping which exist as a result of different national practices.
Yet that confidence is based on consumers’ ability to conclude, without incurring any legal or economic risk, all kinds of commercial transactions, in particular by means of new electronic trading procedures.
Bearing in mind the need to take into account the diversity of Community practices and the urgent need to make this instrument available, however, I believe it is reasonable to adopt the compromise which has been achieved, in particular thanks to the work of our rapporteur.
I would like to say, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, that we very much support what the rapporteur has said on unfair commercial practices, that is, that the principle of the vulnerable consumer must be accepted and recognised, that we must take into account disparities between national protection rules, that we must insist on a double legal basis and that the principle of optimum harmonisation should hold good for all three directives.
As far as the framework directive is concerned, our group’s guiding principle is that a high level of consumer protection is a prerequisite for the actual application of the principle of mutual recognition.
However, in order to clarify the connection between this framework directive and the competition-related aspects to everyone, we would still like to table amendments.
To our group, the average consumer remains the point of reference.
We will therefore follow the legal recommendation of our Legal Service and endorse the reasons that we have previously clarified in the various committees.
I hope that the Members of this House will reconsider the amendments, because I know that there are people in our group who would very much regret it if we were to end up with a regulation that is all too bureaucratic and involving a great deal of red tape.
Our problem is lack of time.
Some, for example, relate to the legal basis.
It is both astonishing and depressing how much energy some Members have put into attempts to water this proposal down.
I cannot conceive of a situation in which everyone but the consumer has rights in the internal market.
As previous speakers have said, improvements are needed, however, because otherwise there is a risk of the directives diluting the rights that consumers already have.
The right to earlier repayment must also be improved.
In my home country, costs have fallen by 7% over the past year, and I think that the right to repayment has been a significant contributory factor.
Finally, in my opinion, joint and several liability is really needed in order to develop the internal market and afford consumers protection when new products are placed on the market.
This also goes to show that this aspect is necessary for consumers when markets are developed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to start from a local perspective.
As the Commissioner will know very well, Credit Unions in some parts of the Union provide cheap and affordable types of safe credit to consumers through voluntary organisations carrying out voluntary effort in a non-profit way.
It is really very important and my constituents were very grateful to learn just how much had been done in that respect.
There may be one or two points of disagreement in the vote tomorrow, but the point is that we are all piloting the boat in the same direction. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for more than one and a half years, this Parliament has been working on the Commission proposal for the harmonisation of provisions on consumer credit.
My group, on the other hand, endorses minimum harmonisation of consumer credit provisions, so that the acquired rights in the Member States remain in place.
One of the acquired rights in my country, the Netherlands, is that consumers are allowed to run up a short-term debt with a bank on their current account without any extensive contracts.
Traders simply need to comply with the requirements applicable in the country where they introduce their products onto the market.
Our group has for that reason tabled Amendment No 95 to address this problem.
I hope that this will meet with approval from the House.
We therefore need a directive which prevents the impression being given, when consumers are offered credit, that we never have to return the money, for two reasons which I believe to be fundamental: firstly, in order to harmonise the conditions in which consumer credit is offered and, above all – and this, incidentally, is a proposal by the Group of the Party of European Socialists – in order to guarantee consumers a high level of protection.
I regret that I do not have sufficient time to comment to the Commissioner on the amendments we consider essential in order to fulfil these two objectives at least.
We citizens do have to repay what we owe, but our debts are more than we can afford. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, consumer protection is an important objective and we need to prevent dishonest traders benefiting from the internal market in order to mislead citizens by offering them defective goods.
Moreover, dishonest traders take advantage of the new technologies provided by the information society, thereby undermining consumer confidence in -commerce.
In order to protect consumers, therefore, we have to establish a body of clear, effective rules and also strengthen cooperation between national consumer protection authorities, by promoting information exchange and providing for the possibility for authorities approached by consumers to request the assistance of an authority from another country.
It is precisely this second, important objective which the proposal for a regulation being discussed and voted on by Parliament this week seeks to secure.
Current national systems are not capable of preventing and suppressing cross-border exploitation and existing informal networks face obstacles of a legal nature regarding, in particular, difficulties relating to the flow of information from one authority to another and even the lack of public consumer protection authorities in certain Member States.
Moreover, the regulation lays down precisely the Member States’ obligation to designate a public consumer protection authority, which will be part of a European network.
The authority of one Member State may request help from other members of the network in order to investigate possible infringements, to receive information and thereby to end exploitation by dishonest traders.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has provided some further guarantees in the proposal for a regulation, in order to avoid possible abuse of power by the national authorities, to protect confidential information held by businesses which is not strictly necessary to the investigation and to ensure that the requests for cooperation are reasonably justified and do not pointlessly impede traders.
However, I do not want this directive to be used as an excuse for credit providers to opt out of the very high consumer protection that is already offered in other Member States.
The PSE voting list tomorrow will reflect our desire not only to see the opening-up of a consumer credit market in this area but also to achieve the highest possible level of consumer protection for consumers right across Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it seems to me that this joint debate tonight is perhaps a fitting finale to the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market in this mandate.
The unfair commercial practices legislation should create that high level of consumer protection across the board.
Firstly, I think it is quite wrong that we should now, for the first time in the history of the European Union’s lawmaking, be seeking to interfere in the Member States’ right to organise the way in which they, within their own borders, transpose regulations and directives.
I therefore propose that we should stick to what was decided by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
The Council will do likewise when it has come to its senses.
I would like to expressly thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and the good cooperation between the committees.
I hope that the draft Parliament has produced, based on the rapporteur’s proposals, does justice to the real intentions of this directive, which are to improve consumer protection while cutting bureaucracy, to provide greater transparency and to make for greater trust and mutual consideration, and that it will thereby promote consumer interests and cross-border borrowing.
This is his second attempt to reach a compromise on the Consumer Credit Directive, Parliament having opposed many aspects of the proposed directive and referred it back to committee in November 2003.
This directive aims to harmonise laws, regulations and administrative procedures of the Member States concerning agreements covering credit granted to consumers and surety agreements entered into by consumers.
In conclusion, harmonisation is needed and welcomed to the extent that it respects the different range of financial products and the cultural differences in financial services in each Member State.
We need a balance here in protecting the consumer from the lender and the lender from the consumer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as a number of colleagues have said as regards consumer credit, good regulation will stimulate the market, encourage consumer confidence and stimulate innovation and development across the single market.
However, as a number of colleagues have said, consumer rights have to have proper enforcement mechanisms.
The other two proposals being discussed tonight have that link in common.
The important proposal of mutual recognition is also absolutely essential to making everything work successfully.
Allow me to respond to some of the points that have been made during the course of the debate and to indicate the Commission's position on the key amendments.
It would, however, provide rogue traders with more time to exploit the absence of effective cooperation between the enforcement authorities in the Member States.
The compromise represents a reasonable balance between the enforcement traditions of the Member States.
The most important question in these discussions has been the public nature of the network proposed.
The thinking behind the Commission's proposal was that only public authorities can deliver adequate guarantees on effectiveness and confidentiality.
In a minority of Member States effective enforcement is fulfilled by financing private consumer organisations to take action on behalf of the public interest.
Amendment No 76 successfully reconciles both traditions.
The reference to comitology was inserted at the request of those MEPs who support delegation by Member States.
For a Member State prevented by another Member State from delegating to a private body, it provides a useful opportunity to air grievances.
It is now a little over 19 months since the Commission sent this proposal to Parliament, just a few weeks less than the gestation period of the elephant, and I suppose it is not surprising therefore that we have this weighty tome from the rapporteur.
I am sure the rapporteur will understand if I do not accept all of his amendments, although I am trying to adopt a compromise approach to his position and to his report.
Many of the amendments proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and discussed today can be accepted by the Commission.
I also note that more than 200 amendments were tabled for this plenary sitting which, together with the comments from the various speakers, demonstrates that opinions are very divided.
I am nevertheless heartened by the fact that on the two principal objectives, namely ensuring a high level of protection and the creation of a genuine single market for consumer credit, there is a broad consensus.
For these areas, Member States can maintain their national provisions.
The same applies to matters covered by national civil law, such as the provisions on repossession and sanctions.
However, as I said before, this directive also aims at guaranteeing a high level of protection for consumers in the area of credit.
Questions surrounding mortgage-backed credit are being discussed in the forum group on mortgage credit which is due to present a preliminary report in June 2004.
The Commission confirms that this is not the intention and believes the directive should not undermine the relevant national regimes.
This would reduce legal certainty.
While some of the proposed adjustments are acceptable, others would upset this balance either by removing key information or by adding extra requirements which would impose costs without bringing any real benefits to consumers.
The measures in the Annex have been selected because they are not in all circumstances unfair and so can be prohibited up front.
I know that some speakers hope for the inclusion of Article 153.
However, in modern agriculture they are an unavoidable by-product of agricultural production methods.
Our duty here is to set out a legal and administrative framework whereby consumers are protected from unacceptable levels of residues whilst at the same time permitting trade in agricultural commodities.
Third, we will introduce a role for the European Food Safety Authority in the risk assessment of MRLs.
Fourth, we will introduce clear and transparent procedures for all interested parties in the setting or modification of MRLs.
Fifth, by introducing the concept of a default 'zero tolerance' MRL, we propose a solution for residues of the 400 substances we have already taken off the market, of which we do not want to see any residues in food.
These are the main objectives covered by the proposal, which I hope can enter into force by 2006, 30 years after our first efforts in this area, during which we have seen major changes in science, in trade, in politics and in consumer protection.
I fully welcome the proposals on harmonisation of maximum residue levels in foodstuffs throughout the European Union.
As the Commissioner said, it is very important that a product consumed in one country should be just as safe in another country.
I am sure that the committee will – as far as possible, as we resubmit amendments – feel that they are important for the functioning of this legislation.
I said that we are resubmitting some: we are not resubmitting all the amendments that failed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, because it was rather pointless.
Amendments Nos 74 to 78, which deal with temporary MRLs, bring the legislation more into line with Directive 91/414/EEC.
Regarding amendments resubmitted by colleagues, Amendment No 67, concerning the setting of MRLs, covers vulnerable groups.
Amendment No 69 concerns integrated pest management.
I would add one last point that is of particular importance.
Half of our fresh food contains pesticide residues, and there are increasingly more cases of various residues – up to 14 no less – in one product.
With regard to aggregate MRLs, if, for example, there are two or three different pesticides, but they are all below the MRLs, the combination should say that they should not be on the market.
Permitted residue levels for crop protection products differ to a considerable degree from one Member State to another, and that is why it is a good idea to lay down maximum residue levels.
Public health and best agricultural practices should be normative in this respect.
Secondly, children are particularly vulnerable because their livers are not yet fully developed.
Research in the Emma Children’s Hospital in Amsterdam has shown that certain residues can seriously hamper children’s development.
I would also note that Parliament's deliberations and discussions echo many of the themes and issues raised in the Council discussions.
We have made good progress in setting out the legal and administrative framework whereby consumers will be protected from unacceptable levels of residues whilst at the same time ensuring that there is a single market by permitting trade in agricultural commodities.
This is very important.
The application of a default MRL, however, raises a problem – what to do with all the national MRLs that we already have and that are not yet harmonised.
I recognise that the issue of temporary MRLs raises some anxieties, but can assure you that the European Food Safety Authority will be involved in this process.
However, this is not the appropriate text to regulate that issue.
These proposals will be submitted as part of a package together with our proposals on the sustainable use of pesticides.
EFSA will also be deeply involved in scientific issues.
Finally, the strengthened provisions on monitoring and control measures should boost confidence among all parties and ensure that we have the tools available to justify and to maintain that confidence.
The debate is closed.
This communication responds to the report of 4 November 2002 of the High Level Group of Company Law Experts, which Commissioner Bolkestein appointed for the purpose of, precisely, recommending a modern regulatory framework for company law in Europe.
The communication sets out the major political objectives that should guide all our future initiatives.
In this proposal, the Commission has taken into account the need to respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, basing its own regulatory approach on gradual application, without however, losing sight of regulatory developments at international level.
There are two fundamental objectives sought by the Commission by reforming company law in Europe: strengthening shareholders’ rights and third parties’ protection; fostering efficiency and competitiveness of businesses.
From this point of view, the Commission’s approach to the issue of governance seems simplistic and inadequate.
Corporate governance is presented as a problem confined solely to relations between shareholders and management, as if a business were a body solely concerned with shareholders’ interests.
In this way it is describing a virtual company, without giving due importance to workers and without more general responsibilities towards other categories of parties with an interest in the life of the company itself such as, for example, creditors and other stakeholders.
With regard to the second objective, competitiveness of businesses may be fostered by various elements, including the inevitable existence of an appropriate regulatory framework for company law, firmly balanced between national and Community measures.
This is why, in view of the growing integration of European capital markets, a common approach should be adopted at EU level, laying down a few essential rules and adequate coordination of corporate governance codes.
My services are actively working in five areas to have proposals ready, where possible, later this year.
The aim is therefore not to re-examine or reconsider the action plan in the light of recent developments, as requested in the motion for resolution; rather, it is to learn from those developments and to take due account of them when preparing the various initiatives that it contains.
I am therefore pleased to see that the rapporteur agrees with the main elements of the reform which I have set out in the proposal for an eighth directive on statutory audit.
That should allow us to proceed quickly and, I hope, reach an agreement between the Council and Parliament in a single reading.
It would therefore not be appropriate, at this stage, to fundamentally change our approach in that area.
However, in our communication of May 2003, we announced our intention to carry out a study that will examine whether further changes in that area are needed.
However, a sound corporate governance framework will not be achieved by the markets simply acting on their own, nor by the introduction of an overly prescriptive legal infrastructure.
The challenge we are all facing here is to find the right balance between regulatory and market-based incentives and penalties.
In order to organise real countervailing power, you need to take all the partners into account.
However, and I am pleased that the Commissioner admitted this, we must in all cases accept the distinction between large and small shareholders, especially with regard to the use of modern technology in the exercise of shareholders' voting rights, given that small shareholders are more exposed to risk.
I am delighted that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market accepted the amendment in question.
That is why I believe, and the Ghilardotti report confirms it, that the Commission has presented a very good paper here and a good action plan over all.
There were of course some differences of opinion between the political groups in the internal debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
With one amendment, we as a group will be voting for this report as it emerged from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should explain that I am the non-executive chairman of a medium-sized regional media group in the United Kingdom.
It is interesting how company law in the various Member States has created companies that differ qualitatively from one other.
European company law can either legislate to harmonise this, or do nothing and let the inevitable process of convergence be driven by the market, providing no particular model is discriminated against.
I would add that I am conscious of some of the waspish remarks made about what happens in my country.
The Commission's action plan is part of an overall strategy to foster the efficiency and competitiveness of businesses and to strengthen shareholders' rights and the protection of third parties.
It would therefore have been inappropriate to introduce under this action plan another policy framework concerning corporate social responsibility.
The action plan clearly recognises this need and the Commission is therefore committed to acting accordingly. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
I am a strong advocate of the approach of incremental legislation in line with the principle of subsidiarity, with self-regulation in first place, that is self-regulation by the banks.
I would also like to sound a warning to the industry here, since it is itself always talking about self-regulation: these requirements will also have to be complied with and corresponding standards created without undue delay.
Consumer protection presents a greater problem in this Commission document.
It contains some ideas which in my view go far beyond our objective, and I have the impression that there are some people in the Commission – let me make clear that I do not mean you, Commissioner Bolkestein – who have lost sight of the idea of citizens taking responsibility for themselves.
I am sure things like that can be settled by the market – and you are an advocate of the market, after all – by having products that provide safeguards; a fundamental liability of the banks in such cases should be rejected, however, as should the proposal that cardholder’s liability be limited to EUR 150 when the card is lost, regardless of how they have behaved.
Coming back to consumer protection, however, may I appeal to you, Mr Bolkestein, in the ongoing discussions within the Commission, to speak up for mature and responsible citizens and see that responsibility is left with them.
An efficient and secure payment system is an essential complement to the free movement of goods and services in the European Union.
An efficient system must be based on a robust and dynamic regulatory framework that ensures competition, consumer protection and safety in payment transactions.
The basic idea is that the provision of payment services should be open to all appropriate providers, but without sacrificing consumer protection.
There was no internal market governed by domestic rules regulating payments in the new currency, which, although a single currency, functioned as a foreign currency, subject to commission and other foreign exchange charges.
This situation was partially solved by Regulation No 2560 of December 2001 concerning electronic transfers and payments.
It is therefore my opinion that only by establishing regulations can we give the citizens and companies the security that a payment system requires. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is a pity that the debates on consumer credit and on the single payment area were not combined, because the same issue is at stake in both of them: do we want to construct a European market in retail financial services?
The activity of supplying payment services presupposes, admittedly, the removal of national obstacles, but at the same time it also requires prudential supervision.
It is on that basis that the internal retail banking market, and in particular the consumer credit market, will be able to develop, and that in turn will allow European banking operators to emerge.
That is why I believe that the best solution is to agree on the common principles of general interest, the common concepts, particularly with regard to universal access to payment methods with a high level of security, services which are inexpensive but in which there is great confidence.
The rules governing cross-border transactions must be precise, and intense cooperation is necessary between national regulators.
If there is a substantial modification in rates, it must be possible to close or move an account, at no cost, at the request of the customer.
I am fully aware the draft regulation on conditions of access to gas transmission networks has given rise to a series of interesting debates over the last few weeks.
Clearly, the regulation supplements the directive on the internal market and fills the gap remaining.
Obviously, a number of conditions will have to be met in order to comply with the provisions and objectives contained in the directive, as there are qualitative implications to opening up the market in addition to quantitative ones.
These conditions are also needed to ensure the market is competitive and can be exploited in full.
The European&#160;Parliament report we are today debating also supports the change in the legal basis.
We shall stand by our statement and position when the Council finally adopts the text of the directive in question.
In addition, the Commission is of the opinion that the text adopted by the Council contains a series of standards aimed at bringing a degree of harmonisation to a competitive European internal natural gas market.
In the context of the first proposal being discussed in the run up to enlargement, the Commission endorses and supports several projects involving major interconnections between gas networks. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner de Palacio, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the proposal for a regulation on access to gas transmission networks.
We found that with the gas directive last year.
Commissioner, there are four points I would like to recommend you consider in greater detail in the Council debate.
The problem is not comitology itself, but the question is whether Article 9 is in a correct relationship to Articles 3 to 8, that is whether the most important points really are in Articles 3 to 8.
Now they would all like to be mentioned in the legislation.
Then I would like to say something about the other report on security of natural gas supply.
Now Parliament has adopted at first reading a different text than the one the Commission presented and the Council has backed Parliament in the matter.
We are therefore now speaking about a different text than the Commission originally presented and in our view this text no longer contains any rules for the internal market.
Some Member States have had problems implementing earlier decisions, and the Commission has therefore used a strategic weapon, which is to say a regulation, to guarantee access to gas networks in all countries, especially when transporting gas across borders from one country to another, but also within countries.
There was not enough time at the Madrid Forum to discuss all the details regarding access to the networks, and new laws are to be drafted in the future under the comitology procedure without any consultation procedure involving the participants at the Madrid Forum.
After a number of votes on the matter our committee adopted the position that there are good arguments in favour of establishing the Regulation and that the Commission proposal should furthermore be adopted in principle by this Parliament.
In the votes more than 40 amendments were accepted as a basis for first reading, and Parliament wishes to hold talks on them with representatives of the Commission and the Council some time in the future when the draft Regulation is being finally agreed.
I believe we in this Parliament have been united on that for quite some time.
May I remind you that last year, after more than two years’ intensive work, we adopted directives to accelerate the opening of both the electricity and the gas markets in Europe.
We are surprised because the time allowed for the Member States to implement the directive has not yet expired – it will do so in a few weeks’ time – and also because we have set a very ambitious timetable for the Commission to submit an evaluation report on the application and implementation of the directive; it was to happen in 2006.
Firstly, the compatibility between this regulation and the directive we adopted.
So far as my group is concerned, the outcome is that we support the package as a whole.
When the legal basis of a proposal is unreliable, when the rights of the Member States are infringed in the process, and where the actual text leaves something to be desired, it is not easy to draft a sound report.
A first recommendation concerned the legal basis of the Commission proposal.
I think the Commission is wrong in its view that Article 100 applies only to economic and monetary policy; in a wider context, economic policy can also include energy policy.
In the Council, Commission and Parliament, the gas directive, in respect of which the Council’s common position was determined, was circulated last year.
If so, in what way was that done? &#160;&#160; – Madam President, you have to consider two things where natural gas is concerned.
I hope that Parliament will strongly support this proposal because it will play an important role in the completion of the internal energy market.
The third-party access guidelines in the Annex have been agreed by Member States, regulators, TSOs and system users.
It is therefore appropriate that the text of the regulation agreed in committee should be as close as possible to the guidelines agreed at the Madrid Forum.
I very much urge the House to approve this measure. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner&#160;De&#160;Palacio, Mr&#160;Mombaur, Mr&#160;Seppänen, last June the European Union adopted, with difficulty and well behind time in relation to consumers’ and European companies’ needs, Directive 2003/55/EC which takes decisive steps towards the completion of the liberalisation of the gas market.
The text put forward by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy further strengthens this proposal and I therefore believe that it should be supported as it stands.
I believe that, as with oil, the responsibility rests in the first instance with the companies.
We need common rules and the barriers to competition have to be eliminated, which obviously applies to all Member States.
In addition, the scope of implementation is that envisaged in the transit directive and in the second directive relating to the internal market in gas.
Restricting the scope of implementation of this regulation would entail limiting its aim significantly and also limiting the possibility of actually achieving a competitive European gas market.
There are practical and legal reasons why amendments such as Amendments Nos 8, 17, 22, 27, 30, 35, 37 or 42 are not acceptable.
We have worked as never before to debate and promote matters relating to energy and the environment.
I think I can say, on behalf of the members of that committee and on behalf of the European Parliament as a whole, how much we too have appreciated being able to work with you in the field of energy and in other fields.
The debate is closed.
It was a relatively natural course of action, then, for the committee to lay a certain emphasis on energy consumption, in particular, in its consideration of the proposal.
Latest reports in my home country indicate that it is set to exceed the CO2 emissions quota for the 2005-2007 period by 14%.
This forms a framework for decisions, but does not exclude anyone from the market.
The report is also criticised for not having heeded the three pillars of sustainable development.
The scope is broad, but in actual fact what we have here is an organised regulatory framework for how to proceed, how to choose what is important and how to set requirements in the future: the prototype for good governance, in other words.
Unfortunately, although I did not quite catch what the Commissioner said at the end, I do not think that this Parliament will at any rate be able to reach agreement with the Council at this reading, and that means we lose a fair amount of time.
I wish to thank my fellow Members for their constructive cooperation on the preparation of this report.
Unfortunately, the European Union is lagging behind other economies, such as Australia, the US and Japan.
There will soon be between 500 and 700 million new middle-class citizens in India, China and other such countries, so the single biggest challenge for the world economy is to be able to offer efficient demand-side products, such as appliances and computers.
This also constitutes a huge opportunity for European industry because it will open up an enormous market.
For that reason, we would like a list of products that will be subject to implementing measures in the first few years if there are no voluntary agreements to achieve the same objective faster.
We need common European standards, and I must personally say that in my ten years’ work in the European Parliament I have seldom seen the Council behave so destructively or a presidency handle a matter so badly.
Its last chance is to really follow Parliament and I strongly appeal to it to do so. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner de Palacio, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer the rapporteur my most sincere congratulations and also my thanks.
I understand that it is of course a very difficult dossier for the Member States, too, but we in the European Parliament have shown that, despite starting from very different positions, it is possible to come closer on very important issues.
That is why I do not find it satisfactory to take only Article 95, the internal market article, as the legal basis.
If we want a good environment and energy policy, it makes no sense to put Member States that are more advanced or have stricter requirements in a particular matter on a leash and shackle them.
I know that the debate between those present has already been closed, but I would like to underline once again here that I and my group think it is very important to have two legal bases if there is to be a better environment and energy policy in the Member States. &#160;&#160; Madam President, industry complains about regulation and interference from Brussels.
We have talked in broad terms of the importance of this report and the importance of the global effects it might have.
The reality is that all the large manufacturers are using every trick in the book to prevent consumers getting a fair deal, at the same time undermining the need to improve energy efficiency, which is a crucial element in protecting the environment.
As to the legal basis, Parliament’s Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has confirmed that Article&#160;95 of the Treaty is the only appropriate legal basis for this proposal.
A first-reading agreement reaffirms the high priority that the European Union gives to taking concrete action to tackle climate change.
It will provide an important signal to our partners, in particular developing countries and economies in transition, including Russia, of our continuing support for the Kyoto Protocol and our firm intention to tackle climate change multilaterally.
The compromise package before Parliament will give an important boost to the Kyoto Protocol and its project mechanisms: Joint Implementation and the Clean Development Mechanism.
By doing so it will enhance the cost-efficiency of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme in a way that also benefits developing countries and economies in transition.
The compromise package before you is very delicately balanced.
Point 3: energy companies and large firms can now earn emission allowance by investing in the switch from Chinese coal-fired power stations to gas, in making coal-fired power stations more effective, in solar power stations in Indonesia, in wind farms on the coastlines of developing countries or in retrieving spent gas from rubbish tips.
Agreements only to commit industry to the ceiling make no sense, because this leads to governments, at least some governments, making 50% of their investments abroad, with industry making a further 25% of the countries' investments abroad.
Point 8: outside Europe, there is a great deal of interest in our system of emission trading and in this linking directive.
Armed with this linking directive, we will now enter upon the worldwide struggle to solve the climate issue. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I, too, would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and I hope that one reading will suffice.
I want to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done.
On specific issues, I believe we have been able to persuade the Council of the need for greater reflection on whether to include domestic projects.
Concerning big hydro and nuclear projects, it seems disappointing if we wanted the allowances for such projects excluded permanently from the scheme, but in reality Parliament has been able to ensure that the projects and the take-up within the European scheme are at least in line with Kyoto and the World Commission on Dams and the Marrakech Accords.
In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and also in discussions involving the rapporteur, much has been said about the risks which placing the reductions outside of one’s own Member State can entail.
I would like to expressly support you, Commissioner Wallström, in your commitment to encourage the Member States to implement the spirit and content of this directive, and if necessary bring proceedings before the European Court of Justice to oblige them to do so.
I believe the de Roo report is an important step forward in international climate policy.
We are strengthening the Kyoto process and we have also shown that there are certain limits here.
It is important that the European Union should continue to show leadership on this issue.
We should continue to demonstrate that we are willing to take action at home and internationally, that we believe that a truly global problem also requires a global solution.
I would like to comment on two points mentioned during the debate.
We should not wait for Russia – that is true – but the 120 countries that have ratified are not waiting; they are actually carrying out actions on the issue of climate change already.
The other issue is an important one: the argument about sinks and our position on sinks.
Again, I am satisfied that our position on sinks is consistent, since in all the negotiations on the Kyoto Protocol we have remained rather sceptical on sinks – at least until such time as we can monitor and control sinks and count them reliably.
These are the arguments.
This will be another effective instrument within our climate change policy. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Wallström.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, there are more than 63 of us who, as Members of the European Parliament, have tabled a motion of censure on the Commission, not because we lack confidence in all the Commissioners but because it is the only means we have of attributing responsibility for the Eurostat scandal.
Today the existing legislation covers only 7% of all the portable batteries sold each year in the European Union.
Consequently, today many batteries still end up in the environment.
In 2002, for example, approximately 45% of the total volume of portable batteries sold in the 15-member EU was landfilled or incinerated.
The proposed closed loop system requires Member States to take all necessary measures to prevent final disposal of spent batteries and achieve a high level of battery collection and recycling.
The application of the producer responsibility principle is an important step towards incorporating the external environmental costs into the production phase and, at the same time, towards encouraging producers to market more environmentally friendly products.
First of all, all batteries fall within the scope of the directive.
Thirdly, recycling percentages and recycling efficiencies are binding, and fourthly, producer responsibility plays a major role in the financing mechanisms.
Agreement has been reached with all groups on most points in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
EU legislation now stipulates that the heavy metals mercury, lead and cadmium are prohibited in materials and parts of vehicles which are brought onto the market after 1 July 2003, as well as in new electrical and electronic appliances which are brought onto the market after 1 July 2006.
On pages 9 to 12 of the explanatory note to the Commission’s proposal, the harmful environmental and health effects of mercury, cadmium and lead are clearly described.
However, there does not appear to be a closed-loop system since only 80% of portable nickel-cadmium batteries need to be collected.
Consequently, 20% of portable nickel-cadmium batteries end up as landfill or in an incinerator.
As such, I can assume that these batteries can be used across the entire European Union.
I am almost certain that the batteries in all your mobile telephones are nickel-metal-hydride or lithium-ion.
We should therefore also promote these alternatives, namely by excluding harmful heavy metals from batteries as much as possible. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I have to admit that before I entered the European Parliament I was involved with nickel-cadmium batteries for ten years.
Each one of us is probably carrying two or three batteries – in our phones, in our watches, in our car key fobs and maybe there are even one or two heart pacemakers in this Chamber.
Batteries have made a contribution to safety.
Cordless power tools have made building sites much safer and often in the case of power failure we rely on batteries for back-up lighting or emergency power.
I would like to congratulate the Commission on its proposal which is balanced and in proportion to the problem.
In Belgium it costs at least twice as much to collect the batteries as the actual value of the batteries themselves.
I support some of the amendments.
In particular, my Group supports the move not to set recovery targets based on an arbitrary number of grams – 160 grams for every country.
Such a one-size-fits-all policy would be bizarre in countries such as the Baltic States where the battery market is not even half of 160 grams.
However, my Group will not support the amendments to Article 4 with regard to the bans on heavy metal.
Although we have cadmium in the environment, the source of cadmium from batteries is not significant.
Batteries which are sold now will not come into the waste stream for more than 16 years.
Therefore the heavy metal ban does not solve the problem in the short term. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner Wallström, we are indeed using more batteries, and that is causing us problems.
I therefore also support the Commission’s approach of including all batteries in the legislation and of ensuring there is producer responsibility in battery production.
I also agree with the many compromises we have reached together with the aim of making the collection and recycling of batteries better organised so that our waste problem will actually be reduced.
There are a variety of opinions in the House about how to encourage innovation and avoid heavy metals.
I must admit that my views on points of detail have changed many times, but I have come to the conclusion that, while backing a closed-loop recycling system for cadmium batteries in the medium term, we should be looking in the long term for the replacement of such batteries because of their toxicity.
As I have been saying for the last five years, we have to find better ways of getting ministers who sign up to these agreements to keep to their word. &#160;&#160; Madam President, cadmium is extremely toxic.
The Commission has proposed a closed-loop system, but the rapporteur has already pointed out that only 80% is being recovered, which means that 20% must be disappearing into the environment.
Lithium-ion and nickel-hydride batteries are already on the market.
I hope that the majority in this House will know better. &#160;&#160; Madam President, cadmium is a dangerous chemical.
At the very least a ban on cadmium in household batteries would help to reduce cadmium levels and promote the use of alternatives in batteries over time.
I will limit myself to commenting on two issues that have been raised during the debate and explain once more why the Commission did not propose a ban.
However, on the basis of this impact assessment, a substance ban for other batteries was not chosen for the following reasons: a substance ban can only be considered if viable substitutes exist.
A ban would always be limited in scope and would never be able to cover all hazardous batteries.
As we have already heard, a substance ban might not cover cordless power tools, emergency lighting and industrial applications.
These are the main arguments as to why we chose a closed-loop solution.
We have proposed this closed-loop system for all batteries.
Those are our main arguments.
I suppose that this will be debated from now on, but we all seem to agree that it is important to monitor what is going on and find the best solution to make sure that these hazardous substances and batteries do not end up in the waste stream.
I thank you for your work on this report and for the debate. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Wallström.
The debate is closed.
The problem we face is that total pollution in society, especially due to our habits of consumption, is increasing all the time.
The European Environmental Agency has recently shown that the volume of waste in the fifteen Member States has increased by 15% since 1990.
Because the world’s gross domestic product is expected to increase by three or four times in the next 30 to 40 years, we must do something radical if we are not literally to be buried beneath an ever higher mountain of waste and pollution.
The Integrated Product Policy we are debating in this House today offers excellent opportunities for creating a framework of incentives to get us to move away from production and consumption models characterised by a consumerist approach to linear resource flows and, instead, to embrace resource efficiency, waste minimisation, controlled use of hazardous substances and expansion of the stocks of natural capital.
We need the thematic strategies, but we also need a framework for the Integrated Product Policy in order to hold the policy together and to be a driving force in its actual implementation.
In general, environmental policy and also energy policy must become far more coherent and consistent.
EMAS and ISO are obviously constructive, but research shows that they are not enough.
That is good, but it is naïve to believe that better labelling and better environmental information will solve this problem.
Finally, much more thorough use must be made of the increase in information in order to promote greater efficiency when it comes to the use of energy, materials and dematerialisation.
I do not have time to go into this now, but there are a number of examples where companies now make use of these principles, bring about perfectly clean solutions and, moreover, earn money from doing so.
In the Commission communication, we emphasise that it was necessary to show how the Integrated Product Policy can operate in practice, and we have also said that we wish to use two methods to do this.
The report contains many interesting insights.
Allow me to comment on a couple of important ones that show the link between the thematic strategies and this proposal, also mentioned by the rapporteur.
I should also like to describe how I see the link between the Integrated Product Policy and other initiatives mentioned in the report, particularly the two thematic strategies: the strategy on the sustainable use of natural resources and the strategy for waste prevention and recycling.
My long-term vision for these three areas is really quite uncomplicated.
I believe that the strategy on natural resources should include the general problems linked to the issue of how we are to break the link between economic growth and environmental damage.
The strategy must state what is to be done to break this link and establish general objectives concerning the way in which natural resources are to be protected against over-exploitation and pollution.
As we said in our proposal, we can do a lot right now.
I also believe that the strategy on waste and recycling should be more clearly focused upon the environmental and market problems that arise in that part of the life-cycle.
However impatient we may be, I believe that we must wait a little and see how different actors apply the Integrated Product Policy in practice.
In 2007, the Commission will review the two points I have mentioned, as well as the whole of the Integrated Product Policy.
For example, we might place greater emphasis upon services, recommend a framework directive or change the Integrated Product Policy as a result of the discussions concerning the thematic strategies.
If we really want to enforce sustainable production, we must think in life cycles and not in individual products.
That is why, Commissioner Wallström, we also need a structural framework for the building site.
This piece of work on the coordination – not harmonisation, as some of my colleagues would like us to believe – of social security systems has been lengthy.
It started life in the previous Parliament and then changed to codecision and unanimity in Council in 1999.
I trust that this simplification and modernisation of the much-amended regulation in the past will provide a useful and very constructive framework in a further enlarged European Union.
I also want to record my thanks to the Commission for its willingness to support our work with time, information and explanation.
In Council, too, we have seen an increasing willingness to approach this reform with some spirit, which I know was not shared by all Members back in 1999 when I first met with representatives and Member States in Helsinki.
I would remind Members that Council informed the chairman and members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs – in writing in a letter dated 31 March and indeed verbally after that – of its agreement to the amendments here proposed to the common position and to the Council statement on taxation to be entered in the Council minutes should agreement be reached on the adoption of the regulation.
As we know, the restrictions concerning this regulation have caused us some problems: the fact that tax cannot be tackled within it raises particular problems for some cross-border workers, especially as we see tax and social protection systems increasingly interlocking in some Member States.
However, we believe that the common position as amended in committee is a positive step forward.
The adoption of the assimilation of facts and events will be of benefit to frontier workers in particular and the number of derogations and exceptions has been reduced, despite our concern about the future development of the Annexes.
The most important is that it will send out a clear message to the citizens in both the present and in the new Member States, demonstrating that the European Union is both willing and able to set appropriate conditions for the real free movement of persons, the cornerstone of which is the coordination of social security systems.
I should also like to thank the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs for its work.
As regards the two amendments within the framework of the second reading, they clearly improve the quality of the text and the Commission can therefore accept them in full.
The common position of the Council responds to the main objectives of the Commission proposal, which entail simplifying and improving the coordination of social security systems, for the benefit of European citizens moving around within the Union.
The new rules will apply to all citizens in the European Union covered by a Member State's social security system.
The application of the coordination rules to all insured persons will satisfy the need for Regulation No 1408 to be brought into line with developments in the freedom of movement within the European Union, which is not just a right for workers, but is also a reality for all European citizens.
This provision is particularly important for cross-border workers.
The current regulation does not contain clear provisions on good administration.
In addition, agencies will be required to reply within a reasonable period of time to all questions and to provide citizens with any information requested in order to exercise their rights.
Nevertheless, I have noticed that a number of important achievements have been made, and I would thank Commissioner Dimas for his responses.
The regulation that is before us applies to all EU citizens.
There are major improvements in this regulation for frontier workers.
For example, certain events in a Member State must be treated in the same way by the country of residence as similar events that have taken place on their own territory.
I have recommended that my group should vote in favour, on the condition that I am given every opportunity of introducing improvements where possible when the introductory regulation is fleshed out and also in the annexes.
Pressure of time prevents me from repeating all the points, but I should in any case like to suggest that cooperation between Parliament, Council and Commission should continue, on the same footing and in a constructive manner.
I am extremely anxious about the wariness displayed by Member States with regard to the implications in terms of their own tax and social security systems.
I should nevertheless like to thank the rapporteur and all those involved.
Tomorrow, my group will be voting in favour of the Lambert report.
The definition of frontier workers has been adopted; there are improvements in the field of pensions and also the families of frontier workers have not been overlooked.
For example, my country, the Netherlands, has yet again asked for an opt-out in certain sections, one being the medical treatment of frontier workers’ families.
That, of course, also applies to other countries that are extremely anxious that, upon the EU’s imminent enlargement, a heavy burden will be placed on their social security.
I hope all Members will support this report tomorrow, along with the two amendments in it, as we need a majority vote.
In presenting this regulation to the public we should also highlight that this is probably the single most important piece of social legislation to come out of this Parliament and one that makes a real difference to people's lives in that it reflects the realities in which the modern-day European Union citizen is working.
There are one or two points of concern.
Some of them have been dealt with, but I would like to re-emphasise them.
The issue of taxation is an issue for Member States alone.
I agree with the rapporteur that this report is not about harmonisation; it is about better coordination of the social security systems in Member States.
It also constitutes an improvement as regards strengthening the equal treatment of all EU nationals.
It is now up to the Commission and Council, on the basis of the good faith we will show tomorrow, to keep their part of the bargain and bring forward a proposal in this regard.
We have just been reminded that the annexes are empty, and we still have some work ahead of us.
I should also like to pay tribute to all those who have assisted with this work, whether in the Commission or in the Council.
For both of the Commission's proposals, for the new implementing regulation and for the content of the three Annexes, the Parliament will play its role as a co-legislator. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Dimas.
The debate is closed.
Between 1915 and 1918, the Turkish army evacuated almost all Armenian villages within the Ottoman Empire.
Following attempts over several months by the Greek Government, with the then Minister for Foreign Affairs Georgos Papandreos, which of course have continued up to today, and the provision of guarantees by it, following the reaction by the European Parliament, which passed a resolution on the subject, and following action by the troika and by Commissioner Chris Patten and the visit to Pakistan, the desired result has been achieved.
There is therefore an urgent need to develop, on all fronts, a real plan for the organised control of this scourge, which affects all of us either directly or indirectly.
The economic and social burden of diseases of the brain represents 35% of the cost of all diseases in Europe, and this figure is expected to rise in the next ten to twenty years.
The Commission position reflects the compromise agreed between the Council and the rapporteur in order to reach agreement at first reading.
The Commission can accept the following amendments: 5, 8, 12, 13, 15, 16, 24, 25, 39, 42, 43, 46, 50, 51, 63, 64, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 74, 75, 78, 86, 100, 102, 103, 104, 110, 112, 114, 117, 124, 126, 127, 128, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 139, 145, 147, 149, 174, 191, 199 and 201.
The Commission can accept the following amendments subject to rewording: 2, 3, 9, 11, 14, 18, 20, 26, 29, 34, 35, 37, 38, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 60, 61, 66, 73, 79, 81, 87, 91, 92, 101, 105, 107, 108, 109, 118, 121, 140, 144, 146, 148, 150, 151, 156, 159, 162, 165, 168, 176, 179, 180, 184, 185, 186, 187, 192, 194, 197, 198 and 205.
The Commission can accept the following amendments in part, subject to rewording: 1, 6, 7, 23, 36, 40, 62, 65, 84, 95, 130, 131, 155, 164, 166, 167, 169, 172, 177, 188 and 195.
The Commission can accept the following amendments in part: 17, 27, 59, 142 and 158.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 4, 10, 19, 21, 22, 28, 30, 31, 32, 33, 41, 44, 45, 47, 48, 49, 52, 76, 77, 80, 82, 83, 85, 88, 89, 90, 93, 94, 96, 97, 98, 99, 106, 111, 113, 115, 116, 119, 120, 122, 123, 125, 129, 132, 138, 141, 143, 152, 153, 154, 157, 160, 161, 163, 170, 171, 173, 175, 178, 181, 182, 183, 189, 190, 193, 196, 200, 202, 203, 204 or 206.
Ghilardotti report The Commission can accept the following amendments: 1, 5, 10, 19, 23, 41, 59, 60, 62, 68, 71, 88, 90, 96, 104, 107, 108, 109, 111 and 112 (total: 20).
The Commission can accept the following amendments in part or subject to changes: 2, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13, 14, 17, 21, 24, 25, 27, 28, 29, 31, 33, 34, 37, 38, 39, 40, 42, 44, 45, 47, 61, 65, 67, 69, 72, 73, 76, 80, 84, 85, 87, 89, 92, 98, 99, 100, 103, 105 and 106 (total: 45).
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 3, 11, 12, 15, 16, 18, 20, 22, 26, 30, 32, 35, 36, 43, 46, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 63, 64, 66, 70, 74, 75, 77, 78, 79, 81, 82, 83, 86, 91, 93, 94, 95, 97, 101, 102 or 110 (Total: 47).
The Commission can accept the following amendments: 1, 5, 6, 8, 9 (only if 12 is also adopted), 12, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22, 24, 28, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 37, 39, 40, 41, 42, 44, 45, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 57, 58, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 66, 76, 77 and 78.
The Commission can accept the following amendments subject to rewording: 2, 3, 4, 43, 74 and 75.
The Commission can accept the following amendments as part of the compromise package: 7, 15, 23 (if reworded), 25, 36, 38, 46, 47, 48, 59 and 65.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 10, 11, 14, 21, 26, 27, 31, 35, 49, 55, 56, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72 or 73.
The Commission can accept the following amendments with redrafting: 5, 10, 13, 16, 23, 24, 25, 26 and 35.
The Commission can accept the following amendments in principle: 6, 7, 8, 9 and 73.
The Commission can accept the following amendments in part: 17, 20, 47, 48, 59, 60, 63, 65, 66 and 69.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1, 2, 3, 4, 11, 12, 14, 15, 18, 19, 21, 22, 27-34, 36-46, 42-46, 49-58, 61-62, 64, 67-68, 70-72 and 74-81.
The Commission can accept the compromise package consisting of the amendments in bloc 1 (amendments 11, 12 and 18 to 46).
From the amendments in bloc 2, the Commission cannot accept amendments 2, 3, 5, 10, 11, 12, 13 or 18.
The Commission cannot accept amendments 1, 7, 9, 15 or 16.
Amendments Nos 4, 8, 14 and 17 are acceptable in part.
The Commission can accept the following amendments: 4, 5, 11, 12, 13, 14, 21, 24, 31, 46, 47, 50, 51, 52, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 78, 79, 80 and 81 – 26 amendments altogether.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 15, 18, 19, 25, 26, 30, 32, 33, 34, 36, 37, 38, 39, 41, 45, 49, 54, 55, 63, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77 and 82 – 40 amendments altogether.
