The European private company statute (debate) The first item is the report by Klaus-Heiner Lehne, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, with recommendations to the Commission on the European private company statute.
Smaller industrial companies in particular - export-driven businesses that are at present obliged to set up subsidiaries and companies in other Member States and in accordance with those states' laws on companies - would welcome with great enthusiasm the creation of a European legal form whereby they could organise their subsidiaries throughout the European Union.
I note that your report and associated resolution are based on Article 192 of the Treaty calling on the Commission to submit a legislative proposal.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, I, too, as a former fellow-member of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, wish you every success in the exercise of your functions.
Offering in future a European legal form in parallel with the legal forms of the nation states therefore not only serves to further the completion of the European internal market, but also makes it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to set up subsidiaries in European countries other than their own, and hence to develop their activities beyond their own country's borders.
I can therefore tell the Commissioner that what this House is saying by means of this report is that it wants to see the Commission presenting a legislative proposal on the basis of Article 308 before this year is out.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, first let me also extend my congratulations to you on your appointment and the conduct of your first debate.
The suggested capital requirements ensure that is the case.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, I fully support the view that the European Private Company Statute should be based on Community legislation and dispense with references to national law.
The aim is to create a new legal form for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the driving force behind all European economies.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Madam President, I find this absolutely fascinating!
I ran my own business for 15 years, and employed some 100 people.
Therefore, there is every justification for the European Parliament's initiative containing recommendations to the Commission on the European Private Company Statute. (PL) Madam President, there are several reasons why the development of a European Private Company Statute is such a crucial project for accelerating the economic growth of the European Union.
That was the thinking behind some of my amendments, certain of which were accepted, which were aimed at safeguarding the rights to codetermination, information and consultation that exist at the time of a company's turning into a European private company.
As it is under Article 192 of the Treaty, we are bound to do it in a prompt manner.
Written statements (Rule 142) (FR) The creation of the European private company statute has the support of both the Member States and industry, and I congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report and his pragmatic recommendations.
