Getting a grip on energy prices (debate) The next item is the debate on: the oral question to the Council on Getting a grip on energy prices, by Hannes Swoboda, on behalf of the PSE Group - B6-0460/2008) the oral question to the Commission on Getting a grip on energy prices, by Hannes Swoboda, on behalf of the PSE Group - B6-0461/2008) the oral question to the Council on Getting a grip on energy prices, by Giles Chichester, Anne Laperrouze, Sophia in 't Veld and Eugenijus Maldeikis, on behalf of the PPE-DE, ALDE and UEN Groups - B6-0463/2008) the oral question to the Commission on Getting a grip on energy prices, by Giles Chichester, Anne Laperrouze, Sophia in 't Veld and Eugenijus Maldeikis, on behalf of the PPE-DE, ALDE and UEN Groups - B6-0465/2008) the oral question to the Commission on Getting a grip on energy prices, by Rebecca Harms and Claude Turmes, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group - B6-0466/2008), the oral question to the Council on Getting a grip on energy prices, by Esko Seppänen and Ilda Figueiredo, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group - B6-0468/2008), the oral question to the Commission on Getting a grip on energy prices, by Esko Seppänen and Ilda Figueiredo, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group - B6-0469/2008).
A particular concern for our group, however, is the issue of energy poverty and what we are doing to address it, for this is still a very serious problem in Europe.
I submit the issue of fuel poverty is an important one, but it should be tackled via social security measures and not through market distortions such as seeking to cap prices.
author. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, Mr Chichester, of course the prices can go down as well as up, but I think almost all of us here would agree that given the scarce energy resources and their limited availability, and the growing competition worldwide over access to, and shares in, these resources, it is likely that prices will remain very high over the long term.
In my view, the acute social problems related to high energy prices must always be tackled through social policy, but we also have to ensure in structural terms that our societies are no longer wasteful of energy resources.
We have often said that we should build a different type of house, and that we need different types of heating and cooling systems and more efficient electrical appliances, but where is the large-scale concerted action that we need to harness the major potential available to us in relation to energy efficiency and energy saving?
Commissioner, I would like to encourage you to place your earlier proposals on energy efficiency and energy saving at the heart of the Strategic Energy Review, because this will be the area which will determine whether we do the right thing for our societies or not, and whether we serve their needs at times of permanently high prices.
author. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Borloo, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in energy prices is having all kinds of negative effects, the most obvious being the rise in the cost of living for our fellow citizens.
author. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, in the compromise resolution the significance of speculation in the rise in the cost of energy is excluded from energy prices.
The price of electricity is also tied to the securities market: virtual electricity is being sold on the energy markets for more than physical electricity, and on the European Energy Exchange it costs five times more.
The expectations were unmistakable: the main consumer countries have to indicate their clear intentions to modify their energy mix, implement energy efficiency measures and become less reliant on hydrocarbons.
I think that this is what the forthcoming climate-energy package is all about and I believe that Europe's 500 million consumers are saying: let us have more locally produced energy, more self-sufficient energy, and let us have a more direct link between producers and consumers.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I think these are very timely questions and this is a very important debate.
The Commission shares the opinion that oil prices are likely to remain high in the medium and long term.
But, at the same time, we will continue our work on analysing what impact speculation has at a particular moment and whether there is really the ability to diminish volatility and have more supervision in the energy market.
In any case, it is very clear that transparency in oil markets, both in terms of contracts and related financial instruments and fundamentals, is a must.
The Commission will make additional efforts in this respect - we are following this issue - and a lot of competition authorities in member countries have already started investigations into the issue of how soon and how fast the oil price changes are being passed to the consumers.
Energy efficiency, renewables and diversification: it is very clear that our main lines are in our energy and climate policy, and it will be prominent in our Strategic Energy Review.
And there are also support actions, for example under the Intelligent Energy Europe programme.
The ambitious 2020 target for energy savings cannot be met without adequate transposition by Member States.
On energy security and foreign policy aspects, I come back to the idea that Europe can and must reinforce its own strengths to deal with the fast-changing global energy economy.
More immediately, most member countries have undertaken - or are currently considering - short-term measures in response to the recent surge in energy prices.
At the same time we should be open and honest and say to the people: do not expect oil prices to come back to USD 20 per barrel.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (PL) Mr President, we are confronted by two different problems.
We must also significantly improve energy efficiency and energy saving.
Obviously, we must also develop the use of renewable energy, as it exploits our indigenous resources.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, on 2 January 2008 Richard Arens, who is a trader at Nymex, offered USD 100 000 for a consignment of one thousand barrels of oil.
The price of a barrel of oil had reached USD 100 for the first time.
The trader laid out some USD 5 000 for this transaction.
It was a small loss that he fittingly celebrated with his colleagues as being the first to break the psychological barrier of USD 100 a barrel.
On 14 July oil reached USD 148 a barrel.
With a lever of a mere USD 5 000 the New York trader had succeeded in triggering a wave of speculation on oil that was to wreak havoc throughout the world economy.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Mr President, I welcome the fact that this debate is encompassing all energy prices, and not just that of oil - which of course is a major concern.
The Greens, the Socialists and the United Left have all tabled amendments aimed at ensuring that our resolution takes this issue into account and those on the Right who today applauded the idea of measures to combat wild speculation in the oil market - and I am delighted about that - will, I hope, be voting for our amendments tomorrow.
The second important matter is the social aspect.
In the 1990s, Slovakia invested significant resources in improving the safety and extending the service life of the Jaslovské Bohunice nuclear power plant.
The first two reactors are already operating safely and efficiently.
I would like to give fair warning to the Council that, in the negotiations on the electricity and gas directives that we are about to begin, the issue of energy poverty will be fundamental to our agreement.
We are asking for domestic action on this - not Community action - but we do expect action for the poorest people in the EU on energy poverty. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would venture to suggest that one cannot possibly say how to curb rising energy prices in just over one minute.
I am therefore in favour of targeted social measures, as Mr Turmes said.
Next, we need a different policy towards producer cartels and countries, as Mr Buzek and perhaps others have said.
Look at Nord Stream.
The only really responsible answer is the nuclear one: it is independent, it is cheap, it is competitive and the price is foreseeable - it is also emission-free and Russia-free. (BG) Mr President, Commissioner, in the conditions of growing energy prices it is especially important to ensure more transparency in respect of price formation.
Common rules have to be regulated for the development of a single European energy market.
It is precisely the third energy package that must be adopted as soon as possible, and the role of the Commission and the Council in this respect is particularly significant.
We will consider with interest the proposal on the matter of energy efficiency that Commissioner Piebalgs discussed in his statement. (RO) According to research, at least 20% of the energy consumed in the EU is wasted.
In Romania, for instance, rehabilitation would lead to savings in excess of 600 000 tonnes of oil equivalent every year.
I believe that the European Parliament should support the increase by at least 10% of the EU funding that can be allocated to improving household heating efficiency.
I would like to ask Commissioner Piebalgs whether it would be possible to talk to Commissioner Kovács to see whether we could get some incentives and opportunities to write off investment in the energy sector, so that the profits can be invested sensibly.
The third energy package forms the basis of this.
The Commission should have the power to negotiate energy prices.
I should like to ask the Council if it could explain in its reply the route map towards achieving a common energy policy in the EU, giving the timescale.
And I should like to ask the Commissioner whether he has produced a table for the Council of relative costings of oil and gas, for example from Russia, as opposed to liquefied natural gas from Qatar, nuclear energy, and all the others, because it seems to me that our governments are not actually producing energy at the prices that the consumers would want.
The only response as far as anticipation is concerned is to abide by what was decided at Jeddah, namely that Europe, which means every country in Europe and Europe as a whole, has to move towards energy efficiency and reduced consumption.
Oil markets have ensured the physical delivery of oil, gas markets are delivering physical supplies of gas and coal markets deliver coal.
But for this we need money, coming from both private investors and public investors.
The debate is closed.
However, despite a significant fall in the price of crude oil, in some countries high prices are being maintained and the victims are the consumers.
in writing. - (ET) It is essential that this coming winter the Governments of the Member States do everything possible to support individuals for whom the rise in energy prices may be too much.
I agree one hundred per cent that the Member States must take adequate measures to guarantee affordable energy prices.
