1 December 2007: World AIDS Day (debate) The next item is the Commission statement on World AIDS Day, which was on 1 December 2007.
We are concerned with the rise of infections, with the number of people who are affected and living with HIV worldwide, and the number of 33 million people, for us, is too high.
So it is important to show to them in a balanced way, in a way that presents information and on the one hand does not create panic but on the other hand does not lead to complacency, that it is a serious disease; there is no cure for it, but they can protect themselves - and they can be shown how to do that - and at the same time that they should not be afraid of fellow citizens who have the infection, who have the disease.
Now, about 95% of people infected with HIV live in those countries.
Thanks to an unprecedented increase in international funding in these countries, the number of people receiving treatment has considerably increased, from 100 000 in 2001 to 2.5 million people in 2007.
These are impressive figures; nevertheless, more than 70% of people in need of ARV treatment in these countries do not receive it or do not have access to it.
This is why the motto of the European Commission in this action against AIDS is 'Remember me', because it is a forgotten disease at all levels, or at least it has become one.
We know that the number of people diagnosed has trebled since 1997; we know that risk-taking sexual behaviour is on the increase; we know that a quarter of all HIV-related deaths are due to late diagnosis, and a third are preventable.
We also know that the rate of HIV among male prisoners is 15 times higher than among the general population.
But all these things need that urgency, and 2010 is the target year; 2010 is nearly with us. 2010, Commissioner: you and I come to the end of our term of office.
Worldwide there are 33 million people who have full-blown AIDS or are HIV-positive, and a total of 25 million people worldwide have died of the disease.
The unacceptable situation of millions of people dying of AIDS every year demands that the European Union face up to its responsibilities.
Firstly, this is a problem that affects the whole population and this is the message we try to convey.
