Mr President, this report describes the relationship between the European Union and Russia as being of key significance for the Union's economic and political interests.
It emphasises the role that Russia can and should play in the international arena, notably in our immediate neighbourhood, where it can contribute to the economic and political stability of the region.
The report points out too that events in the Caucasus and recognition of the independence of both enclaves, Ossetia and Abkhazia, cast doubt over whether Russia really is ready and able to build a common area of security in Europe together with the European Union.
The report contains recommendations relating to human rights, freedom of the media, independence of the judiciary and the gradual narrowing of the permitted scope of action for NGOs in Russia.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I would like to thank Parliament for giving us the opportunity to address, during this session, the issue of the relationship with Russia.
As you certainly know, the Council discussed the relationship with Russia in depth some time ago, when we established the grounds and the rationale for the new EU-Russia agreement, and thus we consider it important that the negotiations for the new agreement are back on track.
This, in a nutshell, provided the main impetus for our decision to resume the negotiations on the new EU-Russia agreement, despite what happened in Georgia last August.
The crisis and its implications continue, certainly, to overshadow our relations.
This in particular means that we will pay special attention to our common neighbourhood with Russia throughout the entire negotiation process.
The crisis in Georgia has demonstrated how unresolved conflicts can remain volatile even after many years, and that military action is not a solution.
We have to remind Russia that it has much to gain from behaving constructively towards its neighbours, and that it has much to lose if it continues on the path of confrontation.
Russia has, after all, already proved that it knows how to behave towards central European neighbours that are now part of both the EU and NATO.
We will continue to insist that Russia must abide by its international commitments and respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Georgia and other eastern European countries that make up its common neighbourhood with the EU.
I am sure, however, that by the end of our Presidency we will have greater clarity on what both sides want the new agreement to cover.
It is of the utmost importance that the new agreement should contain provision to ensure effective dialogue and cooperation with Russia, and should be based on common values, compliance with the existing international commitments, the rule of law and respect for democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms.
There is already some movement with Russia on the scope of the political dialogue and external security part of the new agreement.
It was agreed at the EU-Russia summit in Khanty-Mansiysk that our shared aim was to conclude a strategic agreement that will provide a comprehensive framework for EU-Russia relations for the foreseeable future and help to develop the potential of our relationship.
As the Commission noted in its communication of 5 November, the complex and extensive nature of our relations and the many areas in which we are mutually dependent mean that we need to engage consistently with Russia, and I would also say that we need to be sober and results-orientated.
We have now agreed on a general structure for the agreement that should form a legally binding basis for all aspects of our relations in the foreseeable future.
Naturally, it is in our interest, in the EU, for our trade and economic relations to include legally binding, enforceable provisions, in order to make sure that Russia accepts a system based on clear rules.
We are therefore trying, in parallel to the negotiations, to significantly strengthen the early warning system, which lays down provisions on monitoring and observation in the event of crisis, in order to avoid conflict and facilitate resolution.
In parallel to our negotiations, we will continue our efforts in existing forums, in the Geneva talks for Georgia, in the 5+2 format for Transnistria and in the Minsk process for Nagorno-Karabakh.
Justice and internal affairs are, as I said, of relevance to both parties in the negotiations, and they are areas where I see significant potential for mutually beneficial cooperation, particularly in the fight against organised crime and also in improving conditions for bona fide travellers.
Traditionally, Europe has been united with Russia.
As the shadow rapporteur of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I am delighted that the report also reflects our main priorities on Russia, such as pragmatic cooperation based on a healthy market environment, an emphasis on human rights, a functioning legal state and democracy, all of which are fundamental social values for the EU, as well as an emphasis on respect for the sovereignty of all neighbouring states and for the unity of the EU.
The new agreement under negotiation must include all aspects of cooperation, be legally binding, and reflect the quality of our relations with Russia.
We cannot accept the status quo, or rather the fait accompli in the Caucasus.
Only in this way will we arrive at a genuinely unified position towards Russia and only like this will we fully exploit our greatest advantage in relation to Russia, which is our own unity.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (HU) The Socialist Group in the European Parliament considers Russia a key strategic partner.
The European Union and Russia depend on each other, as Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner has also confirmed.
This report should have served that purpose, but it does not.
The Socialist Group agrees that Parliament should express its rightful criticisms of Russia.
The Russian law on NGOs endangers the independent operation of these organisations.
We are critical of the Russian side in the gas dispute between Russia and Ukraine, and in the conflict between those two countries.
It was for this reason that we voted against it in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
We have no reason to cower from the Kremlin, and every reason to stand up for our values.
We therefore support a new agreement, but let Europe enter that relationship united, strong and with its eyes open.
Mr President, the Kremlin is using energy supplies as a political instrument in conjunction with the principle of 'divide and rule' in order to corrupt Europe country by country, from Cyprus to the Netherlands.
This leads directly to political pressure by Moscow on individual Member States.
I would ask the Council and the Commission not to give way in this area, just as I would ask the rapporteur to support our other amendments on respect for the rights of minorities and of Chechnya, which have been somewhat forgotten in the report.
We also support the critical attitude towards Russia because, even if Russia is now giving some positive signals, notably with regard to its willingness to conclude an international agreement on the reduction of nuclear arsenals, which are no doubt too costly in this time of crisis, it still remains completely uncompromising on other issues, particularly regarding its neighbourhood policy, reproaching the European Union for interfering in its sphere of influence.
It is therefore in breach of the six points of the agreement that the EU concluded with Russia on 12 August, and fails to stop the daily acts of violence along the Abkhazia-Ossetia administrative border.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing our recommendations to the Council for the new agreement with Russia.
At the same time we acknowledge that the EU receives, aside from anything else, a quarter of its supplies of oil and natural gas from Russia.
Also, how is it that the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy (ITRE) can name both countries, Ukraine and Russia, as responsible for the problems concerning natural gas supplies to the EU, but our recommendations only challenge Russia?
Meanwhile, the Committee on International Trade, has taken a far more realistic approach to relations with Russia, taking into account what Europe really needs.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Mr President, there is no doubt that Russia now has its fair share of the global economic crisis.
Indeed, Europe and Russia both face the urgent need for resolute action to tackle the crisis.
In my view the current report is damaging both to the EU and to the Russian Federation and therefore to the interests of all citizens of the Euro-Asiatic area.
As has already been mentioned, a quarter of the supplies of oil and natural gas to the EU come from Russia, and half of Russian oil and natural gas goes to the EU.
Therefore, I should like to thank the Commissioner for her response, as it contains positive elements to help us really achieve something of benefit to 500 million European citizens. (NL) Mr President, I should like to start by complimenting Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on what she has just said.
That is the strategic interest - we persist in using the word 'strategic' in this debate - behind the negotiations on a new agreement.
Our rapporteur rightly devotes a good deal of attention to the neighbours that the European Union has in common with Russia.
Instead, the European Union should focus on reviving a weakened Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE).
Persisting with a polarising attitude now the United States Government has chosen a different approach to Russia is counterproductive.
Our problems are global, and everyone's involvement is needed to solve them. (HU) In his inaugural address, President Medvedev stated that his most important task was to protect freedom and restore the rule of law.
This must not, however, permit us to depart from our principles and values.
In order for a new agreement to be signed, Russia must fulfil its commitment on Georgia's territorial integrity.
In my opinion the report is also deliberately silent on the so-called Pole's Card problem, which breaches international law. (ES) Russia is a very important international player, a permanent member of the Security Council and the G8 and a major military power.
For these simple reasons the European Union should try to establish a relationship of dialogue and cooperation with Russia.
Russia is a European country and member of the Council of Europe; it has made commitments in the area of human rights and democratic freedoms and should share a set of values and principles with us, including respect for international law and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states.
I therefore do not entirely understand why we have a report before us that does not use this common basis - criticism on the one hand and willingness to cooperate on the other - as a denominator, as the Council and the Commission have done.
When I look from Mrs Zourabichvili to Mrs Burjanadze, at how former allies of the President of Georgia are now in opposition to President Saakashvili and how human rights are not exactly prized very highly there either, I do ask myself why it is only Russia that is criticised, and not Georgia as well.
My third point relates to human rights.
This includes the rights of Russian citizens or non-citizens, some of whom, unfortunately, face problems in certain EU Member States.
That goes without saying, but we must do it to the same extent everywhere; to the same extent and with the same criteria.
I am referring here to the debate we have already had, and to tomorrow's vote on the resolution on history.
It may therefore still be an option, if at least one or two of our side's proposed amendments are accepted, which attempt to restore the balance and to pursue precisely this dual strategy: major criticism of Russia, but also a willingness to enter into partnership with Russia. (SV) Madam President, the rapporteur is quite right to say that the EU must be able to speak with one voice on important matters relating to Russia.
There is a risk that the severe economic crisis in Russia will further exacerbate the attitude of its leadership in relation to close cooperation with the EU.
The Georgia conflict, the gas crisis between Russia and Ukraine at the beginning of the year and the provocations surrounding the statue of the bronze soldier in Estonia all show that a united EU can cause the Russian leadership to rethink. (PL) Madam President, the report we are debating contains a fairly detailed account of recent violations of human rights on the territory of the Russian Federation.
I therefore call on the Council and on the Commission to start to demand that Russia complies with the commitments it has made to respect human rights.
In the mean time, we are left in a sort of limbo, repeating again and again how important relations with Russia are.
We need to become confident in our own strength, our own values and potential, as Graham Watson has proposed, and to live up to these values.
The question is how to link these human rights and values to our practical behaviour.
In the end, although this report is nominally about Russia, in reality it concerns us too. (PL) Madam President, it is common knowledge that in the long term the content of all agreements with Russia turns out to be more of a wish list than a set of legally binding measures.
Nonetheless, it is important to maintain our efforts to regulate our relations with Russia in the best manner possible.
Of course we need to deepen our economic cooperation with Russia, but we must require our partner to abide by the same standards that are binding for all EU Member States.
I think this is an extremely important report.
While the EU has made the peaceful resolution of conflict the centre of its thinking, Russia has no compunction about using force, as we saw in Georgia last year.
Today President Medvedev is playing a full part in the G20 meeting in London.
I believe that now the time is right, when Russia does need our cooperation and may be more open to change, if only we have the determination and the unity in the European Union to pursue it. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on reading the text of this document one gets the impression that whoever wrote it seeks not an improvement but a deterioration of relations between the European Union and Russia.
I hope that the Commission will not accept these recommendations. (SL) You have raised many political problems during this debate, but I would like to draw your attention to another challenge which was not mentioned in our report.
I had assumed that this Parliament was capable of understanding the current situation in the world.
Before the EU, before the US, before Russia and before the entire world.
The report is demanding but fair.
Consistency between an effective partnership with our six neighbours in the East and good mutual cooperation with Russia constitutes the greatest challenge for European politics.
Progress will depend on us genuinely reconciling our ways of life and understanding fundamental values, which must not be betrayed. (PL) Madam President, the main obstacles affecting our contacts with Russia are the latter's use of gas supplies as a means of political blackmail, its threat to Georgia's independence, the genocide in Chechnya, and its failure to conduct fair trials concerning the murders of Anna Politkovskaya and Alexander Litvinenko.
The Russians even have a law that allows them to murder anyone - Russian citizen or foreign national - on foreign soil whom they deem to be a threat or a nuisance.
Such a murder was carried out on my constituent Alexander Litvinenko in London in 2006 in an act of state-sponsored terrorism.
Since the conflict in Georgia, we have remained at a point where we can see differences between us in the stance we have adopted on crucial subjects.
The Russian Federation believes that the presence of its troops in countries in the region is acceptable and that they even have the right to intervene when Moscow considers it necessary.
The presence of Russian troops in the separatist region of Transnistria has already affected the Republic of Moldova for almost two decades, as it makes its journey towards progress and the freedom to choose its own future.
The Russian Federation must withdraw its troops from Transnistria to provide the foundation for this partnership.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Madam President, I would like to thank you all for this interesting debate.
I think it is very necessary regarding our future relations with Russia, and a number of important points have been covered in the debate.
For those who speak of the need for engagement, I think it is clear that a new agreement is of great importance for the further development and intensification of cooperation between the EU and Russia.
It is also clear that the new agreement must continue to improve on the current partnership and cooperation agreement (PCA).
For those who speak of energy, we must clearly state that the EU wishes to strengthen cooperation with Russia through the instruments we have - the meetings of the Energy Dialogue and the Permanent Partnership Council on Energy.
To those who speak of human rights, I think that the application of the rule of law, an independent judiciary and full respect for human rights - including free and independent media - are necessary to promote stability and prosperity in Russia.
The EU follows the human rights situation in Russia with concern and we raise - and will continue to raise - those concerns at our EU-Russia meetings.
For those who speak of leverage, I agree very much that we have to speak with one voice when talking with Russia, and we need this kind of debate to shape the form of this one voice.
It is important that the Member States inform and consult each other as much as possible about bilateral issues with Russia which could have repercussions on other Member States and the EU as a whole.
There is definitely some room for improvement in our policy towards Russia, and unity and solidarity are indeed the key words in this context.
The new agreement is one way to do this.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, debates on Russia are never easy.
For instance, in the Middle East, in seeking a solution between Israel and Palestine and on many other of these issues.
This is true for us, but it is also true for Russia and for many other global partners.
Therefore I think we have to see this very clearly, but at the same time we also have to see Russia as a great neighbour, where sometimes we do not see eye to eye in the common neighbourhood.
The European Union and Russia have chosen the path of dialogue on these issues, and this is the right way.
But it is also true, as the President-in-Office of the Council said, that there are clear concerns about the failure to respect human rights in the Russian Federation, and continuing cases of attacks on human rights defenders, journalists and others reflect badly on Russia.
We raise these issues regularly with the high authorities: myself with Sergey Lavrov, and President Barroso with his interlocutors.
The discussions in the bilateral meeting between President Barroso and President Medvedev on 6 February also included an exchange on human rights.
For instance, the attack on human rights activist Lev Ponomarev last night is the latest reminder of how difficult the situation for human rights defenders is in Russia.
Madam President, I should like to remind critics of this report that it is not a report on Russia.
The purpose of this report is to suggest to the Commission which issues it should raise in bilateral talks and negotiations and which areas it should focus on in particular.
That is why there was no reference to the matter of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) and President Medvedev's plan in this report.
In addition, suggestions of this nature cannot encompass our own criticism and assessment of the state of human rights in the European Union, for instance.
I should like to point out that this report avoids terms such as strategic partnership.
There is a good reason for this, namely that the document adopted concerning the European Security and Defence Policy (EDSP) contains the following text in the section relating to Russia: (the Member then quoted the text in English). 'no strategic partnership is possible if the values of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law are not fully shared and respected; [therefore] calls on the Council to place those values at the core of the ongoing negotiations for a new Partnership and Cooperation Agreement'. (PL) The position is therefore quite clear.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday 2 April 2009.
This is the only way in which we can guarantee European citizens gas supply security at affordable prices.
Secondly, we must cooperate with Moscow in tackling jointly problems concerning our common neighbourhood and relations with the Republic of Moldova, Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
This approach must be based on the norms of international law, with respect for the states' integrity and sovereignty, thereby avoiding any authoritarian trends.
Russia is an important partner for the European Union.
The EU expects its partners to cooperate with it in a reliable and honest manner.
One thing is very clear to me, however, and that is that Europe will not change its values at the request of Russia or any other country.
We are being consistent or even stubborn, but not because acting differently would mean abandoning our values.
It can definitely be said that the recent gas crisis and the conflict in Georgia have created new tensions in relations with the Russian Federation.
However, it is equally true that Russia is one of the EU's neighbours and a crucial actor in the international arena.
There is major economic potential in the EU's relations with Russia, which the European Union cannot afford not to tap, especially in the current global climate.
The only way in which this cooperation can be successful is for the EU to speak with a single voice and commit to a dialogue which is subject to conditions, but at the same time constructive, based on common values, respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and current international norms.
Today, after the events that took place in Georgia, and after Russia's recognition of the enclaves of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, Russia's preparedness to build a joint security area with the European Union, and the parties' positions in matters concerning Kosovo and the common neighbourhood diverge more than ever.
Our relations with Russia are indeed of decisive importance from the point of view of pragmatic cooperation, and our cooperation has to date benefited international stability.
in writing. - The relations between the Russian Federation and the European Union have seen several challenges in recent years.
in writing. - (DE) The comprehensive new partnership agreement between the European Union and Russia is, in my view, very welcome.
The agreement with the Russian Federation lays the groundwork for improved cooperation between the two parties.
Parliament's recommendation to the European Council primarily emphasises the importance of protecting human rights and the freedom of the media in Russia.
Securing a new agreement between the EU and Russia is one of the main challenges facing the European Union's diplomats.
In particular, it contains an indepth study of the problems associated with our current relationship.
The report refers to a range of problems whose solution is particularly important to individual countries.
Russia is a country in which the fundamental principles of democracy are often not respected.
We should nonetheless bear in mind that Russia is one of our main partners.
In my view we should speak out against Russia loudly and clearly.
We should criticise it for its shortcomings in terms of democracy, for its failure to respect civic freedoms, and for violating the territorial integrity and sovereignty of other states.
At the same time, however, we should remember that partnership with Russia is a very important issue for the European Union and the whole of Europe.
