I would remind you that, last January, our Parliament approved a resolution on homophobia in Europe.
I would like to congratulate the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on this initiative. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I have been in politics for 32 years and regard the freedom of speech and of the press as democracy’s greatest assets.
For two days now, early every morning – yesterday, it was at 8.15, today it was at 8.30 – I have been being followed and harassed by a team of television journalists, who have been pestering me with improper questions.
The Secretariat will immediately contact the security services and I would ask you to contact them yourself as well so that the appropriate measures can be taken to prevent these things from happening again. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, following on from Mrs&#160;Schierhuber’s statement, I would like to add that we, here in this European Parliament, are engaged – and rightly too – in enacting laws intended to prevent people from being mobbed and harassed at their places of work.
We shall deal with this issue in a practical fashion by means of Parliament’s security services. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, since my name has been mentioned, I would like, further to Rule 149&#160;(1) of the Rules of Procedure, to simply say that I, too, have been questioned by a television crew, and, before misleading rumours arise, that it is indeed the case that I was using my car early yesterday morning in Kehl, but this is no cause for even more speculation.
He was on foot outside the hotel. &#160;&#160; I would ask the Secretary-General to call a meeting with the security services and that will give you the opportunity to speak as you see fit.
The Spanish People’s Party has once again used this Parliament as a trench from which to shoot its lies at the Spanish Government, accusing one of its Ministers of an assault against Spanish democracy.
The title of this agreement is a programme in itself, in that the Commission, the Council and Parliament are committing themselves to the framework conditions of the annual budget procedure and of multiannual financial planning until 2013.
They are committing themselves to improving the agreement that has been in force up to now and amend the Council decision of December 2005.
What that means is that our budget procedures can be more flexible.
What we have managed to secure is a reform of the Budget legislation, the simplification of the Budget Regulations, certification of EU programmes and reporting responsibilities for the Member States, more reliable financial planning and clear agreements when new agencies are to be established.
The Commission, the Council and Parliament are also committing themselves to modernising the financial instruments by drawing on the European Investment Bank’s lending facilities.
That will be important in terms of research, innovation and small and medium-sized businesses and could create an important leverage effect by boosting investments.
The agreement with the Council in December was also underpinned by what I have no option but to call targeted rebates and Christmas presents.
By way of contrast, what we have secured through our negotiations is additional funding for programmes that really do provide added value for Europe, namely programmes for lifelong learning, for the trans-European networks, for research, for social policy, for innovation in the small and medium-sized business sector, for cross-border cooperation, for Natura 2000, for Life&#160;+, for health and consumer policies, for culture, youth and media.
The whole may well, when added up, be a small amount when set against financial planning overall, but it secures the programmes that matter to the public, that bring added value to Europe and bear our signature, for this House, unlike the Council, was intent upon something more than a debate about 1%.
The Galileo satellite programme is still underfunded, and there are – to say the least – question marks against the decisions on rural development and on voluntary modulation in agriculture policy.
The Presidency can certainly not have had an easy job with so many opponents of reform in the Council and in COREPER.
Following on from what one might term a period of weakness and a Commission position more strongly influenced by the Council, she has come back to making a positive and essential contribution to the final outcome that gives us hope for the future.
It is for this reason that I recommend that the House should vote to approve this agreement. &#160;&#160; . – The opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Interinstitutional Agreement is a positive one.
In spite of the difficulties, Parliament was able to obtain this satisfactory compromise, which safeguards cohesion as a fundamental principle of the Union and the priority attached to the Lisbon Strategy.
With its shortcomings, the current text represents huge progress from the initial negotiating positions, and is infinitely better than brandishing an interinstitutional iron fist, which would have been irresponsible and for which the Union and its citizens would have paid a heavy price.
The agreement on the review 2009 ensures that Parliament will participate on an equal footing.
This interinstitutional agreement was negotiated under extremely difficult circumstances.
It is clearly a success and good news for Europe, especially given the atmosphere of crisis surrounding projects and leadership that has beset Europe in recent years.
I can assure you that your House’s negotiating team did not give us an easy ride.
I am, however, very grateful for the consistently positive and constructive atmosphere in our conversations and negotiations, and I would like to extend very warm thanks to the team from your House that negotiated with us, consisting of Mr&#160;Lewandowski, Mr&#160;Böge, Mr&#160;Walter and Mr&#160;Mulder, for making it possible for us to do so in a constructive spirit, with one single end in view, that being to find a solution for the European Union.
The way in which we worked together can be taken as an example of how our two institutions should collaborate generally, that is to say, with the political will to find a solution, even if we did perhaps start out from positions at a great distance from one another.
I believe that the result is fair and evenly balanced.
The mere fact that we have been able to achieve a result on a matter that is central to the European Union is something I regard as a triumph in itself.
We all agree that 2005 was a difficult year for the European Union, and it was good, necessary and important that we should have been able to demonstrate the capacity to act as a European Union that currently comprises 25 Member States and will soon number 27 of them.
I believe that every institution has done exactly what its responsibilities demanded of it, and that the search for the best possible European solution brought forth a climate of cooperation.
If you make a comparison with what we are now, in 2006, spending on important categories such as trans-European network, education and research among others, then I think we could negotiate and agree together on decidedly marked increases for the next period.
I think it would be right and proper for us to agree on a new Part 3 of the Interinstitutional Agreement, dealing with the economic management of the EU’s funds.
I believe that it matters that EU funds be subject to more effective controls, and, just as I have in the past, would like to stress our willingness to engage in dialogue on the common goal of improving those controls and the ways in which we plan our finances.
We all know how very difficult it was to achieve consensus on this in the Council in December, and that raising this ceiling was therefore a very difficult issue for the Council.
I think we really can regard the present increase in funds as a good investment, and am glad that it was eventually possible to achieve a satisfactory and well-considered compromise that has also secured the balance between the institutions and has therefore made no excessive demands on any of them.
Our consensus is a demonstration of the fact that, together, we are capable of acting on behalf of this Union of ours and sends an important message to our people.
I would like personally to thank the European Parliament’s negotiating team, Mr Böge, Mr Lewandowski, Mr Mulder and Mr Walter, for the remarkable job they did.
That was also very helpful.
We understand that this agreement does not reflect every area of our original ambitions, but it is the best possible compromise for today.
It is a success, in particular because it encompasses not only quantitative elements but also includes a new chapter on sound financial management and a number of solid institutional commitments towards more effective budgetary management.
The agreement is good news for an enlarged Europe, because it means that we now have a clear financial framework for the development of the Union over the next seven years, with full participation by the new Member States in key European policies.
The agreement contains many positive elements, in particular the boost to the development of the new Member States.
We increased funding for programmes directly related to the new Lisbon Agenda.
For the first time, the agreement entails a joint effort with the European Investment Bank.
This agreement also clearly recognises the role Parliament will play in the wide-ranging review covering all aspects of EU spending and resources, which will be one of the top priorities in the coming years.
This agreement is an essential milestone, but we will now have to move swiftly to build on the momentum created by this agreement to accelerate and complete the legislative process necessary to get all programmes up and running from next year.
Finally, our commitment is to fund human and social development in the world's poorest countries.
I also feel that the strong and welcome commitment made last year by us all – the Commission, Parliament and, in particular, the Council and the Member States – is now seriously under threat and the Committee on Development has to express its deep concern about the effects of the Financial Perspectives on its work. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have considered these questions, and there are two main points I would like to put before you.
There is now the prospect of an operation in the Congo.
This results in shadow budgets that are ever more difficult to monitor as a consequence of their no longer being subject to the full scrutiny of the national parliaments, or, indeed of the European Parliament either.
It is irresponsible to deploy troops with five or six different types of communications apparatus, which often work together only with difficulty or are not mutually compatible at all.
With regard to budgetary control, undoubtedly the most important thing is the fact that we have been given a clause in the agreement about better control on spending and certification.
After all, the Court of Auditors has been issuing negative Statements of Assurance for the past 11 years, and this is something that the European public will no longer accept from us.
Before the negotiations, 23 of the 25 Member States were still opposed to the idea; after the negotiations, they were all in favour.
I think it very important for the sake of the Commission that we should, in future, hold firm to the idea that Member States make those statements one way or another.
Fortunately, this is not officially reflected in any way in the documents we are ratifying today, but it will cause a problem for the future.
It is important to this House that the Commission implement this agreement as it was intended.
There are, of course, a number of drawbacks to this agreement.
For me, what poses the greatest risk is the Council’s declaration in the area of voluntary modulation.
The common market for agricultural products is one of the things we have achieved in Europe.
If this House is to have any say in the matter, I will – for as long as I am still a member of it – try to prevent this from happening. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The overwhelming majority on the Regional Affairs Committee welcomes the agreement that has been achieved on the Financial Perspective, even though regional and cohesion policy are, when compared with what Parliament proposed, losing out to the tune of EUR&#160;40 billion, and even though it has not as yet been possible to get the Council to agree to the reuse of unused funds for cohesion policy.
The Regional Affairs Committee, though, is well aware of its responsibility to the 360&#160;million voters who would like to get started on the programmes with which we seek to help the European Union’s poorest regions.
Final agreement on the Financial Perspective provides, at long last, the political, economic and financial stability for these proposals to be actually put into effect.
It is because European structural and regional policies are up and running in every Member States that I ask that the proposal that Mr&#160;Böge has put forward should indeed get the backing of a majority in this House today.
I would like to take this opportunity of expressing my thanks to the House for the way in which the negotiations were conducted, and also to say ‘thank you’ for the additional EUR&#160;300 million allocated to territorial cooperation and for the efforts made towards creating a single legal framework.
Such matters as the crediting of VAT, the N+2 rule and the options available for public/private financing will in future be dealt with in the same way in each Member State.
That is a triumph for this House and for its team in the negotiations, and warm thanks are therefore in order. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the renewal of the Institutional Agreement, I should like to express my dissatisfaction with the budgetary agreement concluded on 4&#160;April.
Indeed, in the budget negotiation, heading 2, 'Preservation and management of natural resources', obtained an extra EUR&#160;100 million under a reserve for forthcoming measures in the fields of Life&#160;+ and of Natura 2000 and nothing more, despite the efforts of the negotiating team, to whose work I pay tribute.
I would point out that one of the main aims of the CAP reform, which was decided in September 2003, was to freeze the first pillar in order to strengthen the second pillar, namely rural development policy.
However, it turns out that the package earmarked for rural development has been reduced by some EUR&#160;20 billion in comparison with what the Commission had proposed, which, in the regions of the 15 old Member States, represents a 35% decrease in relation to the current 2000-2006 period.
That is a huge decrease and comes on top of the reduction in the Structural Funds.
The 2003 agreements have therefore been completely disregarded, and the balance that was struck is being called into question before the 2008-2009 revision period is even looked at.
On the contrary, it is going to present some serious technical problems and create distortions of competition; I regard the Interinstitutional Agreement's concluding statements on this subject as being very weak in comparison with the risks taken.
Mr President, I would like to point out that the European fisheries sector needs sufficient resources, both in order to continue with the commitments made with the sector and in order to carry on defending the new policy that we have established – the development of sustainable fisheries – particularly when the European fisheries policy mainly affects areas outside of the convergence objective which contain many of the regions that suffer most from the crises periodically affecting this sector and which therefore continue to need Community support.
In the case of fisheries, ladies and gentlemen, we are still awaiting the adoption of the relevant regulations, and I would therefore call upon the Council to adopt the Regulation on the European Fisheries Fund as soon as possible, so that the Member States can draw up their programmes as quickly as possible and plan their spending as efficiently as possible.
I would ask the Commission to make every effort to keep the policy of international agreements alive and kicking and make the best possible use of these funds, in order to ensure that Europe has an efficient and competitive fisheries sector.
Let me give you just two examples to show why I am talking about the number of young people and not just about the financial aspects.
It is for that reason that I am very appreciative of all those Members who helped to ensure that what emerged at the end of deliberations at least bore Parliament's stamp and that the sums of EUR&#160;800 million for lifelong learning and EUR&#160;300&#160;million for other programmes achieved some sort of credibility in this area. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, I should like, after having thanked Mr&#160;Böge and our negotiators, to summarise the specific reasons that led our committee emphatically to endorse the draft Interinstitutional Agreement presented to us.
Firstly, we demanded that the freedom, security and justice sector be the subject of a specific and independent sub-heading in the new financial framework so as to highlight its importance in political terms.
Secondly, we proposed appreciably to increase the appropriations with a view to anticipating the threat of terrorism and the development of organised crime and to responding to the demands for external borders to be controlled better and for migratory flows to be managed better.
If I have correctly understood the arrangement included in point D of part III, it will be necessary, in future, to obtain the agreement of the two arms of the budgetary authority that any new agency can be financed before it is created.
This financing will therefore not be automatically covered by the financial perspective.
Finally, we, in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, proposed that a kind of trialogue with Parliament and the Council be established before the Council’s first reading of the budget, and we did so with a view to harmonising the positions held by the two institutions regarding the political priorities and the distribution of resources.
Admittedly, this arrangement does not appear as such in the text of the Interinstitutional Agreement, but rather as a unilateral declaration by the European Parliament: it is Declaration 13.
We will nevertheless be voting in favour of this Interinstitutional Agreement, since it is the only compromise possible under the current circumstances.
Indeed, the lack of financial perspectives in the next few years would plunge the Union into an even deeper crisis than the one it is already in.
Moreover, it would not be fair on the new Member States, for they need future prospects in order to continue their cohesion policy and to be fully integrated into the common market.
That is why the review clause and flexibility scheme were an absolute necessity, because the risk that sooner or later, we will run aground, is too great.
The most important conclusion we can draw, though, is that the current system of own resources has reached capacity levels.
This House must play a role – a driving role – in this and formulate proposals, and Mr&#160;Lamassoure’s studies and notes are a good place to start. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it has to be said, with all due respect, that there is such a thing as the European Parliament and that decisions on Europe’s finances are not left to the Council alone.
I believe that the reason why this House, through the negotiating process, achieved important improvements simply because, from the word go, we did not work on the basis of ‘Here’s the money, now work out how to manage on it’, but instead paid attention to the structures.
Secondly, we have made sure of sufficient flexibility in the Budget for new things.
Where the Council, regrettably, had left nothing over in the ‘Citizens’ Europe’, we have created a margin, in order that not everything should be used up in the multiannual programme, with no chance of doing anything more.
We have also achieved increases in the trans-European networks and in PROGRESS, the programme that, by combating social exclusion, sends a message to Europe that we are not merely an economic union, but also spare a thought for, and help, those who have problems to contend with.
Let me say in conclusion that this compromise may well not be the stuff of my dreams, but I wholeheartedly endorse it, and ask my fellow Members of this House to approve it. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, reaching the agreement on budgetary discipline has been a long haul.
We have done this in the course of more than a year under the expert leadership of our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Böge, whose efforts have been exemplary.
The compromise we are debating today really is, therefore, a compromise.
The optimist in us will, however, emphasise that it is constructive that there is now a framework to facilitate the legislative work on the programmes for the Structural Funds, research and education.
I therefore recommend voting in favour of the agreement.
We have ensured that responsibility for administering EU resources has been placed squarely with the Member States.
We have also ensured that the EU budget for health and consumer protection was not subject to the swingeing cutbacks planned by the Heads of State or Government.
The framework is tight, however; so tight that it pinches.
The Commission proposed EUR&#160;20&#160;billion by way of investment in cross-border transport projects.
I think that the Council owes us an answer regarding how the common projects can be made a reality. &#160;&#160; . – Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in contrast to the many Members who have spoken before me, I would like to explain why we think this compromise is a bad one and why it is that we cannot endorse it.
We believe that the Financial Perspective that we will now have for the next seven years has to be judged on the basis of whether or not the budget is geared to the future, whether or not it helps us to sort out together the problems with which we are faced, and whether it really is oriented towards Europe.
Just as before, agricultural export subsidies are in place, ruining, among other things, the development of African markets and contributing to the refugee problems about which we are always complaining.
This is where the European Union’s policies are wrong, and I find it very regrettable that there has been no change in this respect and that the Council has stonewalled in this way.
My second concern is that, following the Council’s December meeting, it was clear that most of the savings had been made in the areas to do with the knowledge-based society and education, which runs completely counter to its own modernisation rhetoric.
This House may well now, by dint of a great common effort, have been able to make some small improvements, but there are only 210&#160;000 students on Erasmus, and we want at least 285&#160;000.
Let me now move on to energy policy, where Europe ought to take a joint approach and move away from oil, investing much more in renewable energies in order to arrive at a new position that will win over the people’s hearts and minds.
The report by Parliament’s temporary committee was produced on the basis of these expectations.
Parliament’s decision to reject the conclusions drawn by the Council in December 2005 at the time established a good basis for further talks.
The Council, however, showed the Commission and Parliament that the EU’s money came from the Member States.
The Commission and Parliament may in practice only be involved in decision-making relating to the EU’s expenditure: in the redistribution of cash within the framework dictated by the Council.
Postponing resolution of the problems until the mid-term review at the end of 2009 will not increase Parliament’s power in EU budgetary matters.
On the expenditure side, the fact that the Council kept to a 1% level for payment appropriations undermined a budget which could have achieved European added value, as the Community budget would have been more than just the sum of the Member States’ contributions.
My group would have liked a more constructive budgetary framework for the period 2007–2013.
We have not achieved the sort of flexibility in the financial framework that would have been necessary for good financial management.
Instead, the Member States are putting more money in the budget for the militarisation of the EU.
It is also good that this basis is EUR 4&#160;billion higher than the Council’s proposal.
We should still remember that during the seven-year period from 2007 to 2013 the European Union’s GNP is expected to increase by around 15%, while EU spending is set to increase by 2%.
The good news here is that spending related to the Lisbon Strategy has been increased by EUR 2.5&#160;billion, but there is bad news in that this spending will amount to barely EUR 74&#160;billion compared with the EUR 371&#160;billion earmarked for agricultural policy and natural resources, as well as the EUR 308&#160;billion earmarked for cohesion policy.
It seems a good thing that a review of budget implementation has been scheduled for the end of 2009, but such an early date for this review is not so good, as it may harm the new Member States, where the absorption of Union funds may not yet have reached the target level.
The Union’s economic problems have deeper roots, quite aside from political problems resulting from unfair and irresponsible comments directed at the governments of certain Member States.
If a certain recent fan of Mao Tse-Tung, who is absent at present, for no apparent reason attacks the Polish Government as being fascist, his words doubtless hark back to Communist propaganda, which destroyed pluralism and democracy, and interpreted everything that was not Stalinism as fascism. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, in the agreement, we are preparing to introduce a protective mechanism known as the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, and to invest EUR&#160;3.5&#160;billion in it.
I strongly believe that in a further populist move, we are handing out fish where we should be learning how to catch fish ourselves.
The Globalisation Fund does not have the objective of creating new jobs in sectors with long-term opportunities.
Furthermore, with the establishment of the Fund we are creating a completely false impression that it is possible to protect the EU from the rest of the world.
We should keep that in mind. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the final agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-2013 coincided with the second anniversary of the enlargement of the European Union, and thus constitutes a birthday present of sorts.
It is also real proof that the European Union is functioning with 25 Member States.
This is proof in a field where compromise is difficult, as differences are sharply delineated and calculable in financial terms.
The financial agreement and the agreement on financial principles leave us here in Parliament in doubt as to whether we have sufficient funds to achieve the stated political aims of the European Union.
This uncertainty almost verges on the certain knowledge that, in line with the agreement, some limits must be revised upwards in the course of the coming seven years, especially in order to fulfil the European Union’s ambitions on the international stage.
It is good, however, that the flexibility and capacity of the budget to react have been increased, that we have increased access to European Investment Bank loans and that certain funds, such as the Solidarity Fund, the Globalisation Fund and the Emergency Aid Reserve, have been placed outside the scope of the financial perspective.
The budget needs changes, but it does not require a revolution.
It cannot be an alternative means of reforming the European Union.
I would like to thank all those who took part in this venture, which has now been brought to a successful close. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the majority of my group is going to vote in favour of the agreement on the financial perspective 2007-2013, reflecting our sense of responsibility.
We want the new Members States to be able to begin to use the Structural and Cohesion Funds fully from next year, in order to promote their growth and true economic convergence with the most prosperous regions of the Union.
The agreement is not very generous, but we are sure that it can be a useful instrument during these first years of accession, not just in terms of the economic development of those regions, but also in order to demonstrate to the Europeans of the new Member States that one of the distinguishing marks of our Europe is solidarity.
As any document shows, we are talking about a review in 2009.
If you do not propose valid solutions for the Union very soon, we will have to impose them ourselves. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Böge, for his excellent work towards establishing the financial frameworks.
He was working under difficult circumstances, but nevertheless enjoyed Parliament’s undivided confidence throughout.
In my opinion every one of us should bear responsibility for financing the EU.
The Commission set an ambitious objective to improve industrial and entrepreneurial competitiveness in the European Union by promoting research and development and endorsing training schemes.
The new Member States are to receive approximately EUR 24 billion net every year from the old Member States for their reconstruction.
In this way Europe can once again become united and strong.
It is in a state of affairs such as that that you are proposing, in all seriousness, to win back the trust of Europe’s citizens.
There have been negotiations between Europe and 25 states, whose public expenditure share of GDP ranges between 45% and 50%, and which, in return for handing over between 30% and 40% of their functions to Europe, give it 1% of their money.
It is inadequate from a financial point of view and as regards its priorities and its instruments for addressing the challenges facing an enlarged Union.
It is a bad agreement for economic and social cohesion and for cohesion countries, insofar as it relegates the Community budget’s role of redistribution.
The Structural Fund has been reduced by EUR&#160;28&#160;million in relation to the Commission’s proposal, and from 0.41% of Community GNI in the current financial framework to 0.37% in the future framework, and that in an EU of 27.
It is an agreement that is EUR&#160;100&#160;billion down on Parliament’s original proposal.
Parliament also negotiated a compromise of just EUR&#160;12&#160;billion and then went on to accept as little as EUR&#160;4&#160;million, which has led to inappropriate priorities and for which we are paying in cuts to other budgetary headings.
Against a backdrop of increased competition and facing a deep crisis due to aspects such as monetary and budgetary policy restrictions that have led to increased unemployment and a divergence from the EU since 2000, the country has suffered cuts of more than EUR&#160;1&#160;million per day and 15% of Community transfers in relation to the current financial framework, not to mention the injustice of cuts facing the Algarve region, victim of the so-called statistical effect.
Consequently, we have no choice but to reject this agreement. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, can the Union be competitive when it creates regulations that weaken it?
This lack of proportion runs counter to common sense and also harms the interests of the old Member States of the Union, as is mentioned in the most recent report of the Centre for European Reform.
A narrow understanding of the interests of the old Union threatens the cohesion of the whole European Union.
We will not achieve a better future for Europe if this policy continues. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in taking the floor in the debate on the reports by Mr&#160;Böge and Mr&#160;Sousa&#160;Pinto on budget procedure and the financial perspective for 2007-2013, I would like to draw your attention to the following matters.
First of all, in spite of the feeling of satisfaction due to the fact that the financial perspective for 2007-2013 has been approved, it should be stressed that the setting of the general level of payments at 1% of the European Union’s GNP merely serves to meet the expectations of the most developed countries within the Union, and does not deal with the challenges facing Europe in the 21st&#160;century.
Secondly, as a representative of a new Member State, namely Poland, I would like to express concern at the continued efforts to divide the financial resources foreseen in the financial perspective for 2007-2013 in such a way as to ensure that the stream of funding flowing into the old Member States is as generous as possible and continues for as long as possible.
Thirdly, I am convinced that a further enlargement of the European Union, and the accession of Romania and Bulgaria in particular, which will require additional financial resources of at least a dozen billion euros per annum, will not restrict the funding for regional policy and the common agricultural policy in the 10 countries which joined the European Union in 2004.
Finally, I hope that the work done on the draft regulations facilitating the spending of the funds foreseen in the financial perspective will be efficient enough to ensure that 2007 does not become a dead loss, especially in terms of regional development policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr&#160;Grasser, there can be no meaningful financial agreements without transparency, and it is for that reason that I would like to read this out to you: ‘We must listen when some of our citizens bemoan the misuse of EU funding or the squandering of resources within some programmes.
There are cures for these ills in the form of independent scrutiny.
The Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, which will be put to the vote today, provides for great advances in the field of budgetary discipline and Parliament’s budgetary rights.
The question is whether these improvements are going to compensate for the serious deficits that exist in relation to figures.
The European Parliament’s negotiating position expressed in the Resolution of June 2004 was the last compromise that was truly acceptable to the political groups and we therefore approved it unanimously.
On that basis, the European Parliament and our rapporteur embarked upon an impossible battle: to raise the figures to acceptable levels in order to maintain a positive impetus within the Union and its programmes.
The final decision is in the hand of the parliamentary groups and the national delegations, which in any event will draw whichever conclusions they consider most positive for the future of the Union.
Had it not been for him, the Agreement would have been much worse. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Treaty provides only for an annual budgetary procedure.
But it is nonetheless quite sensible that the two arms of the budgetary authority agree on a multiannual perspective to permit more sensible long-term and forward planning.
My one criticism of this agreement, seen from the point of view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, is that it is so detailed and is broken down into so many points that it takes much of the flexibility away from the annual budgetary procedure.
That said, in terms of overall content it is a good agreement.
At the same time, however, for most items of expenditure they represent an increase on current levels of EU spending.
Sometimes the increases are substantial, as in the case of research and development.
It may not seem much of a decline, but not just the 10 new Member States but also Romania and Bulgaria will have to fit within that ceiling.
I think the reform of the CAP in this regard has often been underestimated in the debate.
The redistribution from agriculture to other items of expenditure is something that should be welcomed. &#160;&#160; One of the ways the Member State Governments could stimulate the private initiative is to create an environment conducive to the growth of high quality economy.
We must ask ourselves whether the interinstitutional agreement reached will contribute to the attainment of this objective.
We can hardly answer this question because initially the agreement was reached when the Member States shared opinions at the dinner table and decided which programmes should be funded.
First of all we must clearly define the responsibility of the Member States in respect of the general budget, that is, reform the own resources system.
The third thing, which definitely must be defined in each programme is the responsibility – that of the Member States for the European Union budget, citizens' responsibility for the use of the funds and the Commission's responsibility for the efficient, apparent and the transparent functioning of that system. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is said that a bad compromise leaves some people happy and some people sad, while a good compromise leaves everybody pretty well unsatisfied.
The question for my group, however, is whether this interinstitutional agreement answers the big questions facing Europe at the moment.
This interinstitutional agreement locks us into never-ending wrangling between the net contributors, the net recipients, old Europe, new Europe, the Council and Parliament, at a time when we must be one Europe or we risk being no Europe.
We do, of course, welcome one of the basic points of the agreement, by which I mean the facility for the European Parliament to take a stand on the review of the budget to be implemented by the European Commission and in which Parliament will participate fully.
This agreement is particularly inadequate from the point of view of financial resources.
For example, the last enlargement increased the GDP of the European Union and hence its revenue by 5%; at the same time, however, it increased its population by 30%.
Similarly, the agreement is inadequate from the point of view of priorities for meeting the economic, social and environmental challenges of an enlarged European Union.
It is rather a political and economic translation of the objectives incorporated in the Constitutional Treaty with an excessive focus on security, defence, the militarisation of the European Union and external action, but with little increase in the funds earmarked for the cohesion and regional development funds. &#160;&#160; Mr President, budgetary discipline, sound financial management – surely these words are alien to this place!
In fact, they are veritable oxymorons when used in relation to anything to do with the finances of the European Union.
My colleagues and I will therefore be voting against this agreement on principle, but then we do not believe in the European Union either.
It is a major threat to security, freedom and, more importantly, the economic future of Europe. &#160;&#160; – The fact that we have reached an agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management, as well as an agreement on the financial perspective for 2007-2013 is a definite step forwards.
However, neither the points of conflict nor the stop-gap measures used to agree the annual budget and the financial perspective of the EU have been ironed out.
We will have to continue patiently to seek forms of regular communication, at least between the Council and Parliament.
In other words, we will have to continue to intensify communication between MEPs and the national parliaments and governments.
We need mention only the well-known need for greater efficiency in agriculture, which is the largest recipient of European funds, or the reduction in finance from the structural funds, where the effectiveness of the programmes is often doubtful, and where funding difficult to control, and corruption and cronyism are likely.
This would create the preconditions for a growth in Europe’s global competitiveness, and the European Parliament, in guaranteeing national activities of this kind, would undoubtedly enhance its political prestige. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too want personally to thank the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Böge, for his excellent work.
It is pertinent to remark that none of us could have dealt with this matter better, in what were extremely difficult negotiations.
This is an important tool, because responding in humanitarian situations is precisely what the public expects of the EU.
The other important matter is the review clause in the Financial Perspectives, which is an absolutely essential instrument from the point of view of Parliament’s competence.
It is nevertheless important that consensus has been reached and that we can show our citizens that in the new EU of 25 countries decisions can be made even in difficult circumstances.
Accordingly, it is extremely important for us all to vote in favour of Mr&#160;Böge’s report.
They deserve to have their names mentioned, for the difficult work requiring a high level of expertise, patience, international experience and true sense of diplomacy, with which they managed to reach the compromise regarding the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective.
A year and a half ago we, too, joined with great enthusiasm in the preparatory work that had started in the European Parliament, because it was clear to us that this was not only a political issue that would define the future of Europe as a whole, but also a practical issue serving the catching-up of new Member States.
The institutions have played their part to the full because, over and above the exemplary nature of those meetings, we are going to use this interinstitutional agreement to provide our fellow citizens with the practical resources needed to give full effect to Europe and to the powers it has in terms of development and solidarity.
With the Structural Funds for the 2007-2013 period, we can achieve this same result insofar as the new Member States, in particular, will be able to use the Funds made available to them.
Nevertheless, we know that there will be a delay, in spite of rules n+2 and n+3; I therefore urge the Council, together with the Committee on Regional Development and the European Commission, to declare, forthwith, that the resources that are not used in the context of the Structural Funds will not be redistributed in the Member States, but reallocated as part of a new agreement that will be concluded in the next few years, thanks to which the Funds will be used to achieve the objectives of our proactive policy on this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the European Parliament is now entering into a compromise with the Council of Ministers concerning the half-witted budget for the next seven years.
The reality is that poor people in distant regions are direct net contributors to the EU budget.
In Latvia, 80% of EU aid goes to Riga.
Poor people living in the countryside pay a large contribution to the EU via their daily purchases, but the money is not returned by the EU to those who pay.
Focus Structural Fund aid on the poorest areas in the poorest countries and begin by putting a cap on agricultural aid so that no one can receive more than, for example, EUR&#160;30&#160;000.
Begin rearranging the budget now by voting against the compromise on funding. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Parliament has come out of its trial of strength with the Council having succeeded in salvaging EUR 4&#160;billion, from a total of EUR 864&#160;billion over the period 2007 to 2013.
The Council has also – to all intents and purposes – allocated more powers to Parliament by making it possible for the latter to assess the budget’s structure in 2008-2009.
For example, we seem to be moving towards a European tax in the form of a tax on energy and transport.
On behalf of the general interest of the European taxpayers, we must oppose this new tax – any new tax for that matter – that, whichever way you look at it, will be added to the fiscal pressure, which is already too high in most Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we accept this agreement not because it is good, nor because it is the least worst option, but because it is the only option, given that 90% of the European budget is now financed by the national budgets.
Our Parliament is working on practical proposals, and we have been doing so with the help of the national parliaments for nearly a year.
As regards the schedule, the consensus is that the 2008-2009 meeting must be used as an opportunity to reach a political agreement on the practical arrangements for a reform.
As regards the scope, opinion remains very divided.
There are the masochists who suffer as a result of the system, but who like to suffer.
A further meeting is scheduled with the national parliaments’ committees on budgets for 21&#160;June.
Our aim is to succeed at least in bringing the points of view close enough together so that the Commission might take its inspiration from the proposals put to it for 2008. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to follow Mr&#160;Lamassoure in concentrating on the reform of the financing system.
The one we have at present is unworkable, unfair, lacking in transparency and is no longer sustainable.
One of the things we regard as essential is that this House should be involved in the 2008/2009 reform process.
Secondly, there is the period for which the Financial Perspective will apply, which we want to see brought into line with the period for which Parliament is elected; five years, in other words, instead of seven.
Europe needs more than ever to devote significant resources to structural cohesion policies, as well as to policies focused on innovation, research and SMEs – in short, to policies that will support the emergence of a People's Europe and the spread of Europe’s influence in the world.
The proposals presented by our Parliament in June&#160;2005 enabled this ambitious policy to materialise.
I must confess to you my disappointment, as the compromise that we have just obtained following long-term efforts is still singularly lacking in ambition and inspiration and, although our Parliament succeeded in forcing the Council to review the unacceptable amounts it was proposing last December, the progress made by the Member States falls far short of Europe's real needs, which we all hoped to see fulfilled.
While the budget compromise is acceptable in its form because it complies with the Council’s policy choice, the fact remains that, in terms of content, the Member States’ ambitions are half-hearted, they are timid and, above all, they fall very far short of meeting the challenges of our society.
Moreover, it is with great determination that I now await this meeting, which will enable us to renegotiate a real proactive policy in 2008, with renewed government teams and with our aspiration for Europe firmly instilled in us, and which will enable us to exercise&#160;… &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, today’s vote at the European Parliament will adopt the interinstitutional agreement reached on the Financial Framework for the 2007-2013 period.
This is significantly less than the amount originally supported by the European Parliament, and as a result it will be necessary to reduce the amount of funding available for strengthening EU competitiveness, for science and trans-European networks and for EU regional policy, as well as for other areas.
Unfortunately, at Council the tone of the debate was set by six countries whose only goal was to reduce the amount of expenditure in the EU Financial Framework to 1% of the European Union’s GNI.
Firstly, there is the flexible approach to setting a ceiling on amounts to be received from EU funds, as advocated by the European Parliament in its resolution.
As a result, Latvia and Estonia have been allocated additional resources from EU funds over and above the ceilings laid down, and Lithuania has been allocated additional resources in order to deal with programmes connected with the closure of the Ignalina nuclear power plant.
Secondly, there is the calculation of the ceilings, using each Member State’s individual economic growth forecast.
Thirdly, there is the agreement to allow the use of Structural Funds resources for accommodation projects.
The limit of 2% of total Structural Funds resources, which is identical for all the new Member States, is, however, difficult to understand.
For example, it is obvious that heating homes is a much more urgent issue in countries with a harsher climate, such as Estonia and Latvia, than in southern countries such as Cyprus and Malta.
Of course, the application of such a rule to the Cohesion Fund is still open to doubt.
This agreement, however, is extremely necessary, first and foremost for the new Member States, and for that reason the European Parliament displayed a flexible attitude to the total amount of EU funds. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I keep on hearing today that we are supposed to be approving a compromise.
The usual practice when a compromise has been reached is to talk about whether the glass is half full or half empty, but that is not the case today, and that is why this so-called compromise will get no support from the Austrian Social Democrats.
As the previous speaker mentioned, we are facing a backward movement in policies at national level.
There are six million young people leaving school without qualifications, and, on top of that, the figures for lifelong learning are 42% down on what Parliament proposed.
Assuming we get a majority this lunchtime, we will be assuming joint responsibility for a budget on which we have not made our mark.
Much as I respect our negotiators – who are outstanding and I really do want to congratulate them – the difference that they have managed to make over the last few months amounts, in terms of the total amount of this seven-year budget, to something like 0.2%.
That is why I hope that many Members of this House will refuse to give their endorsement to this Financial Perspective. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would just like to start by saying what a joy it is to see that these negotiations have managed to turn the decision by 25 Heads of State or Government – which was more an expression of the intergovernmental Europe – into a European resolution, and to say how very grateful I am to them for that.
That having been said, though, I would like to say in plain terms that the Interinstitutional Agreement that we will – I hope – adopt today, provides us ourselves with an array of possibilities in terms of how we can help to ensure that European taxpayers’ money is handled carefully and properly.
We are now the doctors who can grapple with this sickness within the Council, and we should take the use of these instruments very seriously.
They all worked very hard through difficult and drawn-out negotiations to achieve this agreement.
Let me highlight just three: the reinforcement of Member States' responsibility to improve expenditure control in order to achieve a positive Court of Auditor's statement, an improvement in the execution of EU programmes and an effective input from Parliament into the budgetary review in 2008.
The best course of action for now is to focus on this 2008 budgetary review.
In it we must reform the structure of the budget from head to toe – deconstruct it to build a new improved framework that reflects the needs and expectations of the EU of 2014.
One reason we had so many problems in getting agreement on future financing was that the Commission missed an opportunity to address the root problem of the current financial framework, namely the lack of flexibility.
It has to be free from the legacies of the past; a framework that must combine the visions of over 27 Member States and is flexible enough to face future challenges. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Grasser, Mrs&#160;Grybauskaitė, I should like to begin by addressing my colleague, Mr&#160;Böge, and sincerely thanking him for his outstanding work.
Mr&#160;Böge, you were no longer able to do anything when, before you at the Council, there stood up the champions of a policy that I would describe as a deceptive policy, which pretends to propose a budget to Europeans that is in keeping with the declarations trumpeted by the Heads of State or Government in front of the media.
This deceptive policy makes people believe in the Union having its own sources of finance, but any notion of a European tax would mean Europe being severely criticised.
Nevertheless, this budget does focus somewhat on research and on the European transport networks, such as the Lyon-Turin project.
With this agreement, a revision of which is already planned for 2008 - it is really most regrettable that we should be obliged, today, to put our hopes in this future revision – a coat of paint is being given to the front door of Europe House, but everything else is being neglected.
Under these circumstances, I will vote in favour of this minimum agreement because I am genuinely obliged to do so, but it will be with a heavy heart that I give you my vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Interinstitutional Agreement contains a proposal to review the financial framework in 2008/2009.
A further issue is that the future financial framework must be established for a five-year period.
Each successive Parliament and each Commission must have the right to vote on the financial priorities of their term.
It is particularly important to us, or in other words Parliament, because it is Parliament’s Members who, on behalf of the citizens of the European Union, make financial decisions and are later held to account for them.
To conclude, I would like to say that we all want a financial system which will be fair to both the old and the new members of the European Union.
We want a system that will be transparent and that will give the EU an opportunity to fulfil its aims by using its own resources rather than by using the financial contributions of the Member States.
Many Members have seen the glass as ‘half-full'; many others have seen it as half-empty.
I believe that it is a political result, in the sense that Parliament has shown itself to be active and capable of relaunching an intergovernmental decision and of turning it into a decision with a European outlook.
We owe our gratitude for this both to Mr&#160;Böge and the negotiating team and to all those who have demonstrated that they are constructively concerned about the future of a generation.
Allow me, in that connection, to highlight the fact that the positive outcome of this political initiative can also be seen in the set of rules that accompany the budget outturn and that will allow for access to Community programmes in such a way as to ensure sound financial management.
I would therefore emphasise the need for Community resources to be used primarily on cross-border sections with high European added value, and subsequently call upon the Member States to make a commitment regarding the national sections of the networks. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, voting in favour of this financial perspective would mean going back on one’s decision and not providing Europe with the resources for its ambitions.
On every side of this House, I will make a bet with you that, month after month, year after year, report after report, we will have to suffer the long litany of regrets at having an insufficient budget, but it will be too late.
We would probably have enjoyed greater short-term popularity in the eyes of very many observers if we had said ‘no’.
The lead stories in some of the media on 5 or 6 April would probably have been along the lines of ‘Parliament shows teeth: Council rebuffed’, but would we then really have achieved more in terms of European goals, more for Europe’s people, more for a better Budget, or more for an effective European Union?
If we do not effectively discharge our responsibilities; if the institutions are unwilling to work together; if there is no agreement with Parliament; and if we do not give our assent today, then there will be no security to plan ahead for a period of years, no interinstitutional agreement, no greater scope for manoeuvre for us to use in the annual budget negotiations, no review clause and no improved consultation on the programmes and the monitoring of them.
Every one of us must consider whether there really would, without our consent, be an extra EUR&#160;800 million for education, EUR&#160;400&#160;more for the CIP programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, an extra EUR&#160;100 million for social policy, EUR&#160;300&#160;million more for the cohesion fund, EUR&#160;200 million more for Natura 2000, and so on and so forth.
It is precisely because our agreement has mobilised an additional EUR&#160;7.9&#160;billion that it needs, in the interests of the European Union, to be supported. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the compromise by the European Council on the financial perspectives was inconsistent with the needs of the peoples of Europe and the objectives of the European Union.
It has, unfortunately, retained the 1% doctrine which pins the budget of the enlarged Europe of the 25 at the level of the budget of the Union of the 15 Member States.
With Parliament's negotiation, a marginal improvement was achieved which, despite the fact that it is a far cry from the real financial needs of the Union, safeguards a minimal level of continuity in the financing of Community policies.
The question therefore raised today goes beyond the debate on the future budget.
It relates to the very credibility of Europe in the eyes of the citizens.
In other words, if the European Union continues to set objectives, without safeguarding in practical terms the means and political will to implement them, then the lack of confidence on the part of the citizens will increase constantly.
The Böge report also helps to improve the quality of the implementation of the budget: internal control, the facility to transfer appropriations using the flexibility instrument and legislative flexibility.
Mainly, however, we secured the 2009 review with our full involvement in the review process.
In 2009 the question of the need for there to be a new own resources system will also be raised again intensely, in order to find the new financial 'fuel' to speed up the development of the Union's policies.
However, all together, with our systematic work in the Committee on Budgets, we basically achieved something else.
We managed, in the overriding 1% problem and with the help of all our colleagues, to overcome the Commission's set trend, which the Council has always favoured, thereby giving the European Union albeit one part of the original financial strength that it deserves. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement that has been reached is not the one that we would have hoped for, despite the fact that Parliament fought with dignity for a more satisfactory budget.
The Council must assume full responsibility before Europeans for a short-sighted and miserly outlook, which is concerned only with balancing the books of the national budgets and not with making Europe great and powerful.
We are satisfied, however, because the agreement provides a number of positive solutions and confirms that the programmes will start on 1&#160;January 2007.
We need a thorough reform of the structure and procedures, which is divorced from the mercantile ‘give and take’ approach and inspired by genuine pro-European ideas.
No public institution has lasted for long without having a direct link with its citizens through taxation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, recently the European Union has experienced a number of significant defeats, the greatest being the rejection by certain countries of the Constitutional Treaty.
In spite of the interinstitutional agreement which has been concluded, and which we know is the best possible solution, the European Council does not understand the needs of the Union.
It follows, then, that failure on our part, failure to achieve this compromise, would have sent the worst imaginable message about Europe’s capacity to act effectively, and would also have given the public the wrong idea about us.
It is clear, then, that, when we are dealing with something as complex as a seven-year financial perspective or an interinstitutional agreement that has to be negotiated by the three institutions that are vital to Europe – Parliament, the Commission and the Council – no one party’s position must be allowed to prevail, but we can all send out a message.
It is vital that our taxpayers, Europe’s citizens, should be able to see that we are careful with money, that we conceal nothing and that we are trying to prevent abuses.
We can say that we reached the point where historic events can happen.
Today is a historic day for the Chamber, a historic day for the enlarged Europe.
It is also a historic day for the Presidency, which can say: 'If you support this agreement, the Presidency has been very successful'.
Financially speaking, the European Union is not as strong as it could have been if we had managed to reach a consensus on a larger budget.
At that point we will have to look at the level of cohesion in the European Union, the extent to which the European economy is competitive, the level of unemployment and the state of the education system and of scientific research.
It is difficult to reach a universal consensus with regard to basic budget priorities.
I am convinced that an important dimension of European solidarity is practical solidarity in the form of cohesion policy.
The quality of the implementation of this financial perspective will determine whether the European Union’s biggest enlargement to date, in 2004, will be fully exploited and completed.
I hope that this will indeed happen and that no one will have any doubts that the return of 10 countries to the European family was right and beneficial not only to those countries, but also to all Europeans.
Europe will be greater and more powerful at a relatively low price. &#160;&#160; The financial perspective, totalling EUR&#160;864&#160;316 billion in commitment appropriations, is the disappointing outcome of a compromise between the Commission, the Council and Parliament, which have undermined the European spirit and threatened to render the Union powerless.
The Union of 27 will have a smaller relative budget for 2007-2013 than that of the Europe of 15.
Even though the financing of the CAP is being safeguarded and the budget devoted to SMEs seems to be enhanced, the Galileo project, the trans-European transport networks, research, regional policy, education and training and culture will be sacrificed.
The rigour imposed on the national budgets did not permit an increase in national contributions, which explains why MEPs gave their approval to this compromise.
These resources would be equitable, transparent, controlled by democratic procedures and in compliance with the principle of cost neutrality.
The revision of the Community budget, which is scheduled for 2008, must enable us to carry out this reform – which can be done without amending the basic treaties – by means of an agreement between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council, acting on the basis of unanimity. &#160;&#160; Today’s vote is particularly important for the European Union as a whole, because it spells the end of two years of complex negotiations that have seen MEPs committed to defending a future budget based on an overall vision and on a European, rather than national, outlook, with a great sense of political responsibility and perspective.
We are concerned here with negotiations that I have had the opportunity to follow closely as a member of the first temporary committee, which was set up on an ad hoc basis in order to draft the European Parliament's proposal aimed at strengthening the cohesion policy and guaranteeing an optimal level of financing so as to enable the necessary reforms to fulfil the ambitions of the European Union and its citizens, whom we represent.
The European Parliament has succeeded in adopting a budget that reconciles political priorities with financial constraints, and in updating its structure and improving the way in which it is executed.
If you think back, it was a year ago that the great crisis occurred, with the failure of a financial proposal from the Luxembourg Presidency – a proposal, I might add, that was not all that far removed from the one we have adopted today, and so I would like to take this opportunity to say a very big thank you to Jean-Claude Juncker, who deserved to see this day in his presidency.
Over the next seven years, we will, in total, be making EUR&#160;160 billion available, and that includes to Bulgaria and Romania; in terms of monetary value, that is twice as much as the post-war Marshall Plan for the whole of Europe.
Proud though your House can be of this resolution, it might well be that the accession costs of the ten Member States ought to have been included at the same time, and then we would have had an easier time of it with this Financial Perspective.
This should be a lesson to us to do this better in future.
Our original intention was to sort out practical projects in order to restore public confidence in us.
We will meet again in June, when we will be discussing the future of Europe.
This Agreement fully demonstrates Parliament's role as budgetary authority and makes it clear that an agreement within the Council is not sufficient to provide the Union with a financial perspective, but that this Parliament also needs to be present.
Parliament has been present following a long and difficult process, which has led to an agreement which many Members consider to be a minimal agreement, and this is reflected in the vote.
In accordance with the financial perspective, the European Union costs EUR 0.72 per day for each European.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say that Parliament takes a positive view of your initiative of talking about the Union's own resources and that, at the inter-parliamentary meeting on 8 and 9 May, all of the Parliaments of the Union took the same view.
I would also like to address my thanks to Mr&#160;Lewandowski and all of the members of the Committee on Budgets and I would urge all of you to take an active part in the work of revising this perspective in 2008 and 2009. &#160;&#160; President Papoulias, our Parliament welcomes you today as a man of peace and a person committed to European integration.
The fact that you have the support of the whole political spectrum demonstrates that you are recognised as a man of moderation, of ethical responsibility and of prudence.
It is also a recognition of your ceaseless quest for peace along the borders of your country with your most immediate neighbours, in the Balkans and also in the Middle East.
I must also point to your constant concern for dialogue with the Muslim world, which is undoubtedly the most important challenge facing Europe, and your will to bring the two flanks of the Mediterranean closer together, an aim that this Parliament fully shares.
Because its Members are elected directly, the European Parliament has the best possible credentials from the citizens of Europe and the clearest instructions to express their concerns and problems.
I believe that its institutional role will be strengthened as the process of European integration progresses and I am convinced that this development is the natural way forward for our political culture, especially in times when the citizens of Europe feel insecure about their future and, often, remote from the decision-making centres.
This is an historic achievement which constitutes a model of stability in the global system.
The path opened up by Jean Monnet in establishing specific forms of cooperation and avoiding ambitious theoretical schemes resulted in the creation of a union, the democratic, social and development model of which, despite its shortcomings, has rightly earned global admiration.
Globalisation, a monopole world, emergent economies, mass migration, the influence of non-institutional centres and the formulation of political decisions, the asymmetrical threat of international terrorism, environmental problems – combined with an insecure energy supply – are creating a complicated and fast-changing international environment which is creating both challenges and opportunities for the European Union.
It is a state of affairs on which the citizens of Europe need to take an honest stand.
I read interesting views, mainly from people living in different countries, but who have the same concerns.
The citizens of Europe and everyone living in Europe do not want to feel threatened in a world suffering under international terrorism.
Immigrants are demanding equal treatment with the citizens of their host countries and, sometimes, their demand takes on dramatic proportions.
The unemployed are demanding equal opportunities as regards the potential for a dignified life and people living in poverty are claiming the same access to health and education as high earners.
Development without social justice is meaningless.
It leads on and does not stop and, most importantly of all, the citizens of Europe, despite any disappointments, continue to invest their hopes for a better life and a better world in the European idea.
We consider a constituent element of the global process to be dialogue between cultures and, as we saw recently, a lack of understanding, trust and dialogue can have serious consequences, especially when there is cumulative indignation and a feeling of injustice.
The recent enlargement of the European Union, with the accession of ten new Member States, caused a real shockwave to resound through Europe.
The historic unity of all its peoples was restored in the face of a common destiny.
The accession of Bulgaria and Romania will be especially important, as will the prospects of the completion of Union in the Western Balkans at the next stage, once the conditions have been met.
My country and I personally, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, have played a leading part in its processing and adoption.
As far as the accession procedure of Turkey is concerned, I should like to emphasise that my country is in favour of its integration.
However it must be clear that entry to the Union depends on the full adoption of its principles and rules and that this is a non-negotiable rule of European civilisation which cannot be bent for the sake of any broader geopolitical expediencies.
The answer to this disappointment cannot but be to speed up the rate of the political enlargement process.
A Union of 25 Member States today, and more tomorrow, cannot exist and prosper except as an independent, strong and unified presence in the international system, with all that this implies.
The challenges are before us.
The crisis of Iran's nuclear programme, the parallel energy crisis which is imminent and which may be worse than expected, terrorism, developments in the Balkans in the face of the finalisation of the status of Kosovo, conditions in Africa and the problem of AIDS are situations which require the European Union to articulate its own unified word and formulate its own strategy.
The resolution of the Palestinian problem, with a secure Israel and a democratic Palestine, in conjunction with stability in Iraq, will also restore the political geography of what is – from the energy point of view – a very crucial area, with which Europe has preferential, historic, political, cultural and commercial relations.
I also consider it important that the European Union has decided to continue sending aid to the Palestinians, given that depriving them of it will only exacerbate the problems.
As far as relations with Iran are concerned, we are categorically opposed to the proliferation of nuclear weapons and, at the same time, we believe that full use must be made of the possibilities of diplomacy which, in my estimation, have not been exhausted, in order to reach agreement.
This agreement is being sought by European and by all communities, which constantly send messages in favour of peace and dialogue between cultures.
Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Lisbon Strategy is precisely to provide an answer to the concerns of Europeans relating to development, unemployment and social cohesion with financial prudence and respect for the social state.
The objectives of this strategy have not been achieved through its implementation.
To put it plainly, the Lisbon equation, which was correct in conception, continues to have elements of academic rhetoric as regards its implementation plan, a rhetoric which is attractive for the connoisseurs, but incomprehensible or contradictory to the average citizen.
Let us not delude ourselves; it is clear that today, in the Union, there are two basic schools of thought as far as the implementation of the Lisbon objectives is concerned: the group that maintains that the development and the survival of the social state under conditions of globalisation can only be achieved with radical reforms of employment relations, and the group that considers that the Lisbon Strategy can be implemented under conditions of globalisation without abolishing the social state.
I consider that differences of opinion are the basic privilege of democracy and hence the foundation stone of our Union.
Workers worry about their jobs being moved outside Europe.
The fact is that no development strategy will bring about results unless it is people-orientated, unless it starts from the principle of protection for the weak and steers clear of international realities, as an area in which the operation of the market will not be the only regulatory factor, unless it invests in the quality of education, research and the challenges of new technologies.
It is also political realism, because we have already seen not once, but several times, that when collective insecurity intensifies, when inequalities and exclusion worsen, social tensions manifest in extreme ways and have unforeseen consequences.
As history has taught us, this can cause dangerous dynamics outside the political system.
The future of Europe will be shaped by the citizens of Europe and will depend on their participation in public affairs, which is both necessary and desirable in a democracy.
That was centuries ago and yet active citizens are still the alpha and the omega of how we define our course towards a Europe with a global mission, a Europe which will be not only a bastion of democracy and human rights, but also a standard for the right to work, development and social cohesion, a European Union which will be a superpower of humanity and the place in which I stand today, the European Parliament, has the supreme responsibility of making the voice of the citizen heard as clearly and as loudly as possible. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for your words, Mr President.
You have referred to many of the problems that we have to resolve and to the role that the European Parliament must play in that regard.
This monetarist, neoliberal blinkeredness, which panders to the profits of the large multinational companies operating in the EU and which places the workers – and their jobs, their rights and their salaries – as an adjustment variable during crises, is in keeping with its role in creating the single currency and the Stability and Growth Pact.
It constitutes a theft of the intellectual property of businesses, which distorts international trade rules and is responsible for the loss of around 100&#160;000 jobs each year in the EU.
It also constitutes a danger for consumers when counterfeit products may harm their health or compromise their safety.
All the resources used to fight against this scourge must therefore be continually strengthened.
Mr&#160;Rocard’s report on accession to the Geneva Act concerning the international registration of industrial designs is along these lines, and I therefore supported this report. &#160;&#160; – We have today voted in favour of Mr&#160;Sousa&#160;Pinto’s report on the Interinstitutional Agreement.
The report states that the Interinstitutional Agreement that the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission have managed to reach is compatible with primary European law and the Treaties.
It is a positive thing that we have finally reached a settlement on the EU’s long-term budget.
At the same time, it is disappointing that no further progress was made in respect of the reform of the budget.
We should have liked to have seen a thorough overhaul of the agreement on agricultural funding and a methodical reform of regional aid.
The reform of the budget must be kept to the fore when the agreed overhaul is due to take place in 2008/2009.
Amongst these we might mention what is known as the Globalisation Fund and the text relating to ‘own resources’.
We must be aware, however, that supporting the European Council's decision on the review of the budget means starting to reduce spending, particularly if we aim to use the Union’s own resources rather than the Member States’ contributions.
We must also recognise that the review will include a reduction in workplaces and in the various trips that are sometimes made merely to boost the self-esteem of a specific individual.
I wonder, however, whether the clear separation between an own resources budget and the provision of the Member States' contributions might not cause some technical problems in the financing of particular programmes, unless this separation is also applied to the programmes themselves and the political objectives to be achieved.
It is imperative that a strong relationship of confidence be built up again between Europeans and their institutions.
The first signal that political leaders have a duty to send out to their fellow citizens in order to restore that confidence is one of equipping themselves with a budget that lives up to their much touted ambitions.
At a time when the EU is opening up to new countries and when we more than ever need a social and competitive Europe and one that is strong in the world, the budget now proposed to us is unacceptable.
The implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, progress in terms of research and development, education and training, external aid in the fields of development and cooperation, transnational infrastructure projects, and sufficient Structural Funds and a sufficient Cohesion Fund to demonstrate the necessary solidarity with the new countries: all of that will only be achieved to a minimal extent.
Moreover, any new policy is out of the question and any recovery unthinkable – this budget symbolises inflexibility and a desire to give in.
We would point out; however, that the compromise deal struck between the parties fails to adequately address the problems that confront the European Union today.
In particular it has missed a rare opportunity to alter the political priorities and instead has continued to fund the traditional spending programmes. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the European Union’s financial perspective for the years 2007 to 2013 on the basis of the Böge report, and I did so having borne in mind the long, painful and arduous negotiations that have taken place since the first half of 2005.
I did so not because I believe that this is the best or the least worst budget but because it is the only budget possible and so as not to side with those who would not have hesitated to exacerbate the crisis that the European Union is undergoing by creating a budgetary crisis that neither our fellow citizens nor the new Member States that joined in 2004 would have understood.
I must point out that it is not the European Union that is in financial crisis but the Member States, some of which are on the verge of bankruptcy as a result of having spectacularly mismanaged their national public finances.
The Interinstitutional Agreement contains valid points in terms of improving the management of the EU budget and the more effective combating of irregularities and fraud – areas in which the Member States have their own responsibility to shoulder.
I am expressly opposed to resources being set aside for the globalisation fund, the flexibility instrument, the solidarity fund and perhaps also for European schools. &#160;&#160; .I abstained from voting because I cannot accept the fact that the budget for research over the next three years has not increased in real terms, even though the Lisbon process and the declarations of the Heads of State or Government rightly consider research to be a key priority for Europe. &#160;&#160; We have today voted in favour of Mr&#160;Böge’s report on the Interinstitutional Agreement on budgetary discipline.
It is important that a settlement has finally been reached on the EU’s long-term budget.
Furthermore, we reject the proposal in the report that the EU should have its own resources instead of relying on the contributions of the Member States.
Any form of EU taxation would be a departure from this principle. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the Böge report because the absence of an agreement on the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 could undermine the European Union’s work as from next year.
I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to remind the Council of its obligations to ensure that the principles of the 2003 CAP reform are respected.
A new crisis resulting from rejecting the financial perspectives would represent a huge blow to the European Union. &#160;&#160; .Like the French Socialists, I voted against the Böge report, which ratifies the interinstitutional agreement on the 2007-2013 financial perspective.
The budget is still not large enough now, and the budgetary wrangling needed to satisfy the justifiable and ever-increasing demands aimed at financing all of the EU policies will be very difficult over the next few years.
The report approves the budgetary and financial consequences of the agreement which the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission have managed to reach.
It is a positive thing that we have finally reached a settlement on the EU’s long-term budget.
At the same time, it is disappointing that no further progress was made in respect of the reform of the budget.
We should have liked to have seen a thorough overhaul of the agreement on agricultural funding and a methodical reform of regional aid.
The reform of the budget must be kept to the fore when the agreed overhaul is due to take place in 2008/2009.
Amongst these we might mention what is known as the Globalisation Fund and the text relating to ‘own resources’.
Although I acknowledge that the final outcome of the negotiations, especially regarding the quantitative elements, fell short of the position adopted in June, this has, broadly speaking, been a success.
Of these I should like to highlight Parliament’s participation on an equal footing in the 2009 review, because this will enable it to find solutions to existing deficits and to improve the forthcoming financial perspective, thus helping us to meet the objective of the abovementioned negotiating position, which remains in place.
I therefore voted in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; .I was unable to resign myself to voting in favour of the amended financial perspective.
Even though Parliament’s negotiators succeeded in obtaining an extra EUR&#160;2 billion over seven years, the difference between Europe’s ambition and the sad reality of the budget is striking.
The needs identified for Galileo total EUR&#160;2.5 billion, while the appropriations provided for total EUR&#160;900 million.
The intelligent part of the CAP, rural development, has seen its appropriations halved.
Research, the Lisbon Strategy, social policy - in short, all of the key policies – have been curbed.
Europe will not make progress with an annual budget that represents scarcely a third of what the US allocates to its military budget alone. &#160;&#160; Although this compromise, like every other of its kind, has its weak points, it is nevertheless a step forward and one worth supporting.
Its priorities will be to bring the levels of economic development of the different countries closer together and to improve the living conditions of their workers and citizens. - a root and branch overhaul of the common agricultural policy, with the aim of safeguarding each country’s right to food sovereignty and safety, by means of introducing modulation and a ceiling for agricultural aid, and delivering fair redistribution of agricultural aid among farmers, types of production and countries. - an end to the conditionality of the Cohesion Fund to the Stability and Growth Pact and the non-application of the N+2 (or 3) rule to this Fund or to the Structural Fund. - Complete compensation for regions that will suffer from the so-called statistical effect, such as the Algarve. - Portugal not losing Community funding and the creation of a specific programme for modernising the Portuguese economy in the context of enlargement.
The Community framework that has been adopted runs counter to these objectives and needs.
Hence our rejection. &#160;&#160; .I voted against the European budget planned for the period 2007-2013 because, in my opinion, it represents a tragic lack of European ambition and the return to intergovernmental practices of which I disapprove and which will paralyse all European public action, and this at the expense of Europeans.
With a sum of EUR&#160;864&#160;billion, or 1.05% of the gross domestic product of the 25 Member States, the financial perspective is not equal to Europe's historic enlargement to incorporate ten new Member States, or the challenges awaiting it for the future.
I believe that we are very far removed from the much-hyped demands made at the start of the negotiations (indeed, in June 2005, the European Parliament voted in favour of a budget totalling EUR&#160;974&#160;billion, or 1.18% of GDP); this budget, I am afraid to say, goes hand in hand with a reduction in the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund and with a fall in competitiveness, growth and employment, and will rule out any modernisation.
I must register my deep concern, however, about the apparent discrepancy between what is stipulated in the agreement reached in December and its practical application.
It would appear that a discrepancy has now emerged in the funds earmarked for the Algarve region in the context of exceptional measures adopted for statistical effect regions.
This paltry budget will do nothing to help the EU achieve its high targets in terms of cohesion and development.
The excellent negotiations by Portugal and Madeira achieved their goals. 2.
Following pressure from Parliament, EUR&#160;4&#160;billion has been added to the spending limit. 3.
Rules have been established with a view to the Member States taking greater responsibility for the management of European funds. 4.
Parliament has been given a more prominent role in the review of the Community budget, which is to take place by 2009.
I wish to point out that I was one of those who, by voting, contributed towards Parliament’s decision to reject the budgetary agreement reached by the Heads of State or Government in mid-December 2005.
This obliged the Council of Ministers to sit around the negotiating table with Parliament with a view to reaching a position that would express the common will of both institutions.
For the prosperity and security project that the EU represents for its citizens to be a reality, it requires a financial framework to match that ambition and its new size.
It also comes, however, with the hope that the entire budgetary structure will in due course be rethought with a view to promoting a more development-friendly economy, via the review of the expenditure heading. &#160;&#160; The final stage has been reached on the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 with the vote in favour of an overall package of EUR&#160;866.4&#160;billion.
I should like to quote a figure to you: Europe costs each European 26&#160;cents a day.
After the standstills on the part of certain Member States – I am referring to the ‘Club of the six skinflints’ – which were hoping for a cut-price agreement, we can be satisfied with the compromise adopted, despite its being far below Parliament’s initial proposal of June 2005, namely EUR&#160;975 billion.
Parliament nonetheless managed to extract EUR&#160;4&#160;billion more than what the Council had decided, EUR&#160;4&#160;billion that has been granted mainly to policies regarding education (an extra 40&#160;000 Erasmus scholarships!), research, competitiveness and innovation.
I still feel, however, that the proposal originally adopted by Parliament was far more beneficial to the EU, not only from the quantitative point of view but also, especially, on account of the methodology used.
In spite of this, I voted in favour of the proposal because it would be highly damaging if the European institutions did not have a medium-term financial framework in which to prepare development-related projects.
For the period between 2007 and 2013, Parliament has asked EUR 112&#160;billion more than the Council.
During Mr&#160;Blair’s debriefing in December 2005, the group chairmen of the large groups screamed blue murder, claiming that they would not under any circumstances agree to this result.
Cutbacks are now being made on the second pillar of agricultural policy which is supposed to fund rural development and which puts quality, animal welfare and environmental care first.
By the same token, not enough funds are being set aside for trans-European networks, programmes such as Erasmus (a mere 140&#160;000 students will be placed from now on, compared to 170&#160;000 in 2006) and Leonardo (36&#160;000 placements compared to 50&#160;000), the seventh Research and Development Policy programme, the social agenda, the structural funds, Life+ and Natura, cultural activities, external policy and our dealings with our neighbours.
In addition to the quantitative gains in relation to the Council’s previous proposal, there are also qualitative benefits that Portugal will enjoy.
What is more, any postponement of the decision would lead to delays in the use of Community funds to resolve people's problems.
Europe’s citizens – the Portuguese in particular – would not appreciate any further delays. &#160;&#160; I voted against the Sousa Pinto and Böge reports, which reflect the way in which Europe has taken a back seat to acts of national self-interest, destroy any far-reaching political project and seriously threaten existing public policies, not least the CAP and the Structural Funds, both of which are tools for showing solidarity with the most vulnerable regions.
Having been presented as a way forward for the European agricultural sector, rural development is, for its part, showing a 21% decrease in the appropriations that were allocated to it in comparison with the previous period and is paving the way for the abuse of our rural territories.
The Union’s Cohesion Policy is undergoing the same drastic cuts, recording a 10% decrease in the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, despite the fact that many European regions are lagging behind in terms of development, and thus instead required a substantial effort to be made regarding Community solidarity.
Directly affected, as they are, by this climb-down on the budget, the outermost regions will, moreover, be unable to rely on the development of new regional synergies, the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument having lost an extra EUR&#160;6 billion. &#160;&#160; We have chosen to vote against both of these reports as we consider that the total payment appropriations should be below 1% of the total GNI of the EU Member States in accordance with the proposal from the G6 countries.
Nor do we see any reason to celebrate the fact that the EU’s budget has been increased by EUR 4 billion by means of yet another round of negotiations initiated by the federalist majority in the European Parliament.
This money would have been better spent on the political priorities of the Member States in respect of expenditure.
We also emphatically take exception to the debates in the European Parliament in relation to there being a need to reform the system for own resources and to the EU needing its own source of income, for example by means of a tax being levied on mobile phones across the entire Union.
The EU budget must depend on membership fees from the Member States, and the size of these membership fees must be decided by the Council of Ministers. &#160;&#160; .In June 2005, Parliament estimated that the Union required a budget of EUR&#160;974 billion in order to face up to the challenges of the future.
The agreement on the financial perspective, which was reached on 4&#160;April at the end of the trialogue between Parliament, the Commission and the Council, is EUR&#160;112 billion below our position in June&#160;2005.
We have recorded a 35% decrease in the budgetary resources allocated to growth and competitiveness (heading 1a), a 10% decrease for the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund (heading 1b) and so on.
The only thing going for this financial perspective is the fact that it exists.
The Member States and the regions must, in particular, be able to develop and launch their projects in good time so that the latter can be cofinanced as from 2007.
It would, in fact, be tragic if the poorest regions in Europe were unable to have access to structural aid as from 2007.
I do not want a Europe that is reduced to being a mere free-trade area copied from the Anglo-Saxon model, but rather a Europe founded on the values of solidarity and of sharing among nations, something that has always been the vehicle for European progress.
With a 37% reduction under the heading of growth and competitiveness, and a 10% reduction in the Cohesion Fund, the financial perspective destroys any notion of a revival of Europe and precludes any new policy for seven years. &#160;&#160; It is regrettable that the European Parliament has not heeded the 1% target of the G6 countries but has instead worked for a budget framework far in excess of this amount.
The agreement also lacks ambition in respect of the necessary reforms of both agricultural policy and regional policy.
Within the framework of a long-term budget of 1% of GNI, there must also be room to invest in scientific research and to support enlargement.
I have therefore chosen to reject the financial consequences that would be associated with the Interinstitutional Agreement and have voted against the reports in their entirety. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I voted in favour of the Rack report even though I believe that traffic’s considerable impact on human beings and their environment makes it essential that more freight be carried by rail.
I believe that the only rational approach to resolving this problem would be a radical reshaping of our transport system, which has, to date, favoured transport criss-crossing the EU from one end to the other.
For example, it includes in the scope of application of this regulation more environmentally friendly means of transport, such as rail and inland waterways, and it takes account of the needs of the SMEs and the more remote and vulnerable regions, with a view to delivering better economic and social cohesion.
This choice forms part of the more general anti-grass roots policy of the ΕU, as applied to maritime cabotage in Regulation (EC) No 3577/92 on the responsibility of the Nea Dimokratia and Panellinio Socialistiko Kinima governments in our country, in collusion with shipowners, with painful consequences for workers in maritime and shore transport, professional artisans and small and medium-sized farm owners.
That is why the group of the Kommounistiko Komma Elladas in the European Parliament did not vote in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation establishing the second Marco Polo programme. &#160;&#160; We Swedish Social Democrats have voted to support the compromise amendments to Mrs&#160;Roth-Behrendt’s report on TSEs that have been jointly tabled by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left.
The compromise adopted today establishes a series of rules regarding breeding programmes to select for resistance to TSEs or to export and import animal feed.
We oppose this position, which, apart from the problems already mentioned, raise issues as regards the intensive, verticalised production development model so prevalent nowadays in agriculture and fisheries.
The VVD believes that third-country products should meet the same requirements, certainly where food safety is at stake.
I am therefore voting against this part of the proposal, although otherwise this is a good compromise. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, Mrs&#160;Plestinska, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financing of European standardisation.
The text proposed by the European Commission and adopted at first reading makes it possible to give a crucial legal basis to the financing of European standardisation.
It is irresponsible to lay down at this stage the indicative amounts that the institutions in question are to be granted.
We have therefore voted against this report. &#160;&#160; This legislation is based on the fundamental misconception that the aim of standardisation is to increase the competitiveness of businesses rather than to make life easier for consumers.
It creates a framework for financing standardisation activities for the implementation of Community policies.
One more proposal, which, if seen as what it is, introduces a better financing framework and facilitates the adoption of European standards, particularly for very small enterprises and manufacturers.
This Commission continues to ignore the voice of the people calling for harmonisation of social systems before any such internal market is put in place, resulting in social dumping.
Abstention would be the best choice, as a protest vote against the general policy of the Commission and especially the fact that European citizens are at the bottom of its list of priorities. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of the excellent report by my fellow Member, Mr&#160;Rosati, on public finances in economic and monetary Union.
Furthermore, it must be noted that Community procedures, whether we are talking about the Stability and Growth Pact (SGP) or the excessive deficit procedures (EDP), only partially resolve this tragic situation and are, indeed, ineffective in a context in which weak economic growth and social demands are compromising the European Union’s capacity to reform itself.
The slow rate of the structural reforms ordered by the anti-grass roots Lisbon Strategy is presented as the cause of the debt and deficit.
I especially welcome the reference to the need to channel efforts into increasing the effectiveness of the preventative and corrective political measures for strengthening and consolidating the EU's public finances.
The fact that the necessary reforms were not carried out reduced growth and jobs and put pressure on public finances.
The drop in deficits that we have seen is more an indication of the economic adjustments following expectations of greater growth in the economy, rather than the necessary structural reforms that are so vital to the future of the European economy.
We cannot, however, overlook the difficulties that some Member States have had in recent years in keeping public deficits within the levels of the Stability and Growth Pact.
A further reason for us to follow this issue with concern and to call on the Commission and the Member States to take structural measures and be prepared for genuine coordination of economic policies.
I would like to thank colleagues from the Austrian Presidency who have agreed with us an enhanced role for Parliament, as the Council prepares its annual human rights report on behalf of the Union as a whole.
This is not so much a question of institutional sensitivities: it is more that a unified and strengthened EU human rights report can provide a stronger voice for Europe and our commitment to human rights in the world.
I hope our proposal for an annual EU list of countries of concern will be considered in that context.
I would like to thank the Commissioner, too, for her support for this approach and for listening and responding to Parliament by agreeing to a separate legal instrument for human rights.
We must use a more sophisticated sliding scale of sanctions and make it easier to find political agreement in the EU to apply them.
Finally, as far as we ourselves are concerned, let me refer to the debate raging this week in my own country, the United Kingdom, on how human rights can be reconciled, given the changed threats of terrorism, people trafficking and organised crime.
So if our generation is sincere in seeking the freedom of political prisoners like Aung San Suu Kyi, tackling the despicable trade in women and children for sexual exploitation and bringing the perpetrators of ethnic cleansing in Darfur and in the Balkans to justice, we have to defend the concept of human rights at home as well as abroad.
As far as the Austrian Presidency is concerned, this issue is very dear to our hearts and we want to deal with it in a way that corresponds to what the rapporteur has just said.
We want the European Union as a whole to be perceived by our partners and by the outside world as speaking with one voice and conveying the values of the European Union.
I should like to begin by thanking the European Parliament for its cooperation and we should also like to thank the Commissioner and the Commission for their contributions.
To those – be they women or men – who are threatened and tortured for standing up for human rights, it is irrelevant whether the European Union now speaks through Parliament, the Council or the Commission.
People who rely on help from the European Union do so irrespective of the institution, and that is why cooperation between the institutions is so very important.
I would like, at this point, to make reference to something that is very important to me personally, even though it may well not be directly connected with the report.
The Austrian Presidency is endeavouring, if at all possible, to set up the Fundamental Rights Agency, and to bring about a final agreement on it, before our presidency comes to an end.
We had, this morning, a highly constructive sitting with Parliament and the Commission, in the course of which we agreed on the basis outlines of what this Fundamental Rights Agency is going to be like.
I would ask you all to play your parts in this, in order that this important institution, which is to represent the European Union as a whole to the outside world, may take concrete form as soon as possible.
The Presidency will be working very hard to that end.
We have closely examined the report, and we are appreciative of the efforts of the rapporteur and of all the Members of your House who worked on it.
The present Austrian President of the Foreign Affairs Council, Mrs&#160;Plassnik, takes these matters extremely seriously; in the run-up to the summit between the EU, Latin America and the Caribbean, she received human rights campaigners from that region and assured them of the European Union’s support.
Within the scope afforded by those options, the European Union does speak out very strongly in cases where people face the threat of torture and inhumane treatment, but we regret our inability to prevent them in every case.
The implementation of the United Nations Convention against Torture, and cooperation with the UN’s human rights apparatus generally, was, during our presidency, an essential part of our human rights policy; in this respect we were doing no more than continuing the European Union’s traditional policy, and initiated démarches on the subject in over twenty-five countries.
Having visited Kazakhstan, where we engaged in political dialogues with the countries of Central Asia, and more recently, the region of the Southern Caucasus, I myself can say that the European Union has always been very forthright in addressing the issue of torture and inhumane treatment, as well as human rights matters in general.
The Human Rights Council will meet for the first time on 19&#160;June, in other words, before the end of our presidency.
Our desire is that this new United Nation body should, in future, make a constructive and essential contribution to working for human rights around the world.
Our common goal is an effective and visible human rights policy for the European Union, which will see us standing up for our values.
The European Parliament is making a significant contribution in this respect, to which tribute was paid in the European Union’s annual report for 2005.
I assure you that all the elements that contribute to the success of this initiative will be maintained for the period 2007 to 2013, for instance independence from government approval and support for civil society organisations.
We also need to better adapt the programme to the sensitive situations and restrictions often faced by civil society organisations.
That is clearly reflected in the significant increase in the number of observation missions over the last two years, particularly in post-conflict and transition situations.
The professional and independent approach of EU electoral observers is highly regarded and enjoys credibility and leverage.
I am sensitive to the need to ensure that any further increase in that area does not squeeze resources from other priorities and I can assure you that I will do my best in that regard.
Great efforts go into consolidating EU positions in such fora, which are often instrumental in achieving progress.
As the President has already said, that leadership role of the European Union was clearly visible in the negotiations establishing the Human Rights Council.
Now that elections to the Council have taken place, the real work of this new body at the helm of the international and human rights system begins.
But there will be space and need for a separate report by Parliament on the European Union’s human rights policy.
I agree with Mr Howitt that a reinforced effort should be made by the European Union as a whole to address human rights concerns more systematically and to mainstream human rights considerations in EU policies.
In that task, cooperation between Parliament, the Council and the Commission is crucial.
That report will provide the general assessment of human rights across the globe and of many of the broader questions and challenges, as well as the more local challenges.
The fact that we only have 14 amendments to the report tomorrow is a reflection on the work he has done.
There can be no European political project without making human rights a priority.
I also share Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner’s view that more funds need to be set aside for election observation missions, which, certainly in post-conflict situations, are crucial in strengthening democracy and human rights.
A policy of double standards threatens to make the EU’s human rights policy less credible and should be avoided at all costs.
Thus, we will no longer have an assessment of the situation in countries, but a report on the Commission's, the Council's and Parliament's implementation of the EU instruments regarding the promotion of human rights and democracy.
We can congratulate the rapporteur and the political groups.
Parliament’s role consists in guiding, monitoring and assessing the policy of the Council and of the Commission.
If we had to draft a report with the input of three different parties for example, we could not criticise a Member State's action – which we can take the liberty of doing with the current report – because all that that Member State would have to do is to veto it.
The amendment to Article&#160;8 that we have tabled is along these lines.
Mr&#160;Howitt’s report presents a number of interesting and innovative proposals concerning the mechanisms for promoting human rights.
The report specifically calls for qualified majority voting within the Council and for possible restrictive measures against a third country.
The report also proposes to ensure that the United Nations Commission for Human Rights, which has recently been set up, is not chaired by a State that is responsible for human rights violations.
The report refers to the violations of rights, or forms of intolerance, that are practised in certain Member States, to the use of torture, to cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or to the banishment of people to countries that use torture, to the use of diplomatic assurances and to extraordinary rendition.
The Commission plans to implement one of these initial programmes in Belarus, a country responsible for numerous human rights violations, which maintains no diplomatic relationship with the Union and which offers no guarantee regarding the protection of migrants.
I must point out, however, that neither the Council nor the Commission has given any precise indication of the way in which it intends to incorporate that human rights and democracy clause in the commercial dealings between Europe and third countries.
As regards the fledgling UN Commission for Human Rights, the document to be voted on calls on the European Union to support the activities of that body and, at the same time, promotes the universal ratification of the Rome Statute establishing the International Criminal Court, especially on the part of the United States, for which no legal exception can be made.
Lastly, it calls on the European Union to take a consistent approach to human rights, in the specific cases of China, with regard to the Tibetan people, and of Guantánamo, on the subject of which it calls for the immediate closure of all of the detention centres.
I have one final observation to make: although I support the request for the European Union's annual report on human rights to provide for the involvement of the European Parliament, I do, however, think it just as necessary that Parliament continues to draft its own specific report, with the aim of ensuring that Parliament monitors the European Commission's practical commitment towards human rights and of assessing that monitoring effort. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I wonder what human rights we are talking about, when our economic policy creates an eminently class-ridden society.
I therefore am not prepared to talk about human rights.
For a successful human rights policy it is essential for the EU Member States to implement a joint, consistent and visible policy in bilateral relations with countries that do not respect human rights.
Our relations with Russia, as a strategic partner, are very important.
It is therefore essential that in the report the Commission and the Council are requested to discuss violations of human rights in Chechnya during talks with Russia.
The European Union must therefore systematically object to the allocation of the presidency to such countries and the Council must express the common EU stance. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that the report overplays the role that the EU carries out on the world stage regarding human rights, so much so that it highlights the inconsistency of the measures taken against third countries.
The request for the Council to identify those countries that give particular cause for concern in terms of human rights violations would have counted for something if, at the same time, it had produced measures against those countries; above all, if it had the courage to implement those measures against large countries too, such as China and the United States.
As for the concerns expressed by Mr&#160;Howitt on Iran – with reference to the first few months of President Ahmadinejad’s term of office – I frankly regard such concerns as simplistic and demagogic, in the same way that I regard the EU's supportive stance towards US policy in Iraq and the violations in Guantánamo as servile and counter-productive.
Arrests on political grounds, the persecution of minorities, acts of torture and the repression of a person’s freedom of religion, speech and expression are acts that, wherever they take place in the world, require practical action from the Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this annual event clearly demonstrates this Parliament’s total and permanent commitment to the cause of human rights in the world, which must not just apply to one region, country or continent, but which must be of a global or universal nature.
Mr President, the Union's three institutions – the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament – must work together and make every possible effort to ensure that this 21st century is the century of human rights and that respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms become the norm in every region of the planet. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the European Union’s policy in the field of human rights should shape the European Neighbourhood Policy and also become an effective instrument in today’s global civilisation for the protection of people threatened by genocide and war crimes, people fighting for democracy and fundamental freedoms and all those who experience discrimination due to ethnic origin, religious beliefs, gender, disability or sexual orientation.
The policy should be effective.
The European Parliament must take on the responsibility for raising the importance of human rights protection in the European Union.
It must become a place where new initiatives in this field will emerge, and the institution which coordinates the human rights actions of the different Union institutions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for all his hard work on this report.
I hope we will eventually find a just solution involving the Kashmiri people that will end human rights abuses from all sides.
Again, that is included in this report.
I am sorry, however, that my amendment on CIA flights was not accepted by the committee, but I note Amendment 5, which seeks to rectify this situation.
It is very important that we include CIA flights in this report.
I would have liked a stronger statement on people with mental health problems, as the rapporteur knows, but I am pleased that they have been included.
I am equally pleased that disabled people have been included generally, with a particular emphasis on the United Nations Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities.
As many of you know, I was Parliament’s rapporteur on that issue.
I, along with Mr Coveney and various other Members, have been campaigning on this subject for quite some time.
What I would like to see in future would be closer attention given to the human rights situation in the countries that are applying for accession to the EU. &#160;&#160; Mr President, another year, another report, but what real change?
Still we trumpet human rights and democracy clauses in partnership agreements with third countries, but non-compliance largely seems to go unmarked.
Apart from a single suspension in the case of relatively insignificant Uzbekistan, these clauses might as well not exist, especially with regard to major economic forces like China.
Indeed, one is tempted to say that such is the EU’s apparent awe of China that it avoided an opportunity during the year to sponsor a critical motion in the United Nations.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Howitt, for his cooperation.
The Union is able to take up some sterling work on human rights, but in some strange way is unable to integrate decisions on human rights into its policies and programmes.
If we sincerely cherish our values and want to defend them, this situation must change.
I believe it is high time to identify the countries raising the greatest concern in each annual report, and thus develop an initiative facilitating the establishment of priorities.
I am firmly convinced that in this context we, the European Parliament, must mention countries where the situation is particularly bad, that is, Cuba, Belarus, North Korea and the People's Republic of China.
China is committing genocide against the Tibetan people, but nowhere have we even mentioned that.
The fact alone that each year around 3&#160;000 children, and I stress children, escape to India via the Himalayas and Nepal just so that they can learn their own language, is worthy of notice.
For Tibetans even cultural autonomy is an unattainable dream, and negotiations about this between the representatives of the Dalai Lama and China are fictitious, as being conducted on the expert not on the principle level.
I thank the rapporteur for his evident hard work in compiling this comprehensive report, for the cooperative attitude he has demonstrated throughout and his support for the inclusion of Kashmir.
Colleagues, we often speak of human rights in the abstract, in terms of well-rehearsed subjects and themes, but in this instance I should like to ask colleagues to imagine themselves as an 18-year old on holiday abroad.
Today, we reaffirm this House’s role as a defender of human rights with a long history of opposition to the death penalty.
I implore you all to live up to the responsibility this position carries and make representations to the President of Pakistan, appealing for clemency for Mirza Tahir Hussain. &#160;&#160; Mr President, during the recent UK Presidency, the European Union intervened diplomatically in 26 separate matters related to human rights, and published 49 statements on the issue.
It is laudable that we are spending so much time here at the European Parliament on issues related to human rights in the broadest sense.
However, while we debate the situation in African or Asian countries, we cannot forget about the Member States.
Such problems affect a large number of them, and especially some of the new Member States.
I say this with the utmost conviction as a practising lawyer who sees clear evidence of this happening. &#160;&#160; – The Howitt report contains a fresh approach to the manner in which Europe views its fight for a global human rights culture, an approach that abandons the purely descriptive method and challenges the European institutions as regards the effectiveness of their actions.
Greater institutional integration for the Union, political, not just technical, relations with the Council of Europe and a binding charter of rights: this is the basis of a European front that takes rights seriously.
Parliament is today calling for all European political institutions to play their part in this master plan of spreading the sacred principles of humanity and the rule of law around the world.
Europe cannot be an end in itself.
The enlightened ideal at its core implies that it must take its crusade of rights around the world, and that it must have the courage to resist the temptation of , because the politics of interested parties leads to uneven demands on the Member States in the area of rights.
I wish to stress the importance of concerted action on the part of the Union and all Member States on human rights, because on this issue there remain a great many contradictions that diminish the moral authority of the Union's political system in negotiations and weaken the impact of European policy.
The Union presidencies have a great responsibility to ensure that the human rights policies of the Union and its Member States are consistent across the board.
A strong, concerted European rights policy would address the litany of horrors that, unfortunately, is not exclusive to underdeveloped countries.
Furthermore, an increasingly ambitious Europe in terms of military presence can only be an increasingly ambitious Europe if it has a culture of rights, a political Europe that has people at its core, because that is the nature of Europe. &#160;&#160; – It is clear that Europe is becoming more visible and more active when it comes to addressing the issue of human rights.
It is also very clear that many of the different institutions are giving the impression that they are acting alone.
I think that Europe should use the power that it has.
There is compatibility, and I believe that there should be collaboration between tackling the problems of human rights on the one hand, and economic power or the power of the assistance that Europe should provide on the other.
At a time when trade between the EU and third countries has increased and the EU is involved in counter-terrorist activity, it is important to remember that human rights are not of subordinate importance or completely insignificant.
Hunger and real poverty are among the worst violations of human rights right now in the world.
Furthermore, I was delighted to see that the rapporteur expressly emphasised the importance of the fact that the report resulted from cooperation between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
Only in this way will NGOs representing different political groups and their views come to the fore. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in my speech I would like to point out three issues related to the Howitt report.
The organisations and societies which often work illegally and which build and defend democracy, freedom of speech and respect for basic rights deserve our support.
The second issue is the deplorable fact that the European Union refused to support the resolution on Chechnya at the 61st session of the UN Commission on Human Rights.
Atrocities are carried out by the Russian army in Chechnya and between 3&#160;000 and 5&#160;000 Chechens have disappeared without trace.
The third issue I wanted to mention is the critical situation of Christians living in Muslim countries.
The war in Iraq and the outrage sparked by the publication of the caricatures in European newspapers have created a state of constant danger for Christian minorities in the Muslim world. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we must regard the process of globalisation as an opportunity for freedom and social progress.
Globalisation is associated with a higher demand for fundamental human freedoms, but only if the opportunities it provides are utilised appropriately.
It is important that we can continue to say the same in the future, to make this clear to the rest of the world, and to make it into an example to be followed.
The European Union is an international player with a crucial mission to protect human rights, strengthen democracy and ensure that globalisation actually means the achievement of social cohesion.
I believe that it is important for the European Union to insist on the enforcement of fundamental human rights in its relations with third countries.
It must employ pragmatically the opportunities for political dialogue provided by foreign trade.
The strength of the report is that it warns us not to monitor compliance with human rights only outside of the borders of the European Union, because there is enough to be done in this respect within our own borders, too.
In a field such as the promotion and protection of human rights, the assessment is inevitably mixed.
My response to that, without doubt, is yes.
Our state and non-state partners, both States and international organisations, are continuing to turn to us and to see us as a major player, and sometimes as indispensable, owing to our political credibility, our influence, our expertise and the instruments we have at our disposal.
We have access to international instruments as part of the United Nations and the Council of Europe, to name but two.
We have the framework of our widely quoted bilateral agreements, including human rights clauses, and common political guidelines in many sectors, political dialogues and approaches of all kinds.
If we look at specific situations, however, such as the adoption of the resolution establishing the new Human Rights Council or cases relating very specifically to countries and individuals, there are many instances where we made a difference.
In any event, the EU, including the Member States, has certainly been the player that has made the most important contributions at global level and really has had a very strong presence, even though we are not always as visible as you or we would wish.
For my part, I, like Parliament, should like us to increase our effectiveness and impact.
And we need, in some cases, to create a better balance between our multilateral agenda and the bilateral agenda.
We also need to mobilise all the institutions of the Union, including, of course, the European Parliament.
Neither I nor my services will spare any efforts.
A very large number of issues have been addressed in this debate, but, whether our concern is with human rights or with development cooperation, the fundamental question every time is whether we are doing enough, and the answer to that question is always ‘no’; there is always more that we could be doing.
Human rights and good governance have an increasing role to play in development cooperation.
Mr&#160;Romeva&#160;i&#160;Rueda was quite right to mention, in this debate, the issue of violence against women, but I would like to point out that my colleague Mrs&#160;Plassnik will be devoting particular attention to this issue.
Above all – and this is what strikes me as of the essence – they constitute a reason for engaging in dialogue with states, and this right to engage in dialogue, which we enjoy by virtue of the human rights clauses in the various treaties, is one of which we make use, and we do so irrespective of whether the states in question are large or small.
Mr&#160;Salafranca&#160;Sánchez-Neyra and others stressed the European Union’s role in the World at large, not least in connection with the accession negotiations and the relationship with the Balkan states.
I would like to point out that the Copenhagen criteria continue to be the most important factor in determining whether or not states can begin negotiations towards accession, that respect for human rights is a quite essential criterion even before such negotiations commence, and that it must – self-evidently – also be one while they are in progress.
Mrs Lynne and others talked about the question of human rights in the European Union.
Of course there are human rights violations in all European Union countries, including my own.
All European Union Member States are also members of the Council of Europe and signatories to the Convention on Human Rights.
There is the unique instrument of the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, and within the European Union we also have the necessary mechanisms and instruments to take care of any violations.
Let us continue to defend human rights everywhere in the world and let us do so together. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Much still remains to be done, however, if we are to turn our intentions into practical actions aimed at creating effective strategies to improve the international human rights situation.
Consistency is also duly required between the Community’s actions and those carried out by each individual Member State.
Our consistent campaign against the death penalty, whether in the United States or China, Iran or Japan, is to be welcomed.
There is much rightly to raise with the Government of North Korea regarding human rights in the prisons and camps, plus the humanitarian situation in the countryside, rather than these blanket and unsupported catch-all allegations that do no credit to our work. &#160;&#160; When we talk about the European Community and common European values, the first issue we must mention is the protection of human rights.
The European Constitution will represent a further, considerable step forward, by giving constitutional status to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and by creating an independent European human rights protection system.
The report, too, shows that the current situation is mixed and contradictory.
I believe it is important that during the negotiation of both stabilisation and association agreements, human rights are given primary emphasis, in the spirit of Copenhagen.
I, too, advocate that compliance with United Nations and Council of Europe treaties – among the latter, for instance, the treaties on minority rights – are also given priority in contractual relations with candidate states and states participating in the Stabilisation and Association process.
I am convinced that as the only directly elected body of the European Union, Parliament must play a leading role in the development of human rights, and it must ensure that the other European Union institutions also bear in mind human rights, at all times. &#160;&#160; I welcome this report by my colleague Richard Howitt on Human Rights in the World 2005.
There is, sadly, a general failure by the EU to address human rights concerns systematically and continuously with respect to third countries and to mainstream human rights policy with respect to the Union’s trade, development, and other external policies with such countries.
I wish to acknowledge the efforts that have been made by Parliament and successive Council Presidencies to find imaginative and constructive solutions to the challenges that we have encountered on these innovative proposals.
The simplification proposed was welcomed by both Parliament and the Council.
These matters were set out in a letter in April last year from the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Mr Brok, and the rapporteur for the Development Cooperation and Economic Cooperation Instrument, Mr&#160;Mitchell.
Parliament also wished to ensure that the instruments would be subject to a mid-term review and to expiry dates.
These points were accepted.
One of the most challenging points has been the involvement of Parliament in priority-setting and strategy documents.
Parliament’s future involvement in strategy documents is now covered by two declarations annexed to the Interinstitutional Agreement.
In January 2006, the Commission set out its vision for the thematic programme on democracy and human rights.
I am committed, therefore, to resolving this point to the satisfaction of Parliament as part of an overall agreement on the instruments.
This is a clear commitment on behalf of the Commission to a separate human rights instrument.
This position is shared by the Council.
I should now like to say a few words on each of the instruments that are before this House today.
There has been a fruitful dialogue on the proposed regulation with Parliament’s rapporteur, Mr&#160;Szent-Iványi.
Indeed, a compromise text for IPA, addressing a number of issues of concern to Parliament, was agreed by COREPER on 3&#160;May.
The Commission fully supports this compromise, which reflects to a large extent the amendments proposed by Mr Szent-Iványi in his report.
The report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs has had a very positive impact on the political compromise reached in COREPER, for which I thank you.
That compromise is very finely balanced.
Reflecting concerns of Parliament, we have also agreed more policy content under the Stability Instrument.
There are strengthened references to respect for human rights in relation to the fight against terrorism.
The Commission is ready to make a political declaration further underlining this and confirming its commitment to informing Parliament of exceptional assistance measures as they are adopted.
For the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, we have worked intensively with Mr&#160;Szymánski, Parliament’s rapporteur, and the Presidency.
As a result, we now have a text which addresses the concerns of Parliament.
An agreement on this text was reached in COREPER last week and we are very hopeful that, on this basis, an agreement is now within reach.
For the Development Cooperation and Economic Cooperation Instrument, work is not as advanced as for the other instruments.
I am convinced that the main building blocks of a compromise are, however, within reach.
Thanks to the cogent arguments of the rapporteur, Mr Mitchell, it is agreed that the new legislative set-up must preserve Parliament’s codecision rights.
The Commission is calling for pragmatism, given our shared objective of achieving genuine simplification of external assistance.
This alternative to the incorporation of policy content and financial provisions into the regulation goes against the objective of simplification.
Secondly, three amendments – Amendments 4, 23 and 114 – reflect one of the general points made by Parliament which I referred to earlier: the continuation of an instrument in favour of human rights and democracy.
Thirdly, five amendments – Amendments 1, 5, 6, 23 and 115 – build on the initial request to establish a clear distinction between cooperation with industrialised countries and cooperation with developing countries.
The Commission understands the underlying concern behind these amendments.
The Commission could consider, for instance – if this is a condition for a final compromise on a clear and logical structure – the splitting of cooperation with industrialised countries into a separate instrument.
Fourthly, three amendments – Amendments 2, 25 and 26 – call for a change in the legal basis, that is, a single legal basis, Article 179, without Article 181a of the Treaty.
For the Commission, the issue is one of legal security.
The Commission also understands Parliament’s argument that a wide understanding of development cooperation should offer the necessary comfort.
I would be ready to re-consider our position if a wide definition of development cooperation based on Article 179 is ensured.
Fifth, one amendment – Amendment 51 on sectoral spending targets – is of particular concern.
I do not want to give the impression that our positions are far apart on all these issues.
This means that half of the amendments are totally uncontroversial.
Finally, I should like to say a few words on nuclear safety.
This has been an important part of our past work and will remain so.
Originally included within the Stability Instrument, the change in the legal basis made it necessary to create a separate Instrument for Nuclear Safety Cooperation.
Similarly, I hope that the declaration I made concerning the Pre-Accession Instrument is sufficient to allow Parliament to give its opinion.
This is a key element in the architecture.
I am convinced that we can do what needs to be done to ensure that the complete legislative framework is in place before the end of the year.
There will be a window of opportunity following Parliament’s first reading to reach a consensus on the key issues of substance before the adoption of the Council’s common position.
This could cover some limited changes in the architecture, which would not undermine the principle of simplification and the essential policy provisions.
The consensus reached would be reflected in the Council’s common position, which the Council Presidency hopes to adopt in June.
Finally, the provision of effective assistance to our partners from 1&#160;June 2007 onwards is a shared responsibility.
I hope, in my capacity as a representative of the Council, to be able to contribute to the generally optimistic mood.
Here, too, we are singing from the same hymn sheet and hoping that we will succeed in very soon putting the finishing touches to the instruments we are discussing today.
We are glad to be able to say that, where the Neighbourhood Instrument is concerned, we have largely achieved agreement, and I would like to thank Mr&#160;Szymański for his very constructive cooperation in this respect.
We have also come to a firm agreement on the importance we attach to the role of civil society and our desire to support and promote it.
As you will be aware, the stability instrument – and this is where it is only right that I should thank Mrs&#160;Beer – is a particularly sensitive instrument, and it needs to be handled with a great deal of care, for it occupies a grey area between the first and second pillars, and I, speaking as a representative of the Council, will readily concede that this raises serious institutional issues.
The Commission has already made reference to this.
The present constitution specifies what is to be done in the areas of disarmament, improved crisis prevention instruments, crisis management, mediation and measures to take account of the position of women and children in crisis situations.
We eventually succeeded, in the 10&#160;May trilogue, in finding solutions that took account of Parliament’s demands for a conditionality clause for measures to combat terrorism by means of statements on the subject from the Commission.
We have, for example, laid greater emphasis on the gender aspect and on social cohesion and made programmes for potential candidates more widely accessible.
The existing regulations on the neighbourhood and stability instruments are due to lapse at the end of this year.
To reduce it to still more component parts would quite simply make an absurdity of our aim of simplifying the overall structure of the European Union’s overseas aid.
The Council therefore finds it regrettable that, despite the willingness to negotiate and to make a variety of concessions, it has still not yet proved possible to find a solution to the problem of this instrument any more than it has to the other three.
I would therefore hope that we will succeed in finding a solution that would prevent us from ending up in a legal vacuum after 1 January 2007.
This is a task that we cannot put off to the crack of doom, and I would like, by way of conclusion, to repeat what Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner has already said, namely that the Council needs this agreement in order to put the final finishing touches to the other three instruments.
As we see it, the concessions we have made in respect of the pre-accession instrument, the neighbourhood instrument and the stability instrument, and our willingness to consider a separate human rights instrument, are absolutely conditional on agreement being reached to the development cooperation and economic cooperation instrument.
When debating this instrument, our overriding concern must be the interests of the developing countries, and in particular the poorest sections of their populations.
That is why we argue in favour of a specific instrument for the needs of the developing countries, namely poverty alleviation with true economic cooperation and sustainable development, and not just a default instrument for all countries not covered by any other instrument.
This Parliament obviously shares the Commission’s desire for greater efficiency, simplification and flexibility in the legislative domain, but cannot allow this to happen at the expense of its own competences and of democracy itself.
Those three levels are complementary and Parliament, being the only institution directly elected by the European citizens, should strive to have a greater say in all three of them.
I am absolutely amazed that the Commission and Council can so easily agree on taking away the role of Parliament.
The ball is now in the Commission’s court.
My proposal to make the Development Cooperation Instrument the single administrative and procedural regulation for development cooperation not only gives the Commission the administrative simplification and flexibility it seeks, but also ensures that policy implementation is kept apart from the unpredictability of political life.
Priorities may change rapidly, according to our political agendas and those of our partners, but a procedural regulation will ensure that implementation can go on unhindered.
Now that the Commission has recognised that the policy content for development cooperation must be established by codecision, it is time for it to submit formal legislative proposals on geographical and thematic priorities, so that Parliament and Council can finally start the process of legislating.
Both the geographical and the thematic content are close to the heart of the European Parliament and require a thorough debate.
We are talking about priorities for our cooperation with Latin America, the Middle East, Central Asia, the Far East and South Africa; our priorities in the fields of human and social development; sustainable management of natural resources such as water and energy; the environment and the role of non-State actors.
These require a full and proper debate in Parliament.
Since we know that the debate on such vast and sensitive issues will be difficult and the time is now running out, I want to inform the Council and the Commission that the Committee on Development is setting up a working group to discuss the policy content.
For that, we need a legal base.
When the European Commission presented its package in 2004, one thing was uncontroversial and universally praised, and that was simplification.
However, Parliament clearly believes that this simplification cannot be implemented at the cost of restricting the political aims of our external aid, and neither can it be implemented at the cost of Parliament’s monitoring powers.
Furthermore, without the enormous commitment and dedication of the Austrian Presidency headed by Ambassador Woschnagg, without the involvement of Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner and without the involvement of Mr&#160;Brok, who leads our negotiating team as the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we would not realistically be able today to think about accepting this instrument at first reading, something that is extremely important.
We should give our external partners as much time as possible to prepare for this enormous and important change with regard to the legal basis for the provision of external aid.
In the course of 18 months of parliamentary work, we have made significant progress.
First of all, we have broadened the palette of political aims for the funding instruments of the Neighbourhood and Partnership Policy and we have introduced clauses making the provision of aid dependent on respect for human rights and democratic standards.
We have safeguarded the role of the EEA and of Switzerland in the performance of tasks associated with the Neighbourhood Policy, and made it possible for these countries to participate in the implementation of the Neighbourhood Policy in the European Union.
In spite of what I would call the governmental character of the Neighbourhood Policy, we have increased the role of non-governmental organisations.
Having heard Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner and Mr&#160;Winkler’s speeches, we could say today that, thanks to the interinstitutional agreements, we have a guarantee that a new, separate human rights and democracy instrument will be introduced.
This instrument will be flexible enough to achieve our aims in a legally and politically hostile environment.
It is for that reason that I have included in this report on the stability instrument a proposal for the introduction of a call-back procedure, which is intended to allow us in this House to bring politically irresponsible measures to a halt at the planning stage.
I just want to briefly review the points that were of particular concern to us, and on which we have now reached agreement.
Thirdly, we have come to an agreement on matters of content.
We saw this as vitally important, and it will also be vitally important in terms of practical external policy, for example, our demand as regards the peacebuilding commission.
On this point, too, I think it should be possible for us to come to an agreement, which will make it clear to us how the Commission is contemplating bringing the Council and other actors in on its activities in this area.
We are going for a final spurt in order to be able to vote on the stability instrument in June, at first reading.
Mr&#160;Szent-Iványi sends his greetings and asks us on his behalf to thank the Commissioner for her speech, which is in complete harmony with the agreement which has been reached on this issue.
A major reorganisation in the financing of external relations is to be introduced through the regulations now being discussed.
Previous financial instruments are being combined and the decision-making process reformed.
Cross-border cooperation is to feature a new arrangement, which will permit the flexible combination of the financing of external relations via the Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, on the one hand, with funding for the territory of the Member States out of the European Regional Development Fund, on the other.
Hitherto, cross-border cooperation has been very unwieldy, as the decision-making systems for funding under TACIS in external relations and regional development financing within the Union have been very different.
For all the financial instruments we need a decision-making system that safeguards Parliament’s influence even after the regulations are adopted.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe is pleased that the other institutions have at last approved Parliament’s call for establishing an instrument for human rights and democracy.
The external relations instruments form a whole, and consensus must be reached on all of its components between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
It is necessary to retain a&#160;dual legal system and thereby to ensure that the Committee on Foreign Affairs will in future play a&#160;role in the processes of development and economic cooperation.
If Article&#160;179 provided the sole legal basis, this process would be exclusively in the hands of the Committee for Development, and our committee would lose its authority.
I&#160;would also like to draw attention to the fact that I&#160;have been informed that a&#160;dual legal basis would undermine the authority of the European Parliament.
If we have a&#160;single legal basis relying on Article&#160;179 alone there is a&#160;danger that programmes such as Erasmus Mondus or other educational programmes and student grants will disappear.
Furthermore, Article&#160;179 applies only to developing countries, and the EU does not have its own definition of developing countries, which it has borrowed from the OECD.
The primary objective of this policy is, as you know, the creation of a common area of prosperity and security for developing economic integration and political cooperation between the Union and its partner countries.
I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate how important is the role played by the social partners in the Neighbourhood Instrument.
If there is to be partnership with these countries, then it is absolutely essential that their role be strengthened and promoted.
This will also be in the interest of our safety.
In recent times, however, we have found out from the media that the financing of projects is in some cases quite unclear.
The first concerns the role of the European Parliament in the preparation, management and auditing of projects, which was included in the amendments proposed by the , but is not in the final text.
The third and best possibility is good-neighbourly relations between the eight Member States from the Baltic Sea region and Russia, which naturally does not rule out the involvement of other countries.
That is why I wish to stress that the members of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs are counting on the fact that practical support in the fight against crime and human trafficking will go hand in hand with support for an independent legal system, good administration and civil liberties.
I am thinking here of our neighbours in the Mediterranean, who, as part of the Barcelona process, have a particular relationship with the European Union.
As Mr&#160;Szymański has already said, agreement on the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument at first reading is now within reach.
The European border regions are offered the opportunity, in the coming years, partly with some EUR 700&#160;million per annum in funds from the European Regional Development Fund, of carrying out concrete programmes that cover a wide spectrum, including public health, education, the economy and the environment at Europe’s external borders.
In that connection, we have consulted the association of the European border regions and the newly formed network of external eastern border regions, called NEIGHBOUR, who claim they know how to use this method, for they have received and adopted workable suggestions.
Finally, we have also reached agreement on the transitional regulation, which means that preparatory measures can now be funded.
I believe that the lack of visibility in the level of funding per country, objectives and components should be clearly addressed and that the new instrument should ensure clarity and predictability of the Union’s commitments to its partner countries.
Nevertheless, the Commission's proposal aiming to establish a non-compulsory call-back mechanism does not make up for the deficiencies in Parliament's power of codecision on the political content.
Tomorrow, we are going to vote on a text that maintains Parliament's powers and allows it to retain its role as colegislator regarding the political direction to be taken by the new cooperation and development instrument.
Indeed, the political guidelines on which we want to secure codecision will replace 16 regulations that underwent the codecision procedure.
Now that the initial battle has been fought, we expect the Commission to propose a policy soon so that we can complete the second reading before the end of this year.
As in the case of the Development Cooperation and Economic Cooperation instrument (DCECI), this instrument is subject to the codecision procedure but has no political content.
As in the case of the DCECI, the political content to be defined will, for 15 of the 17 countries covered by the neighbourhood instrument, replace around a dozen subject-related regulations subject to the codecision procedure.
In an effort to retain its competences, Parliament itself proposed the call-back mechanism to express its opinion on the political content of the neighbourhood instrument within the framework of the codecision procedure in the case of differences with the Commission.
I understand that we need to reach a speedy compromise on this instrument with the Council and the Commission, but how can any elected representative vote to lose his prerogatives? &#160;&#160; Mr President, the facility to respond to threats against human rights and democracy is a self-evident and necessary objective.
As the largest provider of overseas development assistance, a key trading partner for the LDCs and an important provider of technical and financial assistance, the EU has an obligation to ensure that our actions add value, are properly coordinated and are coherent.
Firstly, in relation to the legal base, we took the view that Article 179 was an insufficient base and that we needed a legal base that included cooperation with both developing and industrialised countries: in other words the inclusion of Article 181a.
Our second concern is the apparent downplaying of the importance of trade in the package as a whole.
We want trade-related assistance to be given a clearer focus and wonder, in the absence of a thematic programme, how trade will be handled in the proposed structures for the new instruments.
The European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument – which will replace the existing Tacis and Meda programmes in 2007 – is, in my view, essential to budgetary discipline and procedure.
Although generous, the aid provided in these dedicated instruments – in the case of the ENPI it is of the order of EUR&#160;12 billion for the next financial perspective – is less per capita than that granted in the pre-accession process to EU candidate countries.
Nevertheless, it is an important contribution in technical assistance and investment in key infrastructure projects, which can complement the work of the EIB and the EBRD.
I also believe that aid and trade privileges must be the carrot that can be coupled to the stick of conditionality as part of the ENP, to ensure that the closer these countries move towards the European Union’s values, the more they can be rewarded in future.
Nevertheless, those promises have not been fulfilled, despite some effort and progress, and they have not been reflected in any text presented to Parliament by the Commission.
The second point was more serious.
The intention has been to reduce Parliament’s competences, on the grounds that they complicate the process and make it less efficient.
These programmes require a differentiated instrument funded from other sources.
In this area as well, there has been some progress in our debate with the Commission and the Council.
Mr President, we are going to vote for the text proposed to us, in the hope that, at second reading, the Commission will understand and accept our arguments, hopefully with the understanding and support of the Council. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, there is indeed consensus in this House on the need for reform of the development cooperation instruments, and that it needs to happen without delay.
Simplification and efficiency are not the same things as the voiding of Parliament’s right of codecision, the systematic blurring of the lines between development cooperation and foreign economic policy in our dealings with industrialised countries, or an obscure legal basis for the use of funds earmarked for development policy.
What I have heard from you today, Commissioner, amounts – putting it cautiously – to contradictory statements on these three core issues.
Interinstitutional cooperation and dialogue constitute a testing ground that will enable us to achieve a positive and effective outcome in the interest of all the actors involved, particularly those from developing countries.
As regards the development cooperation instrument, significant progress has been made on the expiry date, on the revision clause and on other topics too.
This task force will enable us, once we have received some formal proposals from the Commission, to discuss structures and contents with the aim of reaching a comprehensive agreement as soon as possible, since responsibility for any potential ‘gaps’ would lie with everyone and not just with one party.
No, they do not intend to have the same foreign policy as, for example, the United Kingdom or Italy, or of others, when they invade Iraq, a member of the United Nations, without the consent of the Security Council, thus disregarding international law and even the existence of international law.
I believe that, in keeping with the Millennium Development Goals, the scope of EU development aid should be restricted to the developing countries only.
I believe it is vital that the European Parliament does not lose its joint legislative power with the Council on the issue of development policy. &#160;&#160; Mrs Commissioner, Mr&#160;Winkler, as shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats’ faction, I support Parliament’s efforts to find a role for itself as an active joint partner in areas involving strategic foreign policy choices.
I was pleasantly surprised by Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner’s statement today that the commission would agree with both the implementation of the auditing clause and the European Parliament’s right of participation in the case of the stabilisation instrument.
The objective of establishing mutual additionality between the aid channelled through the stabilisation instrument and the aid provided in the framework of the three remaining foreign instruments is also worthy of recognition.
I am pleased that the council and now the commission have supported the Committee on Foreign Affairs’ request for a separate ‘human rights and democracy instrument’.
With the perspective of implementing this instrument, there arises an opportunity for agreements to be concluded concerning the remaining three foreign policy instruments.
The implementation of these instruments concerning all third countries, and on the same criteria is, however, a much more difficult question.
To that end, it is of the utmost necessity that the European Union’s integral foreign and security policy should be implemented in practice, not only in theory.
This policy must be coordinated more firmly and effectively in order for it to create the necessary generally established framework for reacting to crisis situations.
The way in which the Commission wanted to achieve this, however, would mean that, while Parliament now – thanks to 16 regulations – has codecision powers, it would soon only have an advisory role in the area of development cooperation.
What Parliament wants is a say in how policy is fleshed out in terms of topics and geography and in the distribution of funds across the priorities.
Although we feel we have now, for lack of new proposals from the Commission, wasted 18 months, all is not lost.
Thirdly, we want financial priorities either on the basis of a multi-annual financial framework or by including a very low percentage in the geographical and thematic proposals.
I would urge the Council and the Commission, in order that poverty may be reduced in a credible and effective way, to accept our offer.
I would thank the Austrian Presidency for the commitment it has shown to date in this respect. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, with its various financial instruments, is the EU providing itself with the means to pursue its external policies sincerely and in full?
I hope that the neighbourhood instrument will be effective and will bring the regional stability for which we hope.
However, the important thing is that this instrument, the neighbourhood policy, must assist these countries on the path to democracy, that the Union must be a real player in the peaceful resolution of conflicts, namely, in the case of the southern Caucasus, the 'frozen' conflicts in Nagorno-Karabakh and Abkhazia, and in the peace plans for South Ossetia.
In fact, its activities often lead to poverty in the Third World, which is why my party wishes to put this aid back in the hands of Member States alone.
But there are only 300&#160;000 people there; they have renounced violence, unlike some other countries in receipt of EU funds, so the world forgets them. &#160;&#160; Madam President, while I would like to express my admiration for the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Szymański, as well as for the other rapporteurs, I would also just like to highlight a few matters related to the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument.
With this kind of approach, specific attention needs to be paid to ensuring that objective criteria are used to determine how the funds are distributed.
Finally, I would like to say that this financial instrument constitutes an opportunity for the European Union, which is home to barely 7% of the world’s population, to contribute to global stability and security and to poverty reduction.
It will be beneficial to us all and will constitute European added value. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I should like to start by emphasising the importance of our debate today, both as regards the subject and as regards the fact that it is a debate based on broad agreement.
I wish, of course, to congratulate all the rapporteurs, especially Mr&#160;Szent-Iványi, to whose report I devoted most time, both for the fact that he was extremely cooperative throughout the procedure in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and for the proposals which he formulated.
We need to maintain democratic oversight and, indeed, build on our responsibilities in development and external actions.
Seven months are left before the external actions regulations should come into force.
Furthermore, giving up codecision would mark a dangerous step backwards for the development of the European Union as a whole.
This Parliament will not allow that to happen. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, I am glad that the new pre-accession assistance programmes are to be given an unequivocally political slant, and conclusions have been drawn from our experience with them, so that funds will from now on be spent in a more targeted, efficient and flexible way.
We now have a chance to bring their concerns about poverty and our concerns about connecting with the people of Europe together.
This Parliament is the point of connection, the point of transparency and accountability.
Our people expect us to tell them what we are doing with their money, and we cannot do that if there is only one development cooperation instrument that will cover this whole gamut of policy.
That is what parliaments are for and we cannot avoid our responsibilities.
It is clear that in addition to the neighbourhood policy instrument, Russia has a separate framework and a Northern Dimension.
I think we have achieved a great deal in the three areas for which my committee is responsible, with the codecision on the stability instrument, with the options made available to us by financial regulation, with the breakdown of appropriations and enhanced political substance.
Our border with our neighbouring countries is almost 1&#160;000 kilometres long.
We are very keen that behind this border, in Russia and Belarus, democracy, human rights, economic prosperity and greater public welfare should take root.
Paraphrasing the former German Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher, we could say that European Union citizens will never be safe and happy if, beyond the borders of the Union, people live in economic deprivation and in the absence of rights and fundamental freedoms.
I would like to stress that the document also offers the possibility of using financial resources for those countries that are inclined to freeze cooperation with the EU.
We need to coordinate these possibilities with a project to create a European democratic fund in support of civil society, as suggested by the Lithuanian President Valdas Adamkus, German Social Democrats and Members of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is in the interests of the European Union to encourage our neighbours, particularly the countries in south-eastern Europe, to adopt our standards.
I therefore welcome the fact that the Commission has started, in cooperation with Parliament, to develop new programmes for the period post-2007.
In general, it comes down to being able to guarantee that the European Union's money is used optimally in the interests of security and stability in the region as a whole. &#160;&#160; Madam President, in order to extend the numerous benefits of the economic and political cooperation to the neighbouring countries, the European Union has created the so-called European Neighbouring Policy.
Using the new and often more flexible European neighbourhood and partnership instruments proposed by the European Commission, the European Union will have a direct or indirect effect on approximately 400&#160;million citizens in 17 external countries.
The new financial instrument is very important, and it will have a significant added value in the development and facilitation of cross-border and regional cooperation, and in strengthening the rule of law and developing good governance.
The Commission and Council are aware of the fact that Parliament welcomes the simplification of procedures, but it does not accept that, for the sake of simplification, the controlling role of Parliament should decrease, whether in respect of the external representation of the European Union or its budget. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, today's commitment by Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner that the Commission is prepared to submit a proposal for a separate financing instrument in favour of democracy and human rights is already a positive development.
So far the European Commission has been the main source of funding for these centres and, consequently, their continuing operation is a fundamental humanitarian responsibility. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for Europe.
The European Parliament has been calling for cooperation between the EU and its neighbours to be made easier for a long time now.
In practice it has been very problematic that the EU’s own Interreg programmes and the programmes being implemented in the neighbouring regions have been completely separate, and that it has been impossible to realise joint projects on both sides of the borders.
We have to remember that the external border regions are different.
This debate has convinced me that there is a joint effort here, a common interest, to conclude the negotiations on all the instruments as soon as possible.
The Presidency of the Council has already stated, in a letter to the rapporteurs Mr&#160;Mitchell and Mr&#160;van den Berg, that it is prepared to start talks next week, and I was grateful to hear Mrs&#160;Morgantini discuss the necessity for these talks in her speech.
We have absolutely no intention – in the interests of credibility in the eyes of our partners – of curtailing Parliament's rights or opportunities for participation.
However, let us not keep the current structure as the sole reference.
It is not the number of regulations but the content of the regulations that makes codecision possible.
A second minor point regarding the request for new Commission proposals: at this stage of the discussion, and given the urgent need to come to a prompt agreement, the Commission considers it necessary to use the President’s proposal as a basis.
Moreover, the Council itself is now preparing its position on the basis of these proposals, so it is also in Parliament’s interest to work on this basis, provide input and consequently establish the basis for a negotiated common position.
Let me also reiterate our wish to move forward, but now we really have to start negotiating. &#160;&#160; The joint debate is closed.
The vote on the Mitchell report will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
The vote on the other reports will take place in June.
The Commission can accept the following amendments: 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 14, 19, 24, 29, 34, 41, 42, 44, 45, 46, 76, 77, 78, 80, 82, 88, 92, 99, 102, 113, 117 The Commission can accept the following amendments subject to drafting modifications: 17, 30, 31, 33, 36, 37, 38, 40, 62, 64, 86, 90, 100, 101, 105 The Commission can accept the following amendments in principle: 16, 18, 27, 28, 61, 87, 104 The Commission can accept the following amendments in part: 3, 10, 22, 25, 26, 32, 39, 43, 53, 56, 57, 60, 63, 70, 71, 73, 79, 93 The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 12, 15, 20, 21, 23, 35, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 54, 55, 58, 59, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 72, 74, 75, 81, 83, 84, 85, 89, 91, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 103, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 114, 115, 116 &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0207/2006).
The Council has examined the screening reports on the first two chapters, 'science and research' and 'education and culture', and invited Croatia to set out its negotiation positions.
I am now in possession of these positions, and the Council now needs to draw up a Common Position.
Therefore, the negotiations continue to be based on the principle that each candidate country is treated according to its own progress, and that there is no connection with the negotiations with other candidate countries. &#160;&#160; When does the Council anticipate that the negotiations will address the institutional chapter?
Of course, the regime that will eventually apply to the representation of new Member States in the bodies and institutions of the European Union very much depends on the debate on the future of the European Union and on the future of the Constitution.
However, that is still in the future and I cannot predict what will happen. &#160;&#160; I would like to ask a question similar to that put by Mr&#160;Posselt, who pointed to the potential for a dangerous parallel course with Turkey.
I can therefore only say that the Council does not really have any competence on this issue, and I would add that, at the request of the country concerned, the issue is also not being discussed any further in the Council working group on consular affairs. &#160;&#160; – I must say I am astonished to hear that answer.
May I point out that four or five years ago, when I put a similar question, on the United States, to the Commission, I was told that the Council was working on the issue via a group that specialised in consular matters.
Yet we are now witnessing a concept in retreat, a European citizenship that used to exist and that used to be taken into account four or five years ago, which is no longer the case.
If a Member State of the European Union wants to deal with a national issue nationally and bilaterally, and to discuss it with the third country, then the European Union should not interfere.
I can assure the honourable Members that the European Union is using all the means at its disposal – publicly and confidentially, in declarations and démarches – to express these concerns regarding abuses of human rights in Iran, and it will continue to do so.
You have referred to the specific case of the person who has been released and not to the cases in which people have not been released.
I myself have worked in this field for long enough to know that it is often difficult to find the right path, and to avoid giving the impression that we are not interested in these cases whilst at the same time not running the risk, by proceeding too officially, of the result being the opposite of what we actually wanted.
You can be assured that the European Union and the Council are working very hard to find the right path in each individual case – and it goes without saying that we care very much about the fates of these people.
However, I must tell you, quite openly and frankly, that the European Union's options are sometimes very limited and that we do not always achieve the level of success we would hope for – and this is, admittedly, sometimes very frustrating.
The European Union's expectations in this regard include, in particular, the release of political prisoners.
Energy dependency on Russian oil and gas has become a hot topic of discussion in the EU especially this year, and the EU has clearly understood that in the coming decade energy supplies will play a much more evident political role than before.
The lack of an effective EU energy policy towards Russia allows the Kremlin to play European companies and their governments off against each other for access to gas and investment opportunities.
The Council attaches the very greatest importance to the issue, addressed by Mrs&#160;Andrikiene, of a common and coordinated energy policy for the European Union.
I should point out that, in the conclusions to the informal Council meeting in March on the subject of ‘A New Energy Policy for Europe’, the Council referred to these problems and made relevant decisions on this issue under the heading ‘Energy policy for Europe’.
Synergy effects must be obtained in this sphere.
The European Union and the Council too will, in the next few weeks, be devoting particular attention to precisely this aspect of external policy.
Using the existing structures as a basis, the Council will join the European Commission in working towards a more effective form of dialogue between the European Union and Russia.
The legal framework offered by these instruments would increase the transparency and competitiveness of the energy markets and, at the same time, help create more favourable investment conditions in those countries that are parties to the Treaty.
Rather, the Council has for a long time already been developing an interest in this type of efficient and coordinated energy policy.
The gradual construction of a legal framework for energy, be it through the promotion of renewable energy sources or through the successive liberalisation packages, which by the summer of next year will guarantee a complete opening-up of the common energy market, is already contributing to a coordinated and common energy policy, rightly called for by Mrs&#160;Andrikiene.
These important issues were also brought up for discussion very recently in a letter from the Energy Commissioner, Mr&#160;Piebalgs, and the President of the Energy Council, Mr&#160;Bartenstein, to the Russian energy minister, Mr&#160;Christenko. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I do not have a supplementary question.
I just wanted to thank the President-in-Office for his very detailed answer. &#160;&#160; I should firstly like to congratulate the Council on its success in having the 2007 internal market for the end user included in the final documents.
When it comes to having a credible common external policy on energy, the Council is endeavouring to devise a common concept as a follow-up to the March decisions.
Mr&#160;Solana will also produce something in this context because this is a very important issue in the framework of the European Union’s overall external policy.
At that time, there was discussion of the financial perspective, which is funded mainly from contributions by the individual Member States, and the discussion therefore turned again to the subject of the European Union having its own direct source of funding for the budget.
In a joint declaration by all three institutions on the new Interinstitutional Agreement, this method of proceeding was confirmed in April 2006.
If we really want to get people’s backs up and alienate young people from the European Union, that would be the way to go!
The fact is that this has been agreed within the framework of the Financial Perspective.
Our aim is to achieve a balanced budget in all the Member States at least through counterbalancing cyclical trends: by increasing revenue, on the one hand, which – of course – is unpopular with the public and the business community.
This is an important discussion, and I recently travelled to some of the new Member States to discuss issues such as this, for example turnover-tax fraud, which is a major problem throughout Europe and is estimated to cost the economy EUR&#160;70&#160;billion.
The same goes for the fight against customs fraud.
The Commission is currently working on the technical preparations for a proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base.
These preparations are entrusted to a working group under the auspices of the Commission itself that was set up following the informal Ecofin Council in September&#160;2004.
On 5&#160;April of this year, the Commission presented the Council, the European Parliament and the European Economic and Social Committee with a communication entitled ‘Progress to date and next steps towards a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB)’.
In the Ministers’ estimation, this basis would result in cost savings for enterprises and a simplification of the national tax systems.
The Presidency has put an initial exchange of views between Ministers concerning the Commission communication on the agenda for the Council to be held on 7&#160;June of this year.
His expectation is that the contributions that the working group I have already mentioned receives from the Commission and the Member States will make it possible for rapid progress to be made with technical preparations.
This is an issue that cannot be resolved in the near future, therefore, but needs lengthy preparation. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has a study been or will a study be carried out into the repercussions of the adoption of a uniform basis for assessment? &#160;&#160; – There are not yet any cost estimates available.
In addition, should we not abolish unanimity altogether in the case of taxation relevant to the internal market? &#160;&#160; – The problem of unanimity now that there are 25&#160;Member States is particularly acute in matters of taxation.
It is natural for these countries to object, as they are currently benefiting from tax competition.
The issue of finding a uniform tax base is a matter of tax harmonisation, and the question has also been asked as to what documents there are relating to this.
Relatively unfairly – because these are all net recipients – this results in tax competition that prompts the question as to whether, in view of the severe reduction in taxes, these countries are really still able to discharge the social transfer responsibilities they share with all Member States: pension and health-insurance systems. &#160;&#160; I completely agree that there are differences in different countries, but you are talking mostly about new Member States that have implemented new taxation systems, and about unfair competition.
I disagree, therefore, with the view that we are not competing fairly with all the European Union Member States. &#160;&#160; . – Harmonisation of company taxation is, on the one hand, a matter of simplifying the system for the business community so that tax bases are not different in every country – with country A having different write-off facilities from country B or country C – but instead the facilities are always the same; as this is a great problem for enterprises.
This Directive aims to ensure that cross-border savings income received by persons resident in the EU in the form of interest payments is either taxed in the Member State in which they are resident, or subject to a withholding tax in the Member State that is considered the source State.
In order to preclude distortions of competition with important financial centres outside the EU, the Directive also provides that the same or equivalent measures be applied by a series of territories and third countries.
These include 10 dependent and associated territories, such as the Isle of Man, and five European countries, namely Andorra, Liechtenstein, Monaco, San Marino and Switzerland.
The measures laid down in the Directive and the agreements concluded with the third countries and territories have been applied by all 40 contracting parties concerned since 1&#160;July&#160;2005.
Extending the territorial scope of the Directive to other relevant financial centres is possible in principle.
On 1&#160;December&#160;1997, the Council adopted a Resolution on a code of conduct for business taxation, which deals with potentially harmful tax measures that affect, or may affect, in a significant way the location of business activity in the Community.
Sixty-six tax measures in the old Member States and thirty in the new Member States have been classified as harmful by the Code of Conduct Group and largely phased out.
The Code of Conduct Group is now focusing on its future work, on which the Council expects to receive a report in June. &#160;&#160; I thank the Council for that very comprehensive response.
Liechtenstein must be a drain on Austria in the way it flouts the system so close by.
I am amazed that the larger EU states allow these anomalies to continue outside the EU but within the wider area.
These states are extremely dependent on our benevolence.
In any case, Liechtenstein, San Marino and the countries I named earlier have signed this agreement and, in this way, we at least guarantee that these territories follow uniform tax rules.
Naturally, it is important that uniform guidelines on money laundering be applied in all of the countries of an extended economic area – the FATF is an important body in this regard.
The relevant amending Regulations were adopted on 27&#160;June&#160;2005 following a lengthy discussion process – in the course of which it was asserted that the old Stability and Growth Pact was dead.
All of these rules are publicly available, as is the information on the steps taken to date by the Council in connection with the revised Stability and Growth Pact.
The latter comprise the following legal acts: decisions in accordance with Article&#160;104(6) EC on the existence of excessive deficit in Italy, Portugal and the United Kingdom; recommendations on measures to correct these deficits under Article&#160;104(7) EC; a decision establishing, in accordance with Article&#160;104(8) EC, that the action taken by Hungary in response to the Council recommendations regarding the correction of its excessive deficit had proved to be inadequate; and also a Council Decision giving notice to Germany, in accordance with Article&#160;104(9) EC, to take measures for the deficit reduction judged necessary in order to remedy the situation of excessive deficit.
In addition, the Council has delivered opinions on the updated stability and convergence programmes of all Member States, which had been drawn up for the first time in the context of the new regulatory framework for the amended Stability and Growth Pact.
In a nutshell, I can say that, in spite of the criticism that the Stability and Growth Pact was practically dead, the new Stability and Growth Pact has proved to be functional and alive.
This can also be seen in the significant fall in deficits in 2005 compared to 2004. &#160;&#160; I thank the Presidency for that reply.
I understand that economic growth is projected to be 2.3% in the European Union and 2.1% in the euro area in 2006, up from 1.6% and 1.3% respectively in 2005.
This Council Presidency, in particular, has taken very specific, targeted measures on this.
This potential risk must be clearly recognised.
We must do our utmost to ensure that, on the one hand, we really achieve growth rates – a very tangible presence before us – in international competition with the USA and the Asian economic area, and that, on the other hand, by means of political stability, all the risks that emerge time and again, and naturally have the potential to affect economic growth, play a less prominent role.
That is why the growth rate of 2.6 – even if it is a good rate in comparison with previous years – is still too low. &#160;&#160; What measures is the Council proposing in order to induce those countries that repeatedly endanger the Stability and Growth Pact with their excessive deficits to be more disciplined? &#160;&#160; . – I refer once again to my previous answer.
I have named all the countries giving cause for concern: Italy, Portugal, the United Kingdom and, among the new Member States, Hungary in particular, with its 6% deficit.
To reiterate, the 2005 financial year saw a general reduction in the deficit compared with the previous year. &#160;&#160; Questions not taken for lack of time will be answered in writing (see Annex).
I wish to begin by expanding on the objects of our two questions to the Council and to the Commission.
The first is: what mechanism would the Council envisage for informing of Parliament prior to the adoption of a position by the Council with regard to the Energy Community Treaty institutions?
Secondly, by what means and by whom will Parliament be informed of the position taken by the representatives of the European Community in the organs of the Energy Community Treaty, such as the Permanent High Level Group?
Turning to the question to the Commission, I should like to acknowledge from the outset the high level of cooperation and the positive response to our concerns that we have received from Commissioner Piebalgs.
Indeed, I welcome his open and constructive approach in meetings and in the recent letter with regard to the issues of informing Parliament about the activities of the Energy Community and addressing some of the concerns of my committee over social and human rights issues.
I trust that the Council will endorse his offer to inform Parliament in advance of the European Community position to be taken before the institutions of the Energy Community on important issues.
Now I come to the specific points contained in our questions to the Commission, which I feel still require a response.
So the first question is: what might these special circumstances be?
The second question is: what is meant by the phrase, it ‘may go beyond the ’?
I ask the Commissioner to put some flesh on those two issues for us.
With your permission, Mr President, and with my apologies to Mr Chichester, I shall continue in German; but I hope that I will be able to give comprehensive answers to the questions that were put to the Council.
Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Council does indeed consider the Treaty establishing the Energy Community between the European Community and the countries of South-East Europe to be an important instrument, for obvious reasons: security of the electricity and gas supply to the European Community and also to the contracting parties in the region.
This strikes me as particularly important in the interests of the homogeneity and coherence of a pan-European strategy.
In addition, Article&#160;25 of this Treaty provides that measures may be taken to implement amendments to the , in line with the evolution of European Community law.
The Council would like to emphasise that this means, of course, that Parliament is directly involved from the outset in the preparation of Community rules and the adoption of these rules by both of our institutions under the codecision procedure.
Therefore, these are rules that are then to be incorporated into the framework of the Energy Community Treaty.
The importance of Parliament’s role in the adoption of the Energy Community Treaty is also reflected in the choice of legal basis, that is to say, in the fact that Parliament has a right of assent, as stated in Article&#160;300(3) of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
In other words, under the Commission proposal, the Commission would present the Council with a draft relating to the establishment of a Community position on this kind of amendment of the Energy Community Treaty, and the Council would then have to consult Parliament on this position.
I should also like to draw the attention of the House to the fact that, in certain cases, particularly when this is necessary for reasons of political importance, there is nothing to prevent the Council from consulting Parliament on its own initiative.
I would also point out that the Energy Community Treaty chiefly extends the in whose adoption Parliament is fully involved.
Let me now turn to the decision-making process in the bodies of the Energy Community and to the positions to be adopted by the European Community in these bodies.
Parliament is not directly involved in the decision-making process agreed with the parties to the Energy Community Treaty.
However, Article&#160;52 of this Treaty provides that the Ministerial Council must present Parliament, and also the national parliaments of the contracting parties, with an annual report on the work of the Energy Community.
Regarding the position to be adopted by the European Community in these bodies, this is laid down in Article&#160;4 of the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of the Energy Community Treaty and is adopted by the Council pursuant to the relevant provisions of the EC Treaty.
One important aspect of this decision-making process is the requirement for Community positions on Energy Community decisions falling under Titles&#160;III and IV of the Energy Community Treaty to be in line with the , with the exception of measures falling under Chapter IV of Title IV of the said Treaty, which concerns mutual assistance in the event of disruption of energy supplies.
Moving on to Parliament’s involvement, Article&#160;4(5) of the proposal for a Council decision stipulates – as proposed by the Commission – that Parliament shall be immediately and fully informed of any decision of the Council on the establishment of Community positions to be taken in the three bodies of the Energy Community Treaty.
There is no formal requirement for informing of Parliament, but it is the Presidency’s firm intention to inform Parliament regularly.
We know, and there is some consensus, that the two main routes for enhancing energy security in the European Union are diversification and the strengthening of market forces.
Extensions of the EU’s own market to include our neighbours would gradually create around the EU a shared regulatory area with common trade, transit and environmental rules.
In this context, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to present a successful initiative in the region of south-east Europe.
Apart from these immediate needs, the Commission made a strategic decision to look at the long-term needs, to gather international consensus for a way forward and create a real basis for post-war cooperation in the region.
It is valuable to the stabilisation and economic development of these countries.
Within ten years we have gone from war to cooperative management of the most essential sector of the economy: energy.
I would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, Mr Chichester, and the shadow rapporteurs.
So the creation of the Energy Community for south-east Europe clearly responds to the needs of the region and of the whole EU.
Firstly, the Energy Community Treaty provides for a procedure ensuring cooperation and mutual assistance of the parties in the event of disruption of gas or electricity supply affecting a party.
Pursuant to the draft conclusion decision, the positions that can be taken by the European Community under Title IV of the Energy Community Treaty, providing for the creation of a single energy market between the European Community and the countries of south-east Europe and containing the mutual assistance clause, have to be inspired by the existing .
As mutual assistance may not be fully covered by the existing – and in some cases our is perhaps not ambitious enough – it was important to introduce some flexibility to this limitation as regards the mutual assistance clause.
The reference to specific circumstances allows for this flexibility.
Of course any measure concerning the mutual assistance clause will have to remain within the external competence of the European Community.
Let me highlight, in that regard, that decisions of the Energy Community on mutual assistance have to be taken by unanimity so that the European Community will have a veto on all decisions to be adopted.
Secondly, let me stress that, through its proposal to the Council, the Commission has steadily acted in favour of an increased role of Parliament as regards the ratification of the Energy Community Treaty.
To this effect, Parliament will be informed in advance of each semi-annual Ministerial Council of the European Energy Community.
I have also instructed my services to ensure that Parliament is informed in advance of the European Community position to be taken before the institutions of the Energy Community on important issues and that it has full access to the Energy Community’s documents.
There are no restrictions on official documents of the Energy Community and all policy documents are placed on the Energy Community website.
These documents are accessible to all those who have an interest in them.
In addition, as provided for in the Treaty, the Energy Community’s Ministerial Council will, on an annual basis, submit a report on the activities of the Energy Community to the European Parliament and all other national parliaments involved, as the President-in-Office mentioned.
I would also like to mention the issues referred to by the honourable Member with regard to Kozloduy, because I would like to separate this issue from the Energy Community Treaty.
I would like to thank Commissioner&#160;Piebalgs for his particularly active cooperation with Parliament.
It foresees an integrated gas and energy market in part of Europe, facilitates investment and increases the security of gas supplies to the European Union.
However, the Treaty also stipulates that investment decisions will be transferred from a national to a centralised level, as this method is more productive, both in terms of costs and administration.
It demonstrates that energy security requires a new approach, also in terms of European Union foreign policy.
The European Parliament has, on numerous occasions, emphasised the importance of securing energy supplies on the basis of harmonious cooperation between the European Union Member States, which requires the legislative solutions announced by the Commission at the start of this year.
The Energy Community Treaty, signed in October, integrates nine countries in south-east Europe with our energy market.
That is a historic event in at least two senses.
Firstly, it is a precedent, as for the first time it will extend legislation on the single market for the electricity and gas sector to nine countries outside the Union.
Secondly, it is the first multilateral agreement that applies to the whole of south-east Europe since the break-up of the former Yugoslavia.
The energy sector in the Balkan region is undeveloped and continues to suffer the consequences of a war that took place a decade ago.
The purpose of the Energy Community Treaty is to develop the energy infrastructure with the help of loans granted by financial institutions.
It is estimated that around EUR 25-30&#160;billion will be needed for investment in the electricity sector over the next 10&#160;years.
The fact is that a viable and reliable energy system will also tempt investors, which will result in the region’s economic situation developing, improved general stability and a reduction in emigration.
The Balkan region is also an important route to the Middle East energy in the Caspian region.
When the energy sector becomes market-based, it will be capitalised, so prices will inevitably rise.
The parties to the Treaty should therefore ensure that public service obligations are fulfilled and that prices are reasonable, so that the poor too can afford electricity and gas.
This kind of binding commitment is important.
It is not clear whether there will be any control of the demand side of energy, as there is through EU energy efficiency legislation, or whether environmental considerations, such as the control of pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions, have been given adequate attention.
To give just one example, in 2005 the British Serious Fraud Office investigated the involvement of a British company in the Serb state power company following allegations that corrupt money was being used to protect war criminals.
Because of all these concerns, it is understandable that the European Parliament should wish to be both informed and consulted in advance of decisions.
We welcome the reassurances from Commissioner Piebalgs that he will keep Parliament informed in advance, but we need similar cast-iron reassurances from the Council too.
There could effectively be no democratic oversight of this Treaty, because it is clear – not least from what the Council has said tonight – that the real decisions will be taken by the unelected Permanent High Level Group rather than by ministers themselves. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, my group supports the present Treaty, but we should like to emphasise a number of points that have already been raised, in order to qualify our assent with some reservations.
In our view, all the signatories to the Treaty should actually make an unqualified declaration of belief in European fundamental rights or, in other words, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
The Commission and the Council need to take very seriously the call for these to be made binding.
In our opinion, it is very important that this Treaty not enable or pursue energy strategies that would have been appropriate 20&#160;years ago at best.
We believe that energy efficiency must be a very important concern in this new Treaty and that the market that we are intending to create should not be geared towards demand alone.
We have had experience with privatisation of state monopolies that was carried out too quickly, and believe that the Commission must bear in mind that the public interest in privatisation and the strategies to carry this out needs to be taken into account. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to acknowledge the work of all those who took part in drawing up these documents, especially our rapporteur.
As regards the Treaty itself, in my opinion we have succeeded in establishing an acceptable platform for bringing together countries that are not yet EU Member States in a given region, on the grounds of solving energy issues, with a view to their achieving EU compatibility.
Given that I am not an uncritical advocate of the all-powerful liberalisation of the market, I welcome the fact that the Commission has expressed the intention of dealing with related social aspects in a separate memorandum, which I take to be a good sign, and not only for the citizens of the region concerned.
Interconnection of energy markets undoubtedly translates into greater security of energy supplies both in south-eastern Europe and in the whole of the Union.
I believe that the time has come to address the issue of setting up an independent European control centre for transmission networks, with a view to solving operational problems, in particular relating to the supply of electricity in EU Member States and their immediate neighbours. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I will outline here a few brief views.
All of a sudden, one reads in the report that if we have a common market then this naturally leads to a common external policy.
What we have here is precisely such an abuse in the grand tradition of Jean Monnet.
Instead of having an open debate about the pros and cons of a common external policy, such a policy is sneaked in in a completely different context.
The Energy Community Treaty is a refreshing exception, and a true European success story that the European Union can be proud of.
As the result of three years of consistent and persevering efforts, our goal can finally materialise: we can cooperate in the modernisation and rebuilding of the energy supply of the war-torn Balkan region which is of such crucial importance to the safety of Europe.
One of my reasons for this is that I am convinced that the stabilisation of the energy sector in the Balkans will facilitate the diversification of EU energy supplies.
If this is achieved, the European Union can produce further energy success stories, and will continue to set an example of an attractive political community to its neighbouring countries and regions wishing to bridge the gap. &#160;&#160; Mr President, when we extend the single market to neighbouring countries we should not only promote the economic dimension of the European Union but, as when we promoted the single market within the Union itself, we should also include the social dimension.
On other occasions Parliament, the Council and the Commission underline the importance of social dialogue.
Early participation of the social partners in the relevant sectoral dialogue committees, like those in the electricity and mining sectors, has been positive for the social partners in the new Member States.
Page 6 of the recommendation draws a parallel with the Coal and Steel Community and how it started the EEC as it then was.
As Mr&#160;Buzek and others have also said, an important point is that this is a pan-European issue rather than one that concerns only the countries of South-East Europe or only the EU – an integrated energy market certainly could not function like this.
This Treaty contributes not only to energy security and energy supply but, generally, to increased stability in Europe.
As you know, the Austrian Presidency, in particular, has attempted in recent months to step up cooperation with the countries of South-East Europe and of the Western Balkans, to make some progress in the interests of stability and peace in Europe.
Naturally, the energy issue – both the producer and the transit-country aspects – is particularly important in both of these regions.
Other points raised here have concerned Nabucco, for example: this is another important project that will benefit the security of Europe’s energy supply.
I should like to remind the House that all the countries who are party to this Treaty are involved in the stabilisation and association process, which, of course, also comprises respect for human rights, fundamental rights and other EU provisions.
Indeed, the purpose of the network of agreements we have made with South-East Europe is to introduce these countries to EU values, too, which naturally includes the values enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Furthermore, there is no doubt that Europe must speak with one voice to third countries on energy policy, and that the process of integrating our neighbouring countries into the European single market should be continued.
As I said in my introductory speech, I wish to make it crystal clear that Parliament naturally has a central, an important role to play in this, and that there can be no question of the Council’s attempting to curtail Parliament’s rights – which we could not do anyway, owing to the interinstitutional structure; on the contrary, we have an active interest in due involvement by, and joint action with, Parliament.
That is why we shall be involving Parliament in all the important issues regarding the Energy Community: in accordance with the EC Treaty, but also, as I have said, taking a very broad interpretation of its provisions.
The issue of affordability is very important because energy prices should be accessible to the citizens of these countries.
Article 33 of Chapter IV addresses this issue as far as the Community can address it.
On Kyoto, Article 13 in Chapter III – even if it does not say very much – covers this and the provisions on renewables and energy efficiency in the Treaty will definitely help to achieve the Kyoto goals.
Concerning privatisation, the Community does not impose any type of action in this area: any decision on privatisation will be taken by these countries’ governments.
This means that the Energy Community could bring much more stability – at least to prices – and could even reduce prices for consumers.
In addition, an brings public service obligations, which means addressing issues for the more vulnerable people in society.
The Treaty states that in some cases when energy is bought from third countries, the Energy Community could apply some restrictions if these countries neglect the environment or social issues.
This Treaty in no way restricts the powers of the countries that participate in the Treaty to take independent foreign policy decisions.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by James Elles, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, on the 2007 budget: the Commission's Annual Policy Strategy report (APS) [2006/2020(BUD)] (A6-0154/2006).
In sum, it reads rather like a routine bureaucratic document without serious political leadership or guidance.
The first is the combined impact of reduced resources under the new financial perspective, and the emergence of new challenges leaves us no option but to set clear priorities in the next budget.
This is more a process during the life of the financial perspectives than simply in the 2007 budget.
In setting policy priorities for external relations, the 2007 budget must lay the groundwork for an increasingly outward-looking European Union.
Secondly, interlinked with the first priority, is that of ensuring security for European citizens in areas such as freedom and security and justice, as well as the specific sector of energy supply that we have just been discussing.
The beginning of a new financial perspective offers a significant opportunity for starting a rolling programme for assessing the performance of EU activities.
In conclusion, the 2007 budget procedure, as the first budget of the new financial perspective, represents a real opportunity for a broad mobilisation to adjust to the new policy challenges of a fast-changing world.
This fits in, Madam Commissioner, with the Commission’s focus on policy by results, but a broader global vision is needed.
Finally, I will warmly welcome contributions from the outset from all parliamentary committees to establish the sectoral priorities for this budget.
I believe we have a great opportunity to shape our future policies together and respond effectively to the demands of European citizens. &#160;&#160; Under Rule 142(5) Mr&#160;Elles did indeed have the right to speak first, so let me congratulate you, Commissioner, on your accurate knowledge of the Rules of this House. &#160;&#160; .
I wish to thank Mr Elles for a very good start to the process in which we are engaging in the first year of the new financial perspective, after the successful signature and vote today in Parliament.
In the report on the APS, policy priorities have been set and we think that the core goals and priorities of the Commission’s five-year strategic objectives are reflected in the 2007 budget proposal.
The Commission is also committed towards close cooperation with the EIB on new financial instruments to increase the leverage effect of the EU budget for Lisbon-related priorities, including trans-European networks and support to SMEs.
The Commission proposes the redeployment of about 600 staff between its DGs to serve priorities other than enlargement-related needs.
On value for money, I am fully in favour of a wider, more macroeconomic approach towards the assessment of how European financial resources are used.
In my view, the Commission is seeking to amalgamate various budget lines.
What is more, I have to insist that the ‘simplification’ of the legislative context for external action for the period from 2007 to 2013 must not result in a loss of transparency in the use of development policy resources and that the breakdown between budget lines for geographical regions and thematic sectors for the 2007 budget must allow for at least the same level of visibility as the 2006 budget.
In addition, let me mention the importance of the Commission monitoring the Member States and their official development assistance levels, because of the problem of some Member States overstating ODA levels by taking into account funds that are not actually part of ODA.
Linked to the ODA level is aid effectiveness and quality.
The Commission must continue to implement the Paris Agenda on aid effectiveness and show the public that EU development aid makes a difference.
Firstly, the elimination of all forms of agricultural export subsidy by 2013 would bring significant budgetary savings.
A key component in making a success of the Doha Round is to persuade the developing countries to sign up for Doha.
At the G8 Summit last July, President Barroso promised EUR&#160;1 billion a year in trade-related assistance.
However, the experience of this parliamentary term tells us that while procedures may be repeated, there is no such thing as a budget that may be repeated in its entirety, so there is no budgetary routine, as each of the budgets we have had up until now has had its specific characteristics. 2005 was the first year in an enlarged Europe, the 2006 budget was a bridge between the old and the new financial perspective, while 2007 and the 2007 budget will be the launch of a new generation of multiannual programmes, and that is the real characteristic of the 2007 budget.
Our rapporteur, Mr&#160;Elles, presented the priorities and gained the support of the majority of the Committee on Budgets for these priorities.
However, the real context for the debate on budget strategy for 2007 is no longer the Commission guidelines on strategy, but the figures presented for 2007 by the Commission, as they are clearly influenced by this new generation of programmes – as can very easily be seen in chapter 1a, in chapter 3a and in the chapter on foreign policy.
I also believe that an effective launch for the new generation of multiannual programmes is one of the basic ways of measuring the success of the 2007 budget, while respecting the priorities presented to us by Mr&#160;Elles.
Since this morning, we have, then, been aware of Parliament’s need to remain modest, and even humble, with regard to the proposals it may allow itself to put forward.
As coordinator for the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I am keen to champion respect for the commitments we have made to Europeans.
We therefore need to develop policies in favour of refugees.
Where external policy is concerned, our watchwords are not only development, democratisation and human rights but also respect for the Millennium Goals, which constitute an absolute priority.
Finally, I would take the liberty of coming out in favour of co-funding by the European Investment Bank of programmes crucial to giving practical expression to the Lisbon and Gothenburg Strategies.
I wish, however, to point out the need to guarantee public funding on a scale large enough to create the leverage conditions expected by the EIB.
It clearly sets out those priorities that Parliament has identified and advocated in the negotiations on the financial framework.
My group wishes to stress in particular the importance of unhindered traffic in the workings of the internal market, and for that reason it has tabled two amendments.
Structural and cohesion policy will be among the major challenges facing the EU in the forthcoming programming period.
Considerable sums have been set aside for these in the financial framework, especially for the new Member States.
It is important that these funds are used.
Ideally, they should be adopted some time this year, but in any case no later than next year, otherwise the funds that have been granted will remain unspent, as they were in the first few years of the Agenda 2000 programming period.
That would reduce the EU’s budgetary expenditure, even out the differences in the Member States’ net contributions, increase Member States’ responsibility for spending funds and do more to safeguard the livelihood of farmers within the context of the current ceiling for expenditure.
Our group supports this.
Since Parliament had stated that the amount of the financial perspective had to be increased considerably and since its idea was to obtain a three-figure extension, I, for my part, was hoping for at least a two-figure extension.
Instead, we voted this morning in favour of a small, one-figure, extension: EUR&#160;2&#160;billion plus EUR&#160;2&#160;billion.
Thus, our rapporteur states, in his first paragraph, that the 2007-2013 financial perspective is backward-looking and therefore poorly placed to respond effectively to the challenges concerned.
In these circumstances, my group is obviously trying to define a few priorities.
Some serious studies therefore need to be carried out on the cost-efficiency ratio, particularly in relation to the Lisbon and Gothenburg Strategies.
There is a tendency to forget that these strategies are not only about competitiveness but also about the social and employment dimensions.
The second priority concerns the rendezvous clause.
Mrs&#160;Grybauskaitė, we believe - or, rather, we still try to believe - in the rendezvous clause, which we also voted in favour of this morning.
This evening, we see that these doors are very narrow, in spite of the high-quality work done by our fellow Member.
The main reason was that the low level of appropriations did not reflect the needs that our group saw as vital to developing positive European programmes.
Although the EU Constitutional Treaty was rejected, the Commission and the Council may start to develop a common foreign affairs administration for the Union.
That would mean an increase in the powers of the Union at the expense of the Member States.
The Commission’s proposal for a special Globalisation Fund is a disappointment, in that a condition of Community aid is mass lay-offs, where at least 1&#160;000 workers lose their jobs.
Neither does our group support the Commission’s approach known as the information policy.
The Union’s institutions are using money for the dissemination of information for propaganda, instead of looking in the mirror and trying to find out what the problem is when the public criticises the Union.
A very large part of what is proposed for the stimulation of growth in order to meet the requirements of globalisation in terms of adaptation and the like consists of matters that are best tackled by the Member States themselves, in worthy competition with each other to find solutions that work.
This applies to almost the entire Lisbon Agenda, the small businesses policy and research activity.
It is difficult to come up with any reasons to regulate these matters at EU level.
These two institutions have outlived their purpose.
This would be extremely advantageous not only for Parliament but also for the city of Strasbourg.
On 3&#160;May the European Commission adopted a&#160;provisional Budget for 2007.
If the Commissioner regards the proposed budget as a minimalist budget, I&#160;will have to agree with her.
The overall 3.9% growth in payments actually seems quite moderate.
Expenditure on natural resources and agriculture will only increase by 1.2%, while funds earmarked for competitiveness and the cohesion policy for growth and employment will grow by more than 12%.
The budgetary compromise for 2007 should therefore remain very close to these levels. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, it is clear that the first thing we should talk about is the actual function of this debate on annual strategic priorities, since in principle the intention was to establish a proper communication with the European Commission in terms of setting its budgetary priorities.
Nevertheless, once again we have the preliminary draft budget a few days before Mr&#160;Jensen presents his report on the annual strategic priorities in plenary.
Let us hope that this budget, in relation to which the rapporteur proposes some very interesting things and which is the first of the seven budgets of this financial perspective, is modified and that some progress can be made on issues of budgetary procedure, for example, at the first conciliation and, in particular, Mr President, on the prioritisation of Community programmes by parliamentary committees.
There are fewer resources and each committee is therefore going to have to face its own responsibilities. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Elles for the Annual Policy Strategy report.
Secondly, I also back the rapporteur when he calls for Member States to implement existing and proposed legislation to help complete the single market.
As President Barroso told this House in his first address in July 2004, we must show our citizens that Europe can deliver what it promises.
That means that our traditional priorities and commitments are being reduced.
It is visionary because he thinks several years ahead, because importance is attached to complying with the new framework for external policy and because focus is placed on that part of the budget designed to secure economic growth and strengthen the EU’s global competitiveness.
The information we gather in that way will, of course, form part of an evaluation and mid-term review of the multi-annual budgetary framework for 2008-2009.
In the foreign policy area we must now comply with the new sets of rules whereby Parliament is involved in developing strategic frameworks and thus obtains a basis for monitoring the policy conducted.
The new budgetary framework means that there will be respectable growth in that part of the budget that goes on research, innovation, education and transport.
I should like, however, to emphasise that the appropriations for investment in transport are not at all in keeping with the Member States’ own ambitions for the trans-European networks.
The Commission has pulled out all the stops to ensure far better implementation of the projects, and now the Council must show that it intends to comply with its own decisions.
It is the Member States that are responsible for coming up with the funding if they do not wish to pay via the budget. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have considerable risks to contend with for the 2007 financial year: in terms of both the figures and the procedures for implementing the multi-annual programmes based on the Financial Regulation.
The new programmes have a potential that can only be properly harnessed by improving procedures.
Parliament needs to know what points the Commission and the Council want to see incorporated into the implementing regulations if we are to see the extent to which our opinion has been implemented – in both documents, that is.
I should like to assure the Commissioner that the best efforts from all our quarters will go into ensuring that the proposal is adopted promptly in this House.
I would ask the Commission to now present the complete works, comprising Financial Regulation and implementing regulation, as quickly as possible, to enable us to start the new programmes with the new procedures in time for the new programming period.
I was especially pleased to see reference made to transatlantic relations, a major priority that is often overlooked but that was happily highlighted by our rapporteur.
I believe that in the new framework about to get under way, we must not, under any circumstances, allow the practices of the past, whereby we did not use all of the financial framework, to prevail today.
Nor can anyone deny that these are areas in which integrated action at European level indisputably adds value to the efforts of Member States otherwise acting in isolation.
The 2007 budget will give us the opportunity to make a start on no longer disappointing people. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for your words and your congratulations, Mr&#160;Deprez, but you should also offer your condolences to the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the new financial framework has only just been finalised today, and we are already faced with is deficiencies.
The Commission could not solve the impossible, and within this framework, the European Union will not be able to achieve a breakthrough in the areas of competitiveness, research or innovation, which had actually been marked as priorities by the Council and the Commission themselves.
The 2007 budget will cause disappointment, because it should be strategic, but it is, in fact, straining within its narrow limits.
According to the indications, this budget will primarily please new Member States.
The three-year waiting period is over, and they will, at last, share development resources to the same extent as the others.
Finally, I would like to thank Mr&#160;Elles, our rapporteur, for his critical and prudent work.
I hope that the position of Parliament will still be able to influence the final form of the budget. &#160;&#160; Mr President, 2007 will undoubtedly be a very challenging year for Europe and its citizens.
That is why it is surprising and worrying that there are already visible discrepancies between the global challenges which the Community faces and the measures that are supposed to ensure an increase in the competitiveness of its economy.
In terms of internal policy, and according to the Lisbon Strategy, the Commission should, at a Community level as well as at a national level, unequivocally support elements of a modern economy such as scientific research, innovation and information society technologies.
The Annual Policy Strategy for the 2007 budget will be decisive in shaping the further positive development of Europe.
In view of demographic developments and globalisation, it makes perfect sense to pay greater attention to our reformed agricultural policy and our rural policy.
In this case, in particular, the Lisbon objectives can and must be used to solve current problems such as unemployment and economic stagnation.
The common agricultural policy, the EU’s only communitarised policy, has been constantly subjected to reform in recent decades compared with other policy fields.
Sustainable agriculture, our European model, needs planning security, and establishing the budget until 2013 – that is to say, for the next seven years – has given it just that.
It must also be beyond doubt, however, that, as decided in the course of CAP reform, the budgetary resources will apply until 2013 without cutbacks.
Nonetheless, the indications are that, in 2007, the budgetary estimates should enable us to continue with our current policies, while at the same time launching the new generation of European programmes, relating in particular to regional policy.
We go on repeating that cohesion policy is essential to Europe’s overall dynamism.
It must enable the regions, diverse as they are, to complete their transformation and to prepare for the future in the best conditions and, in that way, to achieve an optimum level of development.
What is more, Europe’s regions occupy a central place in the Lisbon Strategy, and the new structural policy will always have to be in a position to strengthen economic and social cohesion and to reduce the gap between the levels of development of, on the one hand, the new Member States and, on the other, the old ones.
It is therefore important, as emphasised by Mr&#160;Elles in his report, to make sure throughout the budgetary procedure that the funds appropriated to this policy are commensurate with the challenges to be met.
In preparing the draft budget for 2007, we shall therefore make sure that these priorities are respected and that adequate resources are allocated to them. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we wish to initiate the financing of new priorities.
However, the amount of the preliminary draft budget, with payment appropriations which do not exceed 0.99%, unfortunately reflects the glaring inconsistency between the challenges in the sector of research, innovation and competitiveness and the narrow margins allowed by the budget.
However, the relaxed and 'flabby' stand being adopted by the Commission in the preliminary draft exacerbates our concerns about the reduction in the level of interventions.
The restrictive framework illustrates our inability to combine objectives and financing possibilities.
I wonder if the next Presidency will, at long last, have the power to surmount and join us in our efforts to overcome this perpetual European financial Calvary.
I hope so, but I also doubt it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too should like to congratulate you on the fact that your country won the European Cup this evening, although, since Barcelona has a Dutch trainer, perhaps some of this credit could also go to my own.
What is more important, though – and I am, this evening, primarily speaking as shadow rapporteur for the agricultural budget on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – is that this report is like a warm bath for European farmers and horticulturalists compared to what the British Labour Government gave them during its presidency.
I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Elles on this.
Not that I am opposed to rural policy, but given the voluntary nature of this proposal, there is the real risk that farmers from the different Member States will be faced with a playing field that is anything but level, which will have an effect on the single market.
After all, pledges to candidate countries Romania and Bulgaria may eventually result in yet another 15% in reductions for agriculture and horticulture in the old Member States.
In that way, Europe is at risk of losing control over the common agricultural policy, for a 35% reduction in the level of premiums will consign the common market firmly to the history books.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Constanze Angela Krehl, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on preparing for the assent procedure for the Community’s strategic guidelines for the period 2007-2013 (Cohesion Policy in Support of Growth and Jobs) [2006/2086(INI)] (A6-0175/2006). &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, with its adoption of the Financial Perspective today, the European Parliament has taken an important step towards enabling the structural programmes to begin in the regions of the EU as early as possible, in 2007.
We shall take a further important step tomorrow by adopting our proposals on the strategic guidelines for cohesion policy.
I should also like to take today’s opportunity to make it clear once more that Parliament accelerated the procedure tremendously by dealing with these guidelines in parallel with the negotiations on the Financial Perspective and the regulations on the funds, and I should like to thank all my fellow Members who are present for this debate, too.
These are based on the fact that EU enlargement in&#160;2004 has exacerbated the disparities between the regions and on the fact that we have to use the scant resources available in a strategically intelligent and efficient manner.
Firstly, in my view, we must make it clear that cohesion policy should naturally support the Lisbon Strategy, but we must not forget sustainable development of the EU in accordance with the Gothenburg objectives in the process.
Secondly, as we know, 80% of the European population lives in cities or urban areas, which means that we have to place greater emphasis on this dimension of our strategy.
Thirdly, we must enhance the element of territorial cohesion in our planning: a demand also rightly made by the Committee of the Regions.
We should like to draw attention to the particular prospects offered by the use of renewable energy and, with it, the development of new technologies in this field.
The development of research infrastructures and the utilisation of the research results for SMEs is an important concern in our strategy, as is access to modern information and communication networks.
All of these points are related to the development of an economy that creates more and, particularly, better jobs in the EU.
I should like to make it clear that discrimination-free access to the EU cohesion policy must be guaranteed for the future in respect of all the priorities set out in the report, including, but not limited to, persons with disabilities.
Social partners, and also organisations, associations and regional players, must be involved much more actively in drawing up the programme at regional level.
Discussions with the Commission have revealed that a large number of our proposals can be incorporated into the Commission’s final proposal.
I should like to thank my fellow Members from the political groups for their broad support, and it only remains for me to call on the Council to adopt the whole package on cohesion policy as soon as possible.
In particular, I should like thank Mrs Krehl for her hard work in drafting the report.
On the other hand, the guidelines also focus on a limited number of priorities to ensure that a genuine concentration of resources takes place in order to increase the effectiveness of investment and to make the growth and jobs strategy a reality.
The draft report adopted by the Committee on Regional Development will help to shape the final version of the guidelines, along with the comments submitted by the Member States and the results of a public consultation exercise held last year. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Transport, I was surprised to hear that this topic has been included in the agenda.
When we are financing TEN-T, we must understand that we cannot only accept TEN-T centres in old Member States, and the cohesion fund cannot solve every problem, for instance those in the Baltic States.
The European Parliament should expect the European Commission to identify priorities and courses of action in such a way as to maintain the essence of European cohesion policy while creating the conditions for implementation of the Lisbon Strategy.
The strategic guidelines should, as the rapporteur rightly points out, flesh out the framework described in the regulation rather than replacing or changing it.
The challenges related to the aims of the Lisbon Strategy mean that the urban dimension of cohesion policy is gaining particular significance.
Channelling the EU’s regional policy funds into projects which help improve development in more disadvantaged regions, as well as economic growth and competitiveness throughout the EU, is the background to the guidelines to be drawn up.
I wish in particular to thank the rapporteur for addressing this challenge and making a vibrant addition to the strategy document on Parliament’s behalf.
It is quite right to be unbending when it comes to certain important principles.
An important aspect of this is the channelling of aid, for example, to sustainably renewable energy sources.
Although you mentioned the regions several times, the word ‘city’ appeared only once in your speech.
I am anxious to point out that by ‘cities’ our Committee on Regional Development means not only cities or urban areas but also, as Mrs&#160;Krehl’s report emphasises several times, any territory that includes a city centre, outlying urban areas and all the rural areas that depend on the city, as the city depends on them.
All these territories indisputably constitute not only the places where 80% of our populations are concentrated but also places essential to the development of our Europe through the Lisbon and Gothenburg objectives.
Mrs&#160;Krehl’s report accords an important place to cities.
The objective of my speech at this time is to point out, while regretting that the Presidency-in-Office is not represented, that the members of our committee or intergroup have on several occasions urged the Council to put pressure on the Member States with a view to their all taking account of the urban dimension on the grounds that it will not be possible to achieve the Lisbon and Gothenburg objectives if the urban sectors do not play their full role within the framework of the cohesion policy.
Earmarking, which has now been integrated into the general regulation through the back door as a competitor to the guidelines, causes problems in that it destroys the comprehensive approach of the guidelines, which is both horizontal and vertical at the same time.
In my view, these problems of the Commission’s own making can only be solved retrospectively if, in the operational programmes, the Commission ensures that, in all dimensions and for all areas – both urban and rural – sustainable development receives equal attention in the economic, social and environmental approach, that is to say, in a balanced development approach.
The championing of Lisbon over Gothenburg and of some elements of Lisbon over others in the Commission’s original guidelines is worrying.
I particularly welcome paragraph 9 of Mrs Krehl’s report, with its demand that sound partnership between all parties be enshrined in the regulations and guidelines and its support for the strengthening of civil society.
In the light of this, it is now necessary to use the scant resources available in an intelligent and efficient manner, always bearing in mind that cohesion policy cannot solve all the structural problems or be a substitute for the efforts of the Member States.
The use of private cofinancing to aid the implementation of all the programmes is very important.
A welcome development is that the negotiations on the Financial Perspective succeeded in largely harmonising the different standards within the framework of cohesion policy for the old and new Member States. &#160;&#160; This report is enormously important because it deals with the idea of growth reaching all of our corners of Europe.
I support Mrs&#160;Krehl’s report and would like to thank her for a truly excellent job and for her constructive cooperation.
The social economy as a model for sustainable development, with its capacity to reconcile the economic and social fabric in the regions by coupling the spirit of entrepreneurship with social purposes, combating passive dependency on social welfare systems, needs to be recognised and taken into account in social and territorial cohesion policies and frameworks at European, national and local level.
A social economy targets socially excluded goups, for example the long-term unemployed.
IT and its infrastructure have exactly the same importance today as roads and railways have long had and continue to have for growth in Europe.
I therefore think it good that this is emphasised in the Commission’s document and in Mrs&#160;Krehl’s report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the issue of rules for the structural funds, there is no time to lose.
The process of implementing common rules for these funds is an arduous one, and those of us from the new Member States still have fresh memories of what happened in 2004 when we had to deal with months of delays, time that has been difficult to make up.
I feel it would be unfortunate if the agreement were to run aground or be postponed as a result of Parliament insisting on certain requirements right up until the last moment, cost what it may.
An agreement needs to be reached as quickly as possible so that adequate time is set aside for operational programmes to be drawn up at national level.
I should like to point out that the Council has agreed that some Member States, including the Czech Republic, will have their structural fund allocations adjusted in 2010 as a result of updated economic growth estimates.
It would therefore only be fair to address the issue of the reserve from this point of view, because economic growth in some countries has evidently been underestimated.
I should like to thank the rapporteur for this report and would recommend its adoption. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent and detailed work and by thanking her for her willingness to meet and hold intensive dialogue with national representatives of differing levels of responsibility with regard to structural and cohesion policies.
We are therefore doubly grateful for Mrs&#160;Krehl’s great sensitivity towards the diversity of the different needs of the regions and the flexibility of their solutions, with particular attention for regions – from mountain regions to the outermost regions – suffering structural disadvantages, such as depopulation, ageing or difficult access.
Furthermore, we welcome the innovative and modern restoration of the Delors growth and investment approach, with the call for sustainable transport infrastructures – railways, collective transport and maritime transport – their accessibility and the optimisation of traffic management and road safety and, above all, the need to complete the trans-European networks, particularly where there has not been sufficient development at the borders between States, as in the case of the Pyrenees in my country.
We also accept its call for the sustainable use of natural resources, particularly water, and the development of sustainable energy sources combined with savings and efficiency.
In particular, I should like to emphasise that accessibility remains an indispensable prior condition of the more or less peripheral or isolated regions becoming competitive and, therefore, of their perhaps subscribing to the Lisbon Strategy.
Earmarking, under the terms of the annex I mentioned, would, if applied rigidly, hamper these regions by preventing them, in particular, from funding vital transport infrastructure.
That is why, Commissioner, it is important for it to be clearly confirmed to us that there will be acceptance of the necessary flexibility, both in the National Strategic Reference Frameworks and in the regional operational programmes.
Having discussed the matter a little with Mrs&#160;Hübner, I got the impression that she was alert to this issue, but, really, I should like the Commission to take due account of it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, following enlargement, up to 46% more citizens are living in convergence objective regions, while available resources have not increased proportionately.
It is therefore obvious that the question as to how to spend these resources in the most efficient way is of the utmost importance.
Therefore, I warmly welcome this document and the work of our rapporteur, Mrs Krehl, who committed herself to ensuring that the available resources will be used in an intelligent, efficient and concentrated manner.
I particularly welcome the rapporteur’s recommendations on links between the cohesion policy and the Lisbon Strategy, as they will bring sustainable economic growth and lasting, quality employment.
I also welcome the links between the partnership principle and the territorial dimension, as well as the emphasis on more environmentally sustainable transport, national resources management, equal opportunities, lifelong learning and urban development.
It is paramount that we ensure that all Member States will be able to adopt their national strategy frameworks in time, so that programmes can start as soon as 1&#160;January 2007.
What is at stake here is the Union’s objective of economic, social and territorial cohesion.
Despite the legitimate disappointment on the level of available resources for cohesion policy, it will be possible with appropriate rules for spending and programme implementation to achieve a great deal of improvement with regard to helping those regions which are lagging behind to catch up in socio-economic terms.
Finally, I would like to add that I am optimistic and am quite sure that this report will attract broad support during the vote tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to congratulate Mrs&#160;Krehl on her outstanding report, which expresses Parliament’s concerns regarding the definition of Community strategic guidelines that should govern the application of the economic and social cohesion policy for 2007-2013.
I wish to say a few words on one issue that particularly concerns me, namely the risk that we run of subordinating cohesion policy to the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy.
The Commission’s final version of the Community’s strategic guidelines for cohesion will be clear and transparent.
I assure you that the report and today’s debate will provide valuable input in shaping the strategic guidelines for cohesion. &#160;&#160; That concludes this item.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
