Organ donation and transplantation: Policy actions at EU level (debate) The next item is the report by Adamos Adamou, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on organ donation and transplantation: Policy actions at EU level.
We must point out, however, that there is no consensus today between the Member States on these tests.
The severe shortage of organ donors remains the main challenge facing Member States in organ transplantation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me first congratulate Mr Adamou on the excellent report he has prepared on organ donation and transplantation.
The Commission plans to propose a legislative framework on the basic safety and quality principles in relation to the donation and procurement of human organs.
The Commission intends to propose an action plan with 10 priority actions to meet the challenges of organ donation and transplantation in the EU.
The Commission recognises the importance of fighting organ trafficking as reflected in the communication on organ donation and transplantation.
That is why it is profoundly important to respect good practices in the Member States.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, organ transplants do indeed save human lives in Europe every day.
The challenge is how to increase donor numbers safely.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, I look forward to the forthcoming proposal for a directive from the Commission which will establish quality and safety standards for the donation and procurement of organs throughout the European Union.
We do need guarantees of closer cooperation between Member States.
And Cyprus, as we know, Mr Adamou, Mrs Vassiliou, is a fount of wisdom.
It will be good to have standards but these standards must not affect implementation and options in the individual Member States.
The second pillar relates to cooperation between the Member States, which is essential, as in many other areas.
There is a requirement for real social protection and for statutory protection of human health and life. (SK) Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to congratulate Dr Adamos Adamou on this report, which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
Last year, around 2 400 people in the UK benefited from an organ transplant, but more than a thousand die every year whilst waiting for such a transplant.
Organ shortage is a common dilemma in all European countries, and there is clearly a need to improve the system supporting organ donation across the EU.
Several European nations have also become embroiled in the transplant trade, including Moldova, Serbia, Turkey and Russia.
The answer to this problem of organ availability is decidedly to presume that all dead people are donors unless this is specifically objected to in time by a close relative or by the donor when alive.
The problem of organ trafficking is not taken seriously in the European Union.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for supporting the amendments on equality in organ donation for people with disabilities.
Research by the Disability Rights Commission suggests that people with disabilities are four times more likely to die from a treatable disease, with organ failure being one of these conditions.
They have based it on the Cornwall Air Ambulance.
A criterion of brain death emerged - defined for the first time in 1968 in Boston.
Organ shortage is a problem facing all the Member States to varying degrees.
Cooperation across national borders can take place in order to ensure quality and safety, but the choice of whether to donate or receive organs must be the choice of the individual or his or her family.
Secondly, I would like to emphasise that, given that there is currently no European coordination of organ exchange, making an improvement in that area is very important, specifically with regard to coordination of the system for organ exchange such as it currently exists between the Member States, for example through a European donor card or a European hotline. (PL) Mr President, I see that in general we all agree that organ transplants must not be a commercial activity.
Tonight, there are 700 people in Scotland waiting for an organ transplant: that is 700 families waiting for calls that could guarantee their loved ones' survival.
The need for consensus on this sensitive subject is essential, and it is a sad day when Member States cannot agree on this.
Non-commercialisation of organs is a very important issue and I believe, and agree, that organ donation should be done on an altruistic and voluntary basis.
The Commission's directive on quality and safety will, I assure you, be flexible enough not to affect donation whilst ensuring basic requirements throughout the European Union.
My fellow Member referred to the report by Carla Del Ponte.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 22 April 2008.
On 9/04/2008 my colleagues from the ATAKA Party Dimitar Stoyanov and Desislav Chukolov and I submitted a written declaration in support of informed consent for organ, tissue and cell donation in Bulgaria in which we called upon the European Commission to come up with a proposal on the quality and safety of organ donation.
in writing. - (RO) Support for the proposal of a European Parliament resolution on policy actions at the European Union level on organ donation and transplantation.
I request that the European Commission propose a more comprehensive directive that would set quality and safety requirements for the donation and transport of organs in the European Union.
Removal of restrictions in organ donation and increased cooperation across Member States and the number of quality safe organs available for transplantation.
This is not just a problem in developing countries but also in eastern Europe.
Even though technical expertise in this area is unfortunately often at very different levels in the Member States, the use of human organs for transplantation has increased dramatically in recent decades.
The European donor card represents a good solution to the legal issues of donation, but more robust measures need to be applied to trafficking and trading in organs.
Given that, despite isolated attempts, there is no easy-to-use record system for organs available for transplantation even at national level, it is important to introduce a certificate, similar to the Schengen system, accessible on the Internet, valid throughout the whole Union, supported by medical opinion and a single Union transplantation database.
The Maltese Government has now announced that it is going to set up such a register.
in writing. - (RO) The penury of organs, which has led to the rapid development of mercantilism and tourism in organs, represents an essential health problem the European Union is dealing with.
For this reason, the European average for the number of donors is 20, and in Romania, only 0.5.
Today, almost a thousand patients are registered for transplants in Austria.
Every year some 150 patients die while awaiting a transplant because of the very limited number of available donor organs.
That is why we need a directive on the quality and safety of organ donations.
Equally, however, we need cooperation between Member States and an exchange of good practice.
Member States must learn from one another.
Transfers of money between donor and recipient are unacceptable.
The Commission and the Member States must take measures to combat transplant tourism and the illegal trade in organs more effectively.
