Recent serious problems concerning food safety in the EU The next item is the Commission statement on the recent serious problems concerning food safety in the European Union.
First, my services called an emergency meeting of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health on 10 July, with further meetings following on 16 and 24 July.
These were in addition to the continuous contacts between the Commission services and their counterparts in the Member States.
This contaminated feed could be separated into two groups: a lesser quantity of highly contaminated feed distributed to 57 farms in the Netherlands and larger quantities with a low level of contamination.
The next meeting of the Standing Committee is planned for 11 September.
At this meeting, the measures taken by the Member States in relation to the MPA contamination will be reviewed.
However, we can already conclude that the measures were successful in limiting the potential risk to the public.
At the Agriculture Council of 15 July 2002, I repeated my call for the Member States' competent authorities for food and feed to exercise stricter control to ensure a high level of consumer health protection.
Feed and food operators need to be more aware of their responsibilities in this area.
You will receive the report with our analysis before the end of this year.
At the same time, the question arises as to whether Community legislation in relation to the waste sector is sufficiently stringent and properly implemented.
I would remind you that had existing waste legislation been correctly applied in the case of MPA, it would have prevented such an incident.
One lesson we can learn from this incident is the need for closer coordination and cooperation between the authorities responsible for the waste sector and those responsible for feed and food safety.
We discussed and debated the Food Safety White Paper and went on to pass legislation on food and feed and on the establishment of the European Food Safety Authority.
Now, our media have been full of new food scandals. 50 000 Dutch pigs condemned to be slaughtered because they were contaminated by illegal feedstuffs - illegal because of contamination by MPA hormones in feed additives.
But pork was sold, was processed and has been eaten by humans and of course MPA in humans can cause infertility.
I have faith in our new food safety measures.
Commissioner Byrne told us that the feasibility study is almost complete, so we should be able to start soon.
This Authority will also need to issue recommendations to the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin about the way in which the inspection procedures can be improved still further.
In a slightly different area, there is legislation in Europe which defines precisely what regional products are.
In Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania 320 farms were temporarily closed because of suspected contamination with Nitrofen, but the discovery of this scandal and the attendant publicity were remarkable not so much because of the number of cases as because of the nature of the crisis.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have already observed that moments of crisis are, more often than not, moments from which policy-makers should draw lessons.
Fourthly, and this is something which my group has advocated, we ban by law all practices that do not yield any extra nutritional value or any extra advantage to the consumer, or that are superfluous from a technical point of view.
One of the problems we face in this House is that we often orate about how everything should be perfect without always ourselves being willing to seek the means to go with the ends: the means to allow us to have an effective FVO, which at the moment is overstretched and understaffed; the means to have a proper process of scrutiny whereby every Member State, great or small, whether its population is a few hundred thousand or many millions, takes equal precautions and provides equal information.
The controls are now better and, as a result of the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health being set up in February and the evidence it collates, we can now say that we have a rapid-alert system that ought to work.
I hope that the Commissioner can tell us that proper investigations are proceeding in all the Member States as to why organisations like Bioland could perpetrate the scandals they did.
Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, animal feeds are, after all, food, and we need the positive list.
Of course, the positive list does not mean that we have nothing to worry about.
This means, therefore, that in this respect, the Irish and the Belgians have dropped major clangers.
An enormous variety of food is on offer, including food from widely varying countries outside the European Union.
Our guiding principle should continue to be that our food should be safe and of a high quality, in order to ensure that consumers are protected.
Food is the most basic prerequisite for people's health and quality of life.
I welcome the new European Food Safety Authority as an early warning system for Europe and as an efficient crisis management system coordinated between the Commission and the Member States.
For me, this debate is an opportunity to champion the cause of small farms, because it is always in the big, industrialised concerns, which really have very little in common with farms, that scandals occur.
I would like to stress once more that strict rules and regulations and comprehensive documentation of controls are certainly important for big companies.
The positive list was referred to by a number of people.
But we should bear in mind that a positive list would not include MPA.
In relation to further progress on the Food Safety Authority, if Parliament would make the appropriations requested by the Commission available to us, this would facilitate our work.
As I have already said, the Commission will be presenting a major proposal on controls shortly.
This is why the Commission is coming forward with a new proposal to improve controls.
So quality marks may be useful but they have their limitations.
The problems have occurred at the national level.
Mr Staes also made the point that those Member States that have a federal structure really need to look at their systems of rapid alert to ensure that they match what we have at Community level.
The debate is closed.
However, it was primarily the Feira European Council that concluded that lifelong learning would be crucial to the development of our European society in terms of social cohesion, employment opportunities and suchlike.
It also called on the Member States, the Commission and Parliament to develop strategies and a policy.
We have already underlined a number of these principles in Parliament's first report.
The first is democratisation and the principle of equality - of crucial importance, in my view.
If we fail to provide better and equal access to education and training via lifelong learning, then we have failed in our objective.
If we cannot reduce this chasm and do not succeed in doing this via lifelong learning, then we have failed.
A second crucial principle is, in fact, the right to individual personality development.
This does not only encompass lifelong learning, it also recognises the wider social value of lifelong learning.
This is about the right to work on one's own personality development without necessarily focusing on the jobs.
In addition, we need to strike the right balance between, on the one hand, a right that we have to create for our citizens, a right that we, as a government, must be able to make reality on the basis of our own resources, and, on the other hand, the individual's duties and responsibility.
This is why the Commission has proposed the European curriculum vitae, to be replaced in due course by the portfolio system.
In this area, the Commission still has a great deal of work to do, Commissioner, for we are, in fact, nowhere at the moment.
I have already mentioned individual personality development and the fact that not only is lifelong learning is important, it is important to recognise its wider social value too.
In my first report, and now in the second report as well, I have introduced the concept of the individual learning account.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like, first of all, to thank the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, and particularly its rapporteur, for its commitment and also for the constructive criticism that has been made.
We know that, today, we are far from achieving the target: only 8% of European adults have access to lifelong learning and almost two out of ten young people leave the educational system without any qualifications.
I should like to highlight three of them: basic skills, investment and the European area of education and lifelong learning.
With regard to basic skills, our objective is clear: every European citizen must have these skills in order to be able to learn, work and live in the knowledge-based society.
I say 'live' because personal development and the capacity to play a role in our society, in our democracies are also important.
The Member States and the Commission are currently working on the issue of basic skills by implementing the work programme on objectives for education and training systems.
If we want to create a genuine system of lifelong learning, if we want to translate our political ambitions into practical actions, we, not only the Member States but also the social partners, will clearly have to spend more.
In this field, the Member States have made some progress, especially those which lagged the furthest behind.
This is where we must develop the partnerships that you underline in your report.
Because lifelong learning is a shared responsibility, national strategies must be the result of agreements at all levels, including at the local level, and between all operators, in particular the social partners.
Although responsibility for implementing these policies falls primarily to the Member States, the Community itself has a role to play in creating a European area of education and lifelong learning.
An area in which citizens, whoever they are and whatever country they come from, can transfer their skills and their qualifications from one country to another, for the purpose of studying, training, working, getting involved or just living.
A great deal of progress has been made in this field, however, and rest assured, ladies and gentlemen, that the Commission is working on this, to ensure that we achieve the recognition of qualifications and that, especially in the field of vocational training, we are able to open up new perspectives and use new common working methods.
A political initiative has been taken to strengthen cooperation between Member States in the field of vocational training.
This is generally known as the Bruges process, because it is in the beautiful city of Bruges that national ministers and the Commission decided to adopt this approach.
New initiatives are, therefore, being taken, progress is being made, and I must say that, despite all the difficulties that exist, governments are moving in the direction described because they have understood the absolute need for such measures.
We will, therefore, be extending the issue of education and lifelong learning to encompass our future partners in the European Union.
At least one in two Member States has no specific strategy and a strategy is vital if we are to have economic development, if we are to improve industry and mobility and if we are to improve unemployment programmes.
I think that one very important factor would be if the Member States were to set a budget.
I would point out, in particular, two aspects that I believe are important and that are perhaps not adequately stressed in the long lists.
We also need to give special attention to the most vulnerable groups of women, such as immigrants, women in rural areas and elderly women.
Mr President, I believe that lifelong learning has very often been defined as a priority objective.
It is very difficult to establish these principles, to establish a system of quality evaluation, and to develop the right types of teaching so that lifelong learning can genuinely become a common basis throughout people's lives.
In this regard, I believe that the measures we should adopt should include an increase in monitoring and inspection and the clarification of quality indicators, and they should be of differing types, and, above all, it seems to me extremely important to ensure that training be established throughout the territory.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since the Lisbon Summit, education and training have become a more and more important part of EU strategy.
The European Parliament and its Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport have barely played any part in setting targets for education and training.
Now that Kathleen Van Brempt has produced her excellent report, we have a good opportunity to talk about lifelong learning here in plenary.
Ensuring that all our citizens keep up with developments as best they can is not only an ethically sustainable policy but also one that is wise and practical.
It would help employment and increase motivation if there were a clearer link between lifelong learning and qualifications based on the needs of industry.
For that reason I wish to emphasise the need for setting special targets so that the provision of lifelong learning can be made to include people who failed to finish their secondary education, are untrained, have special needs and learning difficulties, or who are socially underprivileged.
The Commission communication is a step in the right direction.
In 2002, there are still more than a million people in the Netherlands who are functionally illiterate, and I think that the situation is not much better in other Member States.
This will obviously require the support of the European Commission as a matter of vital necessity.
I should also like to draw the attention to the importance of the citizens' own responsibility for their education.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having spoken yesterday evening on European citizenship, I am pleased to be able to speak this morning, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the matter of the European area of education and learning.
Ladies and gentlemen, as everyone has said, education and learning must be accessible to everyone so that everyone has the same opportunities to find their place in society.
This is a downward spiral and hence the vital importance of adopting a coordinated strategy at European level which provides access for every European citizen to a decent and sufficient minimum standard of education and of learning.
The Commission communication attempts to respond to this ambitious project.
We also support the idea that the Commission should, working closely with the Member States, put in place a European framework to define the basic skills that all pupils have to have acquired.
With regard to training, I support the request for the Commission to implement clear strategies with adequate funding for the chapter concerning lifelong learning.
However, not everyone has access to this knowledge base.
The proposals on lifelong learning are an emerging response to this deficit, but only an emerging one.
Accordingly, I consider it necessary for the government to adopt a proactive stance in order to enable the public to acquire new knowledge continuously.
The current policy in many Member States leaves something to be desired in this respect.
Thereafter, employees should be responsible for their own development.
In this context, the government and employers need to ensure that the right preconditions and financial support are in place.
We had great expectations for this communication because we all knew that the Member States had made almost no progress in the field since the Lisbon Council.
If we genuinely wish to create a Europe of knowledge by encouraging equal opportunities, it is crucial to offer every citizen of the Union equal access to education and to lifelong learning.
It therefore falls to the Commission to promote all Member State initiatives in this area and, wherever possible, to propose specific programmes designed, for example, for jobseekers or for young people without qualifications.
Finally, I wish to focus on the European dimension of education and training, which requires mastery of a second language.
All the institutions and the Member States must pursue their efforts in this field so that there is a proper follow-up to the European Year of Languages.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, creating an area of lifelong learning means taking active steps to guarantee equality of opportunity for all population groups.
The European Union cannot realistically achieve that alone, considering that 1% of the total budget is invested in culture and education.
We need to involve the informal sector and accelerate the political process of adult education, we need a new learning culture to secure sustainable development of the most precious resource at our disposal - people and their minds.
Madam President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent report.
As regards training, then, the individual States must strengthen these national agreements on training, working together with local communities, businesses, firms and all those who invest in the training of the young and not so young.
As she has illustrated so well, in our societies, equal opportunities, personal development and the ability to take charge throughout one's life are dependent upon better access to education and training.
This report has the merit of reminding us of the essential issues in lifelong learning.
The most crucial issue for me, ladies and gentlemen, is funding, because, although the Commission has currently earmarked more than EUR 500 million and will set aside an equivalent sum in 2006, and although the European Investment Bank intends to increase the budget earmarked for this area, the Member States, on the other hand, seem not to want to make any great effort on this matter.
Finally Commissioner, I am categorically opposed, as I hope you are, to the idea that the price for even a tiny part of this education should be met by those who are precisely in greatest need of it.
We need to see school as a foundation for acquiring basic skills, and we have to educate people in school as a basis for lifelong learning if we are to meet the challenges of the modern age.
Competitiveness is not just about costs, it is about quality and about education and training, which are fundamental if we want a higher quality level of production, be quicker and reduce costs.
The report we have before us highlights many possibilities and this debate has also demonstrated how much we can and should do.
I would also like to touch again on a few points that are not clear to me, and, in particular, the question of recognising formal qualifications.
The Commission talks in one place about a voluntary minimum quality standard and in another place about a modular system that needs to be worked out by 2003 and which would allow people to combine different educational and vocational training establishments.
We in this House need to help to overcome these barriers.
The Lisbon Council set the target of making the EU the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economic area in the world.
Madam President, I know that we are pressed for time and that I should state my position on all the very practical proposals made by the honourable Members.
In November, the Commission will present a communication on indicators and benchmarks, which will serve to measure the progress made in the priority areas.
Furthermore, with regard to basic skills, seven working groups are in the process, in collaboration with the Member States, of reaching agreement on the common criteria necessary to apply the benchmarks correctly and to evaluate the measures that have been adopted.
I wish to add that the social partners and the Member States have given a commitment to establish common principles in the field of non-formal training, a task that we are striving to see through.
I should also like to state that I am as shocked as anyone at the frightening number of people in our societies who can neither read nor write.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
I must say that many ideas from my fellow Members of Parliament are taken up here, and I have listened extensively to the views of the European Students' Association and the European Universities' Association, as well as many other sectors and that, furthermore, a hearing has taken place.
For more than 1 500 years the universities have been an axis upon which European culture has been built.
Furthermore, they have been the places where dialogue has been created, where scientific thought has been developed and where young people have been educated.
Furthermore, we need them to take on the scientific and conceptual challenge facing Europe and its regions and nations.
We support the Bologna process, starting with the universities themselves and with the Council, with all that it implies: mobility, recognition of qualifications, the creation of networks, etc.; but it is understood that, in order to achieve this convergence, both the recognition of qualifications and the increase in mobility amongst teachers, students and researchers, it is necessary to make admissions procedures more flexible and make the Bologna process itself more open, as well as the architecture of qualifications.
The indicators - the few available - in many cases show very negative figures; the universities are going through a great crisis: they have made a great effort to bring education closer to everybody, and they have often lost out in terms of competitiveness.
It is true that if we want to create this Europe of knowledge that we have been anxiously hoping for since Lisbon, we must integrate universities in a very real way.
In fact, on 17 July, the Commission adopted the Erasmus World project, which will authorise the creation of links between our universities, at masters' degree level.
This proposal has been submitted to Parliament and to the Council, under the codecision procedure.
We are thereby affirming our will to innovate and to strengthen our universities so that they once again become the centres of excellence that they have the potential to be and so that they contribute to making a reality the Europe of knowledge, which still exists in theory only.
In other countries, such as the United States, sport and university studies are entirely compatible.
And not only are they compatible, but a North American student actually has access to many more universities and opportunities thanks to sport than they would without it.
We must promote the participation of university teams in competitions between universities (regional, national, international, etc.) and perhaps - and why not? - we could apply part of the Erasmus programme, which is having great success, to providing mobility for university sports teams, as enjoyed by other students.
We must not forget that young people who divide their time between studies and sport are not left with much energy and time to indulge in other activities which we would all consider less advisable.
Those like myself who have experienced the effects of the Erasmus and Socrates programmes in universities know, despite the frequently limited scale of the programmes caused by lack of funding, how much impact they have had both in terms of widening the horizons of students and lecturers and in terms of creating extensive European awareness among the citizens, starting with the families of those who have benefited from the programmes.
This would be an interesting example of the application of the principle of subsidiarity to a sector of European culture which is crucial to all our work.
I could not agree more that knowledge is the key to competitiveness and economic and social development in Europe, but I certainly do not see eye to eye on all her conclusions.
Universities play a vital role when it comes to turning Europe into the most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economy.
The report points at the need for an intercultural dialogue with the world's other regions.
Their basic functions are being privatised, they are increasingly controlled by business interests and they are forced to operate as enterprises subject to competition and the laws of the market in general.
The European Union is the main driving force in this direction and the report is right behind it.
The Communist Party of Greece is radically opposed to the Bologna process, to private universities, to interventions via the Green Paper, to the so-called European area of higher education and, of course, to the creation of a seat of European universities, all of which eradicate independence and the free circulation of ideas.
Ladies and gentlemen, universities are not grocery stores.
It will also increase European competitiveness, because universities play an important role now in the business sector.
Many higher education establishments are already suffering a funding crisis and European Union higher education legislation will not be brought closer without proper financial commitment.
In my own country, the UK, the compulsory teaching of foreign languages is being cut back.
I commend this report to the House and fully support it.
It is therefore becoming increasingly important for the European Union to implement a support policy through the programming of funds for university research, bearing in mind that the task of a university as an institution is not just to teach but, above all, to carry out research and experiments, thus enhancing the role of researchers who would otherwise seek more professionally rewarding activities elsewhere, specifically in the United States.
Looking back at the funding hitherto appropriated for research by the European Union, I note that a huge amount has been dedicated to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are certainly important in the overall economies of our countries, while the sector of university research has been neglected.
But the high profile of education in the political arena makes universities and other institutions especially vulnerable to external pressure.
But more worryingly, under the Jean Monnet programme I see the orthodoxies of the European Union now being taught in political science and in European history courses.
The European Union has its own key policies and they are integration, integration and yet more integration.
I have no doubt that this particular report is well meant but the creation of a European learning area and the prospect of yet more taxpayers' money being filtered through the EU into universities is a recipe for even more political interference.
In the eighteenth century, the whole of Europe flocked to Prussia, not because Prussia had an efficient state capable of running universities but, above all, because there was a great teacher named Immanuel Kant.
On issues such as the unification of quality standards, the mutual and automatic recognition of qualifications, the convergence of degrees and programmes and the employment of graduates, the achievement of a European dimension, and the objectives set for 2010 in general, are almost as far away as they were on the day following the end of the Bologna process, more than three years ago now.
The fact that the European university sector, with its fifteen million students and 600 000 teachers, is the most dynamic sector in our society, and the fact that we are adopting reports such as these, are hopeful signs which lead us to believe that, despite nationalist resistance in the Council, the autocratic attitude of some of our universities and the apathy of the Commission and Parliament in this sector, we will finally achieve the stated objective of a European area of higher education which is worthy of the name.
I must, however, express some reservations about the self-confessed goal of this report through the creation of a European area of higher education.
European civilisation has created diversity in all areas.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by congratulating the committee on its own initiative report on universities in the European area and endorse the thoughts and issues raised by the rapporteur and the proposals which she has formulated.
Universities have always been incubators of European culture and have played an important role in developing our societies.
We must therefore realise that if the European Union is to achieve the new strategic development objectives set in Lisbon today, it needs more active and competitive universities to generate knowledge and innovation not as isolated institutions but as active partners in the social and economic fabric at national level, at regional level and at a cross-border level that mirrors the new configuration of Europe.
What we all have to understand is that convergence and promoting educational cohesion can be achieved with all due respect for diversity and, at the same time, by introducing systems which recognise and promote the added value of the special attributes of our universities.
The debate is closed.
Mrs Fan is here for a number of important meetings.
Yi lü ping an [We wish you a safe journey home] Paragraph 29 of the Coelho resolution welcomes the judgment of the Court of First Instance of 3 May 2002, which granted to Jégo-Quéré et Cie SA a direct right of appeal against a European regulation.
We want to make people more caring and interested in the communities in their own nation states rather than create an artificial right, as the rapporteur seems to be suggesting.
These people are now second-class citizens.
A second goal of this proposal is to increase the level of participation during European elections.
I wholeheartedly supported the Commission's proposal on European citizenship.
Of course, it is not easy to increase the political dimension of European citizenship by decree.
It is a way of exerting ideological and psychological pressure on the workers into blaming themselves for unemployment and accepting long-term unemployment and of destroying the link between education and job prospects.
We voted against the Van Brempt report on a European Area of Lifelong Learning because it is a good example of the unwarranted extension of European powers.
In particular, it proposes that the Commission should develop (albeit 'acting in close collaboration with the Member States') a 'European framework of basic skills' to be acquired by all students before they leave compulsory school education.
In addition, the European Parliament once again states that the current situation in the area of qualifications 'constitutes a serious obstacle to mobility between Member States and the emergence of a Europe-wide labour market' (recital F).
This has nothing to do with a policy that provides all citizens with lifelong learning based on their potential and their aspirations.
Creating a European area of lifelong learning has become a priority for the twenty-first century and we can only encourage the initiatives to achieve this.
If we propose education and training in distinct, inconsistent and unrelated modules, our future citizens will be lacking an adequate professional basis and a sense of identity.
Although this report contains some positive aspects in terms of its intentions, it also makes some misguided proposals, which arise from a largely economic view of the system.
While education remains a national competence, it is important that the EU give whatever support possible to educators and students, particularly in areas where new and innovative courses and qualifications are needed.
That is why I support the Commission's proposal for a directive of 19 January 2001 seeking to transpose into Community law the second pillar of the Aarhus Convention of 25 June 1998.
The MPF delegation believes, of course, that transparency of information and public participation in the decision-making process must be encouraged and well defined.
Incidentally, Mr President, let us reiterate that, in Nepal, 422 people have died and 173 people have been reported missing.
In Russia, 50 people have lost their lives and 100 have been reported missing.
In Mexico, torrential rain has cost 21 lives and 15 000 people have been affected.
In Asia, 250 people have died this year.
Like my colleagues, the Belgian Socialists, I abstained during the final vote on the resolution on the floods in Europe for two reasons.
Nevertheless, we welcome - which is why we have voted in favour of this point - the approval of the request for a detailed investigation, under the auspices of the United Nations, of the allegations of massacres and war crimes, which our group has condemned on more than one occasion, specifically by inviting the film-maker Jamie Doran to show his film in the European Parliament on 12 June.
In every valley the people determine their often stubborn points-of-view and they do not appreciate outside interference.
I am pleased that we have adopted it today, as elections are being held in Macedonia on 15 September.
The report presented by the Commission on its strategy on Asia gives a great deal of room to pious hopes.
This is certainly something that the European Parliament should oppose.
Taiwan has recently changed from a place of exile from the old pre-1949 Chinese regime into a country in which the majority is non-Chinese, where the old Kuo Min Tang party has lost power to movements of indigenous Taiwanese, and which is looking more and more like Europe and Japan from a political and economic point of view.
The majority will probably now choose to become an independent state in a referendum.
The existence of two Germanies, two Vietnams and two Yemens ultimately came to an end because one was able to swallow up the other.
The EU Member States withdrew their recognition of Taiwan in favour of China.
The coercive proposals made to Milosevic before the outbreak of the war did not, oddly enough, provide for independence for Kosovo, but rather for foreign influence on the government and the economy of Serbia and Montenegro.
We want the State of Egypt, like the other States which have signed the association agreements, to understand that the democratic clause in Article 2 is not a luxury, nor is it an option.
Mr President, we welcome the fact that all the Parliamentary groups are willing to discuss and vote on this subject for urgent debate which involves the case of Professor Ibrahim, who has been sentenced by the supreme court for state security to seven years' imprisonment for two offences: conspiracy and activities against the state, and fraud.
We accordingly have a duty to give our support to a man, Professor Ibrahim, who has worked in the tradition of Ibn-Khaldoun, and we should make it clear - and this is also something that we owe, as it were, to the heritage of Ibn-Khaldoun - that there are not two concepts of human rights, one for Europe and one for Egypt, but that there is a single concept of human rights here, which is also appropriate in common cultural and historical terms and which should apply universally today.
Egypt is one of our most important partners in the Mediterranean area.
As is evident from the current political crisis, Egypt, alongside Morocco and Turkey, is our most important ally in the Islamic world in the Mediterranean area.
In order to achieve this, she must set an example that other states can emulate.
The European Union is willing to inject new life into the Barcelona Process, but this can only be done if our partners stop flouting the principles.
I would like to thank Commissioner Patten for his clear statements in defence of Professor Ibrahim and refuting allegations of any kind of fraud.
I believe that all possible checks have been carried out and that there is therefore no excuse: we must fight for his release.
A further four defendants were also sentenced to prison and the remaining 24 have suspended sentences.
Furthermore, I repeated then and I repeat now that we deplore the use of state security courts and procedures to pursue cases of this nature.
The case has been closely followed by the EC and Member States and we made our concern clear at the highest levels from the beginning.
At the conclusion of the first trial last year, the severe sentences led to an EC statement on 23 May and the presidency declaration two days later, expressing deep concern.
Then, as now, the European Union stressed the importance it attaches to the development of civil society and reiterated that actions to this end are an integral part of Barcelona and bilateral programming which Egypt has signed up to.
The European Union has always hoped that due legal process and justice would prevail.
The Egyptian authorities are well aware of the wider implications of a judgment that is perceived as unjust and politically influenced.
There is some cause for optimism, for example, in relation to women's rights, judicial control of general elections and social legislation.
The Ibrahim case casts a long, but hopefully temporary, shadow over the Egyptian human rights and democracy movement.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the African continent, which, for far too long, has been synonymous with tragedies and loss, recently wanted to present a new face to the international community.
It is difficult to accept such a barbaric act could be carried out for the mere fact of having had a baby after a divorce.
Above all, it is difficult to accept regional laws, in a federal state which denies and flouts a national constitution.
However, it is also the moral and political duty of the Union, many of whose Member States share a common history with the African continent, to oppose criminal abuses, such as certain interpretations of the Sharia law and to support, using every effort and every means at our disposal, those who are fighting for the rule of law, for rights and for real justice for all.
That is why my group and I are calling for a working group to be set up on the question of Sharia law and women's rights as part of our forthcoming ACP-EU delegation.
The stability of Nigeria is under threat and the stability of the whole country could be affected by what is happening in Nigeria, the most densely populated country in Africa.
Mr President, Commissioner, I wish to express in the strongest terms my horror and disgust at what has been happening over the last two years in the northern provinces of Nigeria, where Islamic fundamentalists have imposed Sharia law over and above the laws of the country and international law.
I find it impossible to believe, Commissioner Patten, that intolerance, obscurantism and misogyny can triumph over reason and human values.
We need to send out a very strong message from this House today both to Nigeria and to any other country in which crimes are being committed against women because, as we know from the press, sentences of death by stoning are also passed in Iran.
I looked into these facts and the first thing that strikes us about this case is the cruel and unusual punishment that is involved.
The second hurtful aspect of this case is the absolute and wanton cruelty involved.
It violates every instinct in mankind that prompts us to work for a world that can be shared in peace and enjoyment by us all.
But if some people believe that on behalf of their god, they can take it upon themselves to punish and persecute their fellow men because they follow a different religion or do not have any religious beliefs, then mankind cannot co-exist in peace in this world.
Although the Katsina state is involved, there are other responsibilities: those of the federal Nigerian authorities which have a duty to ensure strict respect of the constitution and the protection of human rights for all Nigerian citizens, regardless of status, religion or sex.
The international community, and Europe in particular, must condemn this unacceptable breach of fundamental human rights.
Lastly, as part of the Cotonou partnership agreements, Europe can and must urge Nigeria to respect its international commitments and to promote democracy and women's rights.
Mr President, are we going to support a country that pursues barbaric practices?
More and more states within Nigeria are introducing Sharia law.
Nigeria is a very fragile and unstable democracy.
However, it can only continue to do so if the federal government does everything in its constitutional power to stop barbaric punishments from being administered.
Development aid and support for good government makes little sense if the recipients of this aid persist with their barbaric practices.
Mr President, Commissioner, as Christian Democrats, and as the PPE-DE Group, our commitment to the defence of the value of human life and dignity, and the defence of the fundamental rights and freedoms required for that dignity, lead us once again to vigorously condemn the violations of human life and dignity represented by the death sentences - and, what is more, death by stoning - handed down in strict application of Islamic law; and to urge the authorities responsible to show clemency in order to prevent the ignominy of the execution of such sentences.
It also leads us to remind not only the Federal State of Nigeria, but also Niger, Sudan and Somalia, that the current interpretation and application of the sharia is not only a clear violation of fundamental rights, but that it evidently contravenes the international commitments to human rights which they have signed up to, including the Cotonou agreements, article one of which clearly states that the rights of the individual will be respected and that the situation of women and issues of sex equality will systematically be taken into account in all areas, political, economic and social.
Therefore, as well as our absolute rejection of the death sentences which have been handed down, and as well as asking for mercy for Amina Lawal, Ahmadu Ibrahin and Fatima Usman, we must and want to demand that the governments of these countries bring their legislation into line with the international standards and commitments in the field of human rights, in order to prevent an application of the sharia which violates human rights.
Mr President, Commissioner, this mother, Amina Lawal, has been sentenced to death, to die by stoning, brutally, for having had sexual relations after being divorced, something very common which is done by millions of people, men and women, on all five continents, regardless of their beliefs, Muslims, Catholics, protestants and any other. 'Why Amina and not me?', the whole world asks in the face of this Islamic hypocrisy.
The harm it would do to the life of Amina is irreversible.
Paragraph 11 reiterates that the European Parliament wants to see consideration of the victims of fundamentalist persecutions being given the right to asylum, particularly in cases of sentences to death by stoning.
Mr President, Commissioner, we must not forget that these sentences to death by stoning are also being carried out in Iran.
Commissioner, we want to strengthen links with Iran, but are these stonings compatible with our coherence on foreign and security policy and the defence of human rights?
Commissioner, I would ask you also to take account of the stonings in Iran.
Transparency International still classes Nigeria as the second most corrupt country in the world.
Mr President, we shall vote in favour of this resolution in spite of all the criticism that can be directed at it.
If the European Parliament can prevent a crime from being committed against Amina Lawal by adopting a position, then this is what it must do.
Condemning a woman for having given birth to a child, in the name of antiquated laws, is a despicable crime, in the same way as all forms of oppression of women and all forms of mutilation are despicable, whether or not they are perpetrated in the name of religion.
We must, of course, condemn the barbaric acts in Nigeria, but we must also condemn these acts when they are committed in the United States, this superpower which poses as a model of modern civilisation, or even here, in the European Union which tolerates some of its Member States implementing laws which ban women from enjoying the basic right to own and control their own bodies.
The practices carried out there in the name of Sharia law are beyond the pale of any society that calls itself civilised and humane.
The young couple Ahmadu Ibrahim and Fatima Usman face the same prospect, as does an older man accused of rape.
This punishment is incompatible with the conventions and covenants signed by Nigeria.
The key is the governor of Katsina state and it is important that the presidency and the Commission and the President of our Parliament add their pleas to those many of us have already sent to Umaru Musa Yar'Adua.
According to information from Amnesty International, in Iran, for example, in 2001 and 2002 at least six women were sentenced to death by stoning for crimes such as 'adultery and earthly depravity', in some cases after a long prison sentence, and these sentences were carried out.
In Iran alone a total of 35 people, both men and women, have already been executed this year in various ways.
It is therefore high time that the European Union took a stand against this barbaric practice not just in individual cases, but as a matter of principle.
Quite simply, we expect all communities to accept international norms concerning human rights, gender equality and respect for human life.
We are resolutely opposed to the use of the death penalty and fully subscribe to the European Union guidelines against the death penalty adopted in 1998.
The Commission will continue to provide support for human rights and democracy initiatives, through its cooperation programme with Nigeria and through other instruments such as the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights, which has so many eloquent champions in this Parliament.
This initiative includes Nigeria as a focus country, and will support interventions in the field of good governance and legal reform with the aim of achieving a positive impact on the status of women and awareness of their legal rights.
As Parliament may know, we financed a study - the Peters report - on the problems of applying the Sharia Law in Nigeria.
Mrs Izquierdo Rojo raised the question of female lapidation in Iran.
The debate is closed.
The fact is that the situation there is getting worse and the European Union's actions to date have clearly been ineffective.
Imagine our horror, therefore, when we discovered that Augustine Chihuri, the Zimbabwe police chief who is actually named on the European Union's prescribed list as being banned from travelling to EU countries, was nevertheless in France last week, at an Interpol meeting in Lyon.
The fact is that he should not have been in France and the Council must now take vigorous and effective steps to close the loopholes and galvanise international moves against President Mugabe before the tragedy of Zimbabwe is again overshadowed by other international crises.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, President Mugabe's dictatorship is reprehensible.
The European Union must therefore play its own role.
Our sanctions must affect President Mugabe and his circle, but not the people of Zimbabwe.
As I have already said, the European Union should be willing to support a legal and constitutional process of land reform, but it should not support such machinations.
Unfortunately, the abovementioned tragedy (see the Sunday Telegraph of 25 August) was not an isolated incident.
Not to mention the approximately 50 militia camps where President Mugabe's opponents are locked up and tortured for 're-education', but which are also increasingly being used as rape camps.
Meanwhile, President Mugabe does not seem to be in the least ashamed of this reign of terror.
The fact that he is allowing half of his 12 million compatriots to starve on account of this non-argument does not bother him in the least.
Namibian President Nujoma's active support for President Mugabe and the deafening silence from President Mbeki, the great initiator of the NEPAD programme, which is all about rulers' responsibilities towards the ruled, is worrying.
In order to prevent the 'oil slick effect', I call on the Council and Commission to continue to give the crisis in Zimbabwe political priority.
And it is not he who withholds food from his political opponents, but the enemies of Zimbabwe.
Farmers are deprived of everything without any compensation and are forced to flee.
The so-called smart sanctions against the regime are not being particularly smartly enforced.
President Mbeki of South Africa and other leaders in the region must ultimately accept their responsibility and must support the people of Zimbabwe and not a president who neglects his citizens because of his own hunger for power.
To be precise, I expect that Zimbabwe's Foreign Minister will not be invited to the EU-SADEC meeting of Foreign Ministers in Copenhagen in November, and we should make it clear to our partners in southern Africa that European money is not intended to finance an African renaissance or a new NEPAD programme of African development for President Mugabe and his political allies.
Mr President, of course this resolution speaks for itself.
He has no respect for human rights, minority rights, international law or international opinion.
At the same time, we must aid and support those African states which take similar punitive actions against the Mugabe regime.
The great sadness in all of this is the effect it is having on the citizens of Zimbabwe, whose only crime is to have Mr Mugabe as their president.
Their departure will spell the end of farms, famine for 12 million inhabitants of Zimbabwe and widespread poverty.
I can remember, for example, during a famine in Mozambique, purchasing food aid in Zimbabwe for dispersal in Mozambique.
The Commission has, as Parliament knows, suspended official development assistance to Zimbabwe since early 2002.
We, in the Commission, will contribute to support any peer pressure that Heads of State in Africa, and southern Africa in particular, may put on the Zimbabwe Government to respect the essential elements of the Cotonou Agreement, such as human rights, the rule of law and democracy.
The political situation in the run-up to the local elections due this September continues to be tense, and the deadline for eviction orders for 2 900 white farmers to leave their properties expired on 8 August 2002.
The Commission is therefore continuing to contribute to projects which directly support the population in the field of democratisation, respect for human rights and the rule of law, and the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights includes Zimbabwe as a focal country.
I am sure many Members of Parliament will have seen reports of Zanu-PF supporters saying to the people of Zimbabwe that only fools starve.
An initial EUR 2 million was provided through our humanitarian organisation, ECHO, for vulnerable groups, particularly children and farm workers.
A sizeable part of the humanitarian financing decision to be taken shortly for EUR 30 million for the region will go to respond to the emergency in Zimbabwe including monitoring needs and food aid distribution.
An additional regional allocation of EUR 30 million within the 2002 programme of cooperation with the World Food Programme will provide food aid assistance in the region, in particular in Zimbabwe.
The Commission believes that SADC has a leading role to play in the resolution of the increasingly serious Zimbabwe crisis.
Parliament will know of the targeted sanctions that we have introduced - sanctions which are focused on the leading members of this particularly nasty and deeply corrupt regime, on their travel and on their assets.
I will certainly report the views of Parliament to Member States on this particular point.
I would also like to draw the attention of Parliament to the recent report of the Expert Panel established by the Security Council on the rape and pillage of the assets of the Democratic Republic of Congo and, in particular, to what is said there about Zimbabwe's role in that systematic pillage.
The report itself makes extremely disturbing reading.
President Mugabe and his cronies have wrecked a once prosperous and once stable country.
The debate is closed.
I declare this sitting of the European Parliament closed. (The sitting was closed at 4.25 p.m.) I have voted in favour of the report but against approved Amendment Nos 1 and 2.
I find it extremely regrettable that my own Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats tabled two amendments which weaken the committee's original text.
Amendment No 1 removed the wording in paragraph 30 to the effect that the European Parliament 'expresses its indignation at the increasing number of executions in China' and 'recalls that the Chinese government systematically uses persecution and torture as a means to silence dissidents and minorities'.
The committee believes that a common institutional policy is needed for harmonising European research and higher education, together with significantly stronger support by the EU for the universities.
