Enlargement strategy 2009 concerning the countries of the western Balkans, Iceland and Turkey (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on enlargement strategy 2009 concerning the countries of the western Balkans, Iceland and Turkey.
President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, honourable Members, this is a truly important debate on a truly important subject.
It is important that Parliament and the Council, as well as the Commission, stand together on an issue as critical as this one.
In retrospect, perhaps the most crucial of all the Articles in that treaty that was signed on the Capitol Hill in Rome more than half a century ago was what today is Article 49 in the Lisbon Treaty: any European state which respects our values and is committed to promoting them may apply to become a member of the Union.
A Europe of 6, of 9, of 12, of 15 or even of 25 would have been smaller in every single respect - in ambition, in standing, in possibilities, in respect across the globe.
There have been both the difficulties of the new members implementing our ever increasing policies and acquis and our difficulties in adjusting to our own success in the form of new members, but when we look back, it is easy to see that periods of enlargement have been periods in which we have also deepened our cooperation.
Article 49 is as important, I would argue, to our future as it has been to our past.
During the last year, we have had new membership applications from Montenegro, Albania and Iceland, and there are others that we all know that are equally keen on reaching the position where an application can be handed in.
After the last enlargement that brought in approximately 100 million new citizens to our Union, our attention is now focused on the countries of south-eastern Europe - perhaps up to 100 million citizens as well.
The different challenges we face in the different countries of the western Balkans are well known, and the magnitude of the transformation of Turkey has not escaped us either.
Along with Parliament, we share the hope that Albania and Bosnia will catch up and will be able to join this most important step as soon as possible.
The accession process of Croatia has been unblocked and is now moving forward.
The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has been given a very positive report by the Commission, and it is my hope that the Council in December will be able to concretely indicate further steps in its accession process.
The applications of Montenegro and Albania have been forwarded to the Commission and I believe we can expect its opinion within a year or so.
In Bosnia, it is our hope that the political leaders will be able to agree on the reforms necessary in order to make it possible for that country as well to contemplate an application for membership.
Not directly related but also of obvious significance in this regard are the ongoing talks between President Christofias and Mr Talat on the reunification of Cyprus.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, let me first thank the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and its Chair, Gabriele Albertini, for a balanced and comprehensive resolution.
I would also like to thank all of you for your excellent cooperation over the past five years.
The European Parliament has greatly helped to shape our enlargement policy and you have set an example of democratic accountability.
I look forward to continuing our excellent cooperation in the future, whatever the portfolio in my case.
The EU will take a long-awaited step forward next week when the Lisbon Treaty enters into force.
This will start a new era in the EU's foreign policy.
This will enable us to continue our gradual and carefully managed accession process.
It is here that we have achieved our most remarkable successes over the past 20 years of transforming the European continent by reunifying East and West and thus building a stronger European Union.
Enlargement has been a key driver of this process and it continues to transform south-eastern Europe today.
Iceland's application adds a new political and geo-economic dimension to our enlargement agenda.
Zagreb now needs to intensify its reform efforts, especially in the judiciary and the fight against corruption and organised crime, so that negotiations can be concluded.
Turkey plays a key role in energy security and in the dialogue between civilisations.
The country sufficiently fulfils the Copenhagen political criteria.
There is now a new context, a new debate and a new window of opportunity that I trust both Skopje and Athens will indeed capitalise on.
As for Kosovo, stability has been maintained but still remains fragile.
During my hearings, I told this Parliament that by 2009, we wanted to see an EU of 27 Member States with Bulgaria and Romania in, the accession process with Croatia reaching its final stage, the other Western Balkan countries anchored in the EU through association agreements, Turkey firmly on a European track, Kosovo's status settled and Cyprus reunified.
Even Cyprus might still happen, to the benefit of all of its citizens and the European Union.
We hope to do the same for Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina next year once they meet the conditions.
It is therefore a very important reminder to all of us who work with south-eastern Europe of how attractive the European dream remains for millions of citizens in our immediate neighbourhood.
Thanks to the work and efforts of my fellow rapporteurs and the contribution of individual political groups, we have achieved a text that expands on the original and has refined many aspects that were initially only mentioned in passing.
In less than a year, another three applications were submitted to open membership negotiations: Montenegro in December 2008, Albania in April 2009 and Iceland in July 2009.
I hope that the text that the plenary session will vote on tomorrow will address all aspects of the general strategy on enlargement in a more balanced and concise way.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, the enlargement strategy paper and the resolution we are going to adopt tomorrow show our strong commitment to the enlargement policy, which has proved to be one of the most successful of all EU policies and has benefited both existing and new Member States.
We expect that the Council will confirm the proposal of the European Commission to start negotiations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia next year so that the process can begin next year.
Let me also express the hope that the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty will further increase the capacity of the EU to integrate new members, finalising the institutional reforms within the Union.
I would like to begin by wishing Commissioner Olli Rehn every success with what he has been working on over the past five years and, in particular, to compliment him on those efforts.
He merits our full recognition.
As I was saying, I have friends and acquaintances in all of these countries and I can say, with a certain degree of pride, that, to my knowledge, we are the only large political family which has come to an agreement on the statute for Kosovo.
We reached a unanimous position on this as early as 2006 and have maintained it ever since.
I fear that I am less optimistic about a positive outcome on a number of fronts than you are, if only because it is possible that the people there might get the impression that, all of a sudden, everything has to proceed incredibly swiftly and that there is no time for adequate consultation, at least not with any political parties other than the largest ones, with which you are in touch.
Finally, I would like to make it clear, on behalf of my group, that we absolutely insist that the candidate countries respect all of the Copenhagen criteria, without any exception whatsoever being made for absolutely anyone.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, on behalf of the European Greens and the Free Alliance, I have to say that I am very pleased that this joint resolution again says that there is a strong commitment by the European Parliament to enlargement, and that the momentum for enlargement, about which we had a discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is to be kept up.
I hope that the history of armed conflict, of cruelty beyond imagination, in that part of Europe will be over once and for all, and I think the European Union plays an essential part in that.
There has been progress on some of the conflicts we have there and, as rapporteur for Kosovo, I am very pleased that the Spanish Presidency has announced during its presidency that it will invite Kosovo to take part in the western Balkans conference, which I hope will be an opportunity for progress on the status issue.
I would have preferred Kosovo to have been part of it, but at least we have ensured that there will be a start to visa dialogue with the objective of visa liberalisation.
At the moment, some 12 000 Roma people, mostly children, are about to be sent back from Member States, mostly to Kosovo, where we know the conditions are such that they will be unable to have a humane life.
By extending the benefits of EU membership to those countries that are eligible under Article 49, we hope to see develop the looser, more flexible Europe in which we believe as a group.
But, still in the Balkans, Croatia's bilateral border dispute with Slovenia must not be a barrier to joining the EU, and I hope that Macedonia will also be opening negotiations shortly.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, to start with the question of the enlargement strategy, I should like to say that, judging from enlargements to date and from how we approach new candidate countries, I think that the policy of the European Union does not always help in addressing the economic and social problems of the workers and of the societies which have acceded or will accede and, in numerous cases, assistance, financial and otherwise, is either inadequate or goes in the wrong direction and, as a result, regional and social equalities are either perpetuated or extended.
There are still problems such as the status of Serbs in Kosovo, who are living in a state of isolation, and the failure to abide by agreements on the re-establishment of refugees.
Mr President, Article 49 of the Treaty of Rome is not, in my view, a romantic urge to the Member States to participate in the enlargement of a unified Europe.
However, it is clear that Turkey has been making an effort recently to impose its rule on the area of the Middle East and the Caucasus in a way that is contrary to the standard principles of the European Union.
There are still eight chapters which need to be examined with Turkey and I therefore believe that this being so, Turkey is not yet ready to be given a start date for negotiations.
In that observation, Van Rompuy was emphasising the fundamental values of Europe, which, in his view, Turkey would undermine.
Van Rompuy has thus expressed objections to Turkish membership in principle.
Be honest with the Turks, as Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy have been, and as their great friend Herman van Rompuy has also been.
I just mentioned a few, but this is another good reason to say 'no', so thank you for that. (DE) Mr President, Mr Bildt, Commissioner, this is possibly the last enlargement debate that we will have with you, Mr Rehn.
I would like to thank you for the many good debates that we have had with you since 2004.
In my opinion, it is now time for the difficulties being created for Croatia from outside the country to be quickly resolved so that, during the next year, we can rapidly come to a decision with Croatia, complete the negotiations and ratify the accession treaty.
I believe that these bilateral issues, which apply to a number of other countries, including FYROM and Greece, and also the measures continually being taken against Serbia, which I think is an extremely important country in terms of the stability of the region, should be rapidly resolved.
It must be made clear that every country should be judged according to its capabilities and that the promise made in Thessaloniki, particularly concerning the western Balkans, will be kept.
Every country must be evaluated on the basis of its abilities and the tempo of the process must be adjusted accordingly.
However, it is also important to explain that the Copenhagen criteria apply.
The European perspective must be correct in order for the internal reform processes to start.
I think that we have to avoid repeating this same experience in the future.
Thirdly, each country should indeed come in based on its merits.
But we should also assess their capacity with their accession to contribute to a better situation in the region, more stability and more integration on a regional basis.
Management of expectations is also extremely important and I believe that perhaps in the future, we should be a little bit more imaginative in trying to allow for some kind of gradual integration of a country for which full integration is not to be envisaged in the short term.
My last point is that I believe we have to revisit the problem issue of our identity, our cultural and geopolitical identity, in order to know exactly what the limits of our enlargement are. (SL) We are about to adopt a resolution here today which is awaited with much interest and much anticipation in many countries of south-eastern Europe.
This resolution speaks in terms very different from those used in south-eastern Europe only as recently as a few years ago.
It is, in fact, these terms that have provided the impetus for, and a guide to, our debate today.
That is why, Mr Rehn, I am a little concerned for your future, because I am not entirely sure how you are going to be able to find a portfolio within the future Commission that is more attractive than that of enlargement.
However, I feel it is important to emphasise that this EU enlargement strategy is not just for the benefit of the countries that are going through the accession process; it is for our benefit and for the benefit of our European decision makers, too.
There is such a thing as enlargement fatigue, but let us remember that every democratic European country which meets very precisely specified criteria can apply for membership of the European Union.
It is a word which attracts other European countries to our Community and, at the same time, obliges us to enlarge the EU further.
This is a contradiction of the principle of solidarity.
The accession of FYROM to NATO and the European Union will sharpen the infighting, while the sovereign powers of this country still persist in their redeemed stand.
The Greek Communist Party is against the enlargement of the European Union, because it is against the European Union itself and against Greece's having joined and remaining in it.
We are fighting together with the people of Europe for peace and social justice and against imperialist unions. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, European Union enlargement may be an opportunity or a problem, but it still remains a great challenge.
The opportunity is represented by the fact that the new Member States can make a tangible contribution to constructing European policy.
Europe can no longer be seen merely as a great pool of financial resources for resolving economic, social and infrastructural problems but as an institution to which everyone must offer an original contribution in order to establish a policy built on shared values.
I think a referendum is the best way forward because it is the most direct form of democracy and it would bring Europe closer to its citizens and their freedom of choice. (NL) We have to stop putting on this great pretence where the accession of Turkey is concerned.
We have been conducting accession negotiations with Turkey for five years already and what has been the result?
Well, as far as I know, none of us here are in favour of the idea of a closed Europe, but we do have some members here, and I am one of them, who are in favour of the idea of a European Europe.
To borrow the words of Herman van Rompuy, president designate of the European Council: Turkey is not part of Europe and never will be! (RO) We are talking about enlargement in relation to the western Balkans, Iceland and Turkey, which are three very different cases.
Firstly, we have the countries in the western Balkans, which are far from meeting the economic and political criteria expected by the European Union.
However, in these countries, public opinion and political leaders support the objective of integration and are extremely optimistic about accession.
The second case we have is Iceland, a country which meets many of the economic and political criteria, but where public opinion and its leaders are deeply divided about this objective of joining the EU.
It is one of the countries with the most dynamic economic activity where a great debate is going on.
I want us to differentiate between these three situations because the western Balkans, Iceland and Turkey present three different scenarios from an integration perspective.
On the other hand, it is also a good idea for us not to deal with these cases according to bilateral policy logic.
I believe that the merits of each country and public consensus are the only benchmarks for determining a path towards European integration. (EL) Madam President, despite some people's reservations, the policy of enlargement has brought stability, peace and prosperity to Europe.
Their integration will put an end to a period of clashes which started in 1990 and will eliminate what is going to develop into a black hole in the heart of Europe.
For Serbia in particular, we all need to recognise how far it has come and support its progress by encouraging it to move towards Europe.
The unresolved status of Kosovo, the difficult situation in Bosnia and the dispute over the name of the Former Republic of Yugoslavia are open wounds in the area.
After 17 years of tension, time must be allowed for a solution to be found, at long last, which is acceptable to both sides.
Generally speaking, good neighbourly relations have been demonstrated which, whether we like it or not, are the precondition to integration.
So let us all work on them. (DE) Madam President, you have made a good, clear and concise speech, Mr Bildt.
We need to be honest about our enlargement policy so that we once again have the support of citizens for this important policy area. (NL) According to a Eurobarometer poll, European citizens have made their opinion clear on Turkey's accession: 28% in favour and 59% against.
Let this be our enlargement strategy for 2010. (DE) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I and many of my colleagues in my group have always seen enlargement as one of the EU's most important projects and have always supported it.
Despite all our justified criticism of different aspects of enlargement, it has been one of the most successful chapters in the EU's external development and it represents a complex long-term task for both the candidate countries and the EU.
With regard to south-eastern Europe in particular, with its long history of the break up of states and empires, it is right and proper that the people in these countries, which form part of a troubled region, have been offered the possibility of membership of the European Union.
The fact that some politicians in the Member States of the European Union have distanced themselves from this promise under the pretext that strengthening the identity and institutions of the EU takes priority over further EU accessions has not only increased the mistrust of the candidate countries, but has also had an inhibiting effect on the democratic opinion-forming process and the reform processes in the region. (NL) I still have vivid recollections of Commissioner Rehn saying, at one of our recent meetings, that to be a commissioner in charge of enlargement, you have to be an optimist.
I must admit that, in my opinion, that word describes him very well but, as far I am concerned, the role of optimist is not a fitting one for him.
The majority of the EU population is clearly against Turkey joining the EU.
As an accession candidate, Turkey is already receiving EUR 2.26 billion for the period from 2007 to 2010.
However, despite Turkey's participation in the Eurovision Song Contest, I am of the same opinion as the highly respected former German president, Theodor Heuss, who gave a clear definition of Europe.
Europe, he said, is built on three hills: on the Acropolis for Greek humanism, on the Capitol in Rome for the concept of the European state and on Golgotha for the Christian Western world. (DE) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the enlargement of the EU to include the western Balkans has been settled since Thessaloniki.
Accepting these countries once they have fulfilled the conditions is not an act of mercy, as many people maintain, but a simple necessity, given their geographical position in the centre of the European Union.
All the countries must, of course, meet the requirements of the Copenhagen criteria and, as these countries were formerly enemies, they must also take part in regional cooperation programmes.
This also applies to the countries which are the neighbours of these accession candidates.
Unfortunately, Bosnia and Herzegovina is in a very difficult situation and I do not believe that I can cover it in one-and-a-half minutes, although I am the rapporteur for this region.
Mr Lambsdorff, the idea that the accession candidates will have more commissioners than the founding members is a quite pathetic argument.
As rapporteur for the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM), I am particularly pleased to note that this country has made progress in 2009 and that the Commission has recommended that the Council fix a date for the commencement of negotiations.
The leadership in Belgrade must devote itself systematically to urgent political and economic reform and cooperation with all its neighbours.
We should also remember the May 2004 promise of the European Union to end the isolation of Northern Cyprus, a promise which was never fulfilled.
To make the telling point, Iceland, when it was a rich country, had no interest in joining the European Union.
I would like to compliment the Swedish Presidency and, above all, Commissioner Rehn on their work.
We must nevertheless feel more involved in the process of enlargement.
I am thinking, for example, of countries such as Kosovo - and in this regard I agree with the amendment tabled by Mrs Lunacek with regard to the Roma issue - because this is a country we cannot sideline merely because five European countries have not yet recognised its independence.
To sum up, we need the right amount of courage and a far-sighted policy that is up to the challenge that the process of enlargement sets all of us. (DE) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am speaking as head of the delegation to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and I will be concentrating on this country.
His report and his green light for this country represent a bold step forward which has generated momentum.
I wanted to ask Mr Chatzimarkakis what he believes to be the most urgent steps which the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia must take in order to make progress in the dispute over the name and to ensure that the negotiations which are just beginning are as successful as possible. (DE) Madam President, thank you very much for the question.
I believe that both sides need to change their spots and it is clear that both sides are ready to take a step forward.
I would like to see a lasting solution because the alternative is a short-term solution which could lead to disaster.
For this reason, all of us must give both sides friendly encouragement to find a long-term solution with a broad scope and a broad application. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we must consider the statement that enlargement will be a factor of stability very carefully.
We need only think of measures affecting communal social living, such as separate swimming pools for men and women, restrictions on freedom of opposition, actually extending to the imposition of a EUR 3 million fine for opposition broadcasts, and so on.
I think we must still consider one fact: there may be a majority in favour in this Parliament, but the majority of Turkish people are against Turkey's entry.
I agree, but we must consider that Turks are Turks. (EL) Madam President, the report we are debating today wants to send a positive message about European prospects and, ultimately, about the accession of the countries of the western Balkans, Turkey and Iceland to the European Union.
I believe that all of us here in this Chamber, or at least most of us, agree with this positive message.
At the same time, however, it must be made clear that progress is needed before accession.
The serious unresolved issues in good neighbourly relations between candidate countries and Member States are affecting the progress towards accession of those who want to become members of this family.
That is why the outstanding issue of the name of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia must be resolved before, not after, the start of accession negotiations.
If this country is given a start date for negotiations without this having been resolved, then its government will no longer have any strong incentive for taking a constructive stand in order to ultimately achieve a mutually acceptable solution with Greece.
As far as Turkey is concerned, regularisation of its relations with the Republic of Cyprus and a halt to overflights over Greek territory by its military aircraft are two important factors in speeding up its progress towards accession.
The European Conservatives repeat today that they say they favour enlargement but, at the same time, exclude it from the founding document of their new group whose official spokesperson, speaking in this debate, repeats his opposition to Turkey, thus putting them in exactly the same camp as the Far Right as we have all heard this afternoon.
However, I do express my warm thanks to Commission Olli Rehn, whose good humour was reflected by his recent comment that, in future, the Directorate-General for Enlargement should not be an equal distance from either the Council or the Commission, in the middle of rue de la Loi.
I hope that a Joint Parliamentary Committee will be established soon and the Icelandic Government is taking part in close talks with the Commission following the decision of the Foreign Affairs Ministers of the Union last July.
I am confident that the other chapters will be dealt with in a positive, directed way and in the spirit of friendship. (PL) Madam President, as a Pole, but at the same time a citizen of the European Union for five years now, I would like to express great satisfaction that we are talking here in such illustrious company, including people who are closely involved in the enlargement process, such as Mr Rehn and Mr Bildt.
Therefore, admission of the Balkan States to the European Union could, in my opinion, be the EU's most important contribution ever to stabilisation and peace in our continent.
The process of reform in this country is still being paralysed by political forces there.
Once again, I would like to emphasise the importance of building the sustainable constitutional framework which is necessary for this country and its institutions to work more effectively.
I therefore call on the political leaders of both entities to work towards this as a starting point.
It is precisely because of Turkey's negotiations with the European Union that this country has made such huge steps forward.
We must be wary of steps, conditions and values on which we cannot compromise, and I believe in particular in cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal.
On the other hand, it must be reaffirmed, in the clearest of terms, that the place of the western Balkans, of all the countries of the western Balkans, including Kosovo, is indeed in the European Union, and that we must encourage them to continue and to increase their efforts.
There is no contradiction between making the demands clear, on the one hand, and showing full support for the process of enlargement to include the western Balkans, on the other, just as there is no contradiction between pursuing this philosophy of judging everyone on merit and having to take important initiatives for all of the countries in the region, such as visa liberalisation.
Before speculating on any very hypothetical future outcome concerning Turkey's accession process, I will simply say that the Commission has noted, for the second year running, that no progress was made on the Ankara Protocol and that that prevented any new negotiating chapters from being opened. (DE) Madam President, I missed the beginning of this discussion, because as rapporteur for Croatia, I had to report to the EU-Croatia Joint Parliamentary Committee.
I have also made a contribution to ensuring that the treaty has been almost unanimously ratified, at least in Croatia.
However, it is Bosnia and Herzegovina which causes me much more concern.
We must somehow manage to talk to the people directly, because in contrast to what the Earl of Dartmouth has once again said, there are many people in this region who are not interested in European Union money, but who want to move from a region of hate and war into a union of peace and understanding.
However, the people in Sarajevo and Banja Luka know what Europe means and they are the ones who need our help. (DE) Madam President, we must bring Croatia into the European Union next year or at least bring the accession negotiations to an end and start the ratification process.
For 20 years, Croatia has been moving towards joining the European Union and towards freedom.
Artificial obstacles have been put in its way and I am grateful to the Swedish Presidency for helping to remove them.
Croatia has now ratified the agreement with Slovenia with a two-thirds majority and we must do everything we can to ensure that Slovenia also fulfils its obligations to the European Union.
The target date of 2010 is also important because this is a question of the credibility of the European Union itself.
As far as Macedonia is concerned, I hope that the Swedish Presidency will succeed in enabling accession negotiations to begin next year, so that we can finally resolve the bilateral problem which also exists in this case.
Everyone must do their bit, including those in the European Union.
I believe it is crucial for us to include Kosovo fully in the Thessaloniki process and these are important passages in the Albertini report.
This country also needs a European perspective.
Bullying a neighbouring country is never helpful. (EL) Madam President, there is only one Macedonia and it is Greek, which is why these games need to stop.
Once the Treaty of Lisbon has come into force on 1 December, we must analyse and increase our Union's integration capacity.
I want to suggest to the Commission that it carries out such an analysis of the European Union's integration capacity because, without the support of our citizens, the European Union itself is at risk of turning into an empty shell.
I also support the view that a Member State should not impose unfulfillable membership conditions on a candidate country.
Back in 2006, Turkey committed to recognising the Republic of Cyprus, applying the Ankara Protocol and helping to resolve the Cyprus question.
Secondly, Mr Brok, the Copenhagen criteria are, of course, valid.
The European Union has had a powerful impact in the western Balkans over the last two years on democratic change and economic deregulation.
The visa waiver for some countries in the western Balkans and the start of the accession negotiations for FYROM mark progress which European citizens will benefit from, both as a result of judicial and police cooperation with the EU and from an economic perspective.
I believe that during the current time of economic crisis, the EU enlargement process offers a solution for revitalising the European Union's economy.
However, we must not forget the adverse consequences arising from the unfair benefits offered by the European Union to different countries in the western Balkans region.
Moldova is a potential candidate, prepared to come into line with the European Union as part of the political and economic integration process. (RO) The European Union now has a constitution - the Treaty of Lisbon - a President and a High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.
I am aware that there are many within the European Union who hesitate to commit to a new enlargement process, but the experience of Romania and Bulgaria, for instance, shows that accession to the EU has been the most powerful instrument in changing things for the better in our countries.
We need, of course, to cast a highly critical eye at the processes in all these countries wishing to join the European Union.
The EU is ready to accept the states of the western Balkans and Turkey as full members, but it is up to them to meet the conditions that the EU has set.
First, if this is appropriate from the Presidency point of view, I join those Members who have paid tribute to Commissioner Rehn for the work that he has done over the past five years.
I also express our appreciation for the very broad support for the policy of enlargement that has been expressed throughout this debate by all of the representatives of all of the major political factions here.
I think that is a source of strength. (Interjection from William (The Earl of) Dartmouth: 'Did you listen to the debate?') I did listen to the debate.
I do agree with that, but we should also recognise that this requires determined political leadership by each and every one of us.
If you look back on the history of our Union, it is easy to note that very little in the history of European integration has happened because of some sudden groundswell of public opinion demanding it.
Nearly everything has been the result of visionary, far-sighted, often difficult and demanding political leadership, but we have also subsequently won the support of our citizens for what we are doing.
As to the gentleman who was interested in engaging in debate, I did notice that there were a number of - mainly - gentlemen from the Far Right up there who had their reservations on Turkey, to put it in the mildest possible terms.
If you read Article 49 of the treaty, and that is what we have to base our policies on, it does not make any exceptions for big countries, it does not make any exceptions for complicated cases, and it has no religious criteria. (Applause from the centre left) So that is what we have to abide by.
They are not Christians, but they are, with all of the problems in our history, also part of our Europe of the past, the present and the future.
I would also argue that it would equally be a mistake to define citizens of Muslim faith, be they inside our existing Member States, be they in Bosnia, be they somewhere else or be they in Turkey, and exclude them from the applicability of Article 49 of the treaty.
And I hope Sweden will never be absorbed.
This debate has been in line with the best democratic traditions of this Parliament, and I am grateful for the broad general endorsement of our carefully conducted enlargement policy.
We have to be fair and respect the commitments we have undertaken to the countries that are covered by our consolidated enlargement agenda in south-eastern Europe, that is, the western Balkans and Turkey.
At the same time, we can be as firm and as we are fair, and we need to apply rigorous conditionality when dealing with these candidate countries and potential candidates.
These only work together - in tandem, in unison - and that is, indeed, the best recipe for driving reforms and democratic and economic transformation in south-eastern Europe.
I think Mrs Flautre is right that there cannot be, by definition, a more attractive portfolio than enlargement.
However, I am a man of moderation - believe it or not - and I believe that there are certain limits to how much attraction and fascination a man can take.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 26 November 2009.
This process has been a major success for the European Union, bringing it peace and stability.
Against this background, we must bear in mind that the countries in the western Balkans are a part of Europe geographically, culturally and historically.
Among the potential candidate countries referred to in the resolution, I would like to highlight the successful efforts and tangible progress made by Serbia.
The stand against Turkey is a most important issue which will be discussed, within the framework of enlargement, at the European Council Summit in December.
We would point out that Turkey has still not honoured its contractual obligations towards the EU and all the Member States.
Finally, the energy chapter cannot be opened as long as Turkey prevents the Republic of Cyprus from exercising its sovereign rights in its exclusive economic zone.
According to Article 49 of the EU Treaty: 'Any European State...
This is precisely why the Enlargement Strategy for the western Balkans, Turkey and Iceland is receiving increased attention as part of our activities.
The introduction of the visa-free scheme in Serbia, Montenegro and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, starting on 19 December, will give this process significant impetus.
However, I also want to draw your attention to the fact that when we are talking about enlargement, we must also look at the Republic of Moldova, which is currently going through a crucial political period, in terms of embarking on the road to democracy and EU accession.
First, I am glad that Foreign Minister Carl Bildt pointed out the most important message of the Albertini resolution - that the EU remains strongly committed to the enlargement policy and views it as one of the most successful EU policies.
The second important message is that the rule of law is seen as a key principle of democratic progress and one of the main conditions for further accessions.
in writing. - Iceland is already an active and long-standing partner in the wider European integration process.
in writing. - (DE) A differentiated approach to the enlargement strategy is needed.
While Iceland is a European country which is ready for EU membership, the Balkan States are far from being ready, with the exception of Croatia.
It is true that this country is not a part of Europe either geographically or in spiritual or cultural terms.
The positive aspects, such as an improvement in energy security, can also be achieved by means of a privileged partnership.
in writing. - (HU) As an MEP from Hungary, a country neighbouring the Western Balkan region, I wholeheartedly support the Western Balkan countries' ambitions to join the EU.
An important step in this area has been the initiative implemented by the European Commission, removing the visa requirement for Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro from 1 January 2010.
However, the European Parliament's proposal, which would remove the visa requirement as early as by 19 December, would be of symbolic significance and also provide practical benefits.
The visa waiver is a positive response to the Western Balkan countries' genuine efforts towards European integration.
Serbia has made particularly significant progress recently.
The evaluation of the political situation in Turkey, including reforms which are planned or have been carried out, repeats the Commission's evaluation contained in the Regular Report.
Progress is evident in the area of meeting the Copenhagen political criteria, but unfortunately, much remains to be done in the broadly-understood category of citizens' freedoms.
The European Parliament should be an objective observer, because we would like the negotiations to end with agreement, which would facilitate Turkey's accession to the EU.
As a citizen of Poland, a country which joined the European Union in 2004, I know that the enlargement strategy is one of the most effective areas of EU policy.
It is crucial to keep to commitments which have been made, and that also applies to the European Union.
The objective of accession negotiations is full membership, and therefore fulfilling tough but clear conditions should also be a basic prerequisite for them to achieve this objective.
Lastly, I am still opposed to Turkey's accession to the European Union and I continue to hope for a privileged partnership with that country within the Union for the Mediterranean.
