Mr Santini, that will be corrected. (The Minutes were approved) Mr President, I sat here throughout the debate yesterday on the statements by the Commission and the Council in relation to the tragedy in the United States.
Otherwise, we would be in a very serious situation, particularly if, as is proposed, the United States provides aid to their airlines.
Mr President, this report concerns the recognition by one Member State of orders made by a court in another Member State on the freezing of assets or evidence within its territory in order to ensure the integrity of the legal process up to the final judgment.
The coalition we are striving to build across the world to fight against terrorism is trying to find a cure to the problem, but there is also the issue of prevention in terms of security and diplomacy.
The series of reports we have before us this morning attempt to move things forward.
One might hope that this report will make it easier for that account and similar accounts elsewhere in Europe to be frozen if that was proven necessary.
This is in fact the first fundamental proposal to be made since the adoption by the Council and the Commission of the programme of measures to implement the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters.
Mr President, it is in this spirit that I welcome the adoption of this positive and ambitious report.
The debate is closed.
All the Member States now belong to Schengen, although the United Kingdom and Ireland only partially participate.
Accordingly, bearing in mind the scoreboard, I urge the Commission to bring forward a formal proposal including legislative provisions relating to prior agreement by the Council, approval for a limited period, a requirement for proportionality, and conditions for extending the period.
The process of checking compliance with Schengen has taken a considerable amount of time for the existing Member States.
Mr President, the United Kingdom is largely outside the provisions of the Schengen acquis.
The policy of the British Conservatives towards Schengen is therefore rather like our policy towards the euro.
No report on Schengen is complete without a ritual complaint about the failure of the United Kingdom and the Irish Republic to take part.
The Schengen discussion in my group has always sought to strike the necessary but difficult balance between the right to free movement of people, respect for the principles of the rule of law and human rights and the right to safety via police and judicial cooperation, and I should like to keep it that way.
Firstly, although Schengen exists, we have to observe that there is still no effective police cooperation and no effective exchange of intelligence which could yield major results in the fight against organised crime.
If Schengen represents a considerable step forward for Europe because of the progress made in certain areas, including police and judicial cooperation, it has to be said now that this step forward is a halting and discriminatory one.
Although the Schengen Convention has come into force in its entirety in several Member States, there are still inequalities that affect persons who do not hold a European nationality or have the necessary papers, although certain persons or members of their family may have lived in Europe for very many years.
These people, while awaiting their journey, are concentrated in a reception centre in humanely unacceptable conditions supported only by humanitarian organisations without any power or means at their disposal, such as the Red Cross.
These practices bring back some bitter memories.
In fact you do not have to imagine it, because other police forces in Europe have already done it.
For these reasons, we will be voting against this report, which overlooks all these facts and fails to offer any alternative.
Instead, we should act together, as a matter of urgency, to find concrete and equitable solutions to all these dramatic situations, and in particular to the sufferings of the refugees at Sangatte, and to the cries of distress from all those who come to Europe seeking asylum and help.
Today' s report on crossing external borders and the development of Schengen cooperation and yesterday' s proposal from the Commission are really two sides of the same coin.
Mr President, Commissioner, illegal immigration is a daily phenomenon at all of the European Union' s borders, affecting certain regions with particular intensity and with an enormous humanitarian, social and economic impact.
Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to congratulate Parliament and its rapporteur on their detailed work.
This report on crossing external borders and the development of Schengen cooperation touches on a subject at the very heart of the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice.
However, the integration of Schengen into the EU framework in practice marked the end of that agreement, although it lives on as a symbol.
The Commission accordingly intends to bring forward a proposal relating to Article 2 of the Schengen Protocol, so as to better encompass the safeguard clause on the reintroduction of internal border controls.
This work has not been completed, but the objective is to 'Amsterdamise' Schengen in the near future.
Mr President, that is why I think it would be difficult to embark upon an exercise which would involve regular reports on Schengen, because these would end up being reports on the various instruments that have replaced or are in the process of replacing Schengen.
The Commission considered that the conversion of the Schengen acquis should be based on priority needs depending on the development of the situation and political guidance from the Council and Parliament.
The rapporteur has taken these concerns on board and the Commission certainly shares them.
I would like to give you some information on the most recent developments concerning the Schengen Information System, SIS II.
As you know, the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 28 and 29 May did not reach unanimous agreement on intergovernmental finance.
Furthermore, the Belgian Presidency and Sweden presented two initiatives, one on the first pillar and the other on the third pillar, with a view to giving the Commission, assisted by a committee, responsibility for developing SIS II between 2002 and 2006.
The key objective of these two proposals, which are currently being considered by the Council, is first of all to provide a legal basis for the financing of this stage of development.
Secondly, legislative proposals are to be presented on the various key aspects of SIS II, in particular the issue of management and functionality.
In the context of its responsibility for financing, the Commission will also present a communication covering the various aspects of SIS II, that is to say legal, technical and financial issues, but also the various preparatory stages needed, and also the general method to be adopted until SIS II is finally established.
Mr President, Mr Coelho, I wish to conclude by assuring you that your resolution will be taken into account by the Commission in assessing the efforts already made and those that remain to be made and in defining its priorities for action in the Schengen field.
The debate is closed.
The Commission has proposed a Council directive on minimum standards for procedures in Member States for granting and withdrawing refugee status.
The Commission has come forward with proposals for a number of rules on the handling of asylum applications.
This is very much a first step towards the common asylum system which the Commission has proposed and which this House has on many occasions supported.
We recognise that these amendments are not binding but we hope that they will be considered carefully and taken on board in policy formulation.
We aim to ensure due respect for the Geneva Convention and its protocols and for the European Convention on Human Rights when dealing with applications for asylum.
We aim to secure for asylum seekers the right to remain on the territory of a Member State until their appeal has been decided.
We recommend special attention be paid to the cases of applications from women and children who have been particularly vulnerable to abuse and attack in the countries from which they flee.
We believe that asylum seekers who are often escaping persecution of the worst kind in their homelands have the right to be treated with dignity when they reach our shores.
The health of a society is judged not only by its practices but also by the direction in which its face is set and my committee believes that the Commission's policy is taking us in the right direction even if we seek greater clarity in the rights of some of those to whom it is directed.
Our amendments seek to ensure not only administrative efficiency but also a humanitarian approach to the position of those on our planet who deserve our support and protection.
Mr President, the Foreign Affairs Committee welcomes the changes made at the committee stage of this report, for as the common asylum and immigration policy of the EU develops, it is essential that its impact on the outside world and especially upon our close neighbours is fully taken into account.
This is where the Committee and a majority of its members have made two errors, in my view: firstly, it has abandoned the consensus which we worked so hard to achieve and, secondly, it has done no service at all to genuine applicants who are politically persecuted, because it also treats everyone who enters Germany or another Member State without a well-founded claim in more or less the same way and thus undermines the standing of genuine applicants.
The highest number of asylum seekers in Europe come from Afghanistan, Iran and Sri Lanka and at the moment, as we know only too well, it will not be easy to address quickly the situation in Afghanistan: we watch that situation with some terror.
Yes, Mr Schmitt, some of them are just escaping poverty, but we should not knock them for that.
They need to have their cases heard properly, they need a fair system and they need a system that puts the individual at the heart of the process.
This meeting took place on 17 and 18 September 2001.
Refugee status in Member States (continuation) Madam President, the objective of this important report is to produce an asylum system that is fair: fair on asylum seekers, but fair on taxpayers too.
It is a great fallacy to assume that if you give asylum seekers less help in making their claims, they will somehow disappear and cost less time and money.
We also welcome the fact that the gender dimension is now recognised in this report.
Madam President, the pictures we have seen in recent days from Afghanistan are of course clear evidence that the problem does not go away but that the flow of refugees unfortunately continues as a direct result of the policy we are pursuing here in our part of the world.
The rapporteur originally tried to word this report in such a way that it restricted asylum seekers' rights and opportunities in our countries.
Madam President, Europe is running two risks.
Madam President, the proposal for a Council directive on procedures for granting refugee status, which, as defined in the Treaty, is supposed to be binding on the Member States as regards the outcome to be achieved, whilst leaving it to the national authorities to decide what procedures and means to employ, is in fact an extremely nit-picking document.
For example, it goes into inordinate length and detail on the definition of an unfounded application for asylum, in Article 28, of a safe third country, in Article 22 and in Annex I, and of a safe country of origin, in Annex II.
As if the Member States were babes in arms and as if their officials had never processed a single application for asylum in their lives.
Madam President, Commissioner, we are being asked to express our views on a subject which in itself involves a very broad spectrum of activities.
Madam President, I feel compelled to respond to the things that have been said in this House with regard to the position of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on this issue.
With regard to asylum and refuge, we agree that we should treat asylum seekers as a group of people seeking protection and who want to enter for humanitarian reasons on an equal basis with those seeking reunification with their families.
The increasing flow of refugees in recent years shows the need for a common refugee policy both within the EU and globally.
And it also enhances the aid and support that we can give to refugees.
I believe that it is also important for this report to be adequate in terms of the fight against discrimination.
At present, there are 600 people in the camp at Sangatte who are firmly committed to opposing terrorism.
I think that if we were able to accept them, this would not only be a way of breaking the perceived link between terrorism and Islam, but that these people would also be solid allies in the fight against terrorism.
Thank you for your report.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Council's proposal offers refugees an opportunity to acquire refugee status under the Geneva Convention in accordance with uniform criteria which will apply throughout the European Union.
However, on behalf of the PPE-DE, I should like to make it clear that asylum law must not now be exploited for political purposes through all the amendments and proposals put forward here and used as a pretext for immigration on many different grounds.
At present, the German Basic Law does not permit us to accept around 17 of the proposed amendments.
The Commission's proposal meets this requirement.
Article 3(3) states that Member States may decide to apply the provisions of this Directive to procedures for deciding on applications for kinds of protection other than that emanating from the Geneva Convention for persons who are found not to be refugees.
Annex 1 sets forth the three criteria which must be met for a country to be defined as a safe third country.
As it now stands, the Directive is an important step towards a more humane asylum policy in the European Union.
Madam President, this is the first in a series of directives that have to complete the first part of the timetable which aims to introduce, in the longer term, a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for people who are granted asylum.
That is the spirit, and also the letter, of the Tampere agreements and the Treaty of Amsterdam, although we should discuss the legal basis of the common asylum procedure and uniform status.
I believe that the proposal puts excessive stress on regulation and that a common asylum procedure is never intended to be a single procedure or the same procedure for all States.
The second reservation relates to the Commission' s interest in regulating time limits, because I am wondering: is a long procedure a factor in the rejection of asylum seekers?
Firstly, I believe we should make it very clear that this is a very important first step towards a common European asylum system which, in the long term, will be valid throughout the Union.
For one reality we cannot forget is that, since the second half of 1996, the number of asylum seekers in the European Union has increased considerably, while the resolutions which recognise and grant that right have diminished alarmingly.
Thank you, Madam President.
Furthermore, the number and quality of the amendments are bound to add to the debate, and this comes at a crucial point in the process of creating a common policy on asylum.
The Tampere European Council actually wanted to create a common European asylum system and it agreed on a two-phase approach to achieve this.
Firstly, the adoption of minimum common standards in the areas laid down in Article 63 of the Treaty, and then the development of a common procedure and uniform status for persons under international protection.
The achievement of the first phase was dependent on the Commission adopting a certain number of legislative initiatives, which did indeed take place with the adoption on 12 September of a proposal for a directive on determining the status and forms of subsidiary protection.
The proposal that we are discussing today is one of the most important and most sensitive aspects of this system.
The European Parliament had an opportunity to give its views in June 2000 and the Commission took on board many of the recommendations brought forward at that time.
This dossier, like immigration in general, should be one of the key aspects of the interim balance sheet of the implementation of the Tampere decisions and will therefore be prepared by the European Council by the end of this year.
Against this background, the Council of Ministers is due to hold an exploratory debate on 27 and 28 September and the outcome of that debate will determine how ambitious we are in our overall approach in this area.
They need to be seen as a whole and I believe in fact that this House has always seen things in that light.
And I do not believe that that should come as a surprise to us, because this initiative deals with a great many technically complex issues, which in itself is not so difficult, but they are also politically sensitive, which in the present political climate is a real problem.
In particular, compliance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union needs to be clearly stated and guaranteed.
We need to take account of the constraints on the preparation of our amended proposal, and, furthermore, we hope that the Laeken European Council will give the European Union the necessary impetus to finally put into practice the aspirations declared in 1999 at Tampere.
The debate is closed.
The company responsible for the server has been brought in to help find the solution.
Mr President, Commissioner, many thanks for your explanation.
I have, of course, voted for it in the interests of the well-being of all pensioners.
I want to confirm that I voted for it, like many of us, not only because this will enable us in future centuries to have a less polluted atmosphere that is less damaging to our health, but also because I believe that, if everybody knows that we in Europe breathe healthier, cleaner, less polluted air, we shall have more tourists in Europe who, as well as coming to see the beauty of history and nature that we have throughout Europe - in Scotland, for instance, where you come from, or in Genoa and Liguria, where I come from - if there is cleaner air as well, will come in even greater numbers!
Report Marinho (A5-0274/2001) Mr President, I voted for this regulation of the acceptance by each of the fifteen European Union Member States of the legislation of the other States, with mutual recognition of judgments and decisions, beginning in this directive with the seizing of assets and securing of evidence.
I should like a European criminal code, a European civil code, a European code of civil procedure and a European code of criminal procedure.
I believe that, at some point in the future, Europe will have to have the same laws in all countries.
Mr President, the institution of political asylum is part of the most noble legal tradition of our peoples, but the Watson report, in my opinion, makes a serious mistake in extending its scope, in expanding it to embrace a number of cases that lie outside the historical nature of this important and noble institution of public law.
In particular, the original proposal envisaged, in principle, that an appeal against a ruling rejecting a request for asylum would have a suspensive effect, permitting the asylum-seeker to remain in the territory of the country in question while awaiting a final decision, but States would be able to claim an exception to this rule in certain instances, for example, where a request was rejected as manifestly unfounded.
The European Parliament, however, removed this exception by means of Amendment No 85.
The result of this is that, even where a request is manifestly unfounded, the applicant could then remain on our territory while awaiting a final ruling on his appeal.
Furthermore, the adoption of Amendment No 96 prevents Member States from dodging this disaster because it prevents them from abolishing the option of appealing where a request for asylum has been turned down on the grounds of being manifestly unfounded.
All these amendments are extremely serious, because they aim to settle notoriously persistent asylum seekers down for months on end to await a definitive ruling, which is bound to be negative.
They want to promote massive immigration, as demonstrated by the rejection of Amendment No 126 which stated that a request for asylum is manifestly unfounded if it is made only "for economic reasons or with the sole object of escaping from a general situation of poverty or from an armed conflict".
The blow that this would deal to our countries could contribute to destabilising them even further. - (DA) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of the Watson report.
The implementation of asylum policy is no exception to this imperative.
Resources must be channelled to where there is most need for them - namely to the candidate countries.
Cohesion is a treaty objective which it is vital to implement Economic and social cohesion, which is laid down in Article 2 of the Treaty establishing the European Community as one of the essential objectives of the Union, stipulates that the present disparities between the various regions should be reduced and possible imbalances should be prevented, with a view to promoting the harmonious development of the Community.
However, as the rapporteur rightly emphasises, the Maastricht Treaty did not provide for any support or cyclical adjustment measures within the framework of economic and monetary union, which means that the Structural Funds and in particular the Cohesion Fund are all the more important. 3.
The objective of cohesion will not end with enlargement The rapporteur draws attention to the fact that the disparities between the present Member States could increase because of the impact and dynamics of enlargement.
Report Nogueira Román /A5-0247/2001) Mr President, this document too deals with the procedures for spending the funds that the European Union has available for improving the situation in which the less fortunate European citizens live.
Europe should have much, much more for all the European citizens who need to see this Europe as important and close to them. . (EL) The asymmetrical capitalist development which characterises the economies of the ÅU can be seen in the changes which have taken place over the last decade, during which asymmetries between the Member States, between the rich and less developed regions and even within Member States of the ÅU has worsened.
The latter, however, merely translate into operational terms the dogma of the necessary flexibility of labour markets and are in practice contrary to the fight against precariousness to which the rapporteur refers elsewhere.
In some places they have many more rights - in my home, for instance, women have more rights than men - but in the rest of the world, unfortunately, as in this case, women really have to face torture.
Those who dare to speak of the right to cultural differences demonstrate only their contempt both for women in general and for the peoples whose women are victims of this barbarity.
This report is all the more deserving of a favourable vote because it calls on the Council, the Commission and the Member States, to define all female genital mutilation as a crime and to impose criminal sanctions on any of their residents who have engaged in this practice, even if the offence was committed outside the EU's borders.
This principle of the offence's extraterritoriality must be firmly upheld.
Certainly, in any event, we do not wish to see an extension of the Geneva Convention of 1951 in terms of the criteria it sets out on asylum, however worthy the cause may be. - (SV) I have voted in favour of this very important report in defence of human dignity as something unique, inviolable and shared by all in equal measure.
The issue of the wage discrimination which is practised against women in reality, and the underlying mechanisms, have been analysed in relative depth, although there are many shortcomings, in particular in statistical information for the European Union and the Member States.
But it is equally important that a proposal should be brought forward to revise and update the 1975 Equal Pay Directive. . (DE) We have been discussing equal pay for equal work and for work of equal value since my youth, and that is a long time ago.
We have had the Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women since 1975.
Report Andersson (A5-0283/2001) Mr President, some time ago I met my brother.
I have a brother called Edgardo Fatuzzo, who lives in Novara, but unfortunately we do not see each other very often.
There is also a need for uniform legislation specific to this issue to be put in place and applied consistently across all the EU Member States.
This report is a step in the right direction and for that reason we have voted for it. - (SV) We have abstained from voting on Mr Andersson' s report on harassment at the workplace.
We should remember, then, that in a very few years the borders will be extended: the borders of Europe will be moved much further east.
We therefore need right now, not in 2004, to bring in tighter regulations on access, on crossing the forthcoming borders, which are not the current ones, and to increase the possibilities of really, actually moving around within our fifteen Member States.
To be specific, it admits of omissions and oversights with respect to transparency and democratic control, violations even of the famous EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, a lack of transparency on the role of Europol, the absence of information for the European Parliament etc.
One is all the more surprised when one reads the triumphalist report on the Schengen system, which has been laid before us today.
Our vote against this report is an expression of our opposition to both the spirit and the letter of the Schengen Convention.
The enlargement of the European Union by the integration of certain Eastern European countries makes the Schengen Convention all the more shocking, as the Schengen borders put up additional barriers among national communities living in more than one country simultaneously.
The Coelho report on the development of Schengen cooperation is unsatisfactory from our point of view for numerous reasons.
Whilst I would not wish to suggest that our manifest solidarity with the victims and with the American people must necessarily impel us henceforth to join blindly in any crusade decided on in Washington, it is clear that a menace of the same kind is hovering over our European capitals.
I might well say, Mr Coelho, that your report strikes us as surreal against this backdrop, because, from our point of view, the re-establishment of border controls has never seemed so necessary as it does today. (Speech cut short pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure.) That concludes the explanations of vote.
