Inland transport of dangerous goods (debate) The next item is the report by Bogusław Liberadzki, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the inland transport of dangerous goods - C6-0012/2007 -.
In presenting this report I would like to emphasise that the Committee on Transport and Tourism approved it almost unanimously, deeming it to be both important and necessary, and that it brings in a new level of quality in that it extends regulations concerning the transport of dangerous goods to passenger trains.
Then Amendment 16 could be omitted as unnecessary, or we could vote against it.
I would also ask you to vote against Amendments 46 and 47, since it would appear that these rules are already included in the text, and so they will merely pad out the regulation unnecessarily.
Common rules on transport by road, rail and inland waterway ensure a uniform level of safety throughout the Community in internal and cross-border transport.
It is important to include sensible provisions in this dossier.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, on behalf of my group I would like to thank the rapporteur, not only for his report but also for his inclusiveness in bringing together Parliament, the Council and the various political factions on this important issue.
The RID Directive and the ADR Directive deal with rail and road respectively, with the transport of dangerous goods by inland waterways covered by the annexes to these two directives.
Again, I urge you to reconsider your position on Amendment 45.
The amendments that have been proposed are technical in nature and do not give cause for concern, except for Amendments 46 and 47.
Like Mr Henin, I too would prefer at least part of that quantity to be stored in warehouses.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank Mr Liberadzki and the Committee on Transport and Tourism again for this excellent report, which, like you, I really hope will enable us to adopt the proposal right away at first reading.
