Special Report from the European Ombudsman following the draft recommendation to the European Commission in complaint 3453/2005/GG (debate) The next item is the report by Proinsias De Rossa, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, on the Special Report from the European Ombudsman to the European Parliament following the draft recommendation to the European Commission in complaint 3453/2005/GG.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I am pleased to be here tonight, although I would have preferred it to have been a bit earlier.
The Ombudsman found with regard to that compliant that the 15 months it had taken the Commission before it started to deal with the complaint was a case of maladministration.
The Commission will shortly submit to Parliament, in about two months time, a detailed report on the implementation of the Working Time Directive, providing complex and up-to-date information on compliance with the acquis, including the SIMAP-Jaeger judgments, in all 27 Member States.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, I am speaking on my own behalf but also on behalf of the 34 Members on the Employment Committee who voted last May in favour of the own-initiative report we drafted for this debate.
European citizens have a right to expect that the Commission, as the guardian of the Treaties, will ensure that European legislation is implemented in a timely and effective manner.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, I am speaking today on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations, but also as chairman of the Committee on Petitions.
Ladies and gentlemen, the reason for today's report by Proinsias De Rossa, whom I congratulate on an excellent document, is a report from the European Ombudsman, with whom we, as the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions, work together on a permanent basis.
Consider what may happen if working time rules are breached in the case of doctors: that could lead to a surgeon having to perform a complicated operation after being duty for 23 hours.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to emphasise just a few fundamental points which, in my opinion, still need to be addressed.
Therefore, I would like the Commissioner at some point to indicate, concede and acknowledge that he has accepted that the delay was not acceptable; I would also like to hear from him a commitment that some procedures will be put in place to ensure that complaints will never again be allow to run to this length of time.
