Would you please kindly tell me which Rule of the Rules of Procedure your point of order relates to. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I refer to Rules 132 and 142 of the Rules of Procedure.
Pursuant to Rule 168 of the Rules of Procedure, the Confederal Group of the European United Left-Nordic Green Left has requested the referral back to committee of the report by Mr&#160;Speroni on the request for waiver of the immunity of Tobias Pflüge, the vote on which is scheduled for tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, my group, on the basis of Rule 168 of the Rules of Procedure, wishes to move that the Speroni report – which has to do with the lifting of the immunity of Mr&#160;Pflüger, a member of our group – should not be discussed, but should instead be sent back to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
I see this as being the appropriate decision to take, since the fact that the decision as to whether or not to lift immunity was taken by a mere eight members of the Committee on Legal Affairs shows us in a poor light, and that is something we should avoid.
The immunity procedure is subject to Rule 7, which has the last word to say on the subject.
It therefore makes no sense that this matter be either adjourned or deferred, and so I ask that this motion for a resolution be voted on in the plenary tomorrow. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, like many other Members, I have had to consider this issue in the Conference of Presidents, but, not being a lawyer like Mr&#160;Lehne, I had imagined it would be rather more straightforward.
I will, in any case, as the Chairman of a group, no longer take part in such debates in the Conference of Presidents. &#160;&#160; We have taken note of your concern, Mr&#160;Schulz.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament has requested that the vote on the report by Reinhard Rack (A6-0408/2005) on improving the environmental performance of the freight transport system (‘Marco Polo II’) be moved to Wednesday.
The Council has informed me – and I am passing this information on to you – that it will not be able to stay here beyond 7.00 p.m.
This has been discussed in the Conference of Presidents and the Council has confirmed that it cannot stay here beyond 7.00 p.m.
I do not regard a statement of that sort on the part of the Council as one that this House should accept.
That is not acceptable, and you should tell the Council so. &#160;&#160; Mr President, following what you have just announced, I must draw the attention of the House to the fact that there is an oral question to the Council on Wednesday night’s agenda regarding the Energy Community Treaty, which we are due to debate that night.
All that needs to be done is to fly a bit less and perhaps do without a few luxuries. &#160;&#160; I shall communicate all of the comments made here to the Council.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has requested that a third debate be added on cases of violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, specifically on Taiwan. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first I should like to add the support of my group for the statements made by Mr Schulz and Mr Poettering in favour of the Austrian Presidency looking again at its availability.
It is an issue that needs our discussion and therefore my group wishes to propose to this House that we use the third slot available on Thursday afternoon for consideration of the issue of Taiwan’s participation in the World Health Organisation. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, my fellow Member, Mr&#160;Watson, is a very intelligent and very astute person.
This House would be very well advised to discuss this issue and make it known to the whole world that we believe health to be a human right and that no country in the world should be barred from the deliberations of the World Health Organisation. (1) &#160;&#160; Mr President of the Republic of Bolivia, I would like to welcome you to the plenary of the European Parliament at a time when Europe’s relations with Latin America and the Caribbean are highly topical and are being debated between us.
Please believe me, Mr President, that we very much appreciate your visit, because it was clearly acknowledged in Vienna by many Latin American Heads of State that the return to democracy in the region has unfortunately not led to any improvement in the living conditions of a large proportion of the Latin American population.
I am extremely pleased and happy to have been invited to take part in this hugely significant meeting of two continents: America and Europe.
We original indigenous farming peoples of America, and of Bolivia in particular, belong to a culture of dialogue, a culture of life, a culture of balance, justice and equality.
Historically we have been enslaved, but we have never enslaved anybody else’s family; we are inclusive, we fight for unity while respecting the diversity of other peoples and when, thanks to the conscience of my people, we won the Presidency as indigenous people, it was not through a sense of revenge, but through our peoples’ sense of hope.
The absence of the State in our indigenous farming communities has left much to be desired and we therefore want to resolve the social problems, the cultural problems, the economic problems and the structural problems of my country.
And in terms of documentation, there are families that have been entirely abandoned; they have no documents and they therefore do not have certain rights as citizens.
We are therefore going to continue with our campaign for identification: in less than two months we have provided almost 50&#160;000 new documents free of charge and we are going to go on to provide one or two million people with documents free of charge.
This political movement, therefore, the Movement for Socialism, originally called the Political Instrument for the Sovereignty of the Peoples, created by the Original Indigenous Farmers Movement, it has not been created by a group of political experts, or professionals or intellectuals, but it was born to fight injustice, to fight for economic and social demands, in 1995 in particular, to change our Bolivia, to put an end to discrimination, and in order to change those policies that have historically been geared towards the extermination of the original indigenous people in our country and our continent.
I felt great respect and admiration for the President when he mentioned our ancestors’ cosmic law, the , which is the law of the original indigenous peoples: not to steal, not to be weak, not to lie.
That principle of a cosmic law has brought us this far and it is my duty to apply our ancestors’ rule in order to change our history.
I would like to mention the fight to defend the coca leaf, the fight for water, to prevent any privatisation of water resources, and the fight for hydrocarbons, which were also the fights of our ancestors, of indigenous leaders such as Tupac Amaru, Tupac Katari and Bartolina Sisa: it was the fight for territory.
Our families come to Europe because of a need, because of a lack of work, and many are being expelled.
I understand perfectly well that they must recover their investment and they have the right to profits, but they cannot be owners of the hydrocarbons, and nor can they control them.
Any company that has invested in the country has every right to recover their investment and has the right to make profits, but not to control, and they will therefore be partners and not owners of our natural resources.
We belong to a culture of solidarity, a culture of reciprocity and it is therefore important to seek solutions jointly.
You know that historically we have been subjected to the constant plundering of our natural resources.
We are convinced that the industrialisation of our natural resources will put an end to the mass abandonment of my country towards other countries.
Before it was the United States or Argentina, but now I very much regret that many of our brothers and sisters are coming to Europe to seek sources of work.
There is a central issue that is a problem for you and also a problem for us: cocaine and drug-trafficking.
I believe that we all have a responsibility to combat drug-trafficking effectively and genuinely.
And the coca leaf cannot be legal for Coca-Cola, but illegal for the Andean region, for the indigenous peoples.
I am pleased to say that we are discussing with our brother producers of coca leaf how we can rationalise its production, and I would like to reassure you that we are talking about a small area of coca growing per family: 40 metres by 40 metres.
I would like to take this opportunity, through you, to tell all of the nations of Europe of my respect and admiration for the European Union.
I say this because we in Bolivia have decided to remodel Bolivia, to put an end to economic models that have not resolved the social problems, in order to change that colonial State.
The last census in 2001 showed that 62.2% of the country was made up of indigenous people.
I perfectly understand the countries and many businesspeople who want legal security.
That will happen when we recover our natural resources and when they benefit the whole of the Bolivian population.
I am convinced that Europe is the symbol of democracy, and that it defends democracy and human rights.
And on the subject of human rights, I would like in particular to ask you to help us defend them in Bolivia.
And defending human rights in Bolivia means creating sources of work, health and education, and recovering our natural resources.
Through the Bolivian judicial system, we have called for the extradition of those people who humiliated Bolivia and I would like to ask for your support in order to ensure that those people who have done so much to harm the human and economic rights of the Bolivian people are brought before Bolivian justice, including Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada and Sánchez Berzaín, who killed many people in my country and we want them to face the Bolivian judicial system.
If we do not revise this form of industrialisation, surely within a short space of time, not just you, or us, but everybody, is going to have a problem of life.
I have learnt that it is not a question of imposing programmes or policies, but of taking up these proposals and programmes for the good of humanity.
It is also the case that, in this process of change, how to participate in Bolivia is an important issue, and does not mean either subordination or submission — some have described us as ‘puppets’ — but rather we must share our principles and our experiences, in a horizontal fashion.
We are from an inclusive culture, not an exclusive one, despite the fact that we have been subjected to exclusion, and when I heard that the European Parliament had invited me here, I genuinely felt very happy and very proud to come.
I hope that Bolivia and Europe can maintain a relationship of cooperation which will enable us to contribute to building a shared future of progress, on the basis of respect for the rule of law.
I would ask you please to look once again at this request in the Bureau, because it would help to bring the citizens closer to Europe and to all of their fellow citizens. &#160;&#160; I am pleased that the European Union is making the right moves in the battle with Lukashenko's dictatorship, because we, as Europeans, must not support this dictatorship at the heart of the continent.
However, I have here a list of European Union cities from various states and regions, which have cooperative, brotherly ties with various Belarusian cities and regions.
The case of Mikhail Khodorkovsky is a concrete example of how various means are used to break them down both mentally and physically.
Sinn Féin is committed to seeing local ministers make local decisions.
The only difference is that post-Hitler Germany said sorry.
I therefore want the European Parliament to take an initiative to recognise the memory of the genocide of the Turkish Greeks. &#160;&#160; ( Mr President, last Wednesday we received the sad news of the death of our colleague Rolandas Pavilionis.
You spend these 18 years in prison, away from your family, enduring a legal process that goes back and forth, condemning you to death, then finding you innocent, then starting again until every appeal is exhausted and you are finally condemned to death a second time.
Mr President, if there is anything this Parliament can do, with its long history of opposition to the death penalty, I implore you to do so by writing to the President of Pakistan appealing for clemency. &#160;&#160; Mr President, for the past two weeks, the Dutch press has been dining out on the vulnerable position in which Commissioner Mrs&#160;Kroes finds herself, having already been questioned by this House in 2004.
Mrs&#160;Kroes’ answer, at the time, was that she had learned from her previous mistakes.
Article 1 of this Charter reads as follows: ‘Every State has the sovereign and inalienable right to choose its economic system as well as its political, social and cultural systems in accordance with the will of its people, without outside interference, coercion or threat in any form whatsoever.’ &#160;&#160; Mr President, on 22 January a demonstration was held in Madrid in support of the victims of terrorism, which was attended by the then Minister for Defence, who was jeered by many of the demonstrators.
That Minister insisted that he had been assaulted during that demonstration and, as a result, two People’s Party activists were arrested by officers of the National Police, despite the fact that there was no evidence against them.
In its latest announcement, the Commission emphasised that accession has brought economic perspective and resources for new Member States, and a new momentum and a larger market for old Member States.
In spite of the fears, social dumping has not materialised, and wage levels and social resources in Western Europe have not dropped.
We must join our efforts to speed up the transformation of the structure and decision making of the European Union, because it is possible to adopt a Constitutional Treaty, and it must be done.
My wish for all of us is that we draw faith and courage for our work from the second anniversary of the last enlargement. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the city of Strasbourg is today hosting the , women from Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia, who have come to meet other women from their countries living in Europe.
These women have come to Strasbourg, the seat of the European Parliament, in order to call on us to support their work by taking action here, in Europe, against the attempts to bring about a return to the obscurantism to which they can fall victim not only in their own countries, but also here.
Thank you, Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mrs&#160;Roure, and thank you to our visitors. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to call on the Council and the Commission to take another look at the situation with regard to the sugar regime in the European Union.
This would require the Commission to make a decision that compensation can be given for new processing methods without actually taking away the structure of the manufacturing capacity that is available for these alternative fuels in many Member States.
That can help to eliminate or to reduce our dependence on oil, it can also contribute towards a cleaner environment and, most importantly of all, it can offer many farmers around the European Union a valuable crop to grow, which would guarantee them economic security for the future. &#160;&#160; – Last week, the so-called Middle East quartet, which includes the EU, decided to set up a temporary international mechanism to provide humanitarian aid for the Palestinian people.
Mr President, the time has come to put an end to what are effectively sanctions and to take political initiatives that promote compliance with international law and with United Nations resolutions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, each village and town in England has a line around it for planning purposes, stating that it is a defined village or town settlement.
Then, and only then, will our greenbelt land be given the protection and respect it deserves. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish briefly to take issue with what Mrs Krupa – who unfortunately has now left the Chamber – said a minute ago.
I therefore deplore the Bureau’s decision to reject the reasonable use of this language within the context of Parliament’s relations with the citizens.
I would go so far as to say that this uncertainty in the application of the Maastricht criteria is a matter of political importance and should be included in the agenda of the summit of EU leaders in June. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the period of reflection expires in 2007 and I imagine that it is for this reason that the President of the Commission, Mr&#160;Barroso, presented the Commission's position last week.
To close, I believe that it is our duty, as an institution, to dedicate at least one more sitting of the European Parliament before the cut-off date of 2007 to debate this most serious issue. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, in the procedure to rekindle interest in the ratification of a European constitutional treaty, it would perhaps be useful to correct the text so that it supports institutions which have created and highlighted the particular character of European culture and the European economy.
Of course, family policy must continue to be a matter for the Member States, but the inclusion of the family dimension in various Community policies will help to strengthen social cohesion and increase competitiveness and reduce socio-economic problems such as unemployment, poverty and reduced productivity.
Freedom of religion and an independent justice system are fundamental to the European Union, and Romania’s accession in 2007 is conditional upon them.
I think it important that this House should continue to keep a very close eye on the human rights situation in both the present and future Member States. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to submit a proposal concerning the human rights situation in Tunisia: this situation remains extremely worrying, as the President of the European Parliament highlighted only last week.
Its Congress will take place in Tunisia, where the conditions and the atmosphere are currently atrocious.
It would be helpful if official representatives from Parliament were sent there. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to draw the House’s attention to the fact that this morning in Belfast the Northern Ireland Assembly came together, almost three-and-a-half years since it was elected.
I should like to ask the President of Parliament to send a goodwill message to the Speaker of that Assembly in view of the difficult role and task she has ahead of her.
I thank the European Parliament and the Commission for their support in this regard.
I should like to ask you, on behalf of this House, to convey to the people of Surinam and their Parliament our sympathy with their suffering. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0143/2006) by Mrs&#160;Kaufmann, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the outcome of the screening of legislative proposals pending before the Legislator [2005/2214(INI)]. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Verheugen’s initiative towards bringing about a marked improvement in European lawmaking, which will involve withdrawing 68 pending legislative proposals, hits the mark in no uncertain fashion.
As you know, the Commission’s announcement that pending legislative proposals would be withdrawn or amended was the cause of some excitement in our House, and not just from an institutional point of view.
Believing as we do that there is a need for legislation over and above the framework agreement, it is our expectation that the Commission will not turn a deaf ear to our proposals, but will instead endorse them in a spirit of sincere cooperation with Parliament.
I can tell the Commissioner that it is not only important from our point of view that this practice be adopted; I also think it would be beneficial to the Commission, for, if you had explained your proposals one by one and item by item, I am sure you would not have got tangled up in the undergrowth of your own institution.
There were a number of proposals in respect of which your House did not share the Commission’s view, for example where the legal status of association and companies on a mutual basis is concerned, proposals in respect of which have been lying around in the Council for twelve years without the least thing being done with them.
It is in precisely those cases in which your House has expressed misgivings that the Commission has announced the forthcoming close re-examination of the underlying issues – the social significance of which I acknowledge – and the possibility of our producing new proposals that would actually stand a chance of being considered within an appropriate period of time.
The Commission should also respond with greater sensitivity if Parliament requests by a large majority that its proposals be withdrawn.
It declined to do so, whereupon this House in any case rejected the proposal by over 500 votes.
The Committee on Legal Affairs attached particular importance to the Associations Statute and to there being European law covering such entities.
I would like to make three points.
The first point is that our group welcomes the Commission’s initiative of withdrawing 68 pieces of legislation.
My third and final point is that we want increased consultation between the European Parliament and the Council as well, but it is very important to retain and keep the institutional balance pretty much as it stands.
So we want closer involvement, but maintenance of the institutional balance when we talk about screening of legislation in general.
The original logic of the Treaties, in giving the right of initiative to the Commission – in those days the Commission proposed and the Council disposed – was entirely right for that time.
We wanted the Council to work not on the basis of competing drafts put forward by different Member States, but on a common proposal drawn up by an institution that belongs to all of us – the Commission – and that is duty bound to serve the interests of all Member States in the proposals that it brings forward.
Since the original Treaties, though, we have seen the emergence of this Parliament, which was first directly elected in 1979 and more recently has acquired co-legislative powers.
That is lacking in the European Parliament.
It is true that it is lacking in some national parliaments as well and many parliaments have that right in theory, but it is not exercised in practice.
The Maastricht Treaty gave this Parliament the right – and the Council already had the same right – to ask the Commission to bring forward a legislative proposal.
Now the Commission has told us that it will also listen very carefully to Parliament and consult us before it withdraws proposals.
The right to withdraw should exist right up to the end of the first reading in each body, Parliament and then the Council.
It is a Council common position that we will be dealing with, and so on through the rest of the legislative procedure.
The Commission will still play a role, but should not at that stage have the right of withdrawal, which would unbalance the system.
It is a good balance in that it proposes that there be due justification, due dialogue, proper consultation and advance notice.
First of all, I should like to draw your attention to the need for screening legislative proposals not only in respect of Better Regulation principles or the Lisbon agenda, but also with regard to subsidiarity.
I am aware that this is a concept to which this House is increasingly averse, but in no way does that alter the fact that European legislation must clearly add value over and above national legislation.
My second comment concerns the role of national parliaments.
I am right behind Mr&#160;Barroso’s initiative to send new legislative proposals to the national parliaments, for Member States are capable of carefully screening for subsidiarity, something which will undoubtedly increase the support base for European legislation among Member States. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, better lawmaking is one of the Commission’s priorities, and this initiative has been welcomed by both the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and this House as a whole.
There is a loophole in the Treaties, and the only acceptable way to fill it is for us to be very sincere in our dealings with one another, and – as has been said today several times over – for this House to be given a say when the Commission contemplates withdrawing proposals, at least when we have gone past first reading.
The programme is also intended as a response to accusations that Brussels all too frequently opts for legislative mechanisms and, as a result, creates too many laws.
Commissioner, I have no doubt that good EU legislation will be possible when good cooperation is established between the Commission and Parliament.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 11.30 a.m. &#160;&#160; The next item is the joint debate on: - the recommendation for second reading (A6-0122/2006), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the common position established by the Council [09858/3/2005 C6-0018/2006 2003/0165(COD)] with a view to adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on nutrition and health claims made on foods (Rapporteur: Adriana Poli Bortone) and - the recommendation for second reading (A6-0078/2006), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the common position established by the Council [09857/3/2005 C6-0017/2006 2003/0262(COD)] with a view to adopting a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the addition of vitamins and minerals and of certain other substances to foods (Rapporteur: Karin Scheele). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, today finds us discussing a brace of regulatory packages on foods, in the shape of Mrs&#160;Poli Bertone’s report on the nutritional and health claims made in respect of them, and my own report on the addition of vitamins and minerals and of certain other substances to them.
This House having taken up some very controversial positions – as some of its Members still do – on whether, and if so how, claims of health and nutritional value should be regulated, there have always been time problems whenever the report on enrichment by the addition of minerals and vitamins was on the order of business.
The intention is that the proposed regulation should harmonise the various national regulations on the addition of vitamins and minerals, and of certain other substances, to foodstuffs, and, today being the occasion of its second reading, I would like to mention that this regulation covers only the voluntary addition of vitamins and minerals, so that national regulations requiring their addition are unaffected.
We have also made progress by agreeing to define other substances as well as vitamins and minerals, which are, of course, listed – and hence defined – in Annexes 1 and 2 to this Regulation.
In a state of deadlock, in which the Council did not seem willing to grant us anything further, we succeeded in putting a compromise package together: a final text that, bolstered by the support of all the parliamentary groups, prompted the Council to accept the proposals on the table.
I believe that, overall, this is a balanced text that effectively pursues the objective of guaranteeing consumers accurate, clear and understandable information, so as to enable them to make a balanced and informed choice about their diet.
This compromise has not been easy, partly because the Council’s position on some points remained very inflexible – practically rigid – until the end of the negotiations.
The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) should have exactly the same amount of time to assess claims under both procedures.
The Council has supported us in this proposal and the final outcome is that Parliament has succeeded in ensuring that health labels presenting no particular problems will be able to receive a definitive marketing authorisation in eight months.
Those labels will instead have to be subject to the full authorisation procedure that will guarantee greater control, not only in scientific terms on the part of EFSA and the Commission, but also on the part of the Member States in the context of the comitology procedure.
For example, a sweet with a high sugar content could never bear a health or nutrition claim.
The compromise text accepted by all of the groups and the Council now provides for the option to affix labels containing nutritional information even when a substance exceeds the nutrient profile, provided that a statement is added on the same side of the packaging to warn the consumer of the high levels of the substance exceeding the nutrient profiles.
I regard this text as a victory for Parliament on a point that the Council had initially thought untouchable.
In relation to brands, we have succeeded in ensuring that existing brands can continue to be used for 15 years without any further requirements.
As regards alcohol, nutrition labels had already been accepted in the common position.
However, I believe – and the rapporteurs have rightly said – that we have managed to reach a good compromise.
This means that it is the consumer’s choice – it is ultimately for the consumer to decide – but the consumer has to be presented with correct, accurate and scientifically-based information in order to make this informed choice.
The health claims regulation will prevent consumers from being misled by unsubstantiated or misleading claims.
For example, in addition to the list of permitted nutritional claims or the list of physiological function claims, it will now allow, through an authorisation procedure, claims related to the reduction of a disease risk, something that until now has been prohibited.
So, these harmonised rules will be of great interest to the European food industry but, through the process we have adopted in the legislation, we also guarantee consumer protection.
I am sure Parliament recognises the effort that both the Commission and the Council have made on that point.
On the nutrient profiles, which have already been described, these are products that, on the basis of the claims, are made to appear better to consumers, encouraging more consumption.
We therefore need proper criteria in this respect.
The nutrient profile is one good criterion that could be used and the proposed compromise introduces flexibility in order to facilitate the application and use of these claims.
In the context of this compromise, I should like to make the following statement: ‘In establishing the nutrient profiles referred to in Article 4(1) through the Regulatory Committee procedure, the Commission undertakes to accompany the proposed Commission measures, submitted to the Standing Committee on the Food Chain and Animal Health, with an explanatory note outlining the criteria that will be taken into account for the establishment of the nutrient profiles.’ As I have said, I believe that this is a good compromise which covers the interests of all the key stakeholders.
That will ensure a very high level of protection for public health and consumer protection and at the same time allow the industry to have a stable, concise, clear regulatory environment that will allow for innovation and the need to remain competitive at Community and international level.
It is not least thanks to our opposition – of which I am rather proud – that our cause is not completely lost.
We have, in particular, managed to save fresh products.
I think that is something we cannot allow, and we have no option but to vote in favour tomorrow in order not to end up with something quite terrible.
Consumers are often prepared to pay more for a product that claims to benefit their health, but they should be able to be confident that it really does.
This proposal will benefit consumers, in that manufacturers in all 25 countries must from now on provide honest information.
No profits on the back of people who are worried about their weight or health.
According to Article&#160;4, health claims can only be made on products that meet a certain profile.
This legislation ensures that consumers are given honest information.
The purpose of the whole proposal was almost totally undermined, but now, at second reading, we have been able to reach a compromise agreement, as the rapporteur said, which reinstates the crucial points and takes us much closer to our original aim: to outlaw untrue and misleading health and nutrition claims on food that deceive consumers into thinking that those foods are good for them when they are not.
The Verts/ALE Group has supported the system of authorising claims through an effective and efficient process.
Amendments tabled by this House at first reading have already improved many of the points in the common position.
I would refer to the opportunities which companies have to submit applications in their own Member States, as well as to a reduction in the timeframes.
A varied and balanced diet is a prerequisite for good health and individual products have a relative importance in the context of the overall diet.
Now we are in the process of voting through a system that will provide confidence to consumers on a product-by-product basis, with nutritional and health claims based on scientific evidence.
Ill health as a result of obesity is costing taxpayers millions of euro each year and exerting extreme pressure on health services.
The health problems associated with obesity are well known: heart disease, strokes, high cholesterol and diabetes top the list.
This regulation will stimulate innovation.
I&#160;also agree with the rapporteur on Amendments 28 and 31 which put particular emphasis on children’s food, where labelling controls must be tightest. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am shadow rapporteur for the Regulation on additives and I must therefore begin by saying that the Commission’s proposal was reasonably balanced.
I would also like to thank the Council and the Commission for the efforts they have made in order to reach an agreement at second reading.
The aim of this proposal is to harmonise the national provisions in force and we in my group do not therefore agree with accepting provisions allowing for stricter rules in certain countries, except where they are justified scientifically for public health reasons.
The solution is much more complex.
With regard to the report by Mrs&#160;Poli&#160;Bortone, both she and the shadow rapporteurs, Mrs&#160;Sommer in particular, have done excellent work.
Wine must not be subject to this Regulation and I do not understand why producing countries such as Spain, France or Italy have not expressed these arguments in the Council.
I shall end simply by expressing my full agreement with everything that Mrs&#160;Sommer has said. &#160;&#160; I wish to join in thanking the rapporteurs, Mrs&#160;Scheele and Mrs&#160;Poli&#160;Bortone, the shadow rapporteurs, the Commission and the Council for the work they have done on ensuring that, tomorrow, we have an agreement on which to adopt a position and that will make it much simpler for consumers to make healthier choices, because they have access to more accurate and more comprehensive information.
I am therefore opposed to both Amendment&#160;18 and Amendment&#160;489.
You will therefore allow me to conclude, at this point, that we have nothing to gain from European law being drafted at the International Sweets and Biscuits Fair in Cologne. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that Mrs&#160;Poli&#160;Bortone, with her report, is giving this House another dose of good sense and I rejoice in the hope that we will, tomorrow, get the green light and will at last be able to give consumer protection renewed impetus.
Nobody wants to ban the sale of chips, coca-cola or sweets, but we cannot allow these foods to be sold on the pretext that they contribute to health and wellness.
During the first reading of the report on nutrition and health claims made on foods, we – as the European Parliament – approved a large number of amendments designed to facilitate the application of the present regulation for the benefit of consumers.
The majority voted against regulation of the nutritional ingredients in food and rejected Article 4, thereby considerably weakening the regulation in question.
This regulation should, above all, aim to make consumers more aware of the importance of a healthy, balanced and harmonious diet.
However, given the difficulty in achieving a compromise and the need for European consumers for there to be such a regulation, I call for us all to at least support the package of compromise amendments.
In food and water it is a curse.
We must therefore ensure that checks are carried out on this type of food and, above all, on the claims made on labels, which entice the consumer by promising benefits in terms of diet and health.
The compromise text guarantees clear and comprehensive information in relation to food labels and enables consumers to make an informed choice about their diet.
Finally, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs&#160;Poli&#160;Bortone, for the excellent, though not easy, job she has done. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the House for taking up this topic.
The regulation on nutrition and health claims on foods and the regulation on the addition of vitamins and minerals and certain other substances to foods are significant for consumer protection.
Adopting these regulations will be, in my opinion, a step in the right direction. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the previous debate in this Chamber was about the screening of proposals for legislation.
However, what on earth can be wrong with asking manufacturers who make health and nutritional claims to give the scientific evidence for those claims?
As my colleague Mrs Westlund said, people are fed up with buying so-called low-fat products only to discover by reading very carefully that they are high in sugar or some other ingredients.
This is good for business, it is good for consumers and we should welcome it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, even though the Council ignored this House’s abundantly clear vote on the health claims at first reading, we have now reached a compromise that I – albeit with gritted teeth – will vote to accept, for, as Mrs&#160;Sommer so rightly said, we are now, in practical terms, being faced with the choice between a great evil and a lesser one.
Turning specifically to two contentious points, I do believe that trademarks are subject to a different legal regime, are covered by other regulations and are quite out of place here.
Obesity and excess weight are problems that need to be taken very seriously; they are the subjects of emotional debates that will be with us again – by the time of the Green Paper on the promotion of healthy eating at the latest.
Congratulations are also due to the Commissioner, Mr Kyprianou, for the open and responsibly cautious way he has approached the subject.
The reason for my short contribution is to add my voice of support concerning the need for bio-availability and establishment of safe maximum amounts of vitamins and minerals, as well as the need for an accurate but fully comprehensible system of labelling and consumer information.
That may, after all, be essential in order to protect themselves and their families against ingesting excessive and possibly harmful amounts of vitamins and minerals. &#160;&#160; Mr President, European citizens are making increasing efforts to eat healthy foods, because they can see how important this is.
We, the legislators, must ensure that the efforts of citizens are not in vain.
We must ensure that the information specified on products actually helps consumers to select healthy foods.
At the same time, we are also responsible to ensure that regulation does not create an impossible situation for food manufacturers and distributors.
Consumer protection is an area that helps bring Europe closer to people.
Our lives are in our hands and there are no entitlements without meeting obligations and individual responsibility first. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the context of the concerns and wider debate on combating obesity and other chronic diseases, the Nutrition and Health Claims Regulation, based on nutrient profiling, will have absolutely no impact.
It will in fact do damage from a health education point of view, as nutrient profiles are solely based on the composition of a food or food category and do not take into consideration the consumption of the food or food category or consumers’ individual habits.
The effect of a food containing a substance such as sugar or salt at a low or medium level, but consumed in great quantities, is much more damaging than that of a food containing a substance at a high level but consumed only occasionally.
It is a central tenet of the Lisbon Agenda that legislation should be simple, clear and enforceable.
What has to be borne in mind here, both as a matter of principle and of policy, is that the Council and the Commission have played from what is still a position of excessive strength vis-à-vis Parliament, which has now been forced to give its agreement for fear of even greater damage being done.
We will swallow this particular toad – the nutrient profile for which will probably describe it as ‘too slimy’ – but I hope it will be the last of its kind. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, like my colleague, Mrs&#160;Sommer, I can only express my deep dissatisfaction faced with the common position that has been submitted to us for second reading.
We have here a typical example of a missed opportunity, particularly on the part of the Commission, to support the reasonable position adopted by Parliament at first reading, and this at a time when Mr&#160;Barroso constantly regales us with arguments in favour of more subsidiarity, less bureaucracy, and I could go on.
Not only is wine the subject of specific Community regulations, but very credible scientific evidence exists to show that wine, when consumed in moderation, meaning two or three glasses per day for example, is good for a person’s health.
The compromise worked on by Mrs&#160;Sommer, whom I thank, is merely the lesser evil.
I believe that tomorrow we will obtain a majority for our proposals, which at least pave the way for greater flexibility for registration, the possibility of greater protection of rights for claimants, a shorter protection period for scientifically established claims, the removal of unpacked alcohol products from the directive and other amendments.
It states that if someone wants to make money by using a marketing tool, that person or company has to tell the truth.
In the European Union, all of us, including the leaders of large Member States, pledge to place the European citizen at the heart of European policies.
However, that does not mean there should be no regulation, especially when it comes to health and consumer protection.
The question is whether it will be done at Community level, meaning that there will be one level playing field in the internal market and that industry, benefiting from the 450&#160;million consumers, can be competitive, or whether there will be 25&#160;different sets of rules and regulations breaking up the internal market.
I always ask industry representatives whether they would prefer one piece of legislation, even a strict one, or 25 different laws with flexible levels.
However, it takes into account, in a balanced way, the interests of all stakeholders.
However, in certain areas legislation and regulation are required.
We therefore need a combination of all actions and initiatives to achieve the ultimate goal(1). &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
As we have rid the regulation of unnecessary bureaucracy without compromising consumer protection, the consumer can make an informed choice.
The Commission can accept Amendments 50 to 89.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 1 to 49, 90 and 91.
The Commission can accept Amendments 1, 5, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18.
I can accept Amendments 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 10, 12, 13, 15, 21, 22, 23, 27 and 29.
Until the results of the research requested in Amendment 4 are available, it would be premature to proceed with implementation as requested in Amendments 8 and 11.
Amendments 5 and 25 concern exports of glass eels.
My colleague, Commissioner Mandelson, is aware of this issue and he will begin preparing export measures for glass eels once the Council has taken a decision on eel conservation.
Amendment 9 expresses a good idea: migration of glass eels should not be obstructed.
I agree with the principle expressed in Amendment 17, but the possibility for several Member States to prepare a joint management plan is already covered in Article 8.
Amendments 18 and 28 concern the targets and implementing methods to achieve eel stock recovery.
I believe we should proceed on this basis at present, but Member States should improve and refine data collection concerning eels in order to improve management targets and measures.
Amendments 19 and 20 concern financial aid for restocking and for constructing passes for eels.
I can accept that the burden caused by the need for reports should be lightened, as proposed in Amendment 26, but this could take place through less frequent reports.
Amendment 24 suggests extending eel management plans to coastal waters and, in particular, to the Baltic Sea.
I thank the Committee on Fisheries and the rapporteur, Mr Maat, for their very positive cooperation in the preparation of this report.
First, though, I should like to consider the object of this debate.
After all, this debate about the regulation for the recovery of eel stocks shows that the European Parliament can lay down legislation, even in areas where it only has advisory powers.
Although fishing in inland waters is strictly speaking a matter for the Member States and not for the European Union, in close cooperation with my fellow MEPs and Mr&#160;Borg, the European Commissioner for fisheries and maritime affairs, we have managed quite literally to give eels a helping hand.
Eel stocks have now declined dramatically.
Over the past 50 years, stocks of young eel at sea, so-called glass eel, have declined by more than 95%.
After all, only a unanimous stance of all those involved, including professional fisheries, recreational fisheries, regional and national authorities, environmental and nature organisations, can bring about a U-turn.
The broad, north-to-south, support in Parliament’s Committee on Fisheries is the key to successful decision-making in the European Fisheries Council.
That also means that the Commission and Council should not let this unique opportunity slip.
I am also indebted to him for the initiatives he has taken with Mr&#160;Mandelson, particularly with regard to international trade policy, in order to better regulate not only the catch of glass eel but also the exports in this area.
In a nutshell, I am pleased that the Commissioner has accepted a large number of amendments.
This is something that will benefit everyone, not only the public, but also fisheries, recreational fishermen and everyone who cares about eel.
The Commission’s proposal was rejected by the sector in all of the countries of the Union, by national administrations and by this Parliament.
Mr Maat’s report has been approved unanimously in the Committee on Fisheries and has restored calm.
We are aware of the urgent need to recover eel stocks and the proposal is therefore to reduce the fishing effort by half.
The obligation for future national plans to guarantee a 40% escape rate for eels, something that is practically impossible to calculate, is also removed and replaced by measures that guarantee a high escape rate for adult eel and, to this end, it is requested that account be taken not just of fishing, but of all human activities along rivers that hinder or prevent the return of eel to the sea.
The main aim of this report is for each Member State to produce a national Eel Management Plan for each and every river basin, and precisely the fact that the report covers each and every river basin is very important.
It seems to me that, through his report, Mr&#160;Maat has produced some good work, and I would very much like to thank him for that.
I believe that we now have before us something that can be made use of and that has great significance for all of us, and I hope that both Parliament’s contribution and the debate to take place amongst the fisheries ministers in the Council will result in the development of an action plan that will lead to the rebuilding of the eel stock.
With a view to tackling this situation, the Commission is presenting us with a proposal for a Regulation containing measures which reflect good intentions but which, in my humble opinion, could be improved.
Furthermore, since the current knowledge for calculating escape rate is not sufficient and the models currently being investigated within the SLIME project will not be available in the immediate future, the best option is to delay until 2008 the authorisation to fish eel during seasonal bans, as an exception based on a particular management plan.
We know that many people live from eel fishing and we cannot destroy the sector, but rather we must find a balance which guarantees the survival of resources at the same time.
The most rapid decline has taken place over the last 20 years.
This also means that it will be many years before we get to see the results of the measures, so it is time for all countries to help each other.
I welcome Commissioner Borg’s comments this evening on the sensible proposals put forward in the report with regard to closure and Member States’ abilities in this respect.
I certainly hope that Commissioner Mandelson can move on the international trade aspect.
The glass eel is particularly vulnerable, since large quantities of glass eels are exported to south-east Asia, and this has consequences for the industry as a whole.
I strongly support the rejection of a 15-day closure per month and I favour eel management plans that are specific to each individual river basin, rather than established on a national basis.
Everyone recognised earlier – and we all agree on this – that we need to take measures to deal with this situation.
We need the fishermen, because they know the subject better than anyone and, at the same time, we need their consent and their cooperation to ensure the measures are more effective.
I would also like to address the People’s Party and our rapporteur, Mr Maat, to ask them not to start fires and then end up having to put them out, and I am talking specifically about the proposal for a ban on elvers, which would have extremely serious consequences for certain regions in my country. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, after other species such as cod, it is now the turn of eels to be threatened by a fall in stocks, of more than 95% for elvers, for example.
The survival of eels does not depend on Community federalism, but on the action of local professional organisations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe that Mr&#160;Maat’s report comes to the European Parliament at a time when expectations are high in terms of finding a solution to the problem of glass eel stocks in Europe.
As a result, the price of glass eels rose rapidly: from EUR 300-400 in the mid-1990s to EUR 1200 in 2005.
In turn, the low level of glass eel stocks forces these countries to import fish rearing material.
However, they are facing a growing number of financial restrictions resulting from the rising price of glass eels in Europe.
If we could reduce the number of elvers being taken, then we would build up the eel population.
I welcome this report, because it is time that we took action.
Mr Gklavakis mentioned that stocks of eels are about 90 to 95% less than historic levels, which has been confirmed by the scientific research into levels of stocks of eels and silver eels in particular.
Mrs Fraga Estévez and Mrs Miguélez Ramos mentioned that the Commission proposal was rejected by the sector.
Mr Kristensen mentioned that the Commission proposal underlines the need for management plans by Member States at national or regional level, and with the amendment proposed by Parliament we can move ahead with reasonable prospects of success at those levels.
The amendment before us has been accepted and even the extension of the implementation period has been accepted by the Commission.
Finally, with regard to the point raised by Mr&#160;Chmielewski, I have taken note of the points he raised and we will look into them, especially in conjunction with possible funding under the European Fisheries Fund. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate rapporteur Albert Jan Maat on a timely report.
Former fishermen are unable to find other work, and fishing boats purchased with European Union aid are now being made into scrap metal with European Union aid.
Such problems cannot be solved without effective international cooperation.
I expect effective action from Member States and the European Commission in the international arena.
I am glad that this report introduces an amendment to the initial text, which had established fishing restrictions for specific periods.
Before outlining the Commission’s position on this file, let me first thank the Committee on Fisheries and especially its chairman, Mr Morillon, for his excellent work, and the rapporteur, Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, for his report.
The agreement also marks an important step forward towards strengthening our overall relations with Morocco.
It prepares the ground for fruitful cooperation between the two parties with a view to achieving sustainable fishing and it will foster a favourable climate for further cooperation in all segments of the fisheries sector.
The new Fisheries Partnership Agreement establishes the basis for a political dialogue between the Community and Morocco in order to identify areas of common interest, thereby taking into account also the particular objectives, needs and opportunities of the Moroccan fishing sector.
At the same time, I am convinced that the agreement with Morocco is a very balanced one, which responds to the interests of the Community fleet and in particular the small-scale fleet that was most affected by the terms of the previous agreement.
A substantial part of this amount – EUR 13.5 million – is earmarked for support measures in view of the implementation of a sustainable and reasonable fisheries policy.
I am confident that this agreement will be implemented in the best possible way and in the spirit of partnership, dialogue and remarkable mutual respect that has characterised our relations with the Kingdom of Morocco since the beginning of the negotiations.
Although the Commission can agree with the spirit of certain amendments, such as Amendments 2, 5, 7, 10 and 13, it does not consider them necessary.
I would like to emphasise again that the agreement is fully in conformity with international law.
We are in a position today, therefore, to ask the House to vote in favour of this Agreement, but with the reservations, the adjustments, the guarantees and improvements that we have introduced in the Committee on Fisheries and which are included in the report.
The opinion of Parliament’s Legal Service has been extremely useful and has been incorporated into the report, as well as the amendments by Mrs&#160;Attwooll, whom I would like to thank for her sensitivity and understanding, and the only amendment approved by the Committee on Development relating to the Sahara.
We also want to be informed of the measures adopted to allow the Andalusian fleet to fish with lamps, as it has been doing, and also to ensure that there is no discrimination in this fishing area or in the measures intended to ensure landing in local ports.
We also want to be kept informed of the technical measures that have not yet been clarified in relation to longline fishing and of the agreements of the joint committee that relate to the way in which the European Union’s financial contribution will be invested.
That was our difficult commitment and will continue to be so in the future, in order to ensure that the European Parliament conscientiously monitors its application once it has entered into force, in accordance with the amendments approved by the Committee on Fisheries and if the House adopts the report tomorrow, as I hope it will.
We do know, however, that, after six years without an agreement, during which contacts have been constant, in the end, the two fleets that made fisheries relations with Morocco so very important have been left out: the cephalopod fleet and the crustacean fleet.
Finally, we must thank the rapporteur for the balance he has achieved in relation to the political issues that have arisen.
On the other hand, this Agreement is also of great political importance because it contributes to the normalising of relations between the European Union and Morocco, a neighbouring country.
The Agreement reflects a new partnership dynamic between the European Union and third countries in the field of fisheries.
The agreement with Morocco creates particular problems, given the situation of the people of Western Sahara.
I can understand, too, the motivation of those who would like to see the waters adjacent to Western Sahara excluded from the agreement altogether, but I have to point out that this would have the paradoxical effect of depriving its people of the right to any financial benefit from the agreement, whilst not actually giving them greater security with regard to natural resources.
Please take heed of that. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;Varela&#160;Suanzes-Carpegna has done an extremely thorough job, but we heard President Morales of Bolivia speak earlier this evening of 500 years of colonial plundering.
The institutions’ legal services have been used to misinterpret the UN Charter in the interests of exploitation, but Parliament’s legal service recognises that the agreement is only legal if it benefits the Saharawi people.
This agreement contains nothing about compensation for the Saharawi people or about targeted aid as compensation.
Anyone who puts out their hand and presses the ‘yes’ button in support of this agreement, without exempting Western Sahara’s waters from it, is behaving just like a dealer in stolen goods, putting out their hand to receive payment for them. &#160;&#160; – As regards the content of the fisheries agreement between the European Community and the Kingdom of Morrocco relating to the waters under its effective sovereignty, I should like to highlight, in broad terms, the opinions expressed by representatives of the fisheries sector.
They believe that the conditions of this new agreement will bring restrictions, greater burdens and fewer benefits for fishermen, and will accordingly be extremely harmful.
Consequently, any agreement with Morocco that, ambiguously or otherwise, involves the exploitation of Western Sahara’s natural resources constitutes a clear violation of international law.
The issue at stake, as the Polisario Front maintains, is whether the EU Member States will uphold international law and contribute towards a fair and lasting solution to the conflict involving respect for the Sahrawi people’s inalienable right to self-determination, or whether, by contrast, they will encourage injustice, aggression and the violation of human rights.
If the intention really were to ensure that the Sahrawi people could enjoy the benefits of exploiting their fishing resources, the necessary conditions would be put in place to safeguard their interests and rights, by setting up a United Nations fund, for example.
We have therefore retabled two amendments, which, in line with international law, specifically exclude the waters off Western Sahara from the fisheries agreement before us, granting fishing possibilities only to Community fishermen in the waters falling within the sovereignty or jurisdiction of the Kingdom of Morocco, or in other words solely in the waters north of the 27°40' parallel.
The only winners are fishing companies from, in the main, the countries around the Mediterranean, where companies are heavily subsidised through the agreements.
By doing so, the EU would be indirectly recognising the brutal occupation of Western Sahara, which is illegal under international law.
They prevent poor countries from developing their own fishing industries and are partly responsible for depleting the oceans of fish.
I therefore call on you to vote against all the fishing agreements that will require decisions by Parliament, and especially against this one. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I welcome this agreement, which is reasonable on two grounds.
In accordance with the international legal status of Western Sahara, no entity, not even the European Parliament, can intervene in this disagreement, under international law, and as has been confirmed to us by the European Parliament's legal service.
That is why I am delighted to observe that the agreement has not been the subject of a political dispute, which means that the rights of the Moroccan and Saharawi people are safeguarded, together with those of the fishermen and the fishing industry in Europe.
I am convinced that these amendments are the guarantee of a coherent and fair agreement.
Under international law, this population group has a right to self-determination via its recognised representatives.
The Legal Service of the European Parliament has determined that the agreement is not in contravention of international law as long as the Moroccan authorities provide the population of Western Sahara with economic compensation for the resources taken from their waters.
I do not believe that it is the job of the Committee on Fisheries to solve conflicts between Morocco and Western Sahara, but I do think it is important that international law is obeyed and that the population of Western Sahara does not end up as the loser in this agreement.
I therefore also believe it to be important that we vote in favour of those amendments that exclude territory belonging to Western Sahara.
Morocco has refused to accept the UN’s plan for a referendum and has unfortunately failed to contribute to any form of dialogue or negotiation.
It may lead to Morocco distributing fishing licences belonging to Western Sahara, something that would contravene both the UN Charter and international law.
I shall therefore support the amendments limiting the agreement to what is compatible with international law.
It is, to the very highest degree, about politics, and that is something we must realise.
We have a big responsibility to make our position clear, and that is something we can do by voting against this agreement. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have become increasingly sceptical over the years I have been here about the value of fishing agreements in general: usually only a few of our Member States benefit, while all our taxpayers foot the bill.
I am far from confident that the European Union can properly monitor fishing activity in these agreements or guarantee that our money ends up where it should.
However, this agreement has an added dimension: the absolute right of a people to self-determination, the right, in this case, of the Saharawi people to control their own resources.
Finally, I believe that this agreement demonstrates a need to include the democratic clause in all of the fishing agreements reached between the Union and third countries.
In February, Parliament unanimously adopted my report on that subject.
Respect for international rights, and therefore for the sovereignty of Western Sahara, must be a prerequisite if EU-Morocco relations are to develop further. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I believe that this is an important day, because the signature of the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Kingdom of Morocco and of a protocol for the next few years restores relations – fisheries relations – which have been suspended since the last one elapsed in 1999.
We therefore believe that the Fisheries Partnership Agreement between the European Community and the Kingdom of Morocco must explicitly exclude Saharawi waters, otherwise our group will be obliged to vote against the report and hence the Agreement. &#160;&#160; This fisheries agreement is a disgraceful agreement through which the EU is a party to crimes under international law.
The agreement covers Western Sahara’s fishing waters, but Morocco is occupying and oppressing Western Sahara and has no right to the country’s natural resources.
Western Sahara’s legitimate representative, the liberation movement Polisario, is firmly opposed to this agreement.
Commissioner, the agreement you have negotiated with Morocco is disgraceful. &#160;&#160; Mr President, fishery agreements should be used to promote sustainable fishing, but that is not always the case, unfortunately.
Then, there is, of course, the issue of the Western Sahara, in respect of which the report is incomplete.
The agreement is not restricted to the Moroccan coastal waters, but also applies to waters belonging to the Western Sahara.
Amendments to that effect have been tabled, which I hope will receive your support. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission and the Commissioner for the work they have done, allowing us to reach this Agreement with Morocco.
I would like to express my complete agreement with the Commissioner’s comments on the rejection of the unfounded amendments proposed, because the intention to subordinate this Agreement to political conditions of a different nature has no basis in international law.
Concerning the points raised by Mrs Fraga Estévez, in particular with regard to cephalopods and crustaceans, I would like to underline that Article 4 of the protocol provides for reviewing the fishing possibilities under the agreement if the scientific reports indicate an improvement of the situation of certain stocks.
Also, with regard to the point raised concerning modalities, the modalities referred to are certainly important but let me emphasise that these are technical questions that by their nature are not defined in the agreement.
The next one is foreseen for 21 June and if by then we have already had contact with the Moroccans, we will certainly report back to the Committee on Fisheries on the outcome of those contacts.
Regarding the point raised by Mrs Corbey concerning the ex-ante evaluation, let me say that it was sent in September to the Chairman of the Committee on Fisheries and distributed to all members of the Committee on Fisheries.
The debate is closed.
