&#160;&#160; We now come to the resolution on urgent procedure: The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has already adopted a report on this subject. &#160;&#160; Mr President, thank you for giving me leave to express my support for urgent procedure in the case of this proposal for a decision.
The proposal also extends the present regime for six months, from 1&#160;January to 30&#160;June&#160;2004, to fill the legal vacuum that has existed since 31 December of last year, the date on which the last statute expired.
My only reticence relates to the lack of flexibility in the exemption mechanism in the case of new products or activities.
Be that as it may, this proposal will serve to maintain a vital source of revenue for our local authorities, especially those of the smallest communities.
It will thereby help to sustain the present effort to foster the economic development of these areas in pursuance of Article 299(2) of the Treaty.
I regret that our Parliament has been unable to devote sufficient time to the drafting of a precise report on the text of this proposal for an instrument that is crucial to the future of our outermost regions.
The fact is that a solution to these problems is still being quite literally prevented by the existence of taboos.
Many of my honourable colleagues accept the idea of a balance but consider that the power to strike such a balance rests exclusively with the local, regional and national public authorities.
The Convention recognises our right to do so, having inserted a new article to that effect in the draft Constitutional Treaty, and the prevailing situation demands that we do so.
Firstly, a legal framework must give services of general interest the status of a positive right in law rather than simply condoning the protection of such services as a derogation from the norm; rules governing the market and competition would then be bound to respect the status of these services.
Thirdly, there is a need to clarify the principles relating to funding and organisation.
The Altmark judgment on state aid is a step forward, but it leaves serious question marks about the calculation of costs, while care must also be taken to avoid criminalising public operators.
We therefore ask the Commission to respond quickly to the results of the consultation process it has launched and to the parliamentary vote by answering this question: what commitments is it prepared to make with regard to the legal framework, funding and evaluation?
Moreover, we refuse to accept the use of Article 86(3), which gives us no right of codecision, in its response to the Altmark judgment.
Let me also thank my fellow members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, who have shown great commitment, and particularly those who have been seeking compromises.
Regrettably, a majority said no to a framework directive and no to a democratic evaluation.
By so doing, they not only rejected my proposals and our compromises; they quite simply turned their backs on the resolution adopted by this Parliament in 2001.
Ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that many of you, whether on the Right or the Left, are pledged to defend and promote services of general interest.
The Commission believes that public services are at the heart of the debate on the future of the European integration process.
We believe that these services contribute to people’s quality of life and to the competitiveness of our industries and that they help to strengthen our social and territorial cohesion.
This is equally true with regard to the future Member States, because the efficient provision of services of general interest is one of the keys to their smooth integration.
In its Green Paper of last May, the Commission undertook its first full re-examination of Community policies on services of general interest.
This review was essential, particularly in the light of your own demand, stated in the Langen report of 2001, which had initiated a debate on the question whether a general legal framework should be created at the Community level for services of general interest.
We have now received almost 300 contributions, many of which are very substantial, and they obviously merit detailed study.
It would therefore be premature at this stage to draw precise conclusions from this work.
We do, however, intend to formulate political conclusions before the effective end of this legislative term, thereby responding, in fact, to a unanimous request from your Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
There is undoubtedly a need to decide on the type of instrument that the Commission will be able to propose as a means of ensuring that Europe enjoys high-quality public services.
In the meantime, a White Paper could define the political framework for our future activity or else provide a road map for the pursuit of the sectoral approach.
To supplement these efforts, we are continuing our work on other matters relating to services of general interest, and particularly the application of the rules governing state aid, in the wake of the Altmark judgment.
In conclusion, our aim is to lay foundations that will enable the Community to play a more proactive role with a view to guaranteeing the provision of high-quality services of general interest to the public and to businesses.
This approach will obviously have to take account of the subsidiarity principle, and our aim is to pave the way for the formulation of a coherent policy in favour of services of general interest within the Union, a policy that will provide the best possible elucidation of the relationships between the various tiers of government and of their respective responsibilities.
However, I should like to express my regret at the result of the vote in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which rejected the basic proposals of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
However, in order to avoid privatisation having a negative character, the basic rules governing the mission of services of general interest, including their basic operating and funding principles, need to be respected.
With certain services in particular, such as health, education and social services, the national authorities must have the right to lay down the rules which govern the provision of these services by private, profit-making agencies.
Our resolution will be a balanced resolution if we accept the compatibility of the rule of competition with the mission of the social state.
Secondly, the debate in which we are engaged is not about tampering with the efforts at liberalising certain sectors; on the contrary, we believe that this liberalisation in the internal market has, as a whole, albeit with some exceptions, been very successful and that it must not be jeopardised by European framework legislation.
Thirdly, we discussed the legal framework.
There have to date been no indications whatever of this being possible, which is why most of our group have changed their position on this issue.
Having already spent two years waiting for this, we can do no other than encourage you, as soon as possible after the decision on Wednesday, not only to get started on it, but also to put some concrete proposals before us.
That is the consensus to which we have come, and I hope that, having formed our opinions today, we will be able to adopt the whole Herzog report tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Mr President, let us simply remember that today’s debate on the future of services of general interest is taking place at a particularly significant moment in the history of Europe, at a time when Europe is in the midst of a debate on its future, on its constitution, and when we are preparing to welcome a host of new citizens of the Union from the countries of the East.
Moreover, I believe it would be extremely prejudicial if this report were less ambitious than the compromise – insufficient though it was, it did constitute an improvement – which we obtained in the framework of the debate on the draft Constitution.
It would be difficult in these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen, to convince people that we are representing them properly, because I am not the only one who perceives a firm belief in the public mind that European integration will mean more services, better services, more protection, more safety – food safety, maritime safety, security in the widest sense – in this high-risk society.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy did indeed, with the support of votes from the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, opt for European framework legislation, and our committee takes the view that services of public interest are something special; they are a characteristic, a distinguishing mark of the European social model, and that is something that we wanted the report to make abundantly clear.
We are not opposed to liberalisation measures, far from it; our committee, too, has prepared them in various sectors.
We know, however, how important it is for many people in Europe that there should be in their neighbourhood a post office – ‘office’ is perhaps the wrong word – a postal facility.
The fact is that this also plays a part in democratic politics, as the public, if they are dissatisfied with the services, can respond accordingly by voting certain towns’ governments out of office and other parties into it.
The Commission alone possesses decision-making powers in respect of services of general interest – it has had in recent years an increasing tendency to take up these matters – and also as regards lawmaking in connection with competition law.
Underlying the debate on services of general interest is, on the one hand, European law on competition in the internal market, and, on the other, the way in which ‘services of general interest’ are defined, by way of subsidiarity, in the Member States or even at the regional and local level.
Not under any circumstances do we want services of general interest defined at European level in the future, be it in a framework directive or in the constitutional treaty.
The EU of the future, though, with its 25 Member States, will be too diverse for us to lay down at the European level what this expression means.
It is particularly with France in mind that much lost ground has to be made up, and you, Commissioner Lamy, should resolve these problems before tackling any new projects. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not for the first time, but yet again, the debate on the Green Paper shows that services of general interest, the way in which they are provided and structured, are more than ever in the spotlight, not only in terms of political debate but also of the European public’s concerns about universal access to services.
They play a crucial part in improving the quality of life for all citizens and in overcoming economic stagnation, social exclusion and isolation.
This is not about our having the market and competition on the one hand and services of general interest on the other.
Services of general interest can perfectly well be provided by market instruments in a competitive context, but we have to take note of the fact that there are also situations in which the market does not provide such services efficiently, and that is when the democratic community has to be able to ensure that such services can be provided outside the market’s machinery.
That has never bothered us before, and quite right too; when we wanted to get something done politically, we found the legal basis for doing so, and, as the Commission is a veritable master at doing this sort of thing, now is the time for us to support it in finding one.
Of course, a legal framework of this sort needs to contain some substance, and I urge that we should, in future, spend more time discussing substance than this or that legal basis.
As I have already said, the framework directive must aim to give the stakeholders legal security when current Community law is applied to what they do.
It follows that it is not worth working towards a uniform and all-embracing European definition, but there are a number of standards and a few criteria that of course amount to the same thing and that also have to be embedded in it.
Universality, for example, is one of them, as are also continuity, the quality of the service, efficiency, affordability and also the involvement of the users and the democratic supervision of the service providers.
Far more than was the case in the past, we have to concentrate on the actually essential point: when is an activity economic and when is it not?
I am, however, very pleased about the discussions to which this report has led, with their focus upon a list of important issues concerning services of general interest.
It has been a refreshing political discussion, reflecting the political differences in this House.
On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I should like to express support for the report, as adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
For the ELDR Group, it is important to emphasise that the liberalisation already implemented by a range of sectors has generally been a great success.
It has meant the creation of approximately one million new jobs and, in particular, better service for less money.
At the same time, the issue of whether or not Parliament should demand a framework directive has been of crucial importance to the ELDR Group’s support for the present report.
The purpose of a horizontal directive would be to freeze a number of areas which, as we know by experience, develop the whole time.
This must, however, take place via sectoral directives of the kind of which very successful use is already being made in a number of sectors.
In the ELDR Group, we are, as I say, convinced that it will be neither possible nor desirable in a framework directive to establish any usable definitions of services of such different kinds as are at issue in this House, at the same time bearing in mind the large regional and national differences that exist in the area of services of general interest.
We recognise, however, the doubt and uncertainty to which what is termed the Altmark judgment, concerning the funding of locally based services of general interest, has led.
We therefore wholeheartedly support the Commission’s reflections concerning a legal initiative to clarify this issue.
On the contrary, we believe that such a duty could easily go hand in hand with liberalisation and, for example, environmental requirements, if only the political authority were to require this.
The text has become an ode to liberalisation with one single aim in mind, namely to make competitive market forces the sole regulator of service provision.
Recital H, for example, emphasises that liberalisation in leading sectors in the internal market is a factor in technological progress and economic efficiency, while paragraph 13 welcomes the liberalisation that has taken place in the fields of telecommunications, postal services, transport and energy.
Even the moderate proposal calling on the Commission to perform without delay a precise and comparative evaluation of the real impact of the policy of liberalisation of services of general interest before embarking upon further liberalisation, a proposal contained in the Langen report which was approved by this very House, is not endorsed in this report.
The purpose of services of general interest should be to guarantee these rights in accordance with a number of principles, namely equal access for everyone, information, consultation, user and worker participation and financial viability.
My group reaffirms the need for an evaluation.
It also expresses its desire to confirm unambiguously the right of local and regional authorities to choose freely the way they administer the services of general interest for which they are responsible.
As several speakers have already said, this report, compiled on the initiative of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, is essentially designed to clarify the terms of the debate and particularly to ensure that the opening of individual sectors of the economy to competition in the European Union is accompanied by greater legal certainty and is subject to funding guarantees and an evaluation requirement.
Firstly, I must remind the House that the Convention also debated this issue and concluded that there was a need for a legal basis other than the one currently provided by the treaties.
Accordingly, if the European Parliament, in tomorrow’s vote, were to come out against the position of the Convention, we should have an interesting conflict of political legitimacy between the two bodies.
So I should simply like to ask the following question: when we have all delivered our speeches, who will be the winners in this debate?
The fact is that, month after month, we vote on sectoral directives, and we can see how difficult the Court of Justice finds it to justify the imposition of any obligation to provide services in the public interest.
The result is the reinforcement of a European model which is largely based on tax, wage and welfare competition between locations.
If we want to redress this imbalance to some extent, we really need greater legal certainty in order to guarantee the funding of services of general interest, however they may be defined by the Member States.
Even before the European Commission presented its Green Paper in May&#160;2003, the rapporteur had presented a working document containing his views.
That was too quickly and too soon to answer the questions that the Commission presented to Parliament in its Green Paper.
It is regrettable that the Green Paper was not a visionary document, but the fact that the rapporteur already had a view on the Commission proposal before the proposal was made is downright premature.
The Green Paper rightly draws attention to the powers of national and regional authorities with regard to services of general interest.
It is my firm belief, therefore, that it is a matter for national and regional politicians to take decisions on services of general interest.
I do not see any need for granting the Commission new powers in this area, therefore.
I believe, however, that the text that came out of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs gives, in a way that is more in line with the current climate, an accurate picture of the situation and the prospects as regards services of general interest.
Services of general interest make up a substantial part of the European economy, which is increasingly becoming an economy of services; liberalisation and competition, also within this extremely important sector, are essential to the dynamic nature of the European economy and its capacity to grow and create jobs.
I believe that it would be a mistake to think that it is possible to set in stone the situation regarding the provision of services of general interest within the context of a framework directive or within new legislation.
It is not easy to define these sectors, which are sectors that are forever evolving: what today is a public service, may tomorrow be a sector in which providing products and services is completely assured by the market.
I believe that, as is stated in Article&#160;19 of the report, the current provisions for the internal market and competition ensure, in itself, that in this and other sectors, public measures, where necessary, are adopted within the context of the rules already laid down by the Treaties, guaranteeing that the economy providing public services is competitive and dynamic.
I also wish to thank the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs who have contributed through many discussions and many sound amendments so that, in the end, we have obtained a result from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that I think is very good.
It would be like an extra layer of legislation between the internal market’s rules of competition and the sectoral directives, and it would also be an obstacle to product development.
Another of the reasons for the deregulation has, of course, been the generally poor quality of the services before the market was opened.
I hope that tomorrow Parliament will rectify matters by overturning the rejection of the framework directive proposal by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
This is not the end of the debate: this is a debate on a Green Paper and is the beginning of what I think will be a fairly long debate.
Parliament is seeking, in this debate at least, to give some guidance to the Commission as to how it should proceed with regard to services of general interest, both economic and non-economic.
For me the issue of general-interest services – both economic and non-economic – is a line in the sand between those who favour a social market economy model and those who favour a neo-liberal market economy.
It is not acceptable that we should move by stealth to denying citizens their rights as citizens, which citizenship grants them in Europe, by making competition the only measure of service provision.
The OECD has estimated that in the 1990s governments in Europe transferred about EUR 300 billion of public-service property to private operators, in some cases with disastrous results in terms of both service provision and, indeed, loss of life.
It is not a question of defending an , but of looking to see how high-quality services to our citizens can be guaranteed across the board in what are new circumstances.
In particular, we must defend the advances we have made in the constitution on this matter. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the single market is undoubtedly the most important achievement of the European integration process at the economic level.
Europe has given us a single large trading area without barriers, with 375&#160;million consumers now, soon rising to 450&#160;million.
Over the last ten years, the market has been increasingly extended into other sectors, such as telecommunications, postal services, transport and energy.
The European market is a socially corrected free market, which means that the markets in these sectors have been opened up in a gradual, controlled – and successful – manner.
This has resulted in greater competition and modern service provision that is of better quality and lower-priced.
This liberalisation has by no means had any harmful effects, therefore, and the example must be an inspiration to other sectors.
The problem is that we have legislation for the internal market that is in actual fact an invitation to unrestrained and unlimited competition where both goods and services are concerned.
In and for itself, a framework directive could place limits upon legislation governing the internal market.
In the political climate of today and of the next few years, I am afraid, however, that such a framework directive would be heavily dominated by adherents of the market and by right wing forces.
A recent UK parliamentary report on water privatisation has shown that many poorer people, such as pensioners, have had such difficulty in meeting their bills that they have been cutting their water use to a bare minimum.
In some cases this has been described as verging on a public health crisis.
That is not to say that everything in the public sector has been perfect, but in our view a lot of the claims made for liberalisation in this report are highly questionable.
It is not an area that should be subject to general competition policy and we have tabled amendments to that effect.
That is an issue we have often raised in connection with GATS and is the subject of an amendment we have tabled and for which we hope to win support. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the belief that they are curbing the excesses of Community competition law, certain Members are playing with fire.
The aim must remain an equally high standard of service for everyone, not the quest for profitability which would throw open these public services to competition.
First of all, a coherent definition would be impossible in view of the diversity of territorial structures and national practices, and then the political will to formulate such a definition is lacking, as is even a simple majority in favour of definition.
My group is in favour of deliberations that would culminate in the identification of the interests that are common to all European service users and of measures to guarantee the funding of the identified services.
This Green Paper and this report, which proclaims the success of the liberalisation measures that have been taken to date, are very far from satisfying this need.
The Convention’s draft Constitution, which the European Council rejected in Brussels, would not have changed anything, because it also subordinated services of general interest to competition law.
A structure has been put in place, and its aim is clearly to dismantle the public services that exist in some of the Member States.
The important thing for my group is that we should be able to discuss these things democratically with our peoples, recognising their ultimate right to choose the model they believe should be developed in order to guarantee the social and territorial cohesion of their respective countries.
These are very delicate problems and should be solved by each government at the closest possible level to the people in the framework of the national democratic system.
For the same reason we are opposed to Article III-6 of the draft European constitution, whereby European law, in other words the legislative decisions of the majority in the Council and the majority in Parliament, would be able to define the principles and conditions applicable to services of general economic interest.
If this article were adopted, it would very soon have adverse repercussions on the freedom of choice of our national democracies and on subsidiarity. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing we have to bear in mind is that this is not a legislative procedure, but we are discussing our position on the Commission’s Green Paper.
Secondly, I would like to thank all the rapporteurs, who have approached this from many different angles in the course of the discussion process, for preparing, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, a very good resolution, and one that is likely to get majority support now that it is to be voted on by plenary.
Services of general interest are an expression of the European social model and of the ecologically-responsible market economy.
Even if it is not taking place within the framework of a legislative process, our debate today is fundamental, because it deals with the borderline between the world of the market, where competition has to prevail, and that other world where solidarity, equality and democracy – in short, social cohesion – must be paramount.
Within the European population, among associations, trade unions and local authorities, there is grave concern, because the various experiences of liberalisation or privatisation – and I need only cite the British experience – have had rather adverse consequences.
In actual fact, we find it difficult to understand the opposition of the Right to this proposal if, as its adherents loudly and proudly proclaim, the effects of liberalisation have all been beneficial.
By the same token, there is a need to protect the right of municipalities and other local authorities to choose democratically the way in which they manage certain services – water and refuse disposal, for example – in accordance with local needs.
Lastly, the Member States and their territorial subdivisions and local authorities are, of course, responsible for services of general interest, hence the need for a framework directive which could truly establish a set of common principles for services of general interest.
Should the plenary Chamber endorse the position of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs tomorrow, we should have no choice – as several speakers have already said – but to reject this proposal and demand a proper framework directive and genuine European public services.
That needs to be done for the sake of the overwhelming majority of European citizens. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I support all those who believe, as I do, that services of general interest are, first and foremost, committed to the common good.
The task of the Commission is to ensure that such services are facilitated and secured in local communities; it must defend services of general interest in the GATS negotiations, where it must ensure that local communities have room to manoeuvre, so that the public may be guaranteed these services in the interests of social justice, solidarity and territorial cohesion.
I believe we have to escape from this dilemma, but we must leave in an orderly manner by the front door.
First of all, it is necessary to affirm the fundamental legitimacy of services of general interest.
There is a set of public assets that must be organised more or less in the form of exemptions to the rules of the market, either because they need to be subsidised by the public authorities if everyone is to have guaranteed equal access to them or because the principle of equality is incompatible with excessive price fluctuations.
Secondly, a legal framework is necessary, otherwise we should all have to give up our common ambition.
This framework must begin by specifying where competence lies in accordance with the subsidiarity principle, in other words the level – European, national or local – at which services should be organised.
The legal framework must also specify the scope of services of general interest – how far their definition may legitimately be extended.
Finally, the legal framework must be democratically structured.
We in this Parliament cannot abdicate our responsibilities.
This is a matter that concerns the public, the peoples of Europe.
They remember the division over foreign policy, they remember the split over budgetary policy, they remember the deadlock on the draft constitution, and they remember the feeling of impotence as they watched the dollar soar in value.
If the social model were to be taken away from them, what would be left in the coming months?
The market is a fine thing, but we are not about to replace the dictatorship of the proletariat with the dictatorship of the shareholders.
Undertakings of general interest, apart from their important role in the development of the national economy, also play a strategically important role with regard to the security and independence of each country, especially in times of economic and other crises.
Privatising these undertakings and liberalising their markets will ultimately limit this development and will certainly enrich their shareholders instead of strengthening the national economy.
The statement that liberalisation is a factor of technological progress and economic efficiency is not true because, from experience with its practical application to date, it probably has the opposite effect.
Privatisation results in the destruction of productive forces, problematic performance, a fall in the quality of the services provided, terrible social inequalities, higher prices and fewer jobs.
This is therefore the point that I should like to take a few moments to clear up between us.
If the Commission had been able to propose a clear legal response to you today, this would mean that a solution had been found to the problem we have been debating.
In point of fact, the very purpose of the Green Paper we published last year was to open the broadest possible debate on a highly complex issue, and our feeling in the Commission is that a year is not an unduly long time for a debate with civil society, with you and with a number of representatives of economic and territorial interests.
In political terms, then, the problem is relatively clear, and I do not really distinguish any great differences between the various ways in which you have described the contours you would give these services of general interest, or public services, if they had to be more precisely defined at the European level.
As you have pointed out, the Convention debated this point and concluded that it might be necessary to have a European law to provide the legal basis that is currently under discussion today in the context of the EC Treaty in its present form.
Whether we come out in favour of an instrument which involves the European Parliament in codecision or whether our conclusions favour a different approach, I must stress on behalf of the Commission that all our options are still open at this stage. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The consequences of the liberalisations are already evident in the sectors affected, not only in the shape of redundancies and greater job insecurity, on the railways, in energy, postal services and telecommunications, but also, in some cases, in more expensive tariffs and prices and in lower quality of services provided.
This situation is gradually affecting larger and larger spheres of activity, particularly in Portugal.
Despite acknowledging the role of public services, known as services of general interest, submitting them to the rules of competition devalues the social role of public services that are essential to the population, to combating poverty and exclusion, to guaranteeing human rights, to the regional development of afflicted areas, to environmental protection and to economic and social cohesion.
I wish first of all, Commissioner, to congratulate you on this initiative and also on the broad criteria it contains.
Parliament is pleased to note that due account was taken of its positions, which had already been set out in the resolution on the White Paper, with responsibility for the creation of agencies being attributed to the explicit choice of the legislator, on a case-by-case basis, through an act based on the provision of the Treaty which constitutes the legal basis for the specific Community policy which is to be implemented.
The use of such agencies is justified only in highly specialised scientific or technical areas, with a precise demarcation of the tasks to be performed and within a framework of responsibility and autonomy which does not call into question the unity and integrity of the executive function or lessen the Commission’s political accountability to Parliament and the Council.
The report I am presenting today regrets the fact that the Commission has limited the scope of its communication to the so-called regulatory agencies to be created in future, within the institutional framework of the EC Treaty.
It is regrettable that no reference is made to the existing agencies, when we all agree that there is a need to undertake in-depth assessment of the work of these agencies, to propose the reworking of some of their tasks and powers and, possibly, to update the structure and composition of their organs.
These are concerns, as you know, Commissioner, that Parliament has expressed to the Commission through the parliamentary committees most directly involved in scrutiny of the agencies’ functioning and which today, once again, we emphasise.
These must be properly understood in order to define the future legislative environment of the agencies more completely, coherently and boldly.
As regards the limited scope of the communication, Parliament’s main concerns will always be to ensure the unity and integrity of the executive function at European level and the corresponding political responsibility of the Commission.
You will also understand, however, that Parliament will pay particular attention to rules that enable tasks to be carried out transparently and effectively, to appointments to posts and cost management at the future agencies.
We will, therefore, pay particular attention in the proposal for a future legislative framework to rules that impose on the agencies all the requirements for sound administration, for compliance with legislation on transparency, on access to documents, with the rules for protection against fraud and for protecting the Community’s financial interests.
I wish to conclude by thanking the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control for their competent and judicious opinions and all my fellow Members who, by participating, served as co-authors of this report.
The 2001 White Paper proposed that the Commission set out parameters, more precise criteria, for the creation, operation and supervision of these agencies.
To avoid any misunderstandings – and I will be coming back to this when I respond to the debate, with reference in particular to the point raised by the rapporteur – this initiative does not cover the ‘executive’ agencies that help to manage Community programmes.
It is a balance between, on the one hand, strengthening the integrity and unity of the executive function – and we know that this is incumbent primarily on the Commission – and, on the other hand, providing the autonomy that these agencies must be able to enjoy if they are to plan their work for the longer term.
It is then this difficult balance that we are trying to improve, clarify and formalise, given that more and more of the regulatory agencies are meeting a need for an increasing level of expertise in a number of fields, regardless of short-term considerations.
It is this balance that we are seeking and we await your debate to find out whether the way in which we have expressed this balance also reflects the kind of compromise that you might be able to accept on these tensions, which are inevitable, but which we wish to manage in a positive way. &#160;&#160; .
In the field of regulatory agencies, there is a danger of us falling into the North American vice of the proliferation of agencies, which act in a completely autonomous manner and without any real control on the part of the legislative powers.
I would therefore call on the Commission, when drawing up a text with specific proposals, to prevent any reference which could imply the assumption of legislative powers by these agencies.
In other words, we should try to ensure that, for any type of legislative delegation, there is an interinstitutional agreement, with the Council and Parliament as the legislative power.
With regard to the legal basis and the tendency to invoke Article 308, the regulatory agencies would only make sense if there were specific European Union competence in that area, but not by creating special means for justifying that type of creation.
I should just like to reiterate that 2004 is a decisive year for Europe.
It is a year in which it is vitally important to win back the confidence of the European electorate.
That is why we must make Europe more efficient, more democratic.
The focus is on the performance of essential tasks that are financed with European funds.
Thirdly, the seat of an agency must be subject to criteria such as efficiency and cost-benefit analyses.
In the Øresund area, universities and business enterprises on both the Danish and Swedish sides formed a consortium and put forward proposals as to how good conditions could in practice be created for locating precisely this IT security agency in the area.
I know there were other attractive environments in the offing in the Netherlands and Germany.
The EU’s Heads of State or Government agreed that this agency should be situated in a town in Greece.
I have nothing negative to say about Greece, but the decision-making process simply cannot be taken seriously.
It is important for the Commission to have ongoing responsibility and for Parliament to have the role of supervisory power and not be governed by the agencies.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party’s amendments are to emphasise this, and I very much hope that there will be broad support for these proposals. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, as permanent rapporteur for the agencies, I would like to make the following budget-related points in addition to the opinion on this project, on which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has led.
The second is that the functions of the regulatory agencies should be limited to the creation of secondary legislation linked to the Commission’s initiatives and should be subject to the approval of the budgetary authority.
If this goal is to be achieved, though, all the administrative units must be modernised; not just the Commission’s main offices, but also the subordinate offices, the agencies, and I can also see that the establishment, organisation and control of these is flourishing unchecked.
In its report, Parliament now demands that an agency should be established by a law adopted by way of the codecision procedure.
The joint involvement of the Commission, Parliament and the Council in this decision must become the norm in future.
Firstly, on the scope of application of the text, your rapporteur indicated just now that she would perhaps have preferred the Commission to be a little more ambitious at this stage.
We therefore favour a uniform approach and wish to apply it first of all to future agencies.
The second principle is supervision.
The third principle is the principle of responsibility.
You said this and we agree with you on this point: the Commission bears the political responsibility and its agencies, even the regulatory agencies, work under the Commission’s political responsibility, which you must be able to call into question: it is, after all, your right and your duty to do so.
I conclude then that we are well provisioned with criteria and principles that will enable us to improve the current situation, which is, it is true, starting to bear a strong resemblance to a plate of spaghetti. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
It is clear that since we last debated this, just after Cancún on 24&#160;September, the situation has changed, both in the Union and in the WTO.
I will address three aspects of the post-Cancún process: our policy following the Commission’s November communication and the General Affairs Council; the situation in the WTO since 15&#160;December and, finally, the prospects for 2004.
Let us first turn our attention to our own policy.
As you are aware, after Cancún, the Commission embarked on a phase of in-depth reflection and consultation of Parliament, the Member States, the social partners and civil society.
All of this led, in mid-November, to a communication on relaunching the negotiating process, which we still believe to be of the utmost importance for the European Union.
On the substance, we have adopted a more flexible position on the so-called Singapore issues, which will please a number of the groups in this Parliament.
We have also adopted a more flexible approach towards geographical indications and even the environment, so as to facilitate the negotiations.
On agriculture, we have reiterated our desire to inject momentum into these long, drawn-out negotiations, if only because since implementing our own reforms we have the means to make an active contribution to them.
I will now say a word on the state of play in the WTO, in particular since work resumed on 15&#160;December.
The good news is that although Cancún had revealed slight differences of opinion, indeed even some substantial ones, on the need to pursue these negotiations, now everyone in the WTO agrees that it is important to resume them.
Nevertheless, will this mean that negotiations will proceed at a pace that will, in our view, make it possible for ambitious objectives to be achieved in 2004?
Let me move on to the third point, the prospects for the negotiations in 2004.
There is agreement on this point and the process is underway.
The real challenge is to make them proceed at a good pace and with the necessary energy and ambition.
We are going to spend a month or two on technical issues in Geneva.
It is absolutely essential that this technical phase leads as soon as possible to a political phase, which will enable the various ministers to reiterate their positions on the timetable and the content of the final negotiations.
It means that we can correct an increasingly widespread impression that, because 2004 is an election year in the United States, these negotiations would be, as it were, put on the backburner for the duration.
As I said a moment ago, what is vital now is to see whether we can move forward quickly on agriculture, industrial tariffs, services and the Singapore issues that we consider to be priorities, that is trade facilitation and the transparency of public procurement.
We now need to ensure that Brazil, South Africa, India, China and our Japanese friends invest as much energy in these negotiations as we are prepared to.
What went on in the run-up to the Geneva meeting on 15 December gave me the impression that this failure had to do, among other things, with the nature of the proceedings.
I have come to the conclusion that, if there is to be agreement, there is in any case an absolute need for more dialogue and for more intensive efforts among the members of the WTO.
We will be playing a particularly active part in this.
As regards the subject matter of the negotiations, I have to say that we cannot accept any and every framework for negotiation modalities at any price.
You will be aware that we have gone on the offensive in the debate about export subsidies, by proposing that all forms of export subsidy for a range of products important to developing countries be allowed to expire.
At the same time, we cannot but note the continuing lack of willingness to make comparable commitments in respect of other forms of export subsidy; as far as I am aware, for example, the Canadian Wheat Board was compensated for its latest losses by the Canadian Government.
From the very outset, we have made it plain that all measures to deal with export competition must be dealt with simultaneously and that they must all exercise discipline to the same degree.
This is something on which we will continue to work. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, first of all, my thanks to the two Commissioners for their efforts and for the points they have raised here.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats greatly appreciates your commitment and your efforts, which must be aimed at making 2004 a greater success than 2003.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that the offer we have made in the field of agriculture, which even includes the possibility of reducing export subsidies to virtually zero, and now also an increased flexibility regarding geographical indications, is sufficient for us to go into the negotiations.
We also welcome the fact that the offer is being seen in a wider perspective and that we are not only looking at agriculture, but also at services and the Singapore issues.
Unfortunately, we shall also have to accept that there is an inherent degree of flexibility, but I think that the package now before us should offer sufficient scope to get the negotiations off the ground.
We all know that Cancún also revealed that the organisation cannot carry on functioning the way it is now doing.
On behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I can give him a straightforward answer: yes, we believe he can. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, you are familiar with the position of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
Restarting the Doha Development Agenda promptly is in the interests of economic recovery in Europe.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists wants to see a higher priority accorded to a citizens’ agenda.
They do not want any products that have been manufactured by exploiting women or using child labour.
They want support for fair trade products and for free trade unions.
The truth is, however, that many developing countries think that we, like the US, do not genuinely want this.
In the field of agriculture, in particular, and with regard to the Singapore issues, the message has not got through clearly.
We hope that we shall be generous to the new alliance, that is to say, stop export subsidies for products sensitive to them, open up our markets, and give them help in marketing their products in their own region and on our market.
As you yourself say, we have to be clear about the G-21.
I believe that prompt implementation of this approach in the Member States and the European Union is the right course to follow. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this morning’s session seems to be turning into a private chat among the Dutch contingent, so we shall just continue.
The Commission sees reform of the WTO as another priority, and I agree with Commissioner&#160;Lamy on this point, because there is room for improvement in the way in which the organisation is currently functioning, which is no longer appropriate in 2004.
The Director-General must be given the right of initiative in order to generate more support and increased commitment on the part of the Member States to putting the negotiations back on track; and also in order to hold the members to the agreements they have made.
That must continue, because this democratic control really cannot be left in the hands of the NGOs.
Firstly, they lack democratic legitimacy and, secondly, Cancún showed once more that these organisations are not exactly striving for the success of the negotiating round.
The subject matter of the present agenda should stay the same, in my view, and the Singapore issues and market access play a key role in this.
It is precisely developing countries that stand to benefit from a favourable investment climate, reduction in import levies and transparent legislation.
The southern countries would profit from trade facilitation; indeed, 80% of all import levies are paid by the developing countries combined.
The failure to reach an agreement at the WTO Ministerial Meeting in Cancún confirms the need to halt and reverse current trade liberalisation policies.
We need to implement policies that promote fair and equitable trading systems, geared towards the sustainable development of each country’s true potential, without imposing relationships of dominance and dependence and also geared towards improving the living conditions of the various peoples of the world as a matter of urgency and towards reinforcing their rights and social .
The great acts of social mobilisation that have taken place throughout the world, specifically at the European Social Forum, against the WTO and its various proposals, specifically the agreement on services, which jeopardises high-quality public services, prove the need for us to review the Commission’s mandate.
Account must also be taken of areas that are important to the textiles and clothing industries, especially those in the countries of southern Europe such as Portugal, in order to safeguard employment and development in huge areas to which these industries are crucial.
Consequently, we reiterate the need to review the current mandate in order to avoid the disastrous social and environmental effects of the trading systems that the WTO has put in place.
We want to see fair and equitable trading, geared towards development, public health, respect for the environment and towards cultural diversity.
Hence my question about the European Commission’s willingness to review its current mandate and to undertake negotiations in a new framework, respecting the principles that I have just referred to. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I have already had the opportunity in a committee meeting to express my disappointment to Commissioner Lamy with the Commission’s new proposals and, ultimately, with the Council’s position confirming these.
All the same, I must remind you that the Doha Declaration required a unanimous and explicit agreement on the negotiating arrangements for these issues.
The G90 countries, which are the poorest, have restated their opposition to opening negotiations on the Singapore issues.
Both technically and in terms of human resources, these countries are ill-equipped to play an effective role in such negotiations, which would only place greater strain on a timetable that everyone recognises is already very tight.
This attitude might even be a smart strategic move because it would put the European Union in a more positive position on agriculture: we would have more room for manoeuvre.
I think it is essential and urgent to relaunch a process of dialogue within a body like the FAO, where we can have a calm discussion on food safety and the protection and development of rural areas.
In particular, I think that an urgent file like the cotton one, which was tabled in Cancún, should be given top priority by the European Union, and I would be grateful if the Commissioners could take this into account. &#160;&#160; Mr President, we welcome the recent announcement by the Americans that they are starting to think multilaterally once again.
In the context of the WTO talks, I am concerned primarily about agriculture.
European farmers have signed up to a reform deal that involves tremendous upheaval in the sector, but at least they know where they are heading.
Our farmers need policy stability in order to plan for the future of their businesses and the livelihood of their families.
The EU agreed a framework with the United States ahead of Cancún.
A second element in the Doha Development Agenda is the manufacture and import of unpatented medicinal products for developing countries that are undergoing a serious health crisis.
The United States is a strategic player in this, so a more workable solution must be agreed with them.
I cannot find the necessary clarification on this point in the Commission document.
Finally, this trade round is a development round.
The negotiations must not focus on the Singapore issues, but instead all the more on the development issues. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Lamy, Commissioner Fischler, I appreciate and support the Commission strategy geared towards multilateralism.
Much more than the United States, Europe needs multilateral bases in order to develop international trade.
Commissioner Lamy said that as far as agriculture is concerned, negotiations are being reopened and the European Union is no longer always on the defensive.
Of course, the United States also have agricultural problems, in terms of protectionism, as does Japan; but Europe remains a cornerstone of the world system of protectionism and State handouts for farmers and rich countries.
Personally, I have nothing against Commissioner Fischler, but we have the Commission or the Council representative for agriculture&#160;–&#160;and not for technology, or for industry.
That is my first point.
My second is that our present support for the mandate given to the Commission and the Council also means that we in this European Parliament have to be consistent.
It is not acceptable that, in this House, we are supporting the Commission by a large majority, at the same time as, in the ACP-EU Joint Assembly, the same group and the same rapporteur prepare reports that are diametrically opposed to what we have said to the WTO.
What we see as of the utmost importance are the reciprocal opening-up of markets and, of course, preferential treatment for our ACP friends as well.
We cannot, though, send out two conflicting messages, and we in the Group of the European People’s Party, perhaps along with other Members forming a majority in this House, will see to it that we remain coherent.
My third point is that we in this House have to try, if we are to become active on the parliamentary front, to play a significant and leading role, which – difficult though this may be – will mean the constant involvement of our partners in the US Congress.
I believe, Commissioners, that the most striking aspect of the communication of 26&#160;November that you tabled in the Council was indeed the U-turn on the Singapore issues.
I think that, on the contrary, every effort needs to be made to restore confidence between the European Union and the developing countries.
You want to keep the European Union’s initial objectives on the liberalisation of developing countries’ markets and on the liberalisation of services, with, on the latter, a very significant ambiguity on public services, as we have been reminded.
You actually say that they should not be affected, but at the same time you state that you want to liberalise environmental services, which are amongst the most important public services.
Obviously I am thinking of water.
You even make a very questionable assertion.
I am glad that you have taken up your pilgrim’s staff to revive the dialogue with the countries of the G20 and G90.
It is an attitude that is in stark contrast to the speech you made in Cancún, which was perceived as very contemptuous by some of these countries.
We need to set a new agenda; we need to rebuild confidence around the Doha Agenda – but an improved Doha Agenda – and around a thorough reform of the WTO, of the way it works, its rules and dogmas, so that this organisation really is at the service of development for everyone.
We therefore need to rebalance this international trading system and not continue to make liberalisation and free trade our sole priority, as these can only be unfair when the various players are so very different. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, it is common knowledge that the most recent ministerial conference, in Cancún, sadly ended in failure.
There is the potential risk of the World Trade Organization and the multilateral trading system becoming completely undermined.
It remains my deep-rooted conviction that the WTO is more necessary than ever, because, particularly as far as the European Union is concerned, further liberalisation of world trade and the removal of barriers to trade are the key to increased economic growth and employment. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the WTO conference in Cancún having been a failure, the December meeting of the WTO’s council in Geneva was a non-event, thus, once again, demonstrating that the WTO is in crisis and that the trade policies it practises are no longer sustainable.
Further evidence of this is provided by the growing resistance to WTO trade policy on the part of the international social movement.
The Commission plays a decisive part in the WTO’s current trade policy.
Its tactical approach shows that what really matters to it is not development policy and global fair trade, but only free trade.
You asked whether my group would give you a mandate to do the things you have described.
For a start, it is high time that we comply with the demands of many developing countries and proceed with an evaluation of what the WTO’s policies have achieved to date.
Secondly, agricultural export subsidies, which are ruining millions of farmers in the countries of the South, must be done away with once and for all.
Instead of burying developing countries with European agricultural produce at prices that amount to dumping the stuff, the European Union must help these countries to develop sound internal markets and regional economic activity.
This is another instance in which, instead of signalling the beginning of new rounds of liberalisation, the Commission would do better to give more attention to the evaluation of what has been achieved so far.
The WTO’s work must, in particular, get back to focusing on such horizontal tasks as sustainable development and public health.
We call for it to become democratic, with transparency in all negotiations, for all its member states to be treated as equals, and for the procedure for settling disputes to be revised.
In particular, we call for the WTO to be a party to the international treaties of the UN and the ILO. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I note that the collapse – and what a dramatic one it was – of the talks in Cancún, which should have acted as a kind of electric shock, particularly on the Europeans, has not in fact generated any real basic reflection on the actual nature of the process of liberalising world trade that is underway.
Given the importance of the agricultural issue, it would have been good to consider in particular the relevance of integrating it in a process which, in its current form, does not allow its specificities to be taken into account, despite the fact that it is a sector that determines food sovereignty and constitutes the basis for development.
Given the importance that the European countries have attached to these two parameters, one might have thought that they were the right ones to ask this key question.
This convention is the first global instrument on combating criminal networks to contain universal definitions of fundamental notions of criminal law in the field of the fight against organised crime.
The international community now has a comprehensive instrument with which to fight in a concerted way against the rise in organised crime.
I therefore call on those Member States of the European Union that have not yet ratified this convention to do so quickly. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the Council of the European Union has stated three times in its summit meetings that in the future agriculture will also be able to be practised in those regions that have special problems.
Earning one’s living from agriculture has considerable importance for those regions, as there is a desire to keep the countryside alive and habitable.
I think it important that any reform in rural policy should take account of the criteria which apply to northern agricultural areas.
My basic premise is that the range of measures under the common agricultural policy must be developed in a way that takes the special conditions prevailing in northern agricultural areas into greater consideration.
The value of legal certainty and of the protection of creators and inventors, the interweaving of these situations and their importance today suggest that the coherence of users’ rights systems and of cross licences for plant varieties that incorporate patent-protected inventions should be guaranteed.
In this context, the EU has played a leading role in combating this type of fishing, specifically by fighting against flags of convenience.
These measures are, however, clearly proving to be inadequate.
Since the regulation’s adoption, the RFOs have adopted new measures, which must be transposed into Community law.
I join the rapporteur in welcoming the efforts made by ICCAT to address these problems in its field of regulation, accepting a stance that will inspire other RFOs and other international developments in this field.
It is hoped that, in future, we will not simply implement the rapid response mechanism but new synthetic drugs will also be monitored, in the long term, by means of an ongoing procedure for exchanging information.
Coordinating on three aspects – a early-warning system, risk assessment by a scientific committee, EU action to subject notified substances to control measures in the Member States – the Joint Action has proved its effectiveness, fully justifying its existence and the clarification procedures, and I, like the rapporteur, welcome extending its scope to new drugs and the introduction of deadlines for each stage of the procedure.
This extremely important convention is the first legally binding United Nations instrument in this field and constitutes the first global instrument designed to combat criminal networks, laying down universal definitions of certain fundamental criminal law concepts relating to the fight against organised crime.
This is the only way we will be able to fight transnational crime more effectively and prevent criminal networks from exploiting the differences and loopholes that exist in the legislation of the Member States.
This Convention must enable signatory states to cooperate more effectively in fighting organised crime by harmonising definitions of individual offences in the different national legal systems.
This is an instrument of international law that will contribute to closer cooperation between countries in the fight against organised crime, in particular by harmonising the definition of offences (involvement in an organised criminal network, money laundering, obstruction of justice and corruption), through measures including mutual legal assistance and joint investigations.
The protocols, for their part, are designed to enable measures to be developed to combat trafficking in human beings in particular women and children thereby protecting such people against slavery, sexual exploitation and illegal employment.
These measures include providing victims with assistance and support.
Conservative MEPs support cooperation on issues of transnational organised crime on an intergovernmental basis within the framework of the UN.
However, we cannot support the growing trend for harmonisation of criminal law at a European level as this is unnecessary and impractical.
This will also be the first legally binding United Nations instrument in this field.
It should be noted in this context that measures are included to provide both legal and material assistance to victims of trafficking.
The necessary measures must be adopted on pollution by ships, in order to prevent this type of disaster from reoccurring.
I agree with the rapporteur’s statement that the proposal for a directive on protecting the environment through criminal law must be adopted as swiftly as possible, because it provides for the harmonisation of criminal and other deterrent sanctions applicable to acts of pollution which infringe Community law.
This Framework Decision is intended to strengthen this criminal law framework with measures designed to harmonise Member States’ legislative and regulatory provisions on the crime of ship-source pollution, to provide jurisdictional competence (by preventing conflicts of competence) and to promote cooperation between Member States (by establishing contact points for exchanging information).
We agree with some of the measures proposed in the report, including the establishment of joint investigation teams.
However, we cannot support the growing trend for harmonisation of criminal law within the EU and cannot therefore support this report. &#160;&#160; .In light of both the oil tanker disaster and of the proposal adopted by this House, at the initiative of the signatory, to create a Community programme aimed exclusively at developing mechanisms to protect the EU’s external borders, in particular its maritime borders, I have followed this debate with great interest.
Any measures taken in the name of maritime safety are to be welcomed and correspond to a correctly identified general need.
It is appropriate to focus not only on accidents but also on the main sources of maritime pollution, which are the systematic contraventions of legislation in this field.
This also displays political awareness of the environmental problems affecting us.
I therefore voted in favour of the reports on maritime safety, with the exception of the Pex report, as I do not agree with the rapporteur’s proposal to create a European Coastguard.
The EU has an obligation to promote maritime safety and must not, under any circumstances, be relieved of this obligation.
We would be better advised to encourage closer cooperation between Member States, which would in turn foster greater interoperability and compatibility of the resources available at intra-European level and would avoid wasteful duplication and overlapping. &#160;&#160; With regard to Amendment No 22, we believe it is extremely important to take measures against environmental offences at sea.
Polluters should be severely punished and all of the parties involved in the transport of goods should be made aware of their responsibilities.
The number of people caught in the act is actually minimal compared with the real number of deliberate acts of pollution.
In addition, there is often a long procedure before judgment is passed on them and heavy penalties are imposed – which is not always the case – to deter them from reoffending.
We must recall, however, that this battle will not be won through further legislation alone; this legislation must be effectively implemented and monitored, which requires the appropriate means.
This proposal consequently contains broader ideas than simply combating pollution.
The UK already has criminal sanctions in place for unlawful discharges as specified in the MARPOL Convention and, as such, matters relating to criminal law should fall within the competence of the Member State and not the Community.
For this reason we were unable to support amendments calling for the creation of a European Coastguard. &#160;&#160; .In light of both the oil tanker disaster and of the proposal approved by this House, at the initiative of the signatory, to create a Community programme aimed exclusively at developing mechanisms to protect the EU’s external borders, in particular its maritime borders, I have followed this debate with great interest.
Any measures taken in the name of maritime safety are to be welcomed and correspond to a correctly identified general need.
It is appropriate to focus not only on accidents but also on the main sources of maritime pollution, which are the systematic contraventions of legislation in this field.
This also displays political awareness of the environmental problems affecting us.
I therefore voted in favour of the reports on maritime safety, with the exception of the Pex report, as I do not agree with the rapporteur’s proposal to create a European Coastguard.
The EU has an obligation to promote maritime safety and must not, under any circumstances, be relieved of this obligation.
The ‘polluter pays’ principle must apply in this matter, following the approval last December of a recommendation for a Directive that sets out tougher EU rules on environmental liability.
From a strictly legal perspective, however, I believe that this situation is far from simple, given that the proposed Directive is based on Article 80 relating to transport, although it also a matter of defining a crime.
Although I am unreservedly in favour of the final aims, I had no choice but to abstain because I feel that this matter merits further consideration, in order to find a technical solution to this serious problem. &#160;&#160; Each year, thousands of deliberate discharges take place through waste and cargo residues, including chemicals and oil, being dumped in the sea.
The need for common legislation within this environmental area is therefore indisputable.
It has not, however, been demonstrated, and still less proved, that the most suitable and effective method of coping with these breaches of the law is to set up a further European agency or common EU coastguard.
Better coordination between the Member States, together with increased accountability on the part of respective countries’ governments may prove to be just as effective.
At a time when the European Union is enlarging to include Malta and Cyprus, making it the world’s largest shipping power, these changes are urgent and essential.
But we must also denounce those countries which, like France, have created a ‘second flag’.
Their pay and working and living conditions obviously depend on their country of origin and bear no relation to their qualifications.
That is the real scandal of the shipping register. &#160;&#160; .In light of both the oil tanker disaster and of the proposal approved by this House, at the initiative of the signatory, to create a Community programme aimed exclusively at developing mechanisms to protect the EU’s external borders, in particular its maritime borders, I have followed this debate with great interest.
Any measures taken in the name of maritime safety are to be welcomed and correspond to a correctly identified general need.
It is appropriate to focus not only on accidents but also on the main sources of maritime pollution, which are the systematic contraventions of legislation in this field.
This also displays political awareness of the environmental problems affecting us.
I therefore voted in favour of the reports on maritime safety, with the exception of the Pex report, as I do not agree with the rapporteur’s proposal to create a European Coastguard.
The EU has an obligation to promote maritime safety and must not, under any circumstances, be relieved of this obligation.
While the 1991 Regulation succeeded in its aim of reducing administrative duties regarding changes of flag within Member States, the rapporteur, and the European Commission in its proposal, have not lost sight of the indispensable need for safety, tragically confirmed by the oil tanker disaster in 2002.
I believe it is possible to make it attractive to fly the flags of Member States – the EU needs to have a considerable fleet – without being negligent on matters of safety.
Cooperation and in particular establishing reciprocal responsibilities between national maritime authorities are preferable and will certainly contribute towards establishing regular interaction.
This would also be reinforced by the rapporteur’s suggestion that the Commission draft a report to the EP and the Council regarding the implementation of the new rules. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today's vote on nuclear waste is most timely, given that research recently showed that over half the UK sites identified as potential nuclear dumps are located in Scotland.
My Group today voted against the nuclear package because it offers nothing in terms of environmental safety.
The people of Scotland will simply not stand for this treatment and my party will continue to fight against this filthy industry. &#160;&#160; . – In the Vidal-Quadras Roca report on the management of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste and in the Seppänen report on the safety of nuclear installations, we supported all those amendments that sought to impose stricter safety requirements on the operation of the installations, and on the treatment and storage of radioactive waste.
The Commission feels that current policy in most Member States and candidate countries does not effectively address the problem of nuclear waste.
It is imperative that Member States develop appropriate strategies and prepare detailed, timetabled programmes for the long-term management of all types of waste within their jurisdiction.
Member States must be encouraged to work together on waste management, without losing sight of the principle that each country must deal with its own waste, except in special circumstances, and no activity in this field must endanger public health or the environment.
The proposals to create deep geological disposal facilities by specific deadlines are so poorly substantiated that they are in fact no more than idle chitchat.
The report by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy endeavours to support the inadequate text of the directive with comments which are either neutral or even negative.
For example, the report accepts the export of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste to third countries, something with which we disagree radically.
The proposal for a directive and the report by the Committee on Industry confirm yet again our assessment that there is a huge gap between the seriousness and acuteness of the environmental problems created by the uncontrolled action of big business and the measures taken to deal with them.
That is why the MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece are voting against the relevant texts. &#160;&#160; . – The proliferation of radioactive waste is a major problem for the environment and public health.
Nonetheless, countries like France are relaunching their programme to construct new nuclear power stations, which are no better than the old ones in this respect.
At the same time, the liberalisation mentality brings social dangers as well as ecological ones, in particular because of the increasingly widespread practice of outsourcing the maintenance of nuclear installations.
In this context, the Vidal-Quadras Roca report, as amended, admittedly claims to contribute to better monitoring of nuclear waste, but it presents serious shortcomings in two respects: it maintains the possibility for a State to export its waste to a third country (even though, and this is an improvement, it provides for, ‘the prior written informed consent of States’) and it advocates the deep geological disposal of radioactive waste, a practice that is strongly opposed by those who live nearby and by many scientists.
That is why we voted against this report.
The radioactivity of that material takes a long time to diminish and can last for tens of thousands of years at a lower level.
All Member States produce radioactive waste from nuclear processing plants, research reactors and various medical and industrial applications.
In its proposals, the Commission argues that whenever nuclear energy is exploited for commercial purposes, adequate safety levels must be guaranteed and that countries must accordingly be obliged to enforce a series of rules.
It is this concept of obligation that sets these proposals apart from the international conventions already in place.
The rapporteur was right to favour a two-stage approach, which would be more feasible and more effective than a single timetable.
Firstly, each Member State should, by 31&#160;December 2006, set its own deadlines to prepare and submit to the Commission a detailed programme for the long-term management of all types of radioactive waste under its jurisdiction in line with international standards.
Once the programme has been submitted, each Member State must set its own deadlines to put the programme into practice, choose a site, build the disposal facility and begin operations.
This solution, in keeping with the principle of subsidiarity, is an important step towards responding to European citizens’ concerns for regulation in this sensitive field.
By setting deadlines, timetables and targets, it also creates an effective framework of liability.
We believe that the Swedish safety organisation, in conjunction with the work done by the IAEA, WENRA and other existing organisations properly fulfil the requirements for devising safety regulations and monitoring compliance with these.
We are, however, doubtful as to whether the EU has the required Treaty-based competence to take decisions on directives concerning the safety of nuclear installations, at least where the Seppänen report is concerned.
The aim is to ensure that high levels of nuclear safety are maintained in the EU, given that the system to be implemented will fall within the competencies of national safety authorities.
The purpose of the Community system is to complement national systems.
Community monitoring will consist of verifying the way in which national authorities are carrying out their work.
The intention is not to undertake on-site safety inspections of nuclear installations.
The Commission’s proposal would appear justified.
Some objections, however, might be raised by Member States that feel that the Commission is interfering in matters of national sovereignty, in terms of competence to take decisions concerning conditions of securing and operating nuclear installations.
All Member States produce radioactive waste from nuclear processing plants, research reactors and various medical and industrial applications.
In its proposals, the Commission argues that whenever nuclear energy is exploited for commercial purposes, adequate safety levels must be guaranteed and that countries must accordingly be obliged to enforce a series of rules.
It is this concept of obligation that sets these proposals apart from the international conventions already in place.
Views on this sensitive issue differ substantially between Member States.
Similarly, the level of acceptance of nuclear risk on the part of the citizens varies markedly from Member State to Member State.
Fortunately, however, emphasis appears to have been placed on the crucial issue of promoting and sharing ‘best practice’ in many areas of European life.
The Commission’s aim, with this proposal, is to ensure that best practice in the field of nuclear safety is implemented in all Member States and in all civil nuclear installations.
It is rather aimed at maintaining a high level of minimum safety, under the auspices and responsibility of the Member States, on the basis of closer cooperation and greater solidarity, thus resulting in ‘best practice’.
I would vote against the proposal currently before us if it implied a shift towards shared competences from what has hitherto been traditionally and exclusively a matter of national competence.
This is a very reasonable concern on the rapporteur’s part, one which has always been something of a ‘warning sign’ and a clear delimitation of the legislator’s spirit. &#160;&#160; I chose to vote in favour of Amendment No&#160;29 by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, designed to clarify and tighten up the wording on protecting the general public when radioactive material is handled.
I respect the right of each Member State to decide on its own energy policy.
As a public representative for the east coast of Ireland, I am at all times conscious of the threat posed to my constituents and our environment from nuclear installations on the other side of the Irish Sea, in particular the outdated, decrepit and accident-prone Sellafield plant in Cumbria.
If Member States which persist with nuclear generation want to reassure their neighbours, they must give full access to information to the appropriate authorities in those neighbouring states.
The Radiological Protection Institute of Ireland has recently stated that it has become more difficult to obtain information on Sellafield from the British authorities over the past couple of years.
This is true as regards the number of subjects where codecision applies, but not as regards final decisions.
In a normal parliamentary democracy, the parliament has the right of initiative and also the last word on legislation, budget and the forming of coalitions.
This proposal clearly reveals the democratic deficit within the European Union once more, now that the increase in the ceiling for Euratom loans, from EUR&#160;4&#160;000&#160;million to EUR&#160;6&#160;000&#160;million, appears not to fall within the competence of Parliament, but only of the Council.
The vote in the specialist committee has practically reversed the direction of this report, and, as a result, I, like the rapporteur herself, can no longer support it. &#160;&#160; . – Let us hope that this Parliament’s startled reaction to the Breyer report will not only mark the final shot in the dogmatic campaign of the anti-nuclear ayatollahs, but will also usher in a period of calm reflection that will herald a real change of direction.
All Member States produce radioactive waste from nuclear processing plants, research reactors and various medical and industrial applications.
In its proposals, the Commission argues that whenever nuclear energy is exploited for commercial purposes, adequate safety levels must be guaranteed and that countries must accordingly be obliged to enforce a series of rules.
It is this concept of obligation that sets these proposals apart from the international conventions already in place.
I also feel that the increase in appropriations must be directed primarily towards improving safety in existing reactors.
Such is the case of the Euratom loan under active development for the completion of a reactor designed and built in Romania by Canadian, French, Italian and US companies – Cernavoda 2.
I am therefore opposed to such restrictive measures aimed solely at decommissioning facilities.
Like all European citizens, I am concerned about the safety of installations – especially following the socio-political changes in Eastern Europe after November 1989 – and about current decommissioning programmes.
Support for this proposal for a Decision arises from these concerns and from the idea that economic and social cohesion in Europe must also contribute more actively towards revitalising the economies of many of the countries where these installations are located, to which energy safety and sufficiency will certainly contribute a great deal. &#160;&#160; I voted in favour of Amendment No&#160;19 by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (which was voted down by 235 votes, with 71 votes in favour and 11 abstentions).
I therefore endorse the need, already highlighted by various European Councils, to ensure the sustainability and redistribution of agriculture throughout Europe and to maintain not only the picture postcard image of the rural landscape, but also the vitality of the countryside as a whole.
The most effective contribution we can make towards bridging this gap is to simplify the rules and make them easier to understand.
This would also guarantee the appropriateness and proportionality of community-level actions, while, of course, adhering to the principle of subsidiarity.
I congratulate the rapporteur on her work, which, among other things, emphasises the importance of reviewing the legality of the European ‘executive’ agencies, those with certain responsibilities for managing Community programmes.
I support in particular the requirement that these agencies must comply with the principle of transparency and with rules governing access to their documents.
Lastly, I welcome the suggestion of a hearing of those nominated to head the agencies before the competent parliamentary committee and the idea that, on the committee’s recommendation, Parliament should deliver an opinion on the proposed candidate.
This role of ‘ex-ante’ political scrutiny played by Parliament would be the natural complement to the ‘ex-post’ political scrutiny, in the form of the discharge for the implementation of the budget. &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote. &#160;&#160; The next item is the continuation of the debate on the Commission statement on the prospects for the Doha Development Round after the World Trade Organisation General Council meeting of 15 December 2003.(1) &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, Commissioner Lamy, ladies and gentlemen, global international trade plays an essential role in securing jobs in Europe, and especially in creating new ones.
We have now got through a development round the core task of which is to bring about the right changes to internal imports into Europe.
Although imports are, in principle, a very important and very good way to supporting development aid, we must not, on the other hand, overlook the need for our own small and medium-sized enterprises to be encouraged in their turn to export their products.
A single multilateral legal framework is, of course, of particular interest to Europe’s small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ in any case two-thirds of our workers.
We are not interested in a complex international structure that only large conglomerates and their lawyers can cope with.
The developing countries are not alone in needing clear and simple structures that will, in future, bring willingness to perform, the consequent access to prosperity and, finally, peace.
Here too, we need to distinguish between equity based on distribution and that based upon what people contribute, and we should keep both these aspects in mind.
Opening up our markets does, though, bring problems with it, for we must remain capable of competing internationally in the future.
It is for this reason that Parliament must deal with this topic not merely in general terms; instead, this parliamentary assembly should, in future, put the emphasis on Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Lamy and Commissioner Fischler, I would like to pick up on two brief comments that the two Commissioners made this morning.
The second comment that I found very interesting was from Commissioner Fischler, who said what we would do, and added that it would not be at any price.
That is, of course, an allusion to the European agenda and to the issue of how our thinking can have any influence in the context of the WTO negotiations.
I heard brief indications that you take a positive view of it, but could you go into more detail about just how positive? &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, among the many failures that marked the history of the European Union in 2003 – the split on Iraq, the rejection of the euro by Sweden, the wreck of the Stability Pact and the fiasco of the draft constitution – the rout of the Commission in Cancún, which we debated in this very House just a short time ago, could in the end have been regarded as a minor incident.
The vast majority of countries and people were actually glad that the Cancún Conference collapsed.
In fact, this proactive stance owes nothing to any economic or social imperative – we have not heard anyone lament the failure of Cancún – but is actually due entirely to your desire to exercise and defend the Commission’s monopoly on representing the EU and negotiating on its behalf in the field of international business and external trade.
Commissioner Lamy said in his speech that we have correctly reformed to move forward.
One of the reasons for the failure of the Cancún debate was its use and misuse, for example by NGOs.
Mr Rübig talked about small and medium-sized enterprises, the very things that are needed within the European Union and within the developing countries to help them.
Commissioner Fischler worked hard on the reformation of the common agricultural policy.
It is important that we play a strong and future-oriented role in the next negotiations.
An opportunity to carry out in practice the decision of 30 August was recently lost with the review of legislation on pharmaceuticals.
The Commission appears to be of the opinion that this matter belongs in Community and national patent legislation, but that is insufficient.
The Community patent is still some way off and does not involve existing patents.
Moreover, the Community patent does not affect data protection in any way.
The health crisis in Africa is an urgent problem.
I would like to again consider the further concessions and the proposal for duty-free access, because this does not, in my view, constitute the most effective means to help farmers in these countries, whilst it would permanently jeopardise many strategic European products.
In order to do this, and not cause a structural crisis in the agriculture sector, I am adamant that the results of the WTO negotiations should not go further than the decisions taken in Berlin in the context of Agenda 2000 and supporting prices and markets should remain a fundamental element in the common agricultural policy.
Following changes to the United States support system that were, in my view, very intelligent, we need to review our internal support to examine to what extent the GATT agreement is being respected and to assess the effect of aid on market prices and the competitive positions of commodities.
Finally, it is important that the issue of the great challenges posed by enlargement for the European Union is raised during the WTO talks.
This is a process of worldwide significance that must, in my view, be recognised at the negotiation table. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioners, thank you very much for being here today, and I will take this opportunity to speak about cotton, which is a problem for Spain and Greece, but which I would like the whole of Europe to take on board.
Furthermore, we have other third countries, such as the United States, which is the world's largest exporter of cotton, or China, which dominates the market by being the world's main producer, the main consumer of industrial cotton and the main exporter of textiles.
Despite the insignificance of cotton in Europe, however, there have been certain statements against Community policy on the sector, which I believe to be entirely demagogic, since in the European Union export refunds are not given and goods are imported freely, without tariffs.
I would like Commissioner Lamy to hear me: Commissioner, I believe that this attitude can only be interpreted as a wink or a gesture of rapprochement by France to these countries and the powerful interests of French capital in the African cotton sector by means of the French Company for the development of textile fibres and its subsidiaries in Africa, with the French State as the main participant in its capital.
In no way can this justify the belligerence allowed by the Commission in Cancún, with a proposal which it was inappropriate to present in that forum and which unjustly condemns Community policy in this sector.
Finally, with regard to European agriculture in general, I would like to point out that the objective agreed at the G20 is to achieve an agreement on the dismantling of aid for exports, as well as a significant reduction in tariffs and direct aid which distort the market.
It is all very well to adopt measures in favour of the least-developed countries, but what benefits them more, and they say this themselves, is greater viability for their exports rather than a growth in the volumes exported, which in reality benefits the marketing companies based in the most developed countries.
For example, sugar producers believe that export quotas for sugar at guaranteed prices are more profitable for their economies than the possibility of exporting without restrictions.
I would urge you to consider all of this very carefully and to listen to the supposed beneficiaries of all these policies. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the recent statement by the American representative in the WTO is without a doubt the only new piece of information that we have learnt since our last discussion.
I think it is an interesting statement, because it seems to indicate a change of attitude on the part of the United States and suggest that it will be possible to relaunch the negotiations in the WTO.
But relaunching them does not mean letting go, facilitating does not mean abandoning everything, and I have to confess that after listening to this morning’s interventions I am a little concerned at the attitude expressed by a number of our Members, in particular on the Singapore issues.
We have always said here in the European Parliament that we are in favour of regulated trade facilitation.
We are in favour of liberalising trade subject to certain standards and rules, and it is clear that the Singapore issues will force the World Trade Organisation to lay down a number of rules.
Personally, I would have liked social issues to have been taken into account in this context, but in Doha we were obliged, under pressure, to abandon the corresponding standards.
I believe that the European Union has, through you, taken a series of initiatives with a view to facilitating matters.
I completely agree with this statement and therefore, just as I regretted the failure of Cancún at the time, today I must regret the lack of progress at the Geneva meeting in December, while acknowledging that the simple fact of having resumed talks is positive, although, as the President of the General Council has recognised, those talks have only served to provide a clearer view of the key issues and to make us aware of the difficulties we are going to face, as well as reaffirming, on the part of the members of the WTO, the commitment to the Doha programme and, above all, the multilateral trade system, which, in itself, is of sufficient importance.
I would simply like to comment on the issues relating specifically to agriculture, and then my fellow-Commissioner Mr Lamy will round off the discussion.
Well, as you know, Bob Zoellick has sent a letter to all WTO members in which he specifically addresses the issue of cotton.
At any rate, he shows that he is open to reforms not only on export subsidies – that these should be eliminated, also as regards market liberalisation and the adoption of a less trade-distorting system of domestic support – but he also indicates that ways of providing better support to the very poor countries, which are wholly dependent on cotton production, should be developed through development assistance.
It is also true that we do not apply any export subsidies and that we have completely opened our cotton markets to the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) through the EBA decision.
Indeed, as you know, there is a proposal to amend our cotton regime, which would result in less trade-distorting measures for cotton; in other words, a mix of blue box and green box measures.
On Japan’s rice policy, we all know that rice is a very sensitive issue for Japan and it has always been viewed as such.
We need more, we need more intensive talks, and I would ask you in particular to deepen the discussions with the NGOs, for some of the NGOs sometimes come up with ideas that are quite contrary to Europe’s interests.
I would ask you all to consider that waiting is in any event bad for us, for the European Union, and also for European agriculture.
Our main objectives in these negotiations remain the same: firstly, an additional phase of market opening; secondly, better rules to govern multilateral trade and, finally, better integration of developing countries, which so far have had only a very unequal share in the benefits of increased international trade.
Our objective for 2004 is to achieve before the summer what could not be done in Cancún; in other words, it is to complete two thirds of the negotiating process.
That is our political objective for 2004.
Well then, you will say, given what you said in your introduction to the debate on how the work is progressing in Geneva, such an objective will no doubt require energy and acceleration.
Well, it is not! 2004 may very well not be a lost year and it is important that two of the major players in world trade, the United States and Europe, support this idea.
To achieve this we are of course going to have to get moving and we are going to work, as we have started doing since our mandate was renewed, with the G20, the G90, the United States and Japan, to mention just the main players of the moment, within a system of variable geometry that will enable us to put forward our own position in the best conditions.
That is what I had to say in response to the support expressed by a large majority during this debate.
And if there is a lesson to learn from what has happened between Cancún and now, we should bear in mind that no one around the WTO table has asked to renegotiate the programme of negotiations that was adopted in Doha.
It is this programme that is on the table and it is this programme that needs to be negotiated.
To Mrs&#160;Figueiredo and Mr&#160;Désir, I will simply say once again that their fears about public services are unfounded.
My mandate on this point is clear and completely unambiguous.
It is not as straightforward as it would seem, because the balance that was struck in August between the various different parties and the various different requirements needs to be reflected faithfully in a text that will now be a legal text and, clearly, this requires a little work.
We are going to do so by tabling a proposal for a recommendation in the Council of Ministers because, pending the entry into force of the European legislation on patents, which has been adopted but will only take effect in a number of years, the only way of implementing this agreement on access to medicines is to amend existing national laws one by one.
Those are the answers that I wanted to give at this stage and I would like to thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; . – Is the European Commission deaf?
It actually seemed clear to us as soon as Cancún had failed – and we said so in this House – that the fact that the negotiations had reached deadlock showed that it was necessary to review the objective of global free trade and return to the idea of a form of globalisation that was controlled by the people.
In fact, the Commission programme recommends a revision of the strategy to achieve the EU’s objectives in the form of a new negotiating position.
The Commission retains its priority objectives of free market access, free global competition and free investment (the so-called Singapore issues), which are certainly of interest, but it should now give other concerns their rightful place, in our interests as well as in the interests of the developing countries.
The opening up of trade in services provided for by the GATS and the no less sacrosanct opening of the market – put forward as a clear benefit for developing countries! – have been clearly identified as dangers by the countries of the South.
I wish to begin by thanking my colleagues in Parliament for the opportunity to have this debate.
At this point I would like to make clear that this report does not deal with hunting in Europe.
Although the overuse of bushmeat is a fast-growing problem everywhere, this report concentrates on Africa because the bushmeat problem there is the most significant and best-described in the literature.
However, the illegal trade in the meat of wild animals is not limited to Africa.
The trade in wildlife in South America is also growing and wild animals such as monkeys, birds, capybara and other large rodents, as well as tapirs, armadillos and deer, are for sale.
The most recent estimates of the annual wild meat harvest are 23 500 tonnes in Sarawak, 67 000 to 164 000 tonnes in the Brazilian Amazon and between one million and five million tonnes – off the bone – in the Congo Basin.
In Africa, in 2000, at least one species of red colobus monkey probably became extinct due to hunting, and many other species are expected to follow shortly.
Of the estimated 1.2 billion people who live on less than the equivalent of one euro a day, about 250 million live in agriculturally marginal areas, and a further 350 million live in or near forests, of whom an estimated 60 million are indigenous people living in forests.
A recent study by the UK Department for International Development has estimated that 150 million people – one-eighth of the world’s poorest – regard wildlife as an important livelihood asset.
Human population growth, poverty, bad governance, and the commercialisation of consumption and distribution of poached animals are the underlying causes of the bushmeat problem.
Small stable rural communities could subsist on the natural resources in their environment without depleting them.
The exploitation of natural resources has become unsustainable, with the developed industrialised nations dominating the acquisition of resources.
Poverty inevitably outweighs concerns about conservation and makes enforcement measures seem unjustified and hard to implement where people depend on bushmeat to survive.
Many of the underlying causes of the unsustainable bushmeat trade also cause poverty: weak local governance and unfavourable terms of trade.
It is therefore important that the conservation and development communities should work together with indigenous populations and civil society on this shared agenda in order to address the underlying causes of poverty and biodiversity loss.
As you know only too well, poaching and unsustainable levels of hunting threaten the existence of some of our closest relatives in the animal kingdom: the gorilla species, chimpanzees and other types of apes.
This matter is clearly of concern to the general public, as nearly two&#160;million signatures to the petition suggest.
We are working to address the issue in a number of different ways, but I must first emphasise the need to distinguish clearly between the bushmeat crisis – which threatens certain species of animals – and the everyday consumption of wild meat, which forms an essential part of food security for poor people in the developing world.
We are well aware that there are several aspects related to bushmeat which go beyond the development agenda; these include health issues in Europe, some trade issues as well as scientific issues.
But since most over-exploitation of bushmeat takes place in developing countries, the best solution is to provide support for these countries through our development cooperation efforts and address the bushmeat crisis at its origin.
This crisis can be taken up in the context of natural resources, rural development or governance issues, or as a cross-cutting issue to be addressed through Environmental Impact Assessments and Strategic Environmental Assessments.
The revised manual should go a long way to ensuring that proper attention is given to bushmeat issues in environmental assessments and therefore in all our relevant development activities.
The mid-term reviews of our cooperation strategies this year will be used to strengthen the integration of environmental concerns, in particular through promoting a more systematic use of Country Environmental Profiles, Strategic Environmental Assessments and as previously mentioned, Environmental Impact Assessments.
If we look at the conflict in the DRC and in other countries in the region over the past 10 years, the reality is that these conflicts have been blocking any attempt to create even a minimum of governance in relation to the problem we are discussing.
I would make this number one on the list of priorities and, in fact, I regard a peace dividend for the environment and for the bushmeat crisis as one of the many important aspects for securing peace in the DRC and elsewhere in the region.
The Commission is not convinced that a specific action plan would be the best way to address the bushmeat crisis, and this reflects what I said about ownership.
Both the EC strategy for integrating environmental into economic and development cooperation and the Biodiversity Action Plan for development cooperation are being reviewed this year.
Many Community projects in East, South and West Africa take on this challenge in very practical terms.
For example, in Central Africa since 1992 the Commission has invested approximately EUR&#160;67 million in the Ecofac programme for Central African forest ecosystems, which pilots innovative, protected-area management in crucial Great Ape habitats.
The Commission is also funding work to control hunting and poaching in private forest concessions, and promoting eco-tourism in the region as part of its responsible management of the initiative.
Firstly, can the Commissioner confirm that the action plan only covers tropical areas, and in particular the continent of Africa, and does not in any way impinge on hunting in the European Union, as some people are interpreting it?
Secondly, the totally indiscriminate killing of great ape species will wipe out gorillas and chimpanzees, which in countries such as Rwanda are a major sustainable tourist attraction and source of income that will be lost forever.
The illegal exporting of bushmeat to all corners of the globe could have a devastating effect on health that would make SARS look like the common cold.
One of the issues we need to address is the definition of bushmeat.
There is, however, a delicacy trade, which is for the consumption of bushmeat outside Africa.
However, there are species both in South America and in Africa that can be managed and could form the basis of an organised trade, with the appropriate safeguards.
Every year several thousands of pounds in weight of illegally-imported bushmeat is seized at London Heathrow airport alone, most of it in an appalling condition.
There is a reasonably large number of residents and citizens from the European Union, and from African and South American countries who, perhaps legitimately, want to consume this if it can be provided on a sustainable basis.
The risk is that we will drive it underground even further than has been the case.
This report, as we have been told, arose from a petition signed by 1.9 million people EU-wide, which led the Committee on Petitions to produce its report.
For the record, Mr Ford, the formal proposal to the committee to prepare this report came from me.
There are proposals within the report as to how we could help them to face up to their responsibilities, given that, at times, they use bushmeat as an apparently cheap and readily available food source for their workers and their vehicles are used to carry poached meat.
Secondly, the issue of importing into the European Union and the highly questionable and grim circumstances surrounding it has already been raised.
We could do more at this end, in terms of educating consumers and suppliers in the Union, to help them realise what the effect of their actions is on the ecology and development in the countries of origin and to stop people from regarding bushmeat as a luxury delicacy, whereas what we are really looking at is the potential extinction of animals in certain places. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, before introducing the amendment that I have tabled, I should like to state that my group supports the protection and conservation of the great apes, particularly in Africa.
There are many different underlying causes for the disappearance of these species.
The shocking statistic is that if the slaughter continues at its current pace, the remaining wild apes in Africa will be gone within the next 15 to 50 years – a long time, but it will soon go if we do not stop this trade.
We are facing a catastrophe that affects both the survival of our closest relatives and the people who rely on forests for their livelihoods.
The biggest challenge now facing conservationists is to reduce the demand for bushmeat.
However, we can do more here in Europe.
We had our own inquiry.
Smuggled bushmeat could not only spark a new outbreak in Europe, it could also expose our livestock to diseases and epidemics on the African continent.
Every kilogram of smuggled meat in the EU food chain poses a real threat not only of animal diseases, but also human ones, such as Ebola.
We must stop this barbaric trade before it is too late. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I think we should establish from the outset that the reasons why this lucrative illegal trade is flourishing are exactly the same as those at the root of both the illegal narcotics trade and of illegal arms trading.
This is an issue which has been regularly debated in the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly and which has consistently received the support of our ACP parliamentary colleagues.
They tell us, and we have had discussions with them, about the importance – also emphasised by the Commissioner – their governments must attach to the priority of making sustainable management and conservation of natural resources a clear part of their national indicative programmes.
In some parts of Nigeria, up to 84% of protein is obtained from bushmeat, which plays a significant part in people's lives.
If we talk about stamping out the illegal trade in bushmeat, all we will do is drive it underground and make it much more difficult to deal with.
We have made a lot of pronouncements this afternoon, but there has been no clear assessment of the importance of bushmeat in people's livelihoods.
The illegal bushmeat trade is devastating endangered species and habitats in many developing countries.
I welcome and endorse one recommendation in particular: to step up measures to detect and prevent illegal imports of bushmeat into Europe.
Both are equally dangerous for the species we are talking about.
In this discussion I see a parallel with the difficult issue of the need for Africans to change and move from a pastoral lifestyle, where they roam the countryside grazing their cattle, but in which there is an imbalance between the number of people and cattle and the square kilometres available.
It is this pressure on land use, reflecting urbanisation and population growth, which many people do not expect to be a problem in a place as big as Africa.
The pressure on forests is one such systemic, ongoing and dramatic pressure which presents perhaps the greatest obstacle to establishing a sustainable alternative because the issue has to do with poverty and with real problems.
This is quite clearly part of the action and our policy.
I find it a little strange, however, that we have not done anything similar when it comes to bushmeat.
What people have said in this debate is quite correct: ebola is one threat and there are many other very difficult aspects of this trade which require considerable attention.
I would like to thank Parliament and the rapporteur for this initiative. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The toll has now risen to 30&#160;000 dead, with a similar number of people injured, 45&#160;000 homeless, and 85% of Bam destroyed.
The Commission has been active in providing emergency humanitarian assistance in coordinating the efforts of search-and-rescue teams from EU Member States and from the EEA, candidate and accession countries.
On Saturday 27 December 2003, the Commission, through its humanitarian aid office ECHO, adopted a primary emergency decision for EUR&#160;2.3&#160;million to address the most urgent needs arising from the earthquake.
Another EUR&#160;813&#160;577 were allocated to the and for health care and related activities, and finally EUR&#160;34&#160;294 were provided to to set up a satellite-based communication network to facilitate communication and coordination between the relief agencies working in the disaster region.
Immediately after the earthquake, in the morning of 26&#160;December, the EU Civil Protection Monitoring and Information Centre offered assistance to Iran and distributed an advance warning to its 30&#160;Contact Points in countries participating in the Civil Protection Cooperation Mechanism.
On 26&#160;December, the first teams left their respective countries and by 27&#160;December, the EU coordination of the search and rescue efforts, headed by the Italian civil protection unit, was operational in Bam.
In total, 18 countries participated in this joint effort with assistance ranging from search and rescue teams – sniffer dogs, firefighters and other specialists – to the provision of relief items – field hospitals and other equipment.
On 8&#160;January 2004, both the International Federation of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent and the United&#160;Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs launched appeals to assist in the relief and recovery response in Bam.
On the basis of its own assessments and of the UN and Red Cross Appeals, the Commission is considering taking a second decision in favour of the victims of the Bam earthquake in the next few weeks.
The extent of the devastation and the resulting human suffering have deeply shocked us all.
However, one positive thing has come out of this tragedy: the prompt, rapid and comprehensive assistance from all over the world, including the EU, its Member States and even the USA, which Iran accepted.
This House wishes to express its gratitude to the Commission for acting so promptly on 27 December.
This shows the Iranian Government, but above all the Iranian people, how much human solidarity there is with them in their present plight, regardless of the political relations with their country.
At the same time, however, there is still much cause for criticism on our part, especially on the human rights situation, although we welcome the fact that the EU/Iran human rights dialogue has commenced.
I myself attended the last meeting in Brussels; it was an open dialogue, not only between the EU delegation and the Iranian side but also within the Iranian delegation itself.
I think we should make it clear that just as we show human solidarity in response to natural disasters, we must also show political solidarity with the reformist movements in Iran which – within the limited parameters that currently exist there – are pressing for more democracy and freer elections.
I think it would send out the wrong signal if the European Union were to carry on regardless and adopt a business as usualapproach in this situation.
What is needed now is not only solidarity with the victims in Bam but also solidarity with the reformers in Iran. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I wish to express our deep sympathy and solidarity with the Iranian people.
I am very gratified – and would like to state this very clearly to Commissioner Nielson – that the Commission, but also Europe as a whole, has displayed this solidarity and responded so swiftly and effectively to the tragedy.
My group and I myself are very concerned that in advance of the polls, pre-election disqualifications have occurred which prevent voters from making their own choice.
I very much hope that there is still an opportunity for Iran to reverse this decision and confirm to the public which candidates will be standing for election.
Secondly, I would like to pay tribute to the fact that Iran – not least in response to the initiative by a number of European foreign ministers – has signed the Additional Protocol at the International Atomic Energy Agency.
I do understand the fears in some quarters in Iran and the desire to possess the latest nuclear technology.
After all, some countries in the vicinity already have nuclear weapons and have established nuclear technology research programmes.
I am thinking particularly of India, Pakistan and Israel.
After all, we are in favour of disarmament across the board in all these countries, and I think that Iran is doing the right thing by abandoning its efforts to obtain nuclear weapons and is instead developing a different, more rational and, one could argue, a European concept of security.
As someone who is always criticising the Israeli Government, I still take the view that all countries in this region and beyond should make their contribution to peace in the Middle East.
With this in mind, I would like to conclude by reiterating my group’s solidarity with the Iranian people, but would also request and urge the Council to do more to encourage the development of democracy and human rights to their full capacity in Iran, in that country’s own interests. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner Nielson, it was naturally with great consternation that we heard the appalling news of the earthquake in Bam.
On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I wish to express our condolences to, and deepest sympathy with, the Iranian people at this difficult time.
Naturally, the EU should continue its work with the Iranian authorities to help those affected obtain care, roofs over their heads and other necessities.
Our concern for, and solidarity with, the Iranian people also extends to their access to democracy and human rights.
The Group of the Europe Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is very concerned about these areas.
By not accepting thousands of candidates throughout the country – more than half of those who have put their names forward – Iran’s Council of Guardians is again showing its unwillingness to reform the Iranian system of government.
Classifying the rejects as a bunch of criminals in view of the fact that they have had contacts with, for example, a number of groups disliked by the Council of Guardians rings hollow.
If Iran wants ever to be counted among the democratic states, it must accept that political legitimacy is obtained from the people in free elections, not through the ayatollahs’ capricious interpretation of the will of God.
Just like everyone else, the Iranian people wants democracy and human rights.
The Iranian Government and Iranian Parliament have expressed their gratitude to the EU and to the broader international community for the assistance they have been given to help in the reconstruction of Bam and to help the thousands of displaced persons in this region.
The bottom line with regard to the reconstruction of Iran from an EU perspective is the following: it is going to take months and years to reconstruct the city and help to rebuild the lives of thousands of people which have simply been destroyed by this horrific earthquake.
I strongly urge EU governments and the European Commission to make available long-term financial assistance to help the Iranian Government with these difficult regeneration tasks.
The European Union has committed over EUR 200 million in recent years to help rebuild Afghanistan, and the European Union must take the decision financially to support the Iranian Government for a number of years so as to ensure that the basic social infrastructural and educational needs are addressed in the reconstruction process of Bam.
Longer-term financial assistance is required, and EU governments must take the political decisions to make these broader financial commitments available to the Iranian Government.
On a separate matter, I believe that political dialogue should recommence between the European Union and the Iranian Government.
We are all aware of the difficulties that the international community has had with the Iranian Government concerning its compliance with the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
Negotiations should restart between the Union and the Iranian Government in the context of a trade and cooperation agreement between us, and a structured political dialogue between our respective partners should also be set up.
In building close relations between the Union and Iran – which has a population of over 70 million people – it is best to build on the basis of dialogue and consultation rather than on the basis of political assumption, political prejudice and political coercion.
Finally, I totally support paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the resolution.
It has come as a horrible shock to learn of the decision to prevent people from standing for election.
I am sure that Ayatollah Khamenei will reverse the decision – as it should be – in favour of those who are trying to bring peace and reform to Iran. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I congratulate the Member who exceeded the speaking time, because I believe that exceeding useless restrictions is a good thing.
I will begin by saying that we are astonished, we are shocked and that we want to fight against a majority of those elected to the current Iranian Parliament who were not&#160;–&#160;so to speak&#160;–&#160;previously banned and who have implemented a truly terrible policy since 1997, on the pretext of shortcomings due to the excess fundamentalist power of the Ayatollahs.
The problem is that this Iran&#160;–&#160;of candidates and elected representatives who have not been banned&#160;–&#160;is an Iran that is second only to China in terms of the number of cases of capital punishment.
The first, the earthquake in Bam, had 40&#160;000 victims.
The Bam disaster moved the entire world.
The European Union has, for its part, already released humanitarian aid worth EUR&#160;2.3 million and is planning further aid projects.
Europe, confident in the process of democratisation that had been put in place by the Iranian Government, had made progress in bilateral negotiations and agreements were coming into view.
Admittedly, it is not for us to dictate policy to a country or to interfere in its domestic affairs, but we reserve the right to choose our friends, those with whom we wish to collaborate and who have our confidence.
If a fair solution is not found to the current crisis, one that is accepted by the Iranian people as a whole, it will not have an impact on the humanitarian aid, but it will have a profound and lasting effect on relations between Iran and the European Union.
This would be another disaster with incalculable consequences. &#160;&#160; Madam President, first we should congratulate the Commissioner and ECHO for the aid provided.
Criticisms of EU aid are frequently unfair, and all the reports from Iran suggest that the EUR 2.3 million deployed by the European Union within 72 hours using the primary emergency decision were both well received and well targeted.
When we talk about south-south assistance we should at the same time congratulate the Iranian Red Crescent for mobilising more than 8&#160;000 relief workers, and, despite what Robert Kilroy-Silk may say in the UK, Arab countries, who have offered 400 million for the reconstruction of Bam.
Finally, it is right to include in our resolution a message to the Iranians that our international solidarity must be matched by their commitment to international human rights and standards of democracy.
The procedure agreed by the Iranian Guardian Council for the screening of election candidates does not meet those standards.
For ECHO, in administrative terms, this is not a dramatic or difficult situation to respond to.
It is very important that we continue to keep humanitarian assistance separate from politics.
We will be discussing with the Iranian authorities how to secure access for all aid workers, issue visa waivers to the various NGOs working there both now and in the next few months, and ensure normal access for the benefit of victims and others in the country.
Political dialogue with Iran – the other part of this afternoon's debate – will be pursued and taken up in the various relevant frameworks.
I would stress my remark about keeping the issues separate, in order to be consistent, because from time to time we are faced with even more difficult situations where it is even more important to keep to the humanitarian mandate.
The debate is closed.
I am going to speak until 5 p.m., and I hope that you will at least allow the rapporteur time to speak properly, because I do not believe the Commissioner will have time to answer me.
My political group asked for this report because it believes that the Committee on Fisheries should focus all its attention on the study and analysis of certain fisheries, analysing their situation, their functions, their problems and their future.
Our intention is to provide a technical and political consideration of the whole of the sector, both extractive and processing, to analyse its position within the European Union and the world in order to draw conclusions which we can deliver to the Commission and the Council in order to increase awareness and sensitivity towards this important industry and finally to propose a series of specific measures to improve its defence.
We therefore support the labelling of the AIDCP, the intergovernmental body which includes the European Union amongst its members; we call for transparency and clarity for consumers; we condemn illegal fishing – IUU – the flags of convenience which shelter it and we support the regional fisheries organisations and the Commission's role in them, we propose the creation of other new ones and we also request the maintenance and extension of the network of international tuna fishing agreements, given the highly migratory nature of these species and the guarantee that these international fisheries agreements represent for responsible fishing in the face of private agreements.
I believe that the consensus reached in the Committee on Fisheries, in which the rapporteur accepted amendments from all political groups and proposed specific compromises, which have been incorporated, as in the case of the support for the amendments from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, demonstrate our genuine interest in supporting fisheries which must be sustainable both ecologically and economically and socially.
To greatly summarise the contents of the report, we are calling for assistance for the Community fleet to prevent it from losing competitiveness in the globalised tuna world and we advocate a specific register for this fleet which will not receive aid from a structural point of view following the reform of the fisheries policy.
In view of the globalisation of the tuna market, we are facing very complex issues which require constant and priority attention, as happens in relation to the supply of raw material to the Community industry, and we therefore call for a new study of the real supply needs which allow the Community administration to take the appropriate decisions at all times.
We in the European Parliament have begun our work and from now on we are going to demand compliance with our requests. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Mr&#160;Varela.
Moreover, since Commissioner Bolkestein has not yet arrived, I have the pleasure of giving the floor to Commissioner Fischler so that he can respond to your comments straight away. &#160;&#160; .
From the Commission’s perspective, three issues are especially important in supporting the interests of the tuna industry.
Secondly, we must defend the interests of the tuna industry through our mandate in the regional fisheries organisations, and thirdly, we want to utilise our market policies in order to create a safety net for stakeholders.
The Commission is at present producing a kind of framework agreement for the assessment of the tuna fish chapters of the various fisheries agreements, and I will gladly take up your proposal within this context.
Our Community action plan for the eradication of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing was supported both by this Parliament and the Council.
This is a political priority for the Commission and we have already launched appropriate initiatives in various fisheries organisations.
The Community cannot accept an aggressive expansion of third countries’ fleets at a time when its own fleet is undergoing cuts.
Examples are the management plans for Northern bluefin tuna and swordfish in the Atlantic, and the capacity restrictions on the tuna fishing fleet in the Indian Ocean.
First of all, I would like to make it clear that the compensation payments within the framework of the common market organisation must remain a regulatory instrument for crisis situations; they cannot become a kind of long-term intervention mechanism.
By contrast, imports of canned tuna and semi-processed products, such as tuna fillets, are subject to a tariff rate of 24%.
This is the highest tariff in the fisheries sector and has been bound and applied for more than thirty years.
Furthermore, canned tuna and fillets are classified as a sensitive product in international negotiations, which is why very few commercial licences have been granted for them.
The combination of Community tariffs and trade preferences has clearly enhanced the competitiveness of the tuna industry.
As you are aware, the Community has already introduced a ban on the import of products derived from illegal fishing.
Secondly, it is also important that we apply the rules of origin and the health rules to imports without discrimination.
However, the responsibility for control primarily lies with the Member States.
In this context, we must distinguish between the responsibilities of the market participants and the competence of regulatory authorities.
Firstly, I congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent own-initiative report.
World production of canned tuna is over two&#160;million tonnes a year, while the trade in fresh tuna is also burgeoning.
I wish to concentrate on one important aspect of the report, namely the AIDCP – or Agreement on the International Dolphin Conservation Program – to which the EU is a signatory, as is the United States and most of the tuna-producing nations of Central and South America.
One of these private certification schemes, promoted by the Californian NGO Earth Island, has dominated the canned tuna market for some years.
I believe it is an excellent description of the problems worrying the Community tuna fleet, as well as its processing industry.
It is true, as we have acknowledged many times in the Committee on Fisheries, that tuna is the most globalised segment of the fisheries sector, and that the Community market demands more product – both fresh tuna and processed tuna – than its fleet and its canning sector can provide.
By acting in this way, the Commission will defend the European social model and the economic and social cohesion of regions such as mine which largely depend on this industry.
We want fishing and marketing to respond to sustainable and environmental criteria, as well as food safety principles and that, therefore, control mechanisms be established at borders so that imported products have the same phytosanitary guarantees as those originating from our own fleet and industry.
This Community strategy we are asking the Commission for is all the more urgent if we consider the vulnerability of our sector to possible unfair competition and the precariousness of many thousands of jobs in our industry, the majority of them carried out by women.
For instance, regional tuna management bodies such as ICAT have made great progress in combating fishing by vessels flying flags of convenience.
Finally, several tuna bodies are in the throes of establishing limits on the capacity of the fishing fleets that are allowed to be involved in the fishery.
I believe it is essential that the EU clean up these aspects of its fisheries if it is to be committed to a sustainable fisheries policy. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, I would first like to congratulate Mr&#160;Varela on his excellent work.
My group does, of course, fully support his report.
After years of tests, scientific analyses and expert opinions, we all know that fish consumption is on the increase: fish is healthy, the consumption of fish products&#160;–&#160;either fresh, smoked, frozen or canned fish&#160;–&#160;by European citizens increases year after year, and is also due to several effective advertising and information campaigns.
In order to adequately protect consumer health, the same requisites should also be extended to products from third countries where, unfortunately, health regulations in this area are often too lenient or even, in some cases, completely lacking.
We therefore support and strongly insist on the requests made in points 8 and 10 of the motion for a resolution, which point out, respectively, the need to intensify inspections on third-country products&#160;–&#160;which are, moreover, already provided for by Directive 91/493/EEC&#160;–&#160;and the need to create Community laboratories to uphold quality, food safety and consumer safety against what is known as food piracy.
The&#160;–&#160;equally important&#160;–&#160;issue of competitiveness and, therefore of employment, in the tuna fishing sector and the canned tuna industry, is linked to the sensitive issue of protecting consumer health.If, in order to adequately protect the consumer, certain requirements are imposed, including those that I just mentioned relating to health, which involves a considerable amount of money being invested, and if the same requirements are not applied to products from third countries then, with the inevitable entry into the Community market of products at very low prices compared to European products, then competitiveness in the fishing industry and the European canned tuna industry will be unfairly harmed.
As a result, we would point out the need to support, with every possible regulatory and economic means, the sector in question, which is an important source of employment also in other Mediterranean regions, including Sicily, where fishing and bluefin tuna processing has for centuries provided economic support to a considerable percentage of the active population.
As an example, at a time when we are seeing considerable growth throughout the world in unregulated fishing capacity flying flags that show little respect for international maritime law, the Commission has proposed banning all public aid for new constructions in Europe and making the construction of new vessels dependent on old ones being destroyed without any compensation of any kind.
In addition, we are lowering customs tariffs considerably on canned tuna from third countries and at the same time subjecting our own processors to ever more requirements, without taking into account the impact of these constraints on the competitiveness of our industry.
We must not allow this to be threatened by these inconsistent policies and by the lack of an overall vision and definite strategy. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner Fischler, we must indeed compliment Mr&#160;Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, who carried out this excellent work which, at least according to the Commissioner, will also meet with approval in the Commission regarding the aims and objectives that we have set.
Within the fisheries sector, tuna fishing is extremely important for the European Union in the two areas that it includes: on the one hand, extractive fishing&#160;–&#160;fleets that fish tuna in our waters and those outside the European Union&#160;–&#160;and, on the other hand, the important pillar represented by the processing sector, which processes tuna of European origin but also, as has been mentioned, tuna originating, in particular, in the seas of Asia and other seas.
I believe that, with the wisdom that distinguishes this House&#160;–&#160;and the report currently before us is proof of this&#160;–&#160;we will succeed in guaranteeing both aspects and, thus, a more prosperous and more sustainable tuna fishing industry in the European Union. &#160;&#160; Madam President, tuna is one of the most popular fish in the EU and also one of the most commercially valuable.
However, fresh tuna has become more popular and is readily available to consumers in my country, Scotland.
That is why paragraph 11 in the resolution, stating that the product's origin should be identified and that there should be full and accurate information for consumers on the type of tuna packed and on the ingredients, is so important.
This directly links in to the recent proposal by the Commission on cetacean by-catches and the resulting protection of these at-risk species.
The protection of dolphins and other cetaceans is of concern to many of my constituents, especially many schoolchildren whom I meet.
That is why inspection of third-country products is important not just in terms of health, but also in terms of consumer information.
Commissioner Fischler is sitting patiently, listening to our debate, and half our colleagues have been unable to contribute to it.
Before I make my points to the rapporteur, I would ask you to deduct the 38 seconds I have just spoken for.
I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his comprehensive report.
I was particularly pleased with the emphasis placed on the need to prevent incidental mortality among dolphins and other species associated with tuna fisheries.
I was also happy to hear the rapporteur insisting that products from third countries should meet the same food safety and quality standards as our own.
Our consumers have a right to safe food, and third-country imports must be of the same high standard.
Commissioner Fischler spoke about third-country agreements.
To put this into figures, tuna accounts for more than 60% of canned fish production in the EU, with more than 40&#160;000 people directly employed in the industry.
With Spain, Italy, France and Portugal leading the way, the European tuna fleet is the most productive in the world, as it accounts for more than 20% of the total catch.
The report thus begins by focussing on two fundamental problems facing the tuna fishing sector: the loss of competitiveness of the fleet and of the industry in the EU faced with imports from third countries and the sustainable conservation and management of resources.
To ensure that the EU shows unequivocal support for the industry, this report calls for a specific action plan and a structural support framework for the tuna sector.
With this instrument, the EU must demand that products from third countries meet the same health standards for quality and for food safety as products from the Community.
Similarly, the European Union once again calls for more frequent product inspections in order to ensure that rules on conservation are adhered to in full.
As regards the conservation and management of fisheries resources, tuna is a migratory species that is particularly vulnerable to illegal fishing in international waters.
Consequently, the EU must prevent the transfer of EU-owned vessels to countries flying flags of convenience.
The capacities of the fishing fleet must also adapt more effectively to the resources available.
At least that has allowed us not to have to come back after 9 p.m.
I am sure Commissioner Fischler is also pleased about that.
However, this sort of thing should not happen in this House and we should organise our debates more efficiently.
As others have said, tuna is as important to the southern regions of Europe as cod and hake is to the northern ones, and those of us from the northern region can therefore understand the concerns.
Ultimately, however, our fleets must remain competitive in the long term.
The Commissioner mentioned three important points, one of which is access to third countries.
We must work for a more sustainable industry in the future. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner Fischler, I do not believe that you wish to respond.
The debate is therefore closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
As Commissioner Bolkestein is still not with us, the Commission communication on services in the internal market cannot be made now.
A number of countries belonging to this Community have a traditionally strong position in the tuna sector and are vulnerable to changes in the market.
What this boils down to is that the EU’s strategy must be a coordinated one and conceived at international level. &#160;&#160; he next item is Question Time (B5-0002/2004).
I would remind you that the European Commission has already taken account of the age factor in the directive which was tabled and accepted by the Council in 2000 on dealing with all forms of discrimination in the workplace on the basis of age.
Similarly, I would remind you that, in Article 25 of the Charter on Fundamental Rights, there is a clear reference which recognises the right of the elderly to a dignified life and their right to participate in economic and political life.
When we come to the more specific matter of violence against the elderly, something which is now a fact of life in several European countries and has to do to a great extent with the change in the family model and with the population of elderly people, which is constantly increasing, I would say that it is very difficult for us to find a legal basis on which to proceed with legislation.
As far as policies and programmes are concerned, the Commission has the Daphne programme, with a more global approach to questions of violence, and we have a number of important initiatives in the Member States which relate to violence against the elderly.
Member States are already working together in this area.
Although such measures do not take the form of recommendations, they reflect our final goal.
The Commission also agrees that 'spam' undermines not only privacy and consumer protection, but also productivity at work and overall productivity growth.
Consumer confidence in e-mail is falling, according to some studies.
It is, however, a prerequisite for the successful development of e-commerce and the information society in general.
These actions will complement legislation and seek to make the ban on 'spam' as effective as possible.
Cooperation between industry and public authorities is important in this regard.
Several actions are under way in this regard.
Secondly the Commission will be hosting an OECD seminar on 'spam' on 2 and 3 February 2004 in Brussels.
Thirdly, bilateral contacts are ongoing with third countries, including the competent authorities in the United States, since a large volume of 'spam' seems to come from US-based companies.
Finally, the Safer Internet Action Plan and, to a greater extent, its likely successor, Safe Internet Plus, will also fund activities relating to 'spam', including 'spam' sent to children.
Recently, those responsible for creating and spreading a virus have used other people’s computers to send out spam.
We are prepared to give special attention to this Trojan Horse problem and the way it creates spam.
We need an assessment of the way in which the spam programs operate if the protection is to be effective.
The parametric value for fluoride in the directive is based on available scientific evidence and is in line with the values recommended by the World Health Organization.
Secondly, there is general agreement in the scientific community that fluoride in drinking water may have positive or negative effects depending on the concentration.
The maximum permitted value of 1.5 mg/litre maintains a good balance between positive and negative effects, according to the World Health Organization.
The Commission feels supported in this assessment by the most recent documents of the World Health Organization from 2003, that is, in a new draft edition of the World Health Organization's 'Guidelines for Drinking-Water Quality'.
At the same time, the issue of artificial fluoridisation of drinking water is the responsibility of Member States and, indeed, the approaches vary from country to country.
In some countries it is banned and in others it is left to the local authorities to decide.
It brought together experts from across the European Union, including those from new Member States and from the World Health Organization, and addressed the issue of fluorides and fluoridisation.
Finally, following a request from the Commission, the Scientific Committee on Toxicity, Ecotoxicity and the Environment evaluated a study concerning the quality of drinking water in selected European cities.
In its evaluation of 2003 it referred, in line with the scientific position adopted by the World Health Organization, to both the protective and detrimental effects of fluoride, but did not suggest making a change to the value for fluoride in the directive. &#160;&#160; I thank the Commissioner for answering my question here today.
Yes, the scientific jury is out, but 13 out of 23 developing countries working under the WHO guidelines have serious problems with fluoride poisoning, or fluorosis, in the dental care of their people.
Given that it constitutes a huge proportion of their diet, fluoridated tap water that is not inspected, in which the levels of fluoride are not regularly checked, is a serious health risk to our neonates and infants in Ireland and in parts of the UK where they still fluoridate tap water.
In Ireland, 91% of submissions were actually against the fluoridation of water.
In hotter countries a lot of people drink a lot more water and therefore they are consuming a lot more, and in some of the new Member States there is fluoride in hot water as well.
We have asked for scientific advice, which we follow very closely.
As I said, as a result of the findings and the work done in the various working groups, and after calling together all the experts, we have no reason to change – at least for the time being – the recommendations on the limit values in the directive.
The question is very timely since we are coming to the end of the first phase of the development of these policies, as detailed in the Tampere agenda.
The annual parliamentary debate on the development of an area of freedom, security and justice, which will take place during the February part-session, will be the first opportunity to discuss with Parliament the assessment of our policies in these fields.
In June 2004, the Commission intends to present to the European Parliament and to the Council a communication which will evaluate the progress made in implementing the Tampere objectives.
This communication will include an evaluation of all aspects concerning immigration, asylum, the integration of immigrants in our societies and the development of relations with third countries.
I hope that this communication will also be able to include some guidelines for what could, in the near future, become a 'Tampere II' agenda. &#160;&#160; Thank you Commissioner for that comprehensive answer.
Over the next 5 years EUR 250 million will be allocated for this programme, and we intend to give priority in the assessment of this financial instrument to those countries engaged in negotiating readmission agreements with the European Union.
The second strand will be a report – which the Commission will present to the Council in April – concerning links between legal and illegal migration, which will above all set out the conclusions of the study currently being undertaken by the Commission into the possibility of establishing some kind of system for coordinating legal migration in the Member States.
Such a system could be helpful to third countries in their partnerships aiming to combat trafficking in human beings and illegal migration.
The third strand will be the report that the Commission will present to the Council by June 2005, in which it will consider new ways of enhancing international protection and, above all, the possibility of establishing Europe-wide resettlement schemes and providing improved protection in the region for refugees.
I hope I will have some progress to report to you in all those areas when I come back in June for the global assessment of the Tampere agenda. &#160;&#160; As ever, I have listened with admiration to the presentation and comments by the Commissioner.
In real terms, our assessment is that joining the Union presents such a huge opportunity for economic development in those countries that join the Union that migratory fluxes are limited.
The extradition agreement does not contain any specific provision that gives the US the right to request the extradition by a Member State of a person having committed a crime in that Member State that is statute-barred by its legislation.
Member States may, however, invoke grounds for refusal based on matters not covered by the agreement that may be applicable pursuant to bilateral treaties in force between a Member State and the US.
The same criterion applies to your second question; that is, when extradition by a Member State is requested of a person for a crime of which he has already been convicted by that Member State.
Neither of the two agreements between the EU and the US has yet come into force, with some Member States having stated that they are obliged to abide by national constitutional procedure for such agreements to come into force and that written bilateral instruments are required between each Member State and the US for agreements to apply between the EU and the US.
Community rules exist in respect of animals, including dogs, for their protection during transport.
Under the protocol on the protection and welfare of animals annexed to the EC Treaty, the Community and Member States must pay full regard to the welfare requirements of animals in formulating and implementing the Community’s agriculture, transport, internal market and research policies, while respecting the legislative or administrative provisions and customs of the Member States relating, in particular, to religious rites, cultural traditions and regional heritage.
In this context it is significant that last year the largest Spanish animal welfare organisation recognised that progress towards improving the welfare of these animals is being achieved, including through the updating of legislation by the autonomous regions.
The Irish authorities provided a comprehensive reply on 5 March 2002 outlining the various actions taken to protect greyhounds transported to other Member States and also providing other information on the aspects of greyhound rearing and racing which are outside the scope of Community legislation.
The Commission confirms that no Community aid is now available for investment in greyhound rearing or racing.
While previous operational programmes allowed for aid for investment in greyhound housing and rearing facilities, no Community aid has been paid since 1993. &#160;&#160; As regards non-regulation by Community law, my understanding is that before 2002 a certain amount of EU funding was devoted to greyhound breeding in Ireland once funding for sheep breeding had stopped because there was an over-capacity of sheep.
As regards correct identification, a microchip would be very useful in tracing the animal's place of origin.
That ceased, as I said earlier, in 1993 for a number of reasons, partly due to concerns at EU level and in the Commission relating to animal welfare considerations.
It is not within the competence of the Commission or the European Union to engage in inquiries in Member States relating to issues that are strictly outside the competence of the European Union.
Indeed, Council Directive 2000/29/EC, which is the basis of the Community plant health regime, has been fully transposed by the Netherlands.
These potatoes are grown from seeds imported from the Netherlands, as occurred in 2002.
The Commission gave the UK the opportunity to inform other Member States in the latest meetings of the Standing Committee on Plant Health in November and December 2003.
I would like to underline that the Food and Veterinary Office of the Commission has carried out a series of audit missions in the Member States in recent years in order to clearly assess the situation of potato production in the Community.
Turning to the question on compensation, under existing Community legislation there is a possibility for a financial contribution referred to as 'solidarity' to be granted to Member States.
I would like to extend the question – and my apologies for not making it clear to him earlier – that this is not just about potato ring rot but also about a disease called ramorum dieback or sudden oak death, which was first seen in the EU in the Netherlands in 1997, but has now reached the UK.
It is found in rhododendrons, camellias and native tree species and, last month, it was found in wild woodland in the UK.
It is clearly a major problem for our country.
The Community’s role is to provide the appropriate framework for coordination of these activities, to facilitate the sharing and spread of good practice and to promote the development of common methodologies and procedures.
To this end, the Commission provides funding for the setting-up of networks that deliver standardised methods of collection and processing of information on diseases such as AIDS, TB and cancer at Community level.
The Community should concentrate on the development of networking and the Commission will continue to do so, within the present budgetary possibilities, until the proposed European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control is established.
The Member States must provide the resources to ensure that surveillance activities are properly pursued in their territory.
The Commission will continue to promote cooperation and coordination between the Member States through the Communicable Diseases Network.
The funding decisions referred to by the honourable Member will not therefore lead to a gap in surveillance.
We also plan to support a project under the 2003 budget to strengthen coordination of surveillance of infections in the northern region, including HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis.
On cancer, we plan to fund three projects from the 2003 budget, two on smoking prevention and one on cancer information, to a total of about EUR 4.4 million.
This is on top of the massive investment that has been made over the last 15 years in cancer prevention, which has already helped to make cancer epidemiology one of the most developed areas of health statistics.
I understand the problems faced by those that have been involved in the surveillance networks, the development of which the Commission has financed since 1996.
The Commission has taken several steps to improve the situation.
First, we have mobilised experts to provide advice on funding priorities for disease surveillance under the work plan for 2004 and for future funding rounds under the public health programme.
Secondly, we have disseminated guidance on projects concerning disease-specific surveillance networks to enhance quality and their potential for funding.
Thirdly, we are giving urgent consideration to the possibilities this year under other funding mechanisms, including under the research programme, for data compilation and processing on HIV/AIDS and TB, as well as on cancer screening.
We should also remember that the 2003 budget is not the end of the story.
Future work plans under the public health programme, starting with that of 2004, will have the scope and potential to finance projects on cancer, tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS.
The importance of ensuring continuity of support for key networks in the field of communicable diseases until the proposed European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control is established will be particularly stressed.
Nevertheless, I ask him to look very carefully at the organisations who have been doing the surveillance – particularly on tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS – and see how they can be supported over the coming two years.
Spain took emergency measures to prevent the spread of the bacterium concerned, 'xanthomonas campestris (axonopodis) pv.
The Commission and the Member States agreed to review the position at the next meeting of the Standing Committee on 22 January 2004.
The question I asked was very clear; the Commission’s reply as well.
The facts are absolutely clear and I am in agreement with the Commission in relation to them.
What to do and to do it as soon as possible, because the introduction of a disease of this sort could have harmful consequences which are very difficult to put right if they are not tackled in time.
I do not want to pre-empt the outcome of the discussions that will take place on 22 January, but there are a number of measures, including temporary emergency measures, applicable to the next import campaign.
The Commission urges Ukraine to ratify the Convention and to cooperate with the international community to work on this difficult problem.
While the Commission is prepared to assist Ukraine to the extent possible – and I should just note that our assistance to Ukraine amounts to EUR&#160;126 million a year – current EU assistance programmes do not provide funding for the elimination of obsolete pesticides in Ukraine.
In fact, environmental issues have not been selected by the Government of Ukraine as a key cooperation area with the European Union.
Taking into account the amount of pesticides to be eliminated, an EU contribution could only partially alleviate the vast problem.
We have dedicated a lot of time and a great deal of money to that extraordinarily difficult and dangerous environmental issue.
It has not been easy even in those circumstances.
What is more difficult for us, is to insist on our priorities through a programme such as Tacis, in which the partner country is supposed to take ownership of the programme we are helping to support.
One of the key challenges faced by the European Union is to make better use of all the resources at our disposal in the external relations field.
The goal of ensuring greater coherence implies a seamless and coordinated use of the common foreign and security policy and of all other external relations instruments, including the annual Community budget for external actions of approximately EUR 10 billion, of which EUR 6 billion is official development assistance.
That is a fact that has been reflected in the recently adopted European Union security strategy.
Therefore I agree with honourable Member on that.
As far as the question of a foreign minister is concerned and the temporary abeyance of the moves towards creating one following the Convention, I still believe that if this person – woman or man – is to emerge in the next few years from the IGC, it is absolutely imperative that we draw on the strengths provided by both the Council and the Commission.
It is perfectly possible to retain the integrity of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, and the relationship with the Council and Member States while, at the same time, drawing on all the competences for which the Commission is responsible and which, taken together, should give us a real possibility to shape an external actions strategy which meets the demand of the 21st century.
Foreign and security policy, development policy, trade policy, agriculture policy and external policy in the justice and home affairs fields, are all relevant to Europe's impact on the rest of the world and the real positive contribution we can make there. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, how does the Commissioner rate the talks that began yesterday between the United States and Latin America?
In April, following the informal Foreign Ministers' meeting at Tullamore in Ireland, we have meetings with our Asian partners in ASEM.
I hope they will underline the importance of our partnership.
Europe is the biggest provider of development assistance and the biggest trading partner in many Asian countries, and it is certainly the biggest provider of external financial investment in most Asian countries.
I am not convinced that our political impact in those countries is as great as our economic impact and I hope we can change that.
We have done a great deal to enhance our relationship with China.
We have already produced a strategy document on our relationship with south-east Asia.
The dismantlement of tariffs and the opening of markets will be an important incentive for Syria to undertake legal and institutional reforms.
The agreement would also help Syria to integrate into the world economy and could be a stepping stone towards other initiatives, such as Syrian membership of the World Trade Organization.
The provisions on the respect for human rights, on non-proliferation and on cooperation against terrorism would, I trust, strengthen our ability to engage with Syria on these issues.
The agreement would be the most important element in our policy of constructive engagement with Syria.
It is our belief that the agreement should strengthen the incentives for reform in Syria, both by creating a more open economy and society and by establishing a political dialogue on issues such as respect for democratic principles and human rights.
I have no doubt that if we can come off with a strong and sensible agreement with Syria – the last piece in the jigsaw puzzle of our Euro-Mediterranean partnership – then everybody will benefit from that: everybody who wants to see a more prosperous future in the region, everybody who wants to avoid a clash of civilisations between the European, North American and Islamic worlds and everybody who wants to see terrorism and insecurity tackled in the most effective and sustainable way. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, the word 'hope' appeared several times in your initial response.
Perhaps it carries too much baggage, but before I leave the European Commission I would very much like to see the signing of an agreement with the Syrians. &#160;&#160; As the time allotted to questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 27 to 47 will be replied to in writing.(2) That concludes Question Time to the Commission &#160;&#160; The next item is a statement by the Commission on services in the internal market.
It is with great pleasure that I can announce to you today that the Commission has adopted a proposal for a directive to create a real internal market in services.
It is potentially the biggest boost to the internal market since its launch in 1993.
The proposal is a major element in getting the Lisbon Agenda back on track.
It is the result of a long process launched by the Commission's Services Strategy in December 2000.
It addresses the internal market barriers identified in the Commission’s Report on the State of the Internal Market in Services in July 2002.
The European Parliament was involved throughout the process and adopted supportive opinions on both these documents.
The proposal responds to the European Parliament's call for a comprehensive proposal to ensure free movement of services by means of applying the country of origin principle, administrative cooperation and, where strictly necessary, harmonisation.
The proposed directive is comprehensive in that it covers all the services that are at present unable to benefit from the internal market because of legal or administrative barriers.
It will benefit a wide variety of services, including professional services, business services, security services, environmental services, distribution services, travel agencies, hotels, restaurants and entertainment, as well as health services.
Only those services that are already covered by wide-ranging specific EU law, such as financial services, telecommunications and transport, are excluded.
In order to make it easier to establish a service business in another Member State, the proposal will cut red tape through a large-scale administrative simplification process.
A number of restrictions on establishment, such as nationality requirements or 'economic needs tests', will be abolished.
Unnecessary authorisation procedures will be screened and removed; remaining authorisation schemes will be made more transparent and predictable, being based exclusively on objective criteria known in advance.
Other restrictions, such as requirements that limit the number of outlets per head of population, or fixed tariffs, will also undergo a transparent process of screening and mutual evaluation.
In order to make it easier to provide services across borders, the proposed directive aims to implement in practice the country of origin principle, whereby once a service provider is operating legally in one Member State, it can provide its services in others without having to comply with further rules in those 'host' Member States.
In order to underpin this principle, the proposal provides for enhanced administrative cooperation between Member States and for some basic, harmonised, EU-wide quality requirements.
In order to make it possible to use services offered in other Member States, the proposal also clarifies and strengthens the rights of users of services.
It therefore makes it clear that those rights prevent Member States from imposing restrictions such as requiring authorisation to use services (for example of architects or builders from other Member States), or discriminatory tax rules making services from other EU countries more costly.
The proposed directive clarifies the rights of patients by setting out, based on the case-law of the European Court of Justice, the conditions under which national social security systems must reimburse the costs of medical care received in other Member States.
The proposed directive seeks to create more cross-border service activity, which will give businesses new opportunities in new markets, so that they can grow and create more jobs.
Increased competition will also be likely to reduce prices and help to disseminate best practice and encourage innovation.
The effect on the economy as a whole will be higher competitiveness and more and better jobs.
However, given that it meets the European Parliament's request for a comprehensive approach to create a true internal market in services, I trust that Members will give it due consideration and start to discuss it in order to provide a sound basis for the new Parliament's work and show the way to the Council of Ministers.
This challenge will, however, concentrate exclusively on procedural elements and will not touch on the country-specific economic surveillance aspects of the Council conclusions.
More details are available in a document literally just made public, with the reference number IP/04/35. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner Bolkestein.
We should be particularly grateful if you would inform us immediately of the outcome. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I should like to welcome the Commission's proposal warmly, on behalf of my Group and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
I was the rapporteur for the last round, and we are currently working on a new single market report.
I hope that my committee will be able to do that so we can start consulting a wide range of interests in this extremely comprehensive proposal.
As the Commissioner said in his statement, the crucial factor in getting this to work will be the willingness of the Council to accept the basic principles of the internal market: a 'country of origin' principle for supplying cross-border services, the mutual recognition of conditions of establishment and sensible behaviour as regards grasping some of these issues.
The sales promotion mutual recognition directive – which is an integral part of this – has been with the Council for 15 months.
Under the Commissioner's proposal we face the position where we will be able freely to establish marketing agencies in other countries, but they will not have a common set of principles.
The Council must get on with it. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, I welcome your second declaration – that the Commission is asking the ECJ to clarify the procedural aspects of budget monitoring – very warmly.
It is therefore especially important to enforce Article 104 of the Treaty and the associated Stability Pact rigorously, and the eight countries and their citizens who have done their homework have a right to expect this.
That in itself serves to boost confidence in this new currency.
Thank you for this decision. &#160;&#160; Madam President, my question is also about the short declaration or short announcement about taking legal proceedings against the Council.
I welcome the proposal on services.
Those tensions will continue and only get worse, because it really is impossible to run a single economic policy which suits every single one of those 12 economies.
I hope there is a satisfactory resolution to this problem, but at the moment it is another serious blow to the euro's credibility that the rules are not being enforced by the ECOFIN finance ministers.
That is very bad.
The financial services action plan, with its 42 measures, is now well on its way to completion.
The Stability Pact is an agreement between parties and an agreement between parties is the law between parties, and that law must be upheld.
Therefore, the Court will focus on procedural aspects – the areas where it believes that the Ecofin Council has gone astray.
It is for the Court of Justice to decide where the Member States – or the Council – have gone astray.
We do not want this procedure to drag on for years.
I know that fools rush in where angels fear to tread, so I will not get mixed up in the UK debate on the euro.
She also said that 'inevitably' – that is the word she used – these problems arise when there are 12 countries without one over-arching economic policy that is followed by all 12.
No doubt the Commission will come up with more proposals along those lines.
Yet, with the vote tomorrow and the conclusion of the second reading, we can say that the process is essentially concluded with the agreement of all those concerned.
It must be said that the initial Commission text radically reformed the provisions in question, yet the amendments made to the original text were not at all minor.
The definition of ‘surfactant’, additional tests, the derogation from authorisation, labelling, more and better information for consumers, are all aspects that genuinely broaden environmental protection and human health protection and that take into consideration the well-being of animals within the context of research for the development of products.
I will not expand any further my explanation of the text that I hope Parliament will tomorrow be able to adopt with a large majority.
Instead, I would like to thank all the groups and their shadow rapporteurs who, during this long phase, drew up the text in question after very effective dialogue.
I feel that everyone can find reason to be satisfied with aspects or sections of the text in terms of what was constructively contributed and that they will, therefore, find they can agree with the overall text in terms of the afore-mentioned assessments.
Furthermore, I would like to thank the Commission for being willing to reconsider its proposals and for the commitment there was to harmonise a text, which is certainly not easy, to make it satisfactory in view of all the respective points of view.
I must add that, even when faced with a continuous exchange of proposals and with understanding everyone’s demands, we also prepared a legislative product with the Commission that met with broad satisfaction.
Having said that, as a signal of the long road together, I refuse to believe that the only point on which there seem to be differences can really be a reason to start the conciliation procedure.
I am referring to the provision for revision where the Commission commits to providing Parliament and the Council with a report on the anaerobic biodegradation of surfactants and on the biodegradation of other components within five years, and to put forward proposals on phosphates within three years.
The problem, however, does not seem to be so much this, but the possibility of this happening in the next parliamentary term, and this because the standard phrase on the entry into force of the current regulation would, in fact, prevent the afore-mentioned commitment being made good within the next parliamentary term.
The solution to the problem that I have just explained is contained in the afore-mentioned texts.
The second reading has proceeded very rapidly despite the number of issues that remained to be resolved.
The proposal was made with two broad aims in mind: to improve the protection provided to the environment and to consumers while, at the same time, maintaining and improving the single market in detergents.
The proposal modernises the legislation on detergents in three major respects.
Secondly, it extends the scope of the legislation to include all types of surfactants.
Thirdly, it introduces labelling requirements for the benefit of consumer health.
The Commission does, however, regret that Parliament has chosen to emphasise national measures on detergents in a proposal for Community legislation one of the aims of which was to expand the harmonised area and promote the single market.
It is in the Commission's and Parliament's joint interest that the text should be definitively adopted before the end of the current parliamentary term.
The Commission therefore supports the compromise package that the rapporteur has proposed; this means Amendments 30 to 37.
Consequently, the Commission cannot accept any of the other amendments. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Nobilia, I am most grateful for the very pleasant and productive cooperation over recent years.
I think this sends out a positive signal for environmental policy, and an especially positive signal for the enlargement of the European Union.
I also think it is important that this regulation genuinely strikes the right balance as regards derogations, and I am pleased that there are virtually no derogations on the implementing obligations.
I am also pleased that in other areas where, knowing that derogations are necessary, we have been courageous enough to provide them, namely for smaller manufacturers of specialised detergents for industrial use, which after all have had to seek out a niche market where general detergents are not used, such as hospitals and industrial kitchens.
I am very pleased that we are no longer adopting an ‘end of pipe’ approach by focussing on water purification processes but are establishing innovative rules in Europe on the initial discharge of substances.
I think this approach has been successful.
One point that applies to us all remains unresolved.
If the same amount of washing powder is used for one kilo of laundry as for five kilos, this is where the real environmental pollution arises.
There is still a great deal of work to be done here to raise awareness among Europe’s consumers, and I include myself in that. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the procedure in question is clearly important and we all agree on this point.
The Council common position offers the basis for an acceptable compromise and yet sufficient account was not taken of some of the areas that were debated and adopted by Parliament at first reading.
Therefore, I too believe that this balance should be improved upon, in light of the fundamental objectives of this regulation: health, consumer safety and environmental protection.
In fact, I believe that anaerobic biodegradation, biodegradation of main non-surfactant organic ingredients and the use of phosphates&#160;–&#160;this in particular&#160;–&#160;should be subject to special control as a substance that is subsidiary to the detergents regulation.
The committee is almost unanimous in its call for a new legislative proposal to be presented that seeks to gradually ban these substances or to limit specific use to three years from the publication of the current regulation.
All that remains for me to do, finally, is to congratulate the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups for their willingness and their commitment. &#160;&#160; Madam President, our group has chosen to support the compromise amendments tabled by the rapporteur.
We should have liked to have gone further in quite a few areas and had tougher legislation, but we think it is very important for us to take a decision and for this to enter into force as quickly as possible.
Proposals to enable individual Member States to retain and introduce stricter rules in this area, as quite a few Member States have already done, are particularly important to us.
We know that there are perfectly satisfactory substitutes and that countries have in practice phased out the use of phosphates.
In politics, there is sometimes a conflict between what is politically possible and what is desirable.
However, in some countries of the old Fifteen, such as Spain, there are still detergents available that contain phosphates.
In a whole host of new countries that are soon to join, sometimes two-thirds of the detergents still contain them.
Had it not done so, this entire sitting would have been unnecessary and we would have reached a compromise a long time ago.
With regard to the assessment of detergents, this legislation takes the environmental and health effects sufficiently into consideration.
Agreement has been reached on exemptions, phosphates and labelling, and I have shown my support by co-signing the compromise amendments.
Particularly with regard to phosphates, it is to be welcomed that Member States can ban these, as a few have already done.
The recent conclusion reached by the scientific committee on toxicology, ecotoxicology and the environment, however, has sparked a reconsideration of an EU-wide ban on phosphates.
Finally, I am pleased that agreement has been reached on labelling.
If consumers are curious to know more, they should consult the manufacturers via their websites and telephone. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the key aim of the EU's detergent policy has been to safeguard the single market in these products and, above all, to ensure a high level of environmental and human protection.
Harmonisation of detergents legislation across the Community in this regulation will ensure a level playing field and is in line with the Lisbon proposals.
It will also take into account the principles of sustainable or environmentally friendly development set out in the Gothenburg strategy.
I welcome this proposal both because it provides greater information for consumers – particularly those who suffer from allergies – and because it lays down a high level of product safety through increased transparency and producer responsibility enforced by a system of national sanctions for non-compliance.
Studies in my country have established a statistically robust cause-effect link between eutrophication, or algal bloom, which has an enormous detrimental effect on water quality and aquatic ecosystems, and phosphorous concentration.
A recent survey in Ireland showed that, while Irish freshwaters are still markedly less polluted than the European average, up to 30% of river length has been contaminated by phosphates.
However, this problem must be examined at European level in line with the directive on dangerous substances in water and under the EU water framework directive launched in October 2000.
In conclusion, I would like to echo the support expressed by the Irish presidency for the compromise package agreed by the Italian presidency, the Commission and the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; Madam President, like everyone else, I too can endorse the package that has been assembled as a compromise.
I thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this.
The process for reaching a compromise has been very useful and speedy.
Over the last few years we have seen, at least in Western Europe, the levels of phosphate in drinking water fall by between 50% and 80%.
One of the biggest reasons for that has been the control of detergents.
This issue could quite simply be resolved and in many ways improved by the removal of phosphates from our laundry wash.
Nevertheless I, like everyone else, will support the compromise tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur and all the parties involved in the proposal tabled.
It is an important report for the environment, but it also addresses a major and important consumer issue because detergents are important items of daily use.
I have accepted these arguments.
In Amendments Nos&#160;40-46, now being tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, we take as our starting point the Scientific Committee’s statement that phosphates cause major problems and that the existing alternatives do not cause these problems.
I should therefore like us to vote in favour of these amendments so that the Commission can put forward a proposal concerning the matter. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as I stated during the debate on first reading, I believe that the regulation before us represents progress, especially for producers, consumers and in terms of environmental protection.
These images are particularly dangerous for children, because their eye-catching nature increases the risk of children ingesting them.
The system currently in force only bans dangerous substances and preparations, which is clearly inadequate.
Furthermore, I should like to express my incomprehension at the imposition in the regulation of national, non-harmonised testing methods, without any timetable for their publication being built into the regulation.
We must remember that fertilisers are a very important source of phosphates: about 50% come from fertilisers.
In many countries the authorities have acted.
National measures currently exist in the majority of Member States and, in some cases, they have been in place for many years.
The Scientific Committee found that the consultants' report on phosphates was seriously lacking in some respects – for example concerning the impact of alternatives – and it is has identified a number of other areas for which data is still lacking.
I want to assure you that the Commission is fully committed to filling these data gaps as rapidly as possible and to proposing whatever measures may be justified on that basis. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Liikanen.
The debate is closed.
The crisis causes enormous human suffering and brings the possibilities of development in these countries into serious danger.
This continent receives 60% of the resources.
This fund provides the best opportunity we have partly for slowing down the spread of these three diseases and, at the same time, for reducing the consequences for those who are already suffering from the symptoms.
For example, a contribution from the fund to Haiti in 2002 has put the country in a position to reopen a public health clinic and operating theatre, provide five public clinics with important medicine and provide basic laboratory services to four clinics.
More than 600 individuals have received anti-retroviral treatment, and more than 300 cases of tuberculosis have been discovered.
I would urgently call upon both the Commission and the Member States to contribute no less than that amount, and I support the amendments by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which make this undertaking clearer and more precise.
Prevention is still of crucial importance, but this was unfortunately sabotaged by President Bush's Mexico City Policy, which literally killed millions of men and now, in particular, women, for it means that vital reproductive health articles are withheld.
It is also crucial to ensure that research and development efforts are directed at the developing countries’ special needs.
The Commission’s reflections on specific legislative instruments to promote research and development into neglected and poverty-related diseases could point to one of the solutions.
The importance of supporting treatment programmes by producing quality antiretroviral drugs at low prices cannot, therefore, be overestimated.
In sub-Saharan Africa, treatment is offered to only one per cent of the four million people who need it.
A report recently issued by the WHO and the World Bank shows that no progress has been made in terms of achieving the UN’s millennium development objectives regarding health.
I should also like to emphasise the huge significance of the HIV/AIDS epidemic for children.
There are now more than 13 million children who have lost at least one of their parents because of AIDS.
I am therefore pleased about the Irish Presidency’s assurances that African issues are high on the EU’s agenda and that the EU wishes to cooperate with African partners in a coherent, serious and consistent way and to support initiatives to meet the enormous challenges faced by Africa.
We share the overall assessment that substantial progress has been made, but further action is needed – by developing countries, by EU Member States and other donors, by the business sector, by NGOs and by European institutions – to confront and fight HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria.
We recognise that these diseases affect different people in different ways and that women, children and the poorest sections of the population are often most vulnerable and most severely hit.
At the same time, we should avoid portraying women only as victims and make an effort to recognise the tremendous contribution they make in terms of caring for people living with HIV/AIDS or for children left behind.
Women comprise that group of the population which is most affected, in a negative sense, by poverty and disease but strangely, at the same time, that group shows the biggest potential for change and hope.
I note with satisfaction the importance attached in the report to our cooperation with the World Health Organization.
This is now recognised more visibly through the strategic partnership which is being developed between our two institutions and which, for example, has led to the signature of an agreement to provide EUR 25 million of Community funding to support the WHO in developing its pharmaceutical policies.
I also understand the emphasis placed by the rapporteur on access to basic health services and on the wish to see increased funding for this sector.
However, this is a demand-driven process in which our partner countries are in the lead.
As to the Global Fund, our contribution has been steadily increasing, with the vital support of Parliament.
We have now secured funding for the next four years, both from the Community budget and from the European Development Fund.
We are committed to working together with the Member States to find a sustainable solution.
Access to affordable medicines is an important element in our Programme for Action.
Through tiered pricing and the untying of aid we have managed to contribute to a process whereby prices on medicines have been reduced by up to 90%.
More needs to be done in public and private research to develop new products which target these diseases.
It is clear that pharmaceutical companies could play a constructive role in addressing these needs.
We have reacted to this policy, which was announced when President Bush took office, by saying clearly that Europe is ready and willing to fill the decency gap, and that is what we are doing. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, some of the developing countries are experiencing an unprecedented health crisis, and it is in the interests of the entire world to take the steps that are needed to alleviate this crisis, and, above all, to fight it.
Although the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy is aware of its limited contribution to the solution of this problem, it does stress that its contribution is essential.
The EU must now show political leadership in order to persuade industry to invest in diseases that have so far not been profitable.
A second point is research.
The EU must now attend to its research programmes itself.
The EU should draft a research agenda and identify all the gaps.
The victims of this situation are, of course, women, the social group which still does not have access to rudimentary medical and pharmaceutical care and sexual and reproductive health services.
Of course, Commissioner, as you said, women make a very great contribution, even in countries in which their fundamental freedoms and human rights are not recognised.
However, Commissioner, if women governed, I believe that the world would be a much more humane place.
I think it is a disgrace on our civilisation that 30 000 people in developing countries die every day of diseases which are curable in the civilised world.
The number of women infected with the AIDS virus is high and is rising constantly.
As the Committee on Women's Rights, we are calling both on the governments of the developing countries and the European Union and other international organisations working in this sector to ensure that the gender dimension is fully incorporated into all health policies, taking account of the leading role played by women.
I think that we should step up our efforts to address this dreadful scourge, Commissioner. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the Programme for Action against HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis dates back to 2001 and has now been in force for two years.
The three diseases combined are responsible for more than 20&#160;000 deaths daily.
Over the past year alone, according to the WHO, approximately 40&#160;000 people were infected with HIV/AIDS every day, and based on the latest information, 16 million children under the age of 15 have now lost one or both of their parents to the disease.
One third of the world population is infected, and it is expected that 5 to 10% of them will actually become ill.
The death rate as a result of this disease is still increasing and this is set to be the case for some time.
Let it be clear that the least developed countries are hit hardest, and that is why these diseases are termed diseases of poverty.
They hamper social and economic development, completely disrupting the societies of many developing countries.
The diseases are making demands on health care systems over and above the ability of these to handle them.
After all, the evaluation of the European development policy shows that the current programmes have too little impact.
One of the points is to stop the steady increase in the spreading of AIDS in 2015, but we are still not doing enough to achieve these goals.
I would therefore urge you to set aside more money for this programme and to intensify the research into the causes and reduction of diseases.
I think that the report gives a clear indication of Parliament's commitment where, as has already been mentioned, the importance of the availability and accessibility of basic health care, of medicines, of prevention, of the possible role of civil society of research and monitoring is concerned.
I should like to highlight one point that deserves specific attention, namely the special position of women.
This population group therefore deserves specific attention and policies, especially as health care projects, among others, appear to be more successful if women are involved.
Investing in girls appears to lead to lower mortality rates among women and children, offers higher food safety and benefits the fight against poverty.
This was once more evident from the research published by Unicef on 11 December last.
Finally, I should like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, who is an expert in this field and has once again produced an excellent report.
There is still a great deal to be done by the European Union and the individual Member States. &#160;&#160; – Madam&#160;President, today, like any other day, more than 8&#160;000 people have died of AIDS for lack of treatment.
In Africa, more than 4&#160;million AIDS sufferers are in desperate need of treatment and only 50&#160;000 people have access to it.
Moreover, AIDS is not the only scourge overwhelming the countries of the South: tuberculosis is on the increase and kills 2&#160;million people every year; malaria is responsible for between 1 and 2 million deaths every year and affects between 300 and 500&#160;million people.
Much progress was made in 2003, giving cause for a glimmer of hope: the WHO initiative to provide treatment for 3&#160;million sufferers by 2005; the agreement reached on 30&#160;August 2003 in Geneva by the members of the WHO; the decision of the South African Government to launch a national treatment programme; the efforts to bring down the price of antiretroviral drugs on the world market and the programme of clinical trials in a partnership between Europe and the developing countries, with a budget of EUR&#160;600 million.
These initiatives are very encouraging, but they are still far from being enough.
It reminds us that the absolute priority has to be access to medicines for all sufferers, in accordance with the Doha Declaration.
It sets an ambitious target for the financial contribution of the European Union and its Member States, a target of a billion euros a year.
However, the facts presented in the report tell their own story.
As a result of poverty and disease, vast territories are virtually depopulated, even without war.
Of course, the issue today is the adoption of practical measures and programmes to control these diseases.
The armies of refugees, camping in open fields or in tents, are easy prey to these pandemics.
When the market is dominated by the profit motive, it is difficult to supply high-quality drugs at low prices in the developing countries.
This, as the report says, is where the EU, the Commission and this Parliament have to redouble their efforts. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the battle against AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis has for a long time been one of the principal concerns of the Greens.
It is disquieting to learn that deaths are still being counted in millions, particularly if one takes into account the fact that these diseases affect many children or pregnant women.
It is sad and devastating to learn that these diseases are still killing even though treatments exist.
It is necessary to facilitate not only a mere reduction in prices, but also the assignment of patents, because that is necessary in order to enable developing countries to produce these products for their people, or import them at low prices.
The adoption of this report will confirm the European Union’s involvement in the struggle for the health of Africa. &#160;&#160; Madam President, there is a moral obligation for the European Union and the individual Member States to make every effort to combat AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
Twenty thousand deaths per day or more than seven million deaths per year are horrific figures.
I want to call upon Commissioner Nielson to get involved in lifestyle issues, especially when it comes to the male lifestyle that, especially where the spread of HIV/AIDS is concerned, degrades women and contributes to the completely immoral spread of this disease. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I thank the rapporteur for an excellent report and for continuing to show her interest in and commitment to these issues.
Like her I welcome the Commission's continuing focus on action against and treatment of HIV/AIDS, TB and malaria.
The programme which was launched in 2001 has produced some very important and impressive results.
It is absolutely crucial to recognise the importance of this concentration of effort on these diseases, which, as others have said very graphically this evening, claim so many lives and cause so much suffering.
I trust the Commission will continue its efforts to build the necessary political will, based since 2001 on an increasing knowledge of what actually works in the field at this time.
AIDS has to be a core theme of our development assistance. &#160;&#160; Madam President, we shall be voting in favour of this report because it describes the disaster being caused by diseases linked to poverty.
Parliament is invited to vote, but it does not have the power to affect the root of this evil.
Moreover, when those trusts have no hope of making a profit because the disease in question affects only poor countries, they stop their research, as the report itself concludes, giving sleeping sickness as an example.
She has produced a whole lot of proposals that strengthen the areas in which the Commission has stated that such strengthening is needed in order to achieve the objectives of combating poverty and these diseases.
This recalls that debt repayment and servicing account each year for almost 40% of the least developed countries’ GDP.
In that way, the fight against poverty could really be strengthened and given impetus. &#160;&#160; Madam President, when I wrote my report on HIV/AIDS two years ago, I was not sure what the outcome would be.
She sees a natural disaster in Iran – 20 000 people dead, a town flattened – and she says to herself 'I have TB, and yet I do not have ten dollars or ten euro to cure it.
That is where the European Union has been tremendous, very generous and is showing the way for the rest of the world.
I know this Parliament is behind him.
HIV/AIDS is a threat to society as a whole.
The death toll from AIDS reverses the modest successes achieved in the past.
Men and women of working age are dying in increasing numbers, and this leads to educational deficits, for there are regions where the number of teachers dying of AIDS is higher than the number of new teachers who can be trained to replace them.
The result is a drop in the standard of education.
HIV/AIDS also causes malnutrition and starvation, for a rural population which is sick cannot cultivate its fields, or can only do so to a limited extent.
To this end, the EUR 1 billion being demanded is money well spent. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I agree with most of what has been said tonight.
I should like to focus on the EU contribution to the Global Health Fund.
Two amendments have been tabled to make it clear that we are talking about the EUR 1 billion from both the EU and the Member States.
President Prodi has supported this target.
Cheap aid programmes would mean the lives of six million children under the age of five could be saved each year.
The amount of commitments not yet spent on the budget part of our development cooperation is EUR 11 billion.
We were pleased that it was possible, before Cancún, to have concluded this agreement, after waiting for the US since December of the year before.
All in all, the total amount pledged to the fund is EUR 4.8 billion.
I agree with those who said that this is still not enough money, but it should be considered that our budget support for the health sector and even our general budget support makes it possible for our developing partner countries to increase the effort in basic health services.
The annual spending per capita on public health services in sub-Saharan Africa is somewhere between two and six dollars.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is a report (A5-0329/2003) by Mr&#160;Bébéar, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) [2003/2106(INI)]. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development, or NEPAD, is a political initiative which was adopted in October 2001 by five African Heads of State, President Mbeki of South Africa, President Bouteflika of Algeria, President Mubarak of Egypt, President Obasanjo of Nigeria and President Wade of Senegal.
Those five countries now form the Steering Committee of NEPAD.
Countries which are members of NEPAD commit themselves to respect for human rights, to the prevention and resolution of conflicts and to the principles of democracy and good governance, but also – and this is a cultural revolution – to the campaign against corruption.
In brief, what we have here is African regional integration which will create optimum conditions for encouraging private investors to take part in the economic and social development of these African countries.
This is true in the case of public investment, but even more true in the case of private investment.
From this point of view, the conflict in the Ivory Coast runs the risk of having negative consequences on the economy of the region for many years.
Democracy and respect for the rule of law are conditions which are essential to economic and human development.
In the case of NEPAD, it is Africans themselves who are ensuring that these principles are met and who are making strong commitments.
NEPAD has received very favourable responses from the industrialised countries, particularly from the European Union and the G8, as we saw last year at Evian, although the resulting aid has not always fulfilled the expectations of the instigating countries.
The report notes the criticisms of many people who are involved in African civil society, and encourages member states of the African Union, and especially those countries which promoted it, to allow active and democratic participation by all sectors of civil society, including NGOs, trade unions, employers’ organisations and churches.
This report also reminds us that NEPAD is a social and economic programme of the African Union for the development of Africa, and not an independent institution.
Finally, this report attaches the greatest importance to the implementation and democratic parliamentary control of the African Peer Review Mechanism.
We must not lose the momentum created by recent major changes in Africa, whose leaders took the initiative to extricate the continent from poverty and marginalisation, with ownership as a guiding principle.
We are in the process of building structured relations with the African Union and NEPAD institutions.
The European Commission remains strongly committed to supporting NEPAD and the priorities and objectives of the African Union.
The presence of President Prodi at the African Union Summit in Maputo in July 2003 and the development of the dialogue between our Commission and new pan-African structures demonstrate that stance.
The fact that their administrative and executive arm is called the African Commission is a pleasing comment on what we represent in Europe, and certainly we are in the business of launching assistance for initiatives at continental level to demonstrate this close working relationship.
Numerous political contacts to date between the European Commission and the African Union Commission have been preparing the ground for launching a strategic, structured dialogue between the two bodies.
In tandem, a regular dialogue is being developed with the NEPAD Secretariat.
The establishment of other pan-African institutions, including the Peace and Security Council and the Pan-African Parliament, affords new prospects for dialogue between the European Union and Africa as a whole.
The other week the process of ratifying the Peace and Security Council Protocol in African Union Member States reached the point where this institution is now being formally launched.
We look forward to the same development very soon as regards the Pan-African Parliament.
At the same time, the European Community is providing tangible support for pan-African initiatives.
Following the request by the African Heads of State in Maputo in July 2003 that part of their national allocations be 'shaved off' to establish a peace facility, the Commission proceeded quickly.
We are now entering a more operational phase in which we are preparing a specific financing proposal for 250 million euros; it is planned to be submitted to the next meeting of the EDF Committee.
We hope the facility will provide the necessary financial 'muscle' to accompany the political resolve of the African Union and consolidate the continental architecture it has designed with the Peace and Security Council as its key institution.
Thirdly, there is development, it being acknowledged that without peace and stability there can be no development in Africa.
We – the European Union – still face the challenge of treating Africa as one entity.
This calls, inter alia, for action to ensure that our national and regional cooperation programmes are consistent with NEPAD and African Union priorities and objectives.
This process is in the hands of our African partners, and the Commission will make sure in the months ahead that it is reflected in our 'mid-term reviews' under the Cotonou Agreement and with regard to the other country strategies relevant for the rest of Africa.
The Commission put forward concrete proposals in its communication on EU-Africa dialogue last July to build bridges between the various agreements linking the European Union and Africa.
This vision must include a democratic voice via a parliament and the involvement of civil society.
The objectives and principles are everything that we in Europe would ask for and insist on, including eradication of poverty, raising the status of Africa on the world scene, making good governance a basic requirement, building a peaceful, secure and stable continent able to energise its economies to take advantage of world trade, and trying to ensure that the millennium development goals in the area of health and education are met.
In Europe we are already assisting with all these objectives.
It will take very large sums of money to achieve these goals.
With a peer review body, one hopes that the heads of African states will now take responsibility for their own destiny and that the problems of instability and poverty will be eradicated, with human rights being a top priority, especially for women and children. &#160;&#160; Madam President, NEPAD and its implementation agency, the African Union, offer, as all of us would agree, no quick fix for the problems of Africa.
There is hardly any mention of HIV/AIDS at all, and this has to be a very glaring and serious contradiction in NEPAD's proposals for action.
As the report says, it is important that the AU is the legitimate political and mandated institution at this stage.
What we need now, as the last speaker said, is much better focus and action. &#160;&#160; Madam President, will NEPAD be the tool of African renaissance when other plans have failed?
The Greens are perhaps the only ones who doubt it.
We shall not linger here on the contempt, on the part of the authors of NEPAD, for any prior consultation of the people regarding the drawing up of the plan, and we would point out that repression of political opponents and journalists is still happening in Africa, even in Senegal.
It is time to carry out an evaluation of the impact of earlier commercial liberalisation policies on social and economic development and on the protection of the environment.
NEPAD is not short of freedoms, be it freedom of capital, free movement of goods or freedom to provide services.
Moreover, I should like to draw your attention to the gradual regionalisation for which NEPAD makes provision.
There is a problem in that the European Union supports such zones, which are now tending to resemble scenarios in which the NEPAD instigating countries take neighbouring African countries under their political and economic wing.
Nor will NEPAD be able to claim to be a viable solution while at the same time ignoring what is at stake as a result of the terrible burden of debt borne by the countries of Africa.
The European Union should seek and apply the total and unconditional cancellation of the debt.
Promoting sustainable development in Africa does not mean throwing that continent to the mercy of the multinationals and of foreign investments.
The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) is an ambitious programme, and we should congratulate our African partners on it, for it is indeed a programme developed by Africans for Africans.
This concept has now been in existence for more than two years, and following the successful establishment of the African Union and the scheduling of the first session of the Pan-African Parliament for the third week in March, the time has come for the proposed mechanisms to be put in effect.
In all, just sixteen out of more than fifty states have joined the mechanism so far.
I believe this is exactly where we should take a positive role, be it through the EU or indeed G8.
After all, G8 committed itself to an Africa Action Plan back in 2002.
We should be targeting our support specifically to those who are genuinely improving their standards and are complying with the mechanism in practice.
Positive outcomes could then be anticipated in Africa as well. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, most of the African countries that have adopted the NEPAD initiative are ACP countries.
This offers the Commission the opportunity to support the NEPAD initiative on the basis of partnership through its cooperation with the ACP.
It also offers the European Parliament the opportunity, through the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, to engage in regular dialogue with the relevant countries about their needs and, indeed, the successes achieved.
In order to achieve long-term successes, especially in combating poverty, lasting political stability is essential.
There is a particular need for women’s equal participation in designing projects and strategies for development, for they are the key figures who organise daily life, and they are often responsible for ensuring their families’ survival as well. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have mixed feelings to some degree when we look at the history of NEPAD.
The NEPAD story was the response of the African leaders to the globalisation of the world economy.
This is understandable, because Africa is, in many ways, at risk of becoming the continent that is losing out while everyone else uses it to stock up on supplies.
This is an issue that cannot be solved with large trade flows, because trade has never guaranteed truly fair distribution. &#160;&#160; Madam President, we have heard some fine words this evening, but let us recall that the New Partnership for Africa's Development – NEPAD – was a bargain.
On the one hand the developed countries undertook to provide billions of dollars in new resources, but, for their part, the African governments committed themselves to good governance, democracy and human rights and the rule of law.
One fact is certain: without good governance in Africa, increased aid will be of only marginal value.
Unfortunately, many of Zimbabwe's neighbours not only have encouraged the Mugabe regime, but also have allowed Mugabe to dictate the terms of Africa's relationship with us.
This means not just the renewal of the EU's targeted sanctions when they expire on 18 February, but also the introduction of tough new measures.
After all, South Africa is specifically responsible for the good governance aspects of NEPAD.
I implore the African Union and the African countries to use all the resources at their disposal to persuade Mugabe and his clique to step aside.
Let us be under no illusions: Zimbabwe is the test case for NEPAD. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I thank the rapporteur for producing this own-initiative report, allowing us to debate what is an important initiative.
It is important because it is a home-grown initiative.
The rapporteur talks about the Marshall Plan in his conclusions to the report.
The Marshall Plan was worth USD 13.4 billion over four years in 1948.
I hope that the Commission will play its role in making sure that we work alongside the African leaders, who want this kind of change, and in making sure that it happens. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the list of objectives for NEPAD is very long: it includes many different concepts such as conflict prevention, democracy and regional economic integration.
I do not believe that kind of money will be forthcoming.
We have examples of bad management and fraud: we have only to look to the news a week ago when Parmalat lost EUR 10 billion in Italy – a sophisticated, modern, western country!
We need to encourage NEPAD, especially the conception, growth and sustenance of small- and medium-sized enterprises in Africa, owned and run by Africans using the natural resources of their countries and employing their own people, with the appropriate training and help that we can give them.
First, it must be formed in their countries, support the regional economy and then go beyond to EU and world markets.
The roof may be the African Union, the walls may be the pan-African Parliament, but the foundation of economic growth and the eradication of poverty in Africa has to be something like NEPAD.
We do not spend similar amounts of money on all the other things: we spend much more.
Funding the implementation of the peace operations decided by Africa and implemented in an African context is a new thing.
I also see that it would be very meaningful in the Joint Parliamentary Assembly to discuss the performance of oil-exporting economies and other similar extraction industries in Africa.
These African countries are saying that they want to be judged on these same principles, echoing what we had all agreed on in the Cotonou framework.
This peer review is a fantastic, very daring endeavour.
I told them in one discussion that it looks as if it is more difficult to get good marks in the peer review process than it is to fulfil the criteria we have defined in order to become a member of the European Union.
It is very ambitious.
I hope that 2004 will be a positive turning-point, enabling us at full speed to resume the EU-Africa dialogue. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
In a Eurobarometer survey on enlargement in April 2003, Europe’s citizens described culture as one of the major winners in the enlargement process, alongside environment and trade.
This testifies to the international organisations’ commitment to safeguarding and promoting cultural diversity.
Cultural diversity forms an integral part of the European Union’s identity, and will include other cultures after the accession of the new countries.
This means that we must work not only to protect but also to promote cultural diversity.
For example, the music and film industries appear to be very lucrative sectors in the context of international trade, especially if we look more closely at the market share of films in the European Union in 2000: American films accounted for 73%, national films in the home country 15%, and national films outside the home country 8%.
Many people only became aware of the Commission’s negotiations in the WTO framework through the Stop GATS campaign.
Due to their lack of transparency, these negotiations caused a great deal of upset and were thus the focus of public attention.
Cultural services and products are still exempt from trade liberalisation at present, but this is not secure in the long term.
What we are demanding is that there should be no more forced liberalisation in this area.
That means that the protection of funding instruments and therefore of cultural diversity should not be achieved within the WTO and GATS, but through the adoption of a Convention on Cultural Diversity in the framework of UNESCO.
It is gratifying that UNESCO has decided, by a large majority, to launch work towards the elaboration of a draft Convention, and I hope that this will proceed very swiftly, for we need a decision very quickly here.
European cultural policy must go hand in hand with pro-active and autonomous national cultural policies and indeed, in some areas, greater decentralisation in the regions and municipalities.
The internal market and hence the free trade in services must not take precedence over national funding mechanisms.
Then there are our foreign policies, and I welcome, as you all do, the fact that we have just won this battle at international level – and it is only a battle, not the whole war – in managing to persuade the majority of the nations of the world to follow us in our fight so that, with regard to international trade as well, we can preserve our cultural stakes.
I believe that this process, which is absolutely unique in Europe, and which we must have invented because it would not have been possible to copy it since it did not yet exist anywhere else, has served as an example throughout the world.
I often hear that sentiment expressed on my travels to various countries, large or small, where people say to me, ‘The way in which you protect your minorities and support your cultures, whether large or small, important or less important, is leading the way for us to follow’.
What better thing could we give to the world than to show it the way to preserve cultural heritage, to preserve what is most important to people, a way that involves a willingness to give priority to our hearts rather than to the market.
I also believe that it is important that this report on cultural diversity comes just after a report on development aid.
It is a fitting symbol, because development aid is also a form of assistance which helps to preserve the culture of those who do not have the means of preserving it themselves.
Therefore our universal action in this direction is very important.
It is obvious that within the Union we should preserve our capacity to support our diverse cultures by means of local, regional, national and European funding, and the Commission is committed to the full implementation of Article 151(4), which makes it compulsory to take into account, horizontally, the cultural diversity within all the other cultures.
I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that it has become a reflex action for the Commission, even for those Commissioners who have responsibilities in sectors such as the economy, external trade or international affairs, to take into consideration the fact that cultural diversity is a part of our lives.
I do not have sufficient human resources to undertake to make reports on what we are doing.
I therefore believe that it is very important to look at the figures.
Moreover, I am in complete agreement with the idea of strengthening diversity in our cooperation and development policies with third countries.
There cannot be diversity without exchanges, in all countries and in all forms of expression, and I undertake to remind the Commissioners responsible for external relations – which is not difficult because they are already convinced of it – of the importance of making provision, in our foreign policies, for a cultural aspect, which is the human aspect and which is of primordial importance.
I do not need to remind you of what we have already achieved, over a period of very many years, with our ACP partners or of what we initiated with our Mediterranean partners.
However, what we are doing with all our partners is something new, and is perhaps in the process of becoming, thanks to Parliament among others, one of the new policies which are forging ahead.
Moreover, the Chinese are supporting us within UNESCO.
The Chinese were also talking about education, and all this in a huge country like China, which is counting on Europe to help it to preserve its cultural diversity.
You can see, then, that we have committed ourselves to a worldwide trend which is very important, hence my satisfaction as regards the battle that we won in UNESCO.
It was not easy, but nevertheless we succeeded, in UNESCO, in persuading the nations of the world to stand side by side with us in order to preserve that which we all hold most dear.
I do not doubt for a moment that, now that the General Assembly of UNESCO has decided to create an international instrument for the preservation of cultural diversity, that instrument will see the light of day and it will be a strong instrument.
You will be aware that we are only at a preliminary stage in these negotiations, but I also have to tell you that we have sent a very strong signal to our partners by the publication, for the first time by the Commission, and therefore by the entire European executive, of a communication to the Council and Parliament on the European Union’s relations with UNESCO.
This was a very strong point of departure for our partners to enable them to support us in our efforts in this direction.
Thank you very much; you have shown yourselves to be worthy of the cultural diversity of Europeans. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, cultural diversity is a popular concept in the European Union.
Anyone who fails to respect a person’s culture does not respect the person himself, does not invite mutual respect and does not show any signs of being prepared to engage in a cultural dialogue which, in a world of ever more far-reaching globalisation, is necessary for cultural development.
This is why we need instruments and resources to retain diversity, as well as opportunities of establishing this retention of cultural identity.
Despite this, languages and cultures are disappearing very fast, and I am therefore delighted with the emphasis you have placed on this principle that should lead us, also for example in the contacts with the developing countries.
I am convinced that each community should have the opportunity of safeguarding its own culture against oppression, for example from language imperialism.
Respect for languages is one of the major assets in the enlargement of Europe, one that we have already had the pleasure of experiencing among ourselves.
Finally, I hope that the instruments that are being developed internationally, along with the instruments that you and the EU will be developing, will serve diversity and will facilitate cultural identity in the proper sense of the word. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Prets, I have listened quite carefully to what our Commissioner has said.
I am sorry, but I did not really hear the answer to the clear and precise questions contained in this report.
In paragraph 45, if I have understood it correctly, there is a question which is addressed directly to you, Commissioner, and that is whether or not you intend to send, on behalf of the Commission, a communication to the Council and to Parliament, which will relate specifically to a UNESCO convention on cultural diversity.
If I have understood you correctly, you spoke about this question at length but I did not learn whether or not Parliament can expect a communication from you.
In my own country where, one might say, foreign languages are no longer taught, where history has become simply a background to current affairs and where Shakespeare is apparently too difficult for English students, those who say 'Yes, we may trust our governments to conserve our cultures' would perhaps be foolish.
The proposals that this should be agreed at international level are correct, but we should also address ourselves directly to our own peoples and our own students.
Protecting media diversity is also an important element in protecting cultural diversity and cultural identity.
We cannot leave the task of affording this protection to the European judicial system, gratifying though today’s judgment by the Italian constitutional court may be.
Without wishing to play down your achievements in other areas, we have been left with no troops on this battlefield so far, and that creates a rather bitter after-taste.
Diversity of opinion and pluralism in the media are valuable assets and there are many positive examples of them in Europe, despite the growing threats facing us.
When we talk about cultural plurality, in cases where this culture also has a differentiated history, its own linguistic characteristics and a structural form of society, we are talking about stateless nations, a phenomenon which also exists in the European Union.
Furthermore, in many cases, these stateless nations are manifested through the existence, in this very House, of political parties which do not correspond to States, but rather to certain territories, and I am referring for example to the Scottish National Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and the party I belong to.
Certain States, such as the Spanish State, recognise it through their official status, but this State recognition does not exist with reference to the European Union.
I remember organising, together with my group, a public hearing in the autumn of 2002, in order to launch this idea before Parliament.
I would like to say that cultural diversity is also tied in with the question of the market.
Are we really agreed, within the European Union, that we want to promote cultural diversity and, if so, what diversity?
Cultural diversity is therefore a right, but it is a right that we have to construct, and not a simple right to culture, to education and so on.
The right to cultural diversity does not yet exist and I only hope that we shall know how to construct it. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the world is not a commodity.
This anti-globalisation movement slogan could form the epigraph of our debate.
If the world is not to be a commodity, we must fight against the iron law of financially solvent supply and demand, which affects all aspects of life.
The constant springing forth of life must be preserved, encouraged and stimulated.
I also thank Commissioner Reding for providing such a detailed overview of the work from her own perspective and for pointing out that this House is and should remain the natural ally of the Commission and especially of Commissioner Reding herself.
I believe that in an enlarged Europe, this should apply not only to the enlargement countries but also to the current Member States.
There is undoubtedly a shortcoming here, in that in the cultural field – due to what is in my view the disastrous principle of unanimity – we have been unable to launch common policies to provide minority communities and languages with sensible options for their development.
There are other countries where this development has, unfortunately, been very sluggish, and I think that this effort and the abolition of the unanimity principle can achieve some progress here.
Internal market legislation has a partial impact on the mobility of cultural products, that is, arts and artists.
We still too often run into problems in this area especially as far as taxation is concerned.
Technology offers more opportunities and tools, but they must be harnessed in the service of culture, not the other way round.
The European cultural networks are a key resource in the promotion of cultural diversity.
I want to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Prets, for her personal input to promote cultural diversity.
She has organised several workshops on European art this parliamentary term. &#160;&#160; Madam President, as our rapporteur rightly said it is difficult and even risky to define cultural diversity, almost like defining culture itself.
Nevertheless, the resolution, proposed precisely on the basis of a concept that is difficult and risky, does not hesitate, for a good 47 paragraphs, to claim to regulate, standardise and promote so-called cultural diversity, thus deluding itself, in the age of the Internet, that it can halt the liberalisation and globalisation of culture, information and knowledge.
The text of this resolution is a clear example of this.
Its contents challenge the principle of non-contradiction and even basic common sense and end up settling for vulgar hypocrisy.
In truth, the contradictions in this resolution reflect those in our policy, which looks for allies in the developing world to protect it and to protect itself from the intrusiveness of the American audiovisual sector, in the name of respect for cultural diversity, subject then to fully financing, for example, French-speaking Africa; the culture which, in the name of assimilation, banned the veil and other religious signs in school classrooms, and which does not, however, object at all to them being imposed in an authoritarian manner in other countries; the culture that praises European democracy, even when it is noticeably absent, and claims in a racist manner, however, that the developing world is not ready for it; the culture that refuses to ‘export’ freedom does not hesitate to collaborate with dictators and tyrants, today ignoring the fight of Islamic dissidents, as in the past it ignored communist dissidents from Eastern Europe.
In all this I do not see a fairer, more respectful choice to protect the heritage of the people of Europe and of the world but rather shapeless, hypocritical, and conflicting protectionism that protects the intellectual, national and regional elites, against the dynamism and the cultural conflict which, in its substance, is always ... &#160;&#160; Madam President, it would seem from the report that culture’s enemy is the liberalisation of the markets and the World Trade Organisation and that individual States are the bastion of culture or cultures.
Commissioner Reding, China has carried out the worst cases of genocide of people and of culture and continues to do so: the Tibetan people and their culture, the Uighur people and their culture.
China cannot be held up in this Chamber as an example of fruitful cooperation for cultural diversity, at least if we are using the old idea of the Cultural Revolution as a reference for the word ‘cultural’.
We do, of course, want these rules, in particular to counter the destruction of languages, but the policy of teaching only one foreign language in the Member States and the rules governing the European institutions run counter to the spirit of diversity called for in the resolution: European institutions with monolingual or bilingual agencies that publish public reports without even producing them in the official languages of the European Union.
In the explanation of vote we, the radical Members, will refer to our proposals on the Monitoring centre for linguistic policies to promote the international language Esperanto, for the right to free and non-discriminatory international communication, to preserve and maintain linguistic diversity. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for all her efforts in favour of European culture and the rapporteur, Mrs Prets, for the work she has done and above all for dealing with the many amendments.
My country, Spain, is a country with great cultural diversity and wealth and we are naturally entirely in favour of cultural diversity.
Nevertheless, I would like to say that we would have liked the report, rather than referring to non-uniform cultural identities, to have referred to the plurality of cultural identities in the European Union.
And the reality is that, in many countries of Europe, cultural identities are not uniform, precisely because they are plural and we must not forget that this is one of our great assets.
We must not forget that the right of each Member State to define, apply and adapt its cultural policies is subject to national legislation and, therefore, this must be done in accordance with their respective national legislations.
Certain nationalist parties who have tried to use language as a political tool have moved on from racial nationalism to linguistic nationalism.
We are going to continue in that direction.
We have drawn up our action plan on languages on the basis of this multilingualism, quite rightly, and let me tell you that multilingualism includes those of our languages which are not official, but it certainly does not include Esperanto, because we have enough living languages in difficulty without creating, in addition, artificial languages.
Therefore, let us teach languages to our children, and on this point I am happy to see that almost all – in fact I would say all – our education ministers are making an effort, and some of them are starting from scratch.
What we are trying to do then – and we are succeeding, by serving as an example and insisting on respect for minorities – is to bring about changes in attitude, particularly in those countries – and some of them have been mentioned – which are very far from being perfect, and we all know who they are.
You know this, you who are Members of the European Parliament, because you discuss the matter constantly, but we can only help these minorities by taking them with us and telling them that we will not allow them to be left aside, not by building a wall between those who are right and those who are wrong.
Mr Beazley, I do not know whether you noticed, but in August the Commission, as far as I know for the first time in the history of the European Union, published a communication about UNESCO, which served as a way of moving things forward.
It will be at that moment, when we have the beginnings of a text, that we shall be able to define what Europe is seeking to obtain in the context of those negotiations.
We can only hope, Mrs Junker, that the new Treaty, as many Members have clearly said, will contain much stronger elements regarding such diversity in all its aspects, because it is multiform.
This is why I would like to see the new Treaty provide more opportunities for representatives of the people first of all, but also for the Commission’s initiative which is intended to take a further step forward.
It is up to us, therefore, to convince national governments and to make it possible for Europe to be able to invest sufficient resources to ensure that these cultures survive.
It must be possible for Europe to serve as a living example to the eyes of the world, so that we can change that world, because, even though what we experience regarding diversity and respect for others is not perfect, our example is still of value.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. (1) &#160;&#160; . – I come from a country, Flanders, whose culture was crippled for decades because of domination by Belgian French-speakers.
Even within the EU, Dutch is at times ignored; it has, for example, disappeared as a working language within such institutions as the European trademarks bureau.
This report, which contains a huge number of praiseworthy recommendations, has come none too soon, and I do indeed hope that the good intentions, following the enlargement of the EU, to protect all languages that are spoken in a Europe with 25 Member States, will this time not remain an empty promise.
Mr President, you have come to the European Parliament at a crucial time in the relationship between Serbia and Montenegro and the European Union – and indeed, in some senses, at a defining time for Serbia and Montenegro themselves.The new Union, soon to be made up of 25 Member States, has been looking forward with hope and expectation at the process of reform and change in your country and in the wider region over the past few years.
For that reason we, in the European Parliament, hope that the results of the recent elections in Serbia will not lead to a resurgence of the kind of nationalism that has had such tragic consequences for the region.I welcome you today as a leader whose words and deeds give us grounds for optimism.
Your recent acts of reconciliation, which you initiated, first between yourself and the President of Croatia and then, in November, between yourself and the President of Bosnia-Herzegovina, are commendable acts of reconciliation.
They recall to us the words of one of our founding fathers, Robert Schuman, when he spoke of the power of creative reconciliation.
I thank you for the leadership that you have shown in this regard.It is important that we now develop, beyond declarations and conclusions of Council summit meetings, the practical benchmarking of democratic progress between the European Union and the states of your region.Mr President, through you we want to say to the peoples of Serbia and Montenegro – and more broadly to the peoples of the Western Balkans – that we, in this Parliament, are prepared to travel that road with you.
Without a favourable assessment in the feasibility study and accelerated work to conclude Serbia and Montenegro's Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union, the process of Europeanisation and the progress necessary to guarantee a better life for all will be slowed down.
In this process, the role and the importance of the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro is of outstanding importance, not only for geo-strategic or security reasons, but even more because of the further promotion of democratic and European standards in the approach to the resolution of the remaining outstanding issues of this region on European integration, among which the issue of Kosovo is, certainly, of particular importance.
Dialogue and only dialogue, along with respect for UN resolutions and the active role and responsibility of the international community may eliminate the threat of ethnic tension and pressures, particularly on the non-Albanian population.
Serbia and Montenegro support the Standards Before Status policy, for it is only a multi-ethnic Kosovo, a Kosovo safe and free for all those wishing to return and live there, a Kosovo of European standards, that can become the realm of prospects and progress for all its citizens.
Throughout history the Balkans have often paid the tragic price of intolerance.
It was primarily the citizens and the peoples living in these parts that were the victims of such a policy.
Today, I am sure, we have all become more mature and realise that the way to the modern, developed and democratic world for all the nations in the Western Balkans may only be through political dialogue, compromise and negotiation.
That is our vision, our political goal and our hope.
The representatives of the European Union that will be visiting our country in a few days' time will have the opportunity to witness the fact that the process of reforms in the transition of Serbia and Montenegro has not been halted, even though last year was one of huge political challenges, globally, regionally and at home.
Our country has also resisted this type of challenge.
Security has been maintained and not only has the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro been formed, but it has also become a member of the Council of Europe and an equal participant in the European integration processes.
This being the case, it is up to both us and Europe to see where we have made mistakes, to avoid making more mistakes in the future and to do our utmost to achieve our common goal that quite certainly takes Serbia and Montenegro, and the Western Balkans, towards the promotion of European life and values.
Quite openly, our main mistake is that we were sometimes late.
On the other hand, the response of the world, or to be more precise, the response of certain institutions, was sometimes rash, or very difficult to understand for our general democratic public.
It is difficult to bear the brunt of doubt that you are not cooperating with the Hague Tribunal in the way people at The Hague wish, despite the obvious results achieved in that field.
It is also difficult to be under pressure from some citizens who often see this cooperation with ICTY – based on the implementation of the Law on Cooperation with ICTY passed by the State Union Parliament – as being excessive on the part of the democratic authorities of Serbia and Montenegro, and to the detriment of its own citizens.
I wish to assure you that we wish to cooperate with The Hague in the future in line with the commitments made, the adopted international instruments and our national laws.
We also expect to meet with the understanding of the international and national public in this task, and to have their cooperation.
This will be yet another confirmation of our sincere commitment and belonging to the values of the civilised and democratic world that you promote in this august House.
We agree only to be the hostages of our future for the sake of our posterity, the generations that wish to live equally and together with their peers in Europe and the rest of the world.
The majority of citizens gave their support to the democratic forces.
No matter how the outcome of these elections is commented upon, it is a fact that the democratic forces won over 60% of the votes cast, and, moreover, it happened now: not in a fight against Milosević, but in the fight for a democratic and European future for Serbia and Montenegro.
A great deal has been done at the political and economic level in the past.
This is borne out by the fact that, even in this distinctive political vacuum, not only has there been no monetary instability, but on the contrary, several major capital investment contracts have been concluded with well-known corporations in the world.
Reforms in the field of education have also been carried out in the proper way so that our country is now a signatory of the Bologna Declaration.
There is full cooperation in the fight against organised crime, and this is also in evidence at the trials that have commenced before the Special Court for Organised Crime.
As you are aware, a special court has been established for war crimes as well and we expect that it too will soon try cases referred or to be referred to the national judiciary by the Hague Tribunal.
Reforms of the armed forces have been carried out.
We continued strengthening regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations by introducing a more liberal visa regime.
As sinful people walking the earth, we must have the courage to recognise our mistakes as such, rectify them and forge new relations.
It is a delusion that it is possible to live alone, without cooperation with Europe and the world, without promoting historical friendship ties and without forging a common, stable, prosperous, democratic and European future for all its nations and states.
This feeling of understanding and apology is something that I carry deep in my bosom as President of Serbia and Montenegro and I also expect to encounter such understanding from all our friends.
I am saying this because the Belgrade Agreement has yielded positive results.
Our institutions are increasingly assuming full responsibility for consistent implementation of the Constitutional Charter.
These activities, together with the efforts of the State governments, have brought Serbia and Montenegro closer today than ever before to Europe and European integration processes.
As the President of the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro, I am convinced that the signing of the Belgrade Agreement and the Constitutional Charter on the new State Union of Serbia and Montenegro was a good choice under the given conditions, and that it is our task now at all levels to perform our duties responsibly and effectively in accordance with the responsibilities assumed.
The economic and political support promised by Europe will surely contribute to this to the largest possible extent.
The experiences from the former Yugoslavia and from the world have shown that – to use the modern political jargon – the carrot is always more efficient than the stick.
This is why I am confident that if the results of the study are positive, and if the Stabilisation and Association Agreement is concluded in time, this will ensure that Serbia and Montenegro will travel the road to European integration.
