The main aim of our report was to settle the issue of permanent support measures once and for all.
The ten-year improvement plans were due to expire in 2000 but were extended until 15 July 2001.
The Commission's present proposal would allow these last plans to be extended to 15 June 2002 with the Community contribution decreasing from 82 to 75%.
The Committee on Agriculture is of the opinion that in order to improve awareness and production monitoring, provision must be made to set up a geographical information system.
Hence the advisability of linking this latest extension to permanent aid, the ultimate aim being to consolidate a system of ongoing aid channelled through the producer organisations.
I must not conclude without mentioning the Committee on Agriculture's specific request that chestnuts be included in the nuts sector.
I am unable to support these amendments although I appreciate and share concerns over the difficulties currently experienced in marketing hazelnuts.
The report adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development deals with the gaps in the Commission's plan.
Parliament calls on the Commission to put forward a proposal for the implementation of a definitive support regime for the sector before 1 June 2002.
You will be aware, Commissioner, that on numerous occasions the European Parliament has expressed its institutional support for the nuts sector in the European Union.
In my view therefore, the request for maintaining support during 2001 and 2002 must lead, as previous speakers stated, to a permanent support regime per hectare.
The European Union spent a total of EUR 900 million on these plans up to 2001.
On 23 July last year, the Council asked the Commission to launch an in-depth study into all aspects of this sector and called on it to submit the conclusions of the study and any proposals as quickly as possible.
Amendments Nos 9 and 13 highlight the need for a permanent support regime for nuts, while Amendment No 8 calls for the benefits achieved with the improvement plans to be preserved, mainly by channelling supplies through producer organisations.
As I have already explained on previous occasions, we are all agreed that there is a chronic lack of competition in this sector and that it does not therefore make economic sense to hang on to the belief that EU producers can hold out against free competition with Turkish hazelnuts or American almonds in the long term.
I feel that support measures should also help to promote the sustainability of rural areas and protect the environment and should not just be geared to making the sector economically competitive.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this proposal, the Commission is seeking to amend the basic regulation on the common organisation of the market in tobacco (Regulation (EEC) 2075/92), fixing the premiums and guarantee thresholds for leaf tobacco by variety group and Member State for the 2002, 2003 and 2004 harvests.
On this basis, one might assume that the Commission proposal is of a fundamentally technical nature and is confined to adapting the main instruments of support for tobacco production, in accordance with changes in supply and demand in the market.
Furthermore, this adjustment is made necessary by the current arrangements, since producers must be notified about quotas before 15 April and the relevant contracts be drawn up before 30 May.
In fact, it indirectly introduces a reform of a much broader political scope and goes so far as to set the phasing out of tobacco subsidies as the ultimate objective (see recital 5).
There are two reasons for this: first of all, the Commission launched an evaluation study of the COM in raw tobacco, which should enable an assessment to be made of the effects of current Community policy on the sector, and its conclusions will only be available at the end of 2002; secondly, it was the Commission itself that undertook to submit proposals on the new tobacco policy at the beginning of next year, but only on the basis of the studies that are now being carried out.
To this end, the rapporteur tabled Amendment No 23, in order to regain the original spirit of commitment towards the Community Tobacco Fund.
And, in order to ensure consistency with this vision of commitment, the rapporteur proposes that we also reject Amendments Nos 9 and 13.
The around 130 thousand tobacco producers in the European Union, most of whom live in the least-favoured regions of southern Europe, deserve to have the competent Community institutions concern themselves, in a responsible way, with their future.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tobacco is the mainstay of the economy of large rural areas of southern Europe.
Tobacco is grown on small family plots in regions classed amongst the poorest in Europe.
But if we abolish tobacco growing, all we shall do is condemn a number of European citizens to financial ruin and give a fillip to tobacco farmers in third countries.
For the rest, however, as he himself has said, the subject of tobacco as dealt with in this specific proposal for a Council regulation is a purely technical matter concerning the 2002, 2003 and 2004 crops.
This is therefore a serious matter which we feel requires greater analysis on the part of the Commission, not least in the light of Communication No 264 of 15 May 2001, which contains a clear statement to the effect that, should the Commission decide on a political proposal for action, all the repercussions and implications of this strategy for tobacco growing and the reduction of aid to growers would, indeed, be assessed.
For this reason and also for the reasons expounded by other Members regarding the limited actual effect the measure would have on cigarette consumption, as regards the issue of smoking, it is therefore important, moreover, to preserve the research fund, particularly for agronomic research on broad-leaf tobacco, for that represents our only hope if we are to reduce the harmful effects of smoking and contribute to the right of all consumers to health too.
The problem dates back a long way and the Commission is using this proposal for updating the regulation to clearly say that we must move away from the system of tobacco subsidies.
We believe that an increase from 3% to 5% for this Fund is a positive step; in this area, the Commission's proposal has very wisely used the carrot and stick approach in order to refocus these tasks over the long term and to replace agronomic research into making tobacco slightly less harmful with measures to support specific initiatives that encourage tobacco growers to switch from tobacco into other crops.
Treasury Ministers are delighted with the income generated by tobacco, whilst Health Ministers rail against it.
This change involves paving the way to phase out tobacco production without providing an alternative.
The European Union produces 5% of the world's tobacco and imports 70% of its requirements.
Manufacturers also play a part in prevention by financing the Community Fund, which should have been used to inform consumers and also to make progress in research into the harmful effects of products.
By maintaining production in Europe, we are giving ourselves the means to control the quality of tobacco production and processing.
We are also giving ourselves the means to develop less harmful varieties.
Our group can do nothing other than to reject recital 5 of the Commission's proposal, which spells disaster for small- and medium-sized growers that help to maintain an agricultural activity throughout the Union's territory.
Europe imports 70% of the raw tobacco it needs, and so the European Union is far from being the world's biggest importer.
When the reform of the COM in tobacco was approved in 1998, Parliament and the Council planned to carry out an assessment of this reform at the end of 2002.
This assessment alone will provide a basis for an appropriate consideration of the future of tobacco growing in Europe.
I therefore share the view of the rapporteur that no decision should be taken on the future of the existing tobacco regime until we have the results of the studies that are currently being carried out.
And I would point out that the Commission must submit a new proposal on the tobacco sector in 2003.
We also oppose the plan to increase farmers' contribution to the Community Tobacco Fund, given that this Fund - which has an annual budget of EUR 20 million - has been substantially under-utilised.
The Committee on Agriculture supported the wise recommendations of our rapporteur who has drafted suitable and solid proposals which do not confuse tobacco and nicotine addiction, and I hope that the House will follow suit.
It is always difficult to talk about tobacco, for we always end up falling into the trap of populism.
And this populism continues to confuse production with consumption.
The Commission aims to replace agricultural research with action to support the development of specific initiatives encouraging tobacco producers to change to other crops and engage in alternative economic activities generating employment.
The debate on tobacco and public health should not therefore be restricted to the agricultural context, targeting the weakest link in the chain of tobacco production.
Madam President, we should like to express our opposition to any attempt to abolish or gradually reduce aid to tobacco, as proposed by the Commission, because it will wipe out tobacco production in Europe.
It is infuriating that proposals such as this are being made at a time when smoking is on the increase and 70% of the tobacco used is imported.
I support the Commission very much on what they are trying to do in phasing out tobacco subsidies and I would encourage them to continue at a faster pace, rather than a slower one.
We all accept the need to support farming in rural communities, but we have to find different crops and different ways of supporting them in the future.
Today we received the opinion of the Council's legal services, questioning whether recital 5 of the Commission proposal is legal.
The Council's legal services question whether recital 5 is legal.
This figure more or less corresponds to quantities produced in the 1999 and 2000 financial years.
Amendments Nos 18 and 19 are not acceptable to the Commission because the suggested guarantee thresholds and the way in which they are broken down bears no relation to current production demands and efforts to encourage varieties for which there is greater demand.
We are working towards phasing out aid for the tobacco sector because we are required under Article 152 of the Treaty to guarantee a high level of human health protection in all Community policies.
The political question lies in Article 152, which quite clearly states that a high level of human health protection shall be ensured in all Community policies, that is, including all aid policies.
Amendments Nos 4 to 6, calling for an assessment of the social and economic impact have already been overtaken by events.
The Commission communication therefore makes provision for measures designed to create alternative jobs and profitable economic activity under rural development plans to support producers switching to other crops.
Amendments Nos 7 and 11 calling for continuing aid for agronomic research are unacceptable because promoting measures to switch into other crops is now a strategic priority and we must move decisively in this direction.
Information campaigns on the harmful effects of tobacco consumption need to be extended and new information campaigns need to contain more comprehensive information on the harmful effects of smoking.
The same applies to Amendments Nos 10 and 24.
Mr President, I should like to ask the Commissioner to clarify what he just said.
What we are doing in this proposal is as follows, as I have already explained: in order to be able to take account of the Commission communication to the European Council, we must develop alternative forms of employment for people at the same time as phasing out tobacco subsidies.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
I therefore trust that I can count on your full support for this report when we vote on it at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I consider the proposal of the PPE-DE Group that an own-initiative report should be drawn up on the fish processing industry was a good one.
This is why we expect more from the Commission in terms of its proposals, and I would say that this report is apt for that very reason.
The Langenhagen report addresses the problem as a whole.
In 1998, we drew up a specific report on the canning industry - for which I had the honour of being rapporteur - but this report provides an update and, furthermore, encompasses the entire industry, including frozen products and the marketing aspects, as well as the products of aquaculture.
I wish to conclude by stating, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, that we will be supporting the three amendments tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists but that we shall be voting against Amendment No 4 by the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reform Party, because we feel that the text submitted by our rapporteur is better.
We socialists have tabled two amendments, to which I should like to ask the rapporteur to give her express support, on the social aspects of the processing industry, urging the Commission, the Member States and social operators to boost the collective negotiation designed to improve the quality of employment in this industry, especially bearing in mind that the majority of these jobs are performed by women, who have very little social protection and who, furthermore, commonly work on a highly casual basis.
We believe that improving the training of these nearly 100 000 workers in the processing industry and its conditions of employment, together with this sector's own capacity for innovation and its dynamic, will help to ensure that this industry remains viable and that it has a future.
The fish processing industry employs 18 140 people in the UK, that is, 20% of the EU jobs in this sector.
Finally, I should like to point out that the new common organisation of the market makes greater provision for cross-sectoral producer organisations which allow the various industries in the fisheries sector, from fishing to processing and sales, to make use of their common synergy potential, for example, by adapting products to market requirements, improving product quality, developing quality labels or environmentally-friendly production methods and so on.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
Nevertheless, pursuant to Article 6 of the same Regulation, the Commission should, by 1 June 2001 at the latest, have presented the European Parliament and the Council with the evaluation report on the measures adopted in the fisheries sector for the outermost regions, which, as we all know, should receive special aid, in accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam, which granted them a special status.
The results of these studies determine when this report is to be presented, with the Commission proposing to delay its presentation until 1 June 2002, and, as a logical consequence, to extend the scheme in force by one year, until 31 December 2002, thereby guaranteeing the continuity and stability of the current scheme of compensation for additional costs.
I therefore proposed that the Committee on Fisheries deliver a favourable opinion together with some appropriate amendments to the regulation.
Whatever the case, Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fishing activity in the Azores, which employs around 8 000 people and has a huge socio-economic impact on the Archipelago, the 1 500 fishermen of Madeira, the fisheries sector in the Canary Islands, which employs around 13 000 people, as well as the thousands of fishermen from French Guyana and Réunion, cannot be subjected to uncertainties or to the whims of fate.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the compensation scheme for additional costs incurred by outermost regions in the marketing of certain fishery products - incorrectly referred to as the 'Fish POSEIDOM' - is based on a simple principle, namely to support the marketing of species that are most commonly sold outside the European Union, in conditions similar to those in which the economic agents in Europe operate.
However, as shadow rapporteur, I would like to make two additional comments.
In the comprehensive list of disadvantages facing the outermost regions, the rapporteur has failed to mention a difficulty which, in my opinion, is of utmost importance, namely the problems of reaching these areas as a result of the transport links between the regions and the continent and the prices charged for this travel.
I think, however, that it would have been more logical to refer in full to Article 37 of the Treaty, which represents the very foundation of the fisheries and agricultural policies, had this Article not proved lacking as regards the EU's outermost regions.
Lastly, I fully support the rapporteur's proposal which calls on the Commission to forward to the European Parliament a copy of the report carried out for the Commission by external consultants on the impact of all Community measures adopted to date in the fisheries sector for the outermost regions.
Mr President, the outermost regions have a special status, recognised in Article 299(2) of the 1997 Treaty on European Union, but I would say that this status has existed since the founding of the first European Economic Community, in 1957, because this Treaty laid down special provisions for the French Overseas Departments.
When Spain and Portugal joined the Union in 1986, the Act of Accession of these two countries included special provisions and what Article 299(2) does is to acknowledge a situation that already had a legislative identity, by means of all the special provisions of the various programmes and specific options dealing with the outermost regions, known for short as COP 6.
And Commissioner Fischler is one of the few people to have made the effort to go there.
In my opinion, however, the most important aspect of this report is its recognition of the fact that the legal base for adopting this type of measure has been Article 299(2) of the Treaty, acknowledged at the Amsterdam Summit.
It is true that fisheries play a very important role in the economic and social development of remote regions and a system of aid for marketing specific fishery products from these regions was introduced back in 1992.
We have suggested Article 37 of the Treaty because these measures are no different from the provisions of the Treaty on Community policy or general principles.
I must therefore reject Amendments Nos 1 and 3.
Nor can I accept Amendment No 2, because the Commission report will not just reflect the results of the study; the report which we present will also need to take account of the impact of the measures and their application by the Member States.
Amendment No 6 is problematic because, as I have said, the study is just one of numerous documents which we may need to take into account in a proposal for a new regulation.
However, I can accept Amendments Nos 4 and 5.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
First of all, I should like to congratulate the Commissioner on the fact that he has succeeded in reaching an agreement within the framework of Gabon at a time when it is increasingly difficult to conclude fisheries agreements.
Perhaps the Commissioner can also indicate that the extension of the agreement from a 6 to a 12-mile zone has no implications for Gabonese coastal fishing.
Although the European Commission tries hard to describe the previous agreement in its evaluation report, information about the cost-benefit ratio, the state of the fish stocks and the impact of the agreements on the regions in the EU merit further elucidation, in my view.
Mr President, I have already indicated that I congratulate the Commissioner on this agreement and that fisheries agreements are of paramount importance to a number of coastal regions in the European Union.
In future discussions about fisheries agreements, we must underline more emphatically the importance of the social support base of these agreements, both in Africa and in Europe.
For that reason, I much prefer this amendment to Amendment No 9 tabled by the Liberal Group.
This means that I would warmly recommend Amendment No 2, while I consider Amendment No 9 by the Liberal Group to be redundant.
Many of us, however, are bound to wonder, as we do with regard to other agreements, whether this is a fisheries agreement or a development cooperation programme financed from the CFP, since, out of the total sum, 70% is earmarked for activities designed to develop the local fishing sector.
Mr Maat, the Socialist Group will be voting against Amendment No 2 and I hope the Commission will do the same, because the fees that should be paid by shipowners whose boats fish under this agreement cannot be different to those paid under other agreements unless we take Greenland as an example, where the shipowners pay not a penny of fees.
Mr President, my views on third-country fishing agreements are well known but once again I wish to record my disgust at the fact that the European Union is entering into agreements which, despite the honeyed words, are nothing short of economic imperialism.
As ever, to its eternal shame, the Committee on Fisheries approved this agreement.
So as we move to a vote I am sure that this House will do what it always does and rubber-stamp the decision already made by the committee.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking Mr Maat for his report and for backing the Commission proposal.
The Commission must reject Amendments Nos 2 and 9.
I therefore feel that Amendments Nos 3, 7 and 8 are unnecessary.
The debate is closed.
Nevertheless, the House has the right to express itself pursuant to the Rules of Procedure. (Parliament adopted the amendment) Regarding Amendment No 44 Mr President, the original proposed amendment increases the thresholds from 10% to 25%.
The House accepts the rapporteur's position. (Parliament agreed to table the oral amendment) Regarding Amendment No 46 Mr President, here too the increase is from 10 to 20%, not 10 to 25%.
Mr President, we have exactly the same problem.
The oral amendment is part of compromise amendment AC53.
AC53 contains aspects of Amendments Nos 46 and 32.
I think it is totally unacceptable that, in the previous vote, the amendment of one of the points rendered other points null and void which had nothing to do with what was a global compromise amendment, whose aim was to make the House vote on this relatively technical problem as quickly as possible.
However, I call upon the House to decide whether to agree to your request. (Parliament agreed to table the oral amendment) Regarding Amendment No 54 Mr President, I am dreadfully sorry, but I did not invent the procedure.
Once again, I call upon the House to decide whether to put the compromise amendment to the vote. (Parliament decided not to vote on the amendment) Regarding Amendment No 48 Mr President, this again is the increase from 10% to 20%, not 25%.
Mr President, the shadow rapporteurs have reached a new compromise on this point and I should therefore like to withdraw Amendment No 76 on behalf of the Greens.
Mr President, this is the first of three documents on European Union initiatives in the field of the movement of money, insurance undertakings and banks.
In particular, this first report lays down more stringent rules for the supervision of the activities of banks and insurance undertakings.
As representative of the Pensioners' Party, I support this document because it is important that those who invest and deposit their money in banks and insurance undertakings have guarantees that their money will be well spent and will yield that fruit which is so important for many citizens, including the less well-off, which category, of course, includes pensioners.
I voted in favour of the directive without any illusions, if only to curb the ambient ultra-liberalism and because we are not in favour of making things worse in order to further our own ends, which would amount to waiting for faults in capitalism to result in a final crisis.
In spite of these reservations, I voted in favour of the directive so as not to obstruct the minimal measures therein.
Mr President, as I explained last night, I am not thrilled with the compromise reached in Feira on the taxation of savings income.
Although I decided nonetheless to vote against the report on this occasion, it was in order to register that I am, in principle, against the fact that, at Feira, we abandoned the co-existence model which would have enabled Member States to choose whether to withhold tax or to exchange information on savings income received.
I also believe that we can no longer have a situation where Member States adopt and publish a directive on this issue before ascertaining whether the same measures will be applied in dependent or associated territories, and before having concluded negotiations with third countries on the application of equivalent measures, on the understanding that withholding tax is not the same as the exchange of information.
Mr President, Mr Fernando Pérez Royo's report is on a proposal for a Council directive to ensure effective taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments within the Community.
For this directive to work effectively, it must be implemented when the third countries adopt it.
Therefore, agreement with the third countries is a sine qua non for this directive to enter into force.
For these reasons, we believe that it is essential to introduce effective savings income within the Community in the form of interest payments, which is, in other words, also provided in a number of third countries as well as in all the autonomous territories that depend on a Member State.
Therefore, the entry into force of this directive should categorically depend on the conclusion of agreements on the introduction of identical measures in the countries and territories in question.
I voted against the adoption of the report by Mr Pérez Royo on the proposal for a Council directive to ensue effective taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments within the Community.
This directive will do much to ensure that the single market is not distorted by asymmetric tax regimes and it will create a situation whereby, after a transition period of three years, Member States will exchange information on savings income received by non-residents.
We recognise, however, that production is commonly found in less-favoured areas, principally in Spain, and that much of the production is barely competitive and brings little economic return.
We realise that these views are not universally popular but believe that they should ultimately result in a higher standard of living for the people affected.
In our view, the amendments tabled represent, in general, an out-of-date agricultural policy which does not meet the conditions and needs of modern global society.
In the light of this, and with a view to the impending general review of the EU's agricultural policy, we have chosen to vote against the report in its entirety. . (EL) All the proposed amendments in the report are an improvement on the proposal for a Council regulation, which is why we shall vote in favour of them.
Our objective is a fundamental reform involving withdrawal of financial support for tobacco production.
However, the economic and social importance of tobacco in certain regions must be taken into account.
The Commission must bring forward measures to develop alternative sources of income with a greater degree of urgency than it is currently showing.
I am therefore in favour of those who want to smoke, provided they do so outdoors, in the open air, because it is their own business, and I am also in favour of doing everything possible so that those who do not want to breathe smoke-polluted air are not forced to do so.
It is unacceptable politically because it disadvantages tobacco farmers, on the pretext of protecting health, when the Commission has spent millions on products such as red meat and alcohol, which are also harmful to health.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development accepted my amendment to delete recital 5 which talks of phasing out tobacco subsidies.
In August 1967, the Commission consulted the European Parliament for its opinion on the first proposal on a regulation to establish a common organisation of the market in the tobacco sector.
There are regions where tobacco growing is a major source of income for small farmers and where changing activity, either to undertake growing other crops or to carry out other economic activities, is extremely difficult, if not impossible.
We pointed out that measures for changing activity as well as those aimed at enhancing tobacco growing in a quantitative and qualitative manner should be integrated in the regional policy and the policy for improving agricultural structures.
As it is never too late to make amends, it is justified that we support our rapporteur today in order to restrict ourselves to changing the Commission's proposals solely from a technical perspective and to postpone the in-depth political debate on the future regime on raw tobacco until 2003. (Speech shortened pursuant to Rule 137(1) of the Rules of Procedure) We are critical of Mr Cuhna's report on leaf tobacco.
In our view, the amendments tabled represent, in general, an out-of-date agricultural policy which does not meet the conditions and needs of modern global society.
In the same way, this committee could refer to the importance of the production of the raw materials for cocaine by the farmers in the poorest regions of Columbia.
About 130 000 landowners and 400 000 seasonal workers are involved in tobacco production and processing in the European Union.
These figures alone are enough to justify and provoke a study on the social and economic costs of suppressing aid to tobacco, even before we get to the political debate on this crop's future in the European Union.
In any case, restrictions on tobacco growing in Europe would have no effect on consumption except to turn European consumers towards tobaccos from outside the European Union, which are of much poorer quality and certainly more harmful to health.
Added to this is the fact that Commission document COM (2001) 264 of 15 May 2001 on sustainable development stresses that 'political leaders should determine the pros and cons for other political contexts and take them into account.
We agree with the draftsman, Mrs Redondo Jiménez, that the political debate on tobacco should be held over until Parliament has received an evaluation report on the management of the fund, with any proposed amendments and improvements.
Adjustments to the common organisation of the market in the rough tobacco industry must encourage growers to look for alternative crops.
The rapporteur, Mr Cunha does not do Europe any favours by wishing to delete this Commission comment.
This is why, together with 31 other Members of this Parliament, I have tabled an amendment whereby this report would expressly call for tobacco production subsidies to be phased out. . (PT) We are still waiting!
The specific measures in force for the outermost regions are inadequate and only cover the fields of agriculture and fisheries - a much more modest framework than the one established ten years ago when the POSEI programmes were launched and one which squanders the possibilities opened up by Article 299(2) of the Treaty establishing the European Community, and this is both incomprehensible and unacceptable.
What is needed are permanent schemes, periodically adapted and supported by sufficient overall financial provisions, not only in agriculture and fisheries but also in energy, the environment, communications, the new technologies and support for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Community system of support for the disposal of some fishery products in certain outermost regions, including the Autonomous Region of Madeira, a system established in 1992 following on from the POSEI programmes, has been subject to successive extensions and revisions.
The need to adopt specific measures for the outermost regions with Article 299(2) of the Treaty establishing the European Community as a legal base has been constantly reiterated by Parliament.
There can, therefore, be no doubt that it is appropriate to maintain instruments of support for the outermost regions, as laid down in the proposal for a Council regulation presented by the Commission.
I therefore offer my unreserved support to this proposal for a regulation, which seeks to extend the system in force by one year, until 31 December 2002, thereby ensuring the continuity of the legal framework of the system to compensate for the additional costs incurred as a result of remoteness in the marketing of certain fishery products.
The rapporteur dutifully refers to the need for scientific research, the environmental drawbacks, alternative funding, development aid and the disadvantages for the countries involved.
We are very unhappy with the fisheries agreements between the EU and third countries as we are aware that within this agreement with the Gabonese Government 40% of the money should be set aside for conservation measures.
I voted in favour of this report.
Europe must fulfil a specific role, boosting initiative and providing impetus in this area and it must not merely voice pious hopes that will not be followed up with action.
To begin with, Europe must ensure that environmental legislation is applied.
In the area of fisheries, it is essential that we provide for short- and medium-term coherent measures in order to preserve or restore biological diversity where it is at risk.
Lastly, preserving biological diversity does not mean we have to put a stop to the research effort and the development of knowledge.
It was adopted in 1991 with the aim of protecting the environment against the effects of urban waste water and biodegradable waste water discharge from the food industry.
The Member States' main duty is to put in place systems for collecting and processing waste water and to respect a pre-established timetable.
However, not only are some Member States delaying in passing on all the information required to carry out an objective assessment of this directive but, even worse, others are not communicating any information on this subject.
I therefore demand that the time the Member States take to do this should not increase, that all the information is passed onto the Commission, as stipulated in the directive which was adopted in a timely manner by the Council.
The data for the reference date in 1998 is not yet available, and it is even unknown how many infringement procedures are pending at the European Court of Justice.
To tackle this potentially harmful situation, the Council and Parliament reacted by adopting the so-called 'urban waste water treatment' directive in 1991.
It demonstrates yet again that the capitalist system is in too deep a state of crisis to respond to any measures to manage it, even the World Trade Organisation's 'rules of good conduct' for free trade and free competition.
The European Parliament resolution only skims the surface of the problem and tries to deal with it within liberalist parameters.
Europe, in particular, would do well to consider this issue if it wants, in future, to save its agricultural model.
And we will in future realise that these reinforced approaches are, as an indirect consequence, holding us prisoner on other subjects that are vital for us, such as agriculture.
That is why Europe must take firm action using the legal means provided for within the framework of the WTO, but also using all the other available means of exerting pressure at a time when the United States continues to call on other shared aims in its fight against terrorism.
The leading group in America considers its own country to be the best in the world.
I did not, however, vote for this joint resolution.
The European Union's opposition is merely a way of supporting European multinationals in a ruthless economic war.
We do not support the interests of multinationals against other interests.
The economic slowdown in the United States is having repercussions within the European Union.
These experienced people can still fulfil worthwhile tasks in our businesses.
The report stresses efforts to promote training and R&amp;D, as if, in the area of employment, spending on these could replace demands for salary increases and an overall reduction in working time.
I therefore had no reservations in voting against this mediocre and hypocritical report which should bring shame upon its authors.
From the outset, the title of this report clearly expresses its objective: to provide the EU with a harmonised taxation policy.
By inching its way along as usual, the House is making progress, admittedly, but in much the same way as a crab.
A report that clearly stated that tax policy is a matter for each nation and which recommended improved coordination between the Member States in this area would have received my vote.
Unfortunately, the European Commission has other priorities, and the Italian radical Della Vedova is a faithful supporter.
He complains about the tax burden which, since 1970, has risen, on average, from 35% to 45% and hopes that tax competition between the Member States will lead to a tax cut for companies.
Although he refers to the tax level as a domestic problem for every Member State, at the same time he pushes for companies to be able to choose their registered offices in a state where the tax burden is lowest.
The Della Vedova report on the EU's fiscal policy is an ill-assorted compilation of fiscal affirmations and claims.
If there had been doubt regarding the content of the Carnero González report - which calls on the European Union to acquire a legal personality - this was removed by yesterday's debate.
It is clear, therefore, that the aim of granting a legal personality to the European Union, as well as the Communities, is to create a competent new actor on the international stage, which will use all the opportunities provided by Article 24 of the TEU (particularly since its revision after the Nice Summit) to gradually remove from Member States the autonomy of their foreign policy.
The overwhelming message of this report is that the European Commission has neglected the fish processing sector.
The waste water directive is a prime example where the concerns of the processing sector were overlooked.
I am therefore pleased that the Committee endorsed my amendments which emphasised that the impact of legislation should be fully assessed, and specifically, that the Commission should provide support for the development for water recycling systems, such as the one recently established by a processor in my own area in the north-east of Scotland.
Processors have been hard hit by CFP management measures, from quota cuts to decommissioning, but received little or no assistance.
Mr President, we are all bound to regret the breakdown of the peace process that President Pastrana pushed forwards with so much political courage at the beginning of his mandate.
Today, Mr President, this Parliament must raise its voice once again to condemn all the murders, including the recent murder of senator Marta Catalina Daniels, all the violations of human rights in Colombia and to demand that FARC releases all the people it has kidnapped, including the Presidential candidate Ingrid Betancourt.
Our Parliament has always demonstrated its commitment to the way of peace and of dialogue to solve the conflict, but in the knowledge that dialogue must be sought by both parties and that a society cannot remain forever deaf, dumb and blind to violence.
If we study recent events in Colombia, we generally see a discouraging and tragic picture, in which the human rights situation leaves much to be desired.
Nevertheless, we are optimists and must have faith and hope in the way of negotiation and of dialogue and in respect for tolerance, in order to achieve peace in Colombia once and for all.
Perhaps it would be appropriate on this occasion to mention an illustrious European, the German naturalist, Alexander von Humboldt, who, exactly 200 years ago, travelled to that part of the world and established the bases for cooperation between peoples and the defence of human rights.
President Pastrana has dedicated his mandate almost entirely to these efforts, with a series of very generous concessions to the guerrilla organisations: he has opened negotiations, both with FARC and the ELN and yet has achieved little.
In specific terms, he has given FARC a territory the size of Switzerland, an entire enclave in which they can travel with absolute freedom, and lastly, when it still looked as though negotiations might break down, President Pastrana even extended the agreements or negotiations, in an attempt to conclude an agreement.
At the same time, FARC is continuing its extortion activities, claiming a supposed right to impose taxes on drug-trafficking organisations, which I believe has completely stripped it of any legitimacy, because an organisation that takes part in acts of gratuitous violence and which, furthermore, tries to make money out of drugs trafficking, ultimately loses any basis for legitimacy.
I do not know at the moment whether it is possible to add a little trust and calm to the situation, but I would say that the European Union has - where the problem of Colombia is concerned - the advantage of distance and, furthermore, the willingness it has always shown to help Colombia with its exports, for example, in a range of key sectors.
I shall read the words of the non-governmental human rights organisation 'Human Rights Watch': 'The human rights situation clearly deteriorated in the course of last year.
Last year's resolution also stated that the European Union should adopt a different, non-militaristic position, which supports the defence of human rights, dialogue and peace.
It is perfectly clear that, if President Pastrana leaves the door to negotiations open, then these negotiations must relate to the respect of human rights and restoring order in Colombia so that genuine democracy can finally be established in this country.
The European Union must therefore provide greater support for cooperation efforts, which will improve the human rights situation, and it must ensure that the European aid achieves its objective, in other words to assist civil society in Colombia.
Mr President, it is difficult for any of us in this House to comprehend why one human being should kill another, and yet in Colombia members of guerrilla and paramilitary groups kill each other and thousands of civilians without qualms, and in some cases with relish.
This resulted in over 400 massacres in 1999.
Sadly, for those 400 massacres committed by the government, paramilitary groups and guerrilla groups, not one person was brought to trial.
The ordinary people of Colombia live and suffer in an environment of oppression caused not only by these paramilitary and guerrilla groups, but often at the hands of a government which is either unwilling or unable to protect them.
As a body that has consistently upheld fundamental human rights and social justice, we need to do what we can to contribute towards bringing peace to a country that has been living under the horrors of civil war for over four decades.
In our individual Member States, and collectively as the European Union, we must exert whatever pressure we can to bring the government and FARC back to the negotiating table, under a real ceasefire agreement genuinely observed by all parties to the conflict.
We, as a democratically elected forum, must use our moral authority to help the people of Colombia in their struggle to bring to an end the conflict in their country.
The decision by President Pastrana is a decision to condone violence.
Unfortunately, the European Union, together with the United States, is supporting President Pastrana, meaning that it is supporting violence.
We intend to continue supporting Columbian civil society in its efforts to establish peace through regional development and peace programmes.
The debate is closed.
A few months ago, we invited President Chen Shui-bian here to award him the Liberal International Freedom Prize, but the French authorities would not give him a visa.
These 23 million people and their democratic society are excluded from international organisations.
However, its involvement must be compatible with the status of Taiwan and the EU one China policy.
We have also supported Taiwan's involvement in several international organisations, including the OECD, its involvement in the Kyoto agreement on simplified, harmonised customs procedures and its involvement in several international fisheries organisations.
The debate is closed.
This is why we must focus our political efforts not only on Zimbabwe, but also on the other countries in that region.
South Africa receives a great deal of aid from Europe but is unconcerned about the justified criticism levelled at its neighbour.
What saddens me is not just the situation in Zimbabwe itself, but the fact that numerous African Heads of State and Government and President Mugabe are indirectly providing a shield, even as they acknowledge his election victory.
It represents a new low for democracy in Zimbabwe and a disaster not just for Zimbabwe, but for the whole of Southern Africa.
Mugabe's re-election will seriously exacerbate all of these problems.
This Parliament should pay tribute to Morgan Tsvangirai, the MDC activists and all those who have had the courage to stand up to Mugabe for all this time.
I have to say it is a pity that the international community took so long to wake up to the situation in Zimbabwe and that the European Union waited until the eleventh hour before imposing targeted sanctions.
The attitude of African countries has been particularly disappointing.
We always felt that South Africa, in particular, held the key to restoring genuine democracy and the rule of law in Zimbabwe.
The international community must maintain its resolve.
Our aim must be to help restore democracy, human rights and the rule of law to Zimbabwe and assist in the process of economic progress there.
It is worrying that so many African leaders have tried to explain away what has been happening in Zimbabwe and maintained that the elections were fair.
I assume that the Foreign Ministers and the Commission will discuss Zimbabwe in Barcelona and decide upon suitable, wider sanctions and a strategy to involve the whole region.
In no way can we recognise these elections as fair.
We waited far too long before taking action against Zimbabwe.
We must not betray those who are fighting for democracy in Zimbabwe.
Mr President, as was to be expected, on 1 April, Zimbabwe's current president, Robert Mugabe, will be sworn in as Head of State for another six years.
The mere fact that many ballot stations are used as torture centres at night, where Mugabe's uninhibited militia torture and humiliate political opponents, speaks volumes.
It is completely understandable why Mugabe's main rival, opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, has rejected the election result as nothing but voter deception.
At the same time, we must consider how we can continue to bolster the constructive forces in Zimbabwe.
The European Union is planning to send a high-level troika in the near future, to discuss our misgivings about Zimbabwe with our SADC partners on the basis of our common commitment to the rule of law and democracy.
The government has now destroyed all that, and in one of the poorest countries in Europe.
We have before us a very difficult situation which could lead to developments similar to those in Belarus.
We know the means used to turn Moldova eastwards and to create problems with Romania.
We now have a situation where a Romanian diplomat has been declared persona non grata.
Mr President, I agree with the two previous speakers, Mrs Schroedter and Mrs Thors.
It is important for the European Union to devote more attention to what is already considered Europe's poorest country.
A country riddled with problems, not only political problems, but also major social problems including those involving poverty, health care and the care of seriously disadvantaged children.
I already mentioned that this debate is also an opportunity to say that the European Union should do more.
In my view, we can, above all, ask the government and all the people in Moldavia to create a situation in that country in which the international community can operate more effectively, for we are often very hampered in what we want to do there.
Finally, it is important in my opinion to urge the countries in that region to contribute to Moldova's stability and to help find a solution to the problem involving Transdniestria, for that is also a heavy burden resting on Moldova.
The European Union is currently examining how it can support OSCE efforts to improve the situation.
President Akayev, who came from a background of the Academy of Sciences, was elected in a free vote in 1991 and re-elected in 1995, has subsequently become more of an oppressive president than a democratic one.
Both parliamentary and presidential elections in 2000 sadly highlighted the flawed nature of the electoral process.
The trial was then postponed until this month.
Eighty-eight per cent of its population lives on an income of under USD 4 a day.
The European Union is providing Kyrgyzstan with financial and technical assistance in setting up ministries in the agricultural and social sectors.
What I mean to say here is that we must be careful not to be too harsh on other countries in our demands for democracy and human rights.
As I said, on the one hand, a recognition of what are surely difficult circumstances and, on the other, the difficulty in establishing a working democracy which guarantees the involvement of all sections and groups of the population.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission services are monitoring the human rights situation in Kyrgyzstan daily, including the cases of Felix Kulov and Topchubek Turgunaliev and now the more recent case of Beknazarov and his associates.
Of course, the Commission does not want to interfere in the legal affairs of a sovereign state, but the overkill on the part of the Kyrgyz authorities in the Beknazarov case is particularly worrying.
The Commission agrees with Parliament that Kyrgyzstan has put its good reputation on the line over the last two years.
A number of Tunisian human rights campaigners have been nominated for the Sacharov Prize, and we have criticised Tunisia on several occasions in this House.
The EU must address the issues of Tunisia and of human rights in the Association Agreements and in the context of cooperation.
We now believe, however, that these undertakings, which were reiterated at the Association Council session of 29 January, have been flouted by the way in which Hamma Hammami and his co-defendants are being treated by the Tunisian Government.
Hamma Hammami began a hunger strike on 26 February to protest against the conditions in which he is being detained.
It is now crucial that, a few weeks before the start of the Conference on Foreign Affairs (Barcelona V), which is being held in Valencia on 22 and 23 April, we, as Members of the European Parliament, call upon the Tunisian authorities to release Hamma Hammami and his co-defendants.
This is a first step which is essential for the respect of the rule of law in Tunisia.
We also call on the Commission to demand that the Tunis authorities comply with international law and to instruct its parliamentary delegation to raise this subject more firmly with the Tunisian Government.
There are also accusations of widespread abuses by the government against other dissident groups.
Democracy and the rule of law are attributes enjoyed until recently by few countries even in Europe.
In states such as Tunisia, it may seem an achievement merely to resist the kind of radical socialism or Islamicism that has blighted the lives of so many in the Arab world in recent decades.
I believe, however, that the EU has an important role to play in helping to provide an example for countries which want to move away from a spiral of poverty, extremism and repression.
Nor can we entirely isolate ourselves from the problems experienced by neighbouring countries such as Tunisia.
For that reason, it is right for the French Government to highlight the importance of giving aid to the Maghreb countries, many of whose citizens are settled in London, which I represent, as migrants or refugees.
The appeal trial began on Saturday 9 March before a number of foreign observers, including journalists, Western diplomats posted to Tunis, barristers from France, Switzerland and Belgium, as well as delegates from human rights organisations.
The European Union has expressed to the Tunisian authorities its concern regarding the human rights violations, but has merely hinted at the fact that these violations may compromise its Association Agreement with Tunisia, which was the first bilateral pact between the European Union and a Mediterranean country and which was signed three years ago.
Last January, Mr Romano Prodi, the President of the European Commission, met with the Tunisian authorities in Tunis whilst on an official visit to North Africa.
However, at a meeting held in June in Tunis with President Ben Ali and the Prime Minister, Mohammed Ganouch, the European Commissioner, Mr Chris Patten, paid more attention to the issue of human rights.
On 14 December 2000, the European Parliament adopted a resolution engaging the European institutions to use all the means provided for by the EU-Tunisia Association Agreement to secure respect for democratic freedoms and human rights and, whereas the EU-Tunisia Association Agreement lays down the promotion of human rights as a key element, it regrets the fact that this frank and open dialogue had not sufficed to encourage the Tunisian authorities to advance along the path of democracy and human rights.
Mr President, I ask you to ensure that this resolution be forwarded to the Council and to the Commission and to the Tunisian Government and parliament for its information, and that we stress that we will follow events closely in the run-up to 30 March.
After four years of living in hiding, the three activists decided to appear freely before the court in order to challenge their sentence in a court of law.
The trial of 2 February, as other Members have said, was a sham.
All this happened before a number of Tunisian and foreign observers and protesters.
Hamma Hammami and Abdel Jabarmadouri decided to go on hunger strike in protest at their conditions of detention and to demand that their lawyers be given the right of visit.
Parliament must demand the release of Hamma Hammami and his co-defendants, and that Article 2 of the Agreement be respected.
The Council and the Commission must use all the means provided for by the agreement in order to secure respect for democratic freedoms and human rights in Tunisia.
These human rights violations were really not necessary, not in a country like Tunisia.
I therefore take the view that the current agreement should also be used for dialogue on this issue.
I do not see this sort of agreement as a futile endeavour; on the contrary, agreements such as these with countries such as Tunisia give us the opportunity to ensure that the human rights issue is a subject of serious dialogue.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union in general and the Commission in particular condemn human rights violations in Tunisia and are monitoring the trial against Hamma Hammami and two other members of the Communist party very closely.
We welcome the postponement of the trial to 30 March to give the defence more time to prepare its case.
The EU is taking every opportunity to strengthen the human rights dialogue with Tunisia.
At the most recent meeting of the association council on 29 January this year it expressly urged the Tunisian authorities to step up their efforts towards pluralism, democracy and the rule of law.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 5.30 p.m.
The motion calls for justice and reparations for the Muslim and Tamil communities being persecuted in Sri Lanka.
If 60 000 people were killed in the developed world - that is the magnitude of the atrocities we are looking at now in Sri Lanka - then every possible means would be deployed to address the matter and bring those responsible before the courts and establish the rule of law.
This is an area where the European Union could play a meaningful role, through funding programmes to address the imbalance and further the cause of peace and reconciliation.
Our attendance at the donors' meeting in Sri Lanka, scheduled for May, is vital.
Mr President, as the European Union's Chief Election Observer during the 2000 and 2001 elections, I witnessed at first hand the terrible consequences of violence in Sri Lanka.
Their efforts deserve to be rewarded by the international community, including the European Union.
As well as providing important political and moral support the international community should provide substantial funding to underwrite the peace process.
It is much better for the international community to invest in peace now rather than having to spend money later picking up the pieces caused by continued conflict and violence.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago the SAARC delegation of the European Parliament visited Sri Lanka.
Back in Colombo, foreign observers and the local non-governmental organisations told us the war in Sri Lanka had become an institution.
Commissioner Fischler, I am pleased to say that the European Union has not been sitting on its hands.
More importantly, it should exercise political pressure so that the ceasefire and the initial peace talks, which are just tender shoots, are not just a flash in the pan, as has been the case so often in previous years, and actually come to something this time round.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the ceasefire between the Sri Lanka Government and the LTTE signed on 24 February, we hope that both sides will now be able to return to the negotiating table and broker a comprehensive peace agreement.
The Commission has assured the Government of Sri Lanka that it is prepared to join in international efforts to support a reconstruction programme if the peace process shows real progress.
EUR 4 million are to be provided for this programme next year and again in 2004.
A comprehensive peace agreement would allow us to launch a broad reconstruction programme together with other partners.
Thank you very much, Mr Fischler.
The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m.
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: (B5-0135/2002) by Mrs Rodríguez Ramos, Mrs Sornosa Martínez and Mr Berenguer Fuster, on behalf of the PSE Group, on the United States' boycott of imports of clementines from Spain; (B5-0136/2002) by Mr Jové Peres, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the United States' trade ban on Community clementines; (B5-0144/2002) by Mr Bautista Ojeda, Mr Mayol i Raynal and Mrs Auroi, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on clementines; (B5-0154/2002) by Mr García-Margallo y Marfil, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on clementines.
The debate we are holding today must result in a resolution that urges the Commission, the Council and the Spanish Government to do their job and to do it well.
The Commission must deal with the conflict without losing sight of the fact that the United States has acted unilaterally, reneging on the agreement on health and plant-health measures and on the provisions of the World Trade Organisation in general.
The President of the Council of Agriculture Ministers must, without fail, appear before this House to explain the initiatives he proposes to achieve this return to normality of citrus fruit exports and how he intends to compensate producers, since they have already been seriously affected by this situation.
Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on the joint resolution that we too have signed.
First of all, there has been a range of considerations and requests in relation to the unilateral decision of the United States to suspend imports of Spanish clementines into the US.
For this reason, the resolution states that the unilateral decision of the United States is in breach of World Trade Organisation agreements because, as stated in the resolution, restrictions to trade must be proportional to the risks, non-discriminatory, and must not be imposed without scientific proof.
Secondly, there is a series of problems or consequences that the resolution analyses in relation to the major losses suffered by producers and exporters in the current citrus fruit season and, as stated in the text of the resolution, an indication is also given of the delay that occurred in the Community's taking action.
I also wish to quote some dates given in the resolution: on 30 November, the United States suspended imports of clementines and definitively ratified this decision on 5 December and, on 14 February 2002, the Spanish Government asked the Commission for its help in this dispute and to use its power to intervene.
To conclude, there is a range of actions that the Commission has been asked to undertake: to rapidly put forward proposals to compensate those affected; secondly, to seek to resolve the dispute with the United States as quickly as possible, because we cannot start the next season with this problem unsolved since that would have extremely serious consequences; and, thirdly, in the event that a solution is not found, the United States must be called to account before the WTO.
The Commission gave a commitment to inform us rapidly and, since they have done so, I think it is only fair that we thank the Commission for everything it has done so far.
Mr President, Commissioner, due to a complaint from a customer in Maryland, who found Mediterranean fruit fly larvae in clementines, the United States took harsh unilateral measures with regard to Spain.
But the problem exists and Morocco is also currently experiencing the same problem for the same reasons.
The attitude of the United States towards clementines is the same as it is towards steel products, as my fellow Members have already said.
The United States cannot carry on closing their borders when faced with the urgency of the elections or ignore the WTO agreements when the European Union poses them problems.
Therefore, as recommended by the resolution, I call on the Commission to instigate proceedings at the WTO against the United States if an immediate solution to the situation is not found.
Next, the Commission must present proposals to compensate the people affected, until the conflict is resolved.
Lastly, the Council should inform us, through its President-in-Office of the Council, of the latest initiatives that it is taking to resolve this conflict.
The issue of clementines is not an isolated incident, but is one link in a chain of tensions that exists in trade relations between the United States and the European Union.
On 14 February, Spain also officially asked the Commission to check if the import ban was compatible with the WTO agreement and, if necessary, to file an objection in Geneva.
Nonetheless, the Commission takes the view that a negotiated solution which takes proper account of both sides' interests would be best.
