Illegal bird hunting in Malta (debate) The next item is the oral question (Ο-0013/2007) by Marcin Libicki, on behalf of the Committee on Petitions, to the Commission on illegal bird hunting in Malta (Β6-0015/2007).
Article 9 of the directive makes provision for the facility for derogation on the part of the Member States.
Nonetheless, according to information passed to the Commission by the Maltese authorities, the derogation in question does not appear to comply with the preconditions laid down in the Birds Directive.
For these reasons, the Commission came to the conclusion that the derogation for 2004 was in breach of Articles 7 and 9 of the Birds Directive.
Nonetheless, the Commission knows that Malta allowed spring hunting during the following years also, in other words in 2005 and 2006, and it would appear that it allowed it during this year, in 2007.
The continuation of spring hunting in all these years, in breach of legislation, constitutes a systematic case of poor application of the Birds Directive.
For this reason, in order to extend the subject of the current infringement proceedings, we intend to send the Maltese authorities a supplementary warning letter about what is now standard practice on the part of the Maltese authorities over the years since 2004.
The Commission decision is expected to be taken at its meeting on 21 March.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (MT) I would like to begin by reminding everybody present in this House, and in particular the Commissioner, that, during the negotiations between Malta and the European Union, the European Commission recognised in writing that, following accession to the European Union, Malta would make use of a derogation to allow spring hunting.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Commissioner, as a Belgian Socialist Member of the European Parliament, taking part in this evening's debate means a great deal to me, not least because this debate is being held in response to a petition by the Belgian Royal Association for the Protection of Birds, which collected more than 20 000 signatures on the subject of the bird hunt on Malta.
After all, what is the use of European countries investing money and energy in protective measures in the framework of the Habitat and Bird Directive if those self-same birds are shot dead on their journey in other countries?
Moreover, Mr Libicki's report of June 2006 of the inquiry task force of the Committee on Petitions denounces the way in which migratory birds are hunted down on a large scale, and concludes that the derogation from the Bird Directive, which Malta decided on off its own bat, should lapse.
I therefore say, let us fight illegal hunting in the European Union by all means, but let us fight it in the whole of the European Union and not just pick on Malta.
The Maltese Government, I repeat, has misled the people.
Ultimately, however, if these minutes are not published, then those who have been misleading people will continue to do so. (MT) Undoubtedly, even now, the Commission is clearly stating that there is a breach of European law.
There are no secret agreements and I am certain that the honourable members know this full well, because they have been in the European Parliament for two years now.
The visit by the members of the Committee on Petitions to Malta in May 2006 was fruitful and the report on the visit confirms that, in this instance, the Commission and the European Parliament are of the same opinion.
The Commission used the infringement procedure because the Maltese authorities are still allowing spring hunting, in breach of Community legislation.
Malta is clearly behaving in breach.
It started with the derogation in the 2004 hunting season and continued in subsequent years and, to all appearances, it is continuing this year.
That is why we intend - as I said earlier - to extend the existing infringement proceedings pending for the 2004 case to the general infringing practices of Malta.
In this way, we shall be in a position to address and prevent future infringements; this will happen at the Commission meeting on 21 March.
The application for an injunction would have been dead letter, given that it would have only referred to the infringement in 2004.
It is for precisely this reason - from a legal point of view and in order to prevent future infringements - that we felt it advisable that the current proceedings should be extended at the Commission meeting on 21 March.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12.30 p.m.
