Situation in Georgia (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Georgia.
The monitoring mechanism has used this to reduce tensions between the parties following the incidents in the Black Sea and to resolve an incident at South Ossetia's administrative border in which 21 Georgian citizens were detained and then later released.
The monitoring mission will continue to work with the parties involved.
The implementation of the post-conflict assistance package is proceeding well and the living conditions of many have already been improved.
As you know, the European Union played a major role in bringing an end to the hostilities, and will continue to work for a durable solution.
The internal development of the region and the evolution of the international context underpin this decision to seek dialogue and further increase Europe's responsibility in the various areas in which it has made commitments: the Commission's initiatives in support of the democratic process in Georgia and in support of the refugees, efforts to keep the Geneva talks alive and the activities of the European monitoring mission, this last all the more valuable and vital since it is currently the only international mission in Georgia.
We are lecturing President Saakashvili on the changes which he has to introduce in his country.
I am not saying that everything in Georgia is ideal.
I want to appeal to the European Union to defend the territorial integrity of Georgia firmly and resolutely in the name of values which we all share, and to defend freedom and democracy in Georgia against Russian aggression. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, in my opinion, the EU's foreign policy in this region is not really coherent.
Ladies and gentlemen in Europe, do not waver around the next war in this way. (HU) I would like to thank Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner and especially Cecilia Malmström, who is currently among us as a minister but is soon to be a commissioner as well.
I would also like first to briefly express my sincere thanks for the report, which contained some very important information.
Finally, I would like to thank Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner for all the efforts she has made to bring this region closer to the European Union. (CS) The European Parliament is monitoring the situation in Georgia closely and devoting much attention to the country.
However, time has shown that Europe is closely linked to these countries in the Black Sea region.
Georgia is of particular strategic importance in the Black Sea region for energy security, as supply routes such as the Nabucco gas pipeline, the Baku-Tbilisi oil pipeline and the oil terminal at Supsa are closely linked to the stability of this country.
The conflicts which took place in Georgia in August 2008 highlighted that any unresolved conflict can reignite at any time, with severe repercussions for the entire region's stability and security.
Romania has been involved as part of the EU monitoring mission in Georgia, both at operational level and on the ground, also as part of the headquarters in Tbilisi.
I must also mention that none of the five presidential candidates rejected completely the idea of reunification with Georgia. (EL) Mr President, the European Union has a responsibility to make a decisive contribution to stability in its immediate neighbourhood, with respect for international law and belief in its principles.
The six-point agreement is not being implemented.
Our mission to Georgia is not being permitted to carry out its work in many places, and it is we who are responsible for this.
Nonetheless, I agree that the European Union must be resolute in the matter of enforcing the six-point ceasefire plan negotiated by President Sarkozy.
The youngest is barely 14 years old.
Mr President, we must act more decisively, because a territorially intact and democratic Georgia means greater security for the European Union and Europe. (ET) Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, some time ago, when we were discussing Georgia, I reminded you that, on the eve of the anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, it was the right time to raise the question of when we could mark the day when South Ossetia and Abkhazia would once again be united with their mother country, Georgia.
Today, we do not have an answer to this question, although in all our documents, whether in this European Parliament or in other institutions, we stress the importance of Georgia's territorial integrity from the point of view of international law, and it is for the sake of this that we are all standing here.
Considering the importance of Georgia, I wonder whether Georgia was discussed during the recent EU-Russia Summit, because Russia is not implementing the six-point agreement and the EU mission is in the embarrassing situation of not being allowed into the separatist territories.
I would like to put a rhetorical question to Mrs Ferrero-Waldner: do you not wonder why almost all the speakers have drawn attention to the matter of the Sarkozy Plan?
In relation to this, I do not imagine that, during the talks which the European Union holds with Russia, nothing at all is said about the situation in Georgia.
Georgia is the country with the highest support from society for membership of the European Union, and the highest support for NATO, of all the Eastern Partnership countries.
The EU will continue to provide considerable political, technical and financial support to Georgia.
In the meeting with our Russian dialogue partners, the EU will continue to emphasise that it is necessary to implement the six-point cease-fire agreement and the subsequent implementing measures - the withdrawal of forces to the positions held on 7 August 2008.
Perevi, Akhalgori and Upper Kodori will be mentioned in particular, just as many of you have done.
It is important for Georgia's security and stability.
The EU will, of course, continue to support Georgia's territorial integrity, but we also have a strategic interest in maintaining contact with the breakaway regions and in keeping open a window to the outside world for the populations of these separatist areas.
The EU will continue to be very active in this matter.
The EUR 500 million package was the biggest package I could bring through.
The very fact that this report has been publicised is a very important one.
There, we also discussed all the possibilities, but would you really think that we can give everything to every country without them doing their part?
We cannot just ask them to come into the European Union if the Council is not unanimous on it.
