The European Union applies to its common fisheries policy the fundamental principle of responsible fishing and the conservation of resources, which are essential conditions for everyone, for the Moroccans, for the Europeans and for the non-Europeans who fish in Morocco.
From this rostrum and with the weight of representing European democracy on our shoulders, I call for good sense and wisdom from both parties, who will meet in Brussels on 30 October at the highest level - the European Fisheries Commissioner and the Moroccan Minister for Fisheries if, as I hope, his attendance in Brussels is confirmed, and the technical delegations, with the Moroccan Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of Morocco, if this too is confirmed, with the Director-General for Fisheries of the European Union as chair - so that serious dialogue may take place and solutions be found.
It is now appropriate for us to initiate a new phase in our relations with Morocco, in a spirit which is best exemplified by our practical proposals concerning the aid that can be given to encourage growth and development in the Moroccan fishing industry, in line with the priorities set by the Moroccan Government in its five-year plan.
All the efforts we have achieved over the last few months whenever the parties concerned have had meetings at a technical or political level, have essentially focused on outlining a new partnership in the fishing industry, a partnership which must be well-balanced and to our mutual advantage.
Consequently, we have reached a consensus to work together with a view to achieving a responsible partnership, and Morocco will give its views at a meeting to be held, as you have already pointed out, in Brussels, on 30 October, that is, on Monday.
A Moroccan delegation will present its position in Brussels on 30 October.
I, however, believe that if this really were the case, this difficult matter of the Fisheries Agreement with Morocco would have been addressed from the start with a global approach, involving all the Commissioners.
In any case, the aid will end on 31 December, the date planned for the conversion of the fleet.
Eleven months after the expiry of the previous agreement, nobody is assuring us that we will reach an agreement before 31 December.
Mr Busquin, I have sometimes, as a member of this Parliament, had the feeling that the European Commission, the Commissioner, and in particular the Director-General for Fisheries were acting as if they were ashamed of the sector and even of those Member States that they were called upon to represent in this negotiation.
And it fits in even less with a European Union that feels able to negotiate the accession of 13 new Member States.
The European Union wants to continue its association with Morocco in the field of fisheries because we are convinced that a cooperation to the advantage of both parties is possible, for the same reasons that make the European Union the largest investor in Morocco.
The first, the second and the third.
Mr President, Commissioner, the fisheries agreements play a very important role in the fisheries sector.
By means of the fisheries agreements, the European Union is able to engage in fishing operations and exchange fishing rights with third countries.
The negotiations concerning a new agreement between the EU and Morocco have made slow progress.
Commissioner Fischler has stated that this monologue cannot continue.
The fishermen in particular cannot be blamed for not understanding the situation and for being very disappointed about the fact that the negotiations concerning the Morocco agreement have dragged on.
But while we have plenty of vessels that cannot find fish in European waters, or even in areas where they have traditionally fished, at the same time we have some businessmen, or even business conglomerates, in northern European countries that are building enormous new vessels, which will be forced to depend on fishing far away from Europe.
We will support the resolution, but we have to make it clear that nobody has any given right to exploit the resources of another country if it does not so wish.
Mr President, I think it would be constructive if a new fisheries agreement with Morocco could be concluded, but I nonetheless think that there are major weaknesses in the text of the Resolution which is now being proposed.
This especially applies to paragraphs 3 and 4, in which it is assumed as a matter of course that the EU should be allowed - in fact, be almost entitled - to fish in Moroccan waters.
El Aaiún is not, however, situated in Morocco but in Western Sahara, which is occupied by Morocco.
Furthermore, when we complain day after day about the fact that negotiations seem to be falling by the wayside, both the existing agreements and new ones, and the lack of interest that both the Commission and sections of the Council seem to be displaying - and here we have the recent cases of Angola, Cape Verde and Kiribati -, it is quite simply suicidal to block a path which is a solid base for the fisheries activities of the Community fleet, and could be even more so in the future.
We are therefore defending the responsibility that lies with us in the bilateral agreements and in private agreements, where the activity of the fleet is regulated - and will be even more so in future - by regional fisheries organisations such as ICCAT, NAFO and Camelar.
I believe that this fact should be noted and made clear and doubts raised as to whether the Commission is capable of negotiating international agreements, especially having heard President Prodi request an international remit for the Commission.
However, after a wasted year, and at a time when we are trying to put budgetary appropriations that were earmarked for the agreement under other headings, I must also express my deep suspicion about the Commission's commitment to protecting the legitimate interests of the shipowners and fishermen affected, and state my scepticism about the real will of the Union and of many Member States, amongst them Spain, to negotiate the agreement in the "general field of political and economic relations between Morocco and the European Union" as we propose in the resolution.
The proposed resolution will not lead to the restoration of fishing rights, but, at best, to Spain and Portugal having a more solid claim to compensation subsidies.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union has had fishing agreements with Morocco since 1992.
Under this agreement, around 500 boats from the European Union, 50 of which are Portuguese, have had access to Moroccan waters at an annual cost of around EUR 125 million.
Firstly, it must be emphasised that the fishing agreement with Morocco is by far the European Union' s most important agreement, representing more than 30% of all catches by the Community fleet in third-country waters.
I say in the European Union and not just in two of its constituent parts, as some Members have insinuated: European solidarity must be more than empty words or just a one-dimensional idea that simply evaporates when the problems happen to be concentrated chiefly in Portugal and Spain...
Unfortunately, the Commission was not able to reach new agreements in the negotiations with Morocco held before the expiry of the fisheries agreement on 30 November 1999.
The Union must prepare a programme for conversion of activities carried out by the operators affected, in order to give them a stable future.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am not going to repeat what has been said this morning in this plenary sitting and has been being said for almost a year.
Spain has done a magnificent job in turning round the difficult neighbourly relations which Europe and North Africa and Spain and Morocco have suffered during the course of history.
It reminded me of scenes from our history and from my childhood, when Konrad Adenauer and Charles De Gaulle drove through German towns in exactly the same way, demonstrating that the problems between the two neighbours had been overcome and that France and Germany would together form the core of European integration.
The Spanish and Portuguese fishermen deserve our undivided support.
Mr President, the tender fruit negotiation will be opened up in three days' time, and we will then know if it is ripe or green, or sufficiently ripe for us all to feel calm and for both the parties concerned, the European Union and Morocco, to start sounding out methods of cooperation and agreements in a manner that is flexible, Commissioner, but also serious and rigorous, so that the Community fishing fleet may recommence its activities in those waters.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would simply like to add that there are clearly agreements between the two parties to establish a timetable for negotiations and that Morocco has spent months preparing its five-year plan.
He had gained a favourable impression from his meeting, which augurs well for the negotiations, due to start on 30 October, being conducted in a constructive spirit.
I think we must therefore wait for the results of the meetings of 30 October.
It is therefore too soon to broach this issue.
I am very familiar with the problems of Spanish and Portuguese fishermen, problems which are shared by fishermen in Sicily.
Let us name names, to coin a phrase: it is about the case of the Union citizens Allué and Coonan versus the University of Venice, it is about the case of the Union citizen Allué again versus the University of Venice and it is about the case of the Union citizen David Petri versus the University of Verona.
The amendments made to the law in its wake in 1995 are still unable to guarantee full protection of the rights of lettori lecturing in universities.
Apart from the fact that this was not discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we would be maintaining here that the legal basis in Italian law corresponds to the principles of the Treaty and yet the Court of Justice said exactly the opposite!
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the case of non-Italian foreign language assistants in Italian universities is well known in the Commission and in most European institutions.
More particularly, following the decisions of the Court of Justice of 1989 and 1993 - the Allué case - which ruled that the limitations on the duration of employment contracts of foreign-language assistants imposed by the Italian government were discriminatory, the Commission took a number of steps.
It initiated an infringement procedure, which was dropped in 1995 following an Italian law bringing the legislation into line with the Court ruling.
In July 1999, the Commission brought this infringement procedure before the Court of Justice.
It is now waiting for the Court to rule on this new infringement and on this new procedure, which was initiated by the Commission.
It is intolerable for European citizens to have some sort of privileged access in a State other than their own and not to have to undergo the same tests and bear the same burdens as the citizens of that country, in the case in the point the citizens of Italy.
Mr President, I rise to give my voice to this injustice that we have heard about, an injustice, as we have also heard, that has been going on now for 12 years.
But I have to say we are looking at this Commission: the President of this Commission is fully aware of this case, is fully aware of the facts, and yet nothing has been done to resolve it.
In the last eleven years we have seen three European Court of Justice judgments in favour of the lettori.
On 13 September this year the European Ombudsman sustained a complaint by them and a number of individual cases have been upheld in the Italian courts.
If in this Parliament we genuinely believe in a citizen's Europe, we must strive to secure one.
Nobody disputes that the Italian Republic is fully within its entitlement, in 1995 or at any other time, to say for the future we will not hire people as lettori, we will bring in people for a new kind of appointment.
By coincidence, this very afternoon I am off to Italy, a country that I love so much, to lecture about the benefits of the Mediterranean diet, which has been exported so successfully to the rest of the world, and therefore it saddens me all the more to make this speech criticising its government and its rules in this area.
After the Italian universities had responded by saying that the judgment did not specifically require them to offer open-ended contracts, a second judgment of the Court in 1993 spelt out clearly that the length of the contracts could not be fixed.
In the instance of my motion on the royal family this was even described by the Liberal rapporteur in this House on human rights as an exotic motion of no interest.
These issues are vital to uphold European freedom and in my view there is no national issue of vital interest to the security of the Italian State which is being threatened by either the royal family or the Italian foreign lecturers.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this question, which goes beyond Italy, is a highly interesting and most important debate.
Italy then adopted a new text in 1996 eliminating the discriminatory elements that existed before.
But there is a second aspect to the problem: the question of acquired rights.
In this context, it can no longer be a question of discrimination.
The debate is closed.
Motion for a resolution (B5-0824/2000) on the rights of language teachers: maintenance of the rule of law After the vote on recital H: Mr President, I hereby suggest that we insert the word "unconvincingly" between "government" and "claims" in this amendment.
As there are no objections to this oral amendment, we shall vote on it. (Parliament adopted the motion for a resolution) Explanations of vote Mr President, I will not excuse the Italian government or the Italian courts for condemning many pensioners to a low pension, but in this case I voted against the report because I consider the judgments of the Court of Justice to be erroneous.
Mr President, I have a great deal of sympathy for language teachers in Italy who do not have Italian nationality.
