Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the adoption of the first two railway packages in 2001 and 2004 and before the adoption of the third railway package on 13 December 2006, the Commission proposed a new set of legislative measures on cross-acceptance of rolling stock, particularly locomotives.
The Commission had two objectives in mind when it drew up these proposals.
This principle is that rolling stock which has already been granted authorisation for placing in service in one Member State will not require any further certification in another Member State beyond that required by additional national regulations arising out of the characteristics of the local network, for instance.
We have made a number of amendments to technical issues in the new interoperability directive in light of experience gained during ten years of work not only by the Commission but also by the Member States in relation to comitology, by industry and the sector and, as of 2005, by the European Railway Agency.
While making these amendments, we also clarified a number of other points in the Regulation on the basis of past experience, particularly in relation to the introduction of the ERTMS (European Rail Traffic Management System) and registers of rolling stock.
rapporteur. - (IT) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, even though we are compelled to hold a 'technical' debate, as the Commission Vice-President has said, we are taking a major political step forward today.
Major progress has been achieved in almost all respects, yet the railway sector lags behind somewhat.
We quite rightly saw fit to separate out safety from everything else by creating 25 European agencies.
I now wonder, given that these agencies are not yet operational, whether it might not be worth considering whether to have one single European Agency working through 25 offshoots in the different countries.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my Group, I would like to thank both rapporteurs very warmly for their good and constructive cooperation.
The work on interoperability urgently needed to be completed as we must first Europeanise rail transport and then improve convenience and logistics, bearing in mind that we also now have a new text on dedicated routes that will make interoperability even more essential.
I wish, of course, to offer my warmest thanks to our rapporteurs, Paolo Costa and Josu Ortuondo Larrea, for their splendid work, especially since this seems to satisfy all our political groups and it would seem, I hope, that we are heading for an agreement with the Council at first reading.
Second observation: I am also extremely glad that a number of principles, rather technical a priori but nevertheless very important in this case, have been adopted in relation to approval; particularly cross-acceptance of rolling stock except in the event of specific characteristics of the local network, the obligation for the national authorities to demonstrate the actual safety risks, and the role of the Agency in the compilation and classification of national rules for clarification purposes.
Items of rolling stock authorised to be placed into service in a given Member State must be covered by this authorisation in other Member States, if indeed the latter require such authorisation.
It is thanks to the persistence of all the groups in this House that a viable compromise has been reached and that Josu Ortuondo Larrea's report can now be adopted by consensus at first reading by the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
There were good agreements between national railway companies, which organised train connections together over long distances, together with the Compagnie Internationale des Wagons Lits.
Have a nice day, Mr President, but first cure the tunnel vision. (IT) Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, with a view to achieving interoperable railway networks and ensuring a high level of sustainable mobility for our citizens, as well as efficient connections between EU regions, we should undoubtedly welcome the simplification of the current regulatory framework sought by the Costa and Ortuondo Larrea reports.
For this reason among others, I believe that the responsibilities of railway companies and owners should be more clearly defined with respect to safety, and also as concerns compliance with social standards and standards of service to users. (ES) Mr President, Commissioner Barrot, ladies and gentlemen, I firstly want to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work on the various reports which represent another step towards the integration of the European railways.
Either the EU implements a European railway market based on competition of 'everyone against everyone else' and the dismembering of national railway companies in the vague hope of retaining the proper safety levels - this is what the Commission's proposals mean - or we make arrangements for cooperation between all the Member State rail companies to implement a network throughout the EU to transport passengers and freight at high speed in all safety.
Interoperability is the magic word which describes what we want and what we must achieve if we are genuinely to have a functioning railway system in Europe.
What we want, and what we hope to achieve, is that many of the tasks which have been transferred to the European Railway Agency in this context will be carried out by that Agency as quickly and purposefully as possible.
Thus, Mr President, if this agreement is confirmed, we will be sending out a firm political signal to industry and the national safety authorities.
On this rather technical issue, any amendments envisaged must comply with the legislation already in force, particularly the Safety Directive, but also the Technical Specification of Interoperability for wagons that entered into force on 31 January 2007 and the decision on the national vehicle register that entered into force on 9 November 2007.
That is why Amendment 21 does not meet with the approval of the Commission.
The same is true, Mr President, with Amendments 3 to 7, 10, 14, 17 and 22, essentially for purely technical or judicial reasons.
The other amendments are acceptable as they are, either in part or in principle, with the exception of three.
Secondly, we do not accept Amendment 6 for reasons of coherence with the corresponding article in the Railway Safety Directive.
The railways' market share, following a decline since 1970 in most of the Member States, has now stabilised and is in fact growing.
I am therefore extremely pleased with the agreement on the interoperability directive, and the Commission will do all it can to bring about a rapid agreement on the other two aspects of these measures.
Thus I feel that 2007 will be a good year for rail transport, and this also makes it a good year for the fight against global warming, in which we know rail transport may be particularly useful.
Since two trains cannot pull onto the same station platform simultaneously, we shall vote on the Costa report tomorrow and the Ortuondo Larrea report on Tuesday 11 December in Strasbourg.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The Commission's proposal to improve legislation in the field of interoperability is welcomed, taking into consideration the need to improve the rail transport system in the European Union.
TENs are already designed on the principle of interoperability and, therefore, investments should focus on the normal railways and on all categories of rolling stock, in order to make them reach the European common standards in the future.
in writing. - (RO) The national railway safety rules imposed by the Member States are essential for the railway systems to meet safety requirements and for their interoperability.
Romania has to invest in the development of railway transport.
The first set of projects regarding the common safety objectives for railways, which aims at improving performances in the field of railway system safety in the Member States, will be adopted by the Commission by 30 April 2009 and the second set of projects, by 30 April 2011.
