author. - Mr President, I rise here today to ask this oral question on behalf not only of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development but also of the Animal Welfare Intergroup, because I believe that we have a very strong agriculture in the European Union.
We can argue whether this is sufficient or not, but the main thing at the moment is to check this legislation and be absolutely sure that Member States are complying with it, because we know, for instance, that there are problems in some Member States between national governments putting the legislation in place and the regional governments having to implement it.
My final points are on the oral question itself and that the Animal Transport Regulation has been in force since 2007.
The Commission is assessing the implementation of EU law based on reports provided by the Member States under existing EU regulations.
The information contained in these reports is combined with the results of on-the-spot checks performed by veterinary experts in the Member States.
Most Member States have already submitted reports on animal transportation in 2007 to the Commission.
However, Regulation (EC) No 1/2005 does not require the Commission to produce a report on progress with enforcing the regulation in the Member States.
In addition, a complete transport ban was introduced on certain animals such as calves under 10 days old and lambs less than one week old.
This practice has to be stopped and strict adherence to the regulation must be observed in all Member States.
I would ask you, therefore, to take these considerations into account in the proposed changes to the regulation upon which the Commission is working.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to say that I am a little disappointed that after four years, we still have not seen a proposal from the Commission as to how we can tighten up the legislation on animal transport.
This is something I would very much like to know.
It is important to ensure that we actually restrict the transport time for slaughter animals to eight hours.
We will probably continue to transport breeding animals over long distances and, in this connection, Parliament has, of course, proposed a pilot project for rest stations, where the animals have to rest after 24 hours.
I would like to know how this rest station project is progressing.
In my opinion, the appropriate solution, and one which was first proposed a long time ago, would be to limit to the travel time for animals to eight hours, and the total time that animals spend in transit and at the slaughterhouse to twelve hours.
Yet the conditions for the animals did not improve and we were instead told, at that point, that the monitoring would work from now on, that GPS systems would be introduced from now on, that the drivers would be trained from now on and that the lorries would work better from now on.
As regards the other 22 countries, how many checks have they carried out?
Then Mr Kyprianou promised us that he would come back here before the end of his mandate if it was necessary - it is necessary - and if there is public opinion - and there is public opinion!
We need to revisit the conditions for animals during transport.
I do not understand how we are to be able to conduct an election campaign if we do not at least have a proposal from the Commission that demonstrates that we will now - finally - improve conditions for animals.
A Swedish study established just how many animals in total were transported across the borders within the EU.
This was when the EU comprised 15 Member States.
You can only imagine what the figures will be with 27 Member States.
I would also like to ask Mr Špidla a couple of questions.
One of the biggest problems that we have, particularly in the United Kingdom, is the monstrously stupid avalanche of rules and regulations that came to slaughterhouses 10 years ago which managed to close over 1 000 abattoirs in the United Kingdom and gave rise to much longer journey times for animals.
I have to say that we have to get to a point of getting rid of this obsession of cutting off our nose to spite our face. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is another subject on which the discussion very quickly reveals that strong emotions are involved, on the one hand, but also stark realities on the other.
The second circumstance that causes major problems is the following.
When farmers transport their own calves, they can do so for up to 50 km.
So, then, farmers are permitted to transport their own animals for 50 km but face problems if they take a neighbour's animal along.
If farmers transport a horse for leisure purposes, there is no problem, and this Regulation does not apply, but if they transport it to market, the Regulation does apply, and they must meet the requirements.
On the other hand, it must not be forgotten that the price to pay for the implementation of the demanding and financially costly rules in force are problems that distort competition and have a strong impact on the rural development of some regions of the European Union.
I think, therefore, that the Commission should respond to these questions as quickly, objectively and fully as possible. (SL) A large amount of live animal transport passes through Slovenia, mainly originating in Eastern Europe and destined for Italy.
Bearing in mind the disastrous situation as regards the transportation of animals over long distances on European roads, the review of the 2005 Regulation should be used as an opportunity to raise standards in animal welfare.
However, we need, first of all, to know that it is being implemented, because we care about how animals are moved around the European Union.
That would be in the interests of animal welfare and of human health. (PL) Mr President, Commissioner, the problem of animal transports is very important and it is a good thing that Parliament is addressing the issue again.
I would like to take this opportunity to say that horses can understand humans.
That is why I am obliged to all the MEPs who are also able to approach this problem from the point of view of what is good, to view it as an issue involving a living creature, and to view it with a certain amount of humanity. (NL) Mr President, we are once again discussing the transport of animals in this House, and we will once again reach a two-fold conclusion.
Finally, young animals, particularly puppies, for example, are now being ferried across the whole of Europe without there being any legislation in place.
I would therefore like to urge the European Commission to look into this.
Mr President, it gives me pleasure to speak on this most important debate this morning and I would emphasise how very important to the North West of England the transportation of live animals is.
I was a national Member of Parliament for 18 years.
According to the statistics, approximately 235 million animals have been used in experiments throughout the whole of Europe during this period, with more than 12 million being killed every year in the laboratories of the European Union.
As we know, the quality of the meat depends on the way the animals are treated during breeding and during transport.
We should assess the situation in specific Member States.
The citizens of the European Union are very sensitive.... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, I shall be very brief because I am the author of this question.
Also, is the Commission going to bring forward a report on the Regulation in the future?
This indicates that during the course of civilisation, it has begun to be understood that there is a greater affinity between human beings and animals than between human beings and objects.
In my opinion, the development of civilisation has led us to understand that animals are not objects, that they are living beings which have intrinsic rights and we have expressed this view in our laws.
A whole series of questions have been asked and we are, of course, ready to respond to individual MEPs in more detail over the questions I do not touch on now.
One of the questions concerned the countries which have not submitted reports and I have mentioned these in my introductory speech.
The annual reports are studied by the Commission's own experts and, at the same time, they are supplemented with the findings obtained by Commission officials on the ground, thus creating a basis for further comments on compliance with the terms of the regulation and for further ideas on the development of the EU's legal and organisational system in this area.
Currently, there are two infraction proceedings under way and two or three claims have been made against Andalusia or rather Spain.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like once more to thank you for a debate which has been comprehensive and which has shown clearly that the positions of the Commission and of the Parliament are very close.
Written statement (Rule 142) in writing. - Mr President, once again it seems the laws we pass here are not being implemented across all Member States.
The Animal Transport Regulation has been in force for 2 years now, yet there are still massive breaches of animal rights, particularly in the transportation and slaughter of horses.
I would ask the Commission what they are doing to ensure that horses are slaughtered in their countries of origin, without having to undergo long and distressing journeys to consuming countries.
Mr President, for the welfare of these horses, all the efforts we have made here in this Parliament for the rights of transported animals must not continue to be ignored.
