author. - (ES) Mr President, as I was saying, according to the Campaign for Human Rights, Peace and Democracy in Burma, on 12 March, the oldest Burmese political prisoner spent her 78th birthday in solitary confinement at Insein prison.
This is U Win Tin, an eminent journalist and leader of the National League for Democracy.
U Win Tin is the oldest prisoner of conscience in Burma.
She was sentenced to three terms of 21 years imprisonment.
U Win Tin has refused to renounce her political ideals in exchange for her freedom.
She was taken into hospital for a second hernia operation in January 2008.
Obviously, in this resolution, we also want to express our condemnation of the extension of Daw Aung San Suu Kyi's house arrest.
An example, of course, is the Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi, who led the National League for Democracy to victory in elections held 18 years ago and has spent 12 years in detention - and recently the junta decided to further extend the period of her house arrest.
author. - (PL) Mr President, I believe that the attitude of a country towards international offers of aid at times of disasters and natural catastrophes shows what kind of country we are dealing with.
In September 2007, after the Buddhist monks' protests had been brutally crushed, a news embargo was imposed.
The house arrest in which Aung San Suu Kyi has been living for decades must be lifted.
There is a need to increase pressure on China too, which is probably the only remaining supporter of Burma.
author. - (PL) Mr President, here in Strasbourg we have considered the situation in Burma on Thursday afternoons almost every month in recent times.
They speak of the imprisonment of parliamentarians, assassinations, terrible conditions in prisons for political prisoners and a catastrophic situation for civilisation in that country.
The immediate release of Aung San Suu Kyi would be a start for talks with the authorities in Burma on democracy and improvements in the human rights situation in that country.
We demand their immediate release; we demand that human rights be respected in Burma.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, a year has not yet passed and this is the third time that we have debated the situation in Burma.
Unfortunately, the debates and the resolutions that were passed have not changed the political and social situation in that country, where, since 1962, the army has held to power in one of the most infamous political regimes in the world.
The Secretary General of the League for Democracy has spent thirteen of the last eighteen years as a political prisoner under house arrest and, recently, 1 900 people were arrested - and are living in conditions that breach human rights - for expressing the desire to have democracy in Burma, or even for asking for humanitarian aid, which was needed after the passage of the cyclone.
The General Secretary of the National League for Democracy has spent the last 13 years under house arrest.
Strengthening existing economic sanctions and controls over the junta's access to EU aid, as well as increased political pressure from ASEAN, will certainly improve the chances of stabilising the situation in Burma. (SK) I agree with the Members who spoke before me that the European Parliament must adopt an uncompromising attitude towards a country in which the totalitarian arrogance of power knows no boundaries.
Since we know for certain that human rights in Burma are being continuously violated, the EU must support the democratic forces in that country and demand the release of all political prisoners. (ET) Ladies and gentlemen, today, on the 63rd birthday of the Burmese human rights and democracy campaigner Aung San Suu Kyi, we should pay special attention to what is happening in Burma.
The military regime is becoming more aggressive as regards political prisoners.
The Commission's response to the cyclone was quick and substantial: we have approved EUR 17 million in humanitarian aid, including EUR 5 million in food aid.
My colleague, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, has said publicly that the Government has missed a chance to send a signal of reconciliation at a moment of national distress when the Government again extended the house arrest of Aung San Suu Kyi.
