These regulations concern and affect the activity of more than 800 000 transport operators in Europe, as well as some 4.5 m jobs.
To answer Mrs Ţicău's question, I just wanted to say that in its session on 13 June 2008 the Council reached a political agreement on the three proposals in the road transport package.
The European Parliament adopted the reports on this package at First Reading during the session on 20 May.
There are 4.5 million employees and also nearly 800 000 businesses involved here.
This is therefore a very important matter and we are hoping that the Council's political agreement will give us the time necessary for its Second Reading.
There have been many discussions within the Parliament framework.
That is where we are at, and we will have a better picture after the European Council on 15 October, when the orientations will be defined.
Mr Ryan, the question you raise is important because it concerns the effectiveness of development aid.
It is important to maintain a significant volume of development aid, and I will come back to that, but you are quite right to point out in your question that this aid must be effective.
I would like to reiterate what I said earlier.
I do not know whether Transparency International's figures are accurate, as you yourself acknowledged, but in any case the point you made was correct.
Agriculture ministers are discussing this - in fact they may even still be discussing it today - at the informal meeting in Annecy and will report back to the 'Agriculture' Council on 17 and 18 November.
On 15 July the Council adopted a series of emergency measures to encourage the restructuring of the fleets that have been hit hardest by the crisis.
The European Council will examine this in October and December, and of course I will be delighted to take on the task of informing you of the results. (GA) Mr President, thank you for your response.
I would like to inquire of the President-in-Office of the Council if he believes that it is more important than ever that Europe's agricultural policy, that is Europe's policy on food supply, continues after 2013 due to the current crises in the global policy on food supply so that food suppliers in Europe have some sense of certainty?
In this respect, I would like to point out that we are also going to meet in Paris on 5 October with all the European athletes who took part in the Olympic Games.
As announced on 1 July by President Barroso and President Sarkozy, together we must prepare a European plan to tackle Alzheimer's disease based on three pillars: research, patient care and quality of life, and ethics and legal aspects, particularly with regard to those involved in treating this disease.
It is in this context that the French Presidency will hold a ministerial conference in Paris on 30 and 31 October entitled 'Europe against Alzheimer's Disease'.
The Council is working intensively and constructively on the Health Check - as I have already said - with a view to achieving a political consensus as soon as the European Parliament has given its opinion, which it is expected to do by November 2008.
We are keen to work closely with Parliament based on the report that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is due to submit on 7 October.
The Council is, in turn, due to discuss this at the end of the month, on 27 and 28 October.
As for the concern expressed by Mrs Doyle on the subject of the animal welfare strategy, following the unveiling in September 2007 of the Commission Communication on the Community Animal Health Policy and its strategy over the period 2007-2013, on 17 December 2007 the Council adopted conclusions on the strategy, inviting the Commission to present an action plan.
This action plan was adopted by the Commission on 10 September and it is on the basis of this document that the French Presidency is determined to continue working.
Questions Nos 8 and 9 were not deemed admissible.
Mr President, Mr Higgins, as you know, the European Council has acknowledged the results of the Irish referendum on the Treaty of Lisbon.
The French Presidency will do its utmost to find a solution to this major institutional problem.
However, this is an idea that you and I and the most ardent Europe supporters must promote.
Subject: Iran and the development of a nuclear capacity Will the Council comment on its position towards Iran and the potential nuclear threat it represents since it decided to abandon the containment and surveillance measures of the 1997 Additional Protocol of the International Atomic Energy Agency limiting the intrusive powers of the inspectors and putting a halt to snap inspections?
The proposals made by Mr Solana in June 2006, repeated in June 2008 on behalf of the six most closely involved countries, still apply and must be used to break the current deadlock.
In addition, as we were recently reminded once again by the Director General of the IAEA in his report of 15 September, Iran is still refusing to answer specific questions that the IAEA has put to it about activities linked to the design and production of nuclear weapons.
The Community has signed agreements with 11 third countries.
The agreement that will be discussed and, we hope, ratified by the European Council on 15 October will cast the political spotlight on the importance of readmission agreements in the fight against illegal immigration. (FR) I would just like to thank the President-in-Office for his answer.
I would also like to say that Mrs Reding, Commissioner for Information Society and Media, to whom I put the same question in a recent interview, admitted that she had not been convinced by the French President's proposed reforms unveiled in January.
