Some MEPs have been in favour of greater flexibility in European regulation, arguing that this will increase employment and reduce unemployment.
The result of the negotiations was put to the vote at an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on 18 June in Strasbourg.
I also have the impression that we lost a considerable contribution put forward by myself in the initial draft which, in my view, was not properly addressed in subsequent debates, which was that any reform of the labour market, including the reform of labour law, should serve to create new jobs in Europe in order to effectively face up to the challenge of the 17 million people who are currently out of work.
There are over 60 amendments to the report in its present form.
The work carried out so far in committee - the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - has been of a good standard.
Globalisation and demographics are only two of the main challenges.
Very careful thought shows that there is no non-working time, but rather time for personal life in addition to family life; that we have been wrong to identify the new frontier in social conflict as a conflict between insiders and outsiders; that the relationship between flexibility and security is a two-way relationship and includes the needs of employers and the needs of workers; that extending rights is an action that must not be so many words on a piece of paper but that requires change and transparency, action against undeclared employment, a coordination of policies and renewed vigour in harmonisation towards the goal of European employment law.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to welcome the work that has been done, not only by the rapporteur but, I believe, by all the groups as a whole.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Madam President, the Green Paper proposed by the Commission and the report we have discussed is in my opinion a valuable introduction to a longer debate on the adaptation of labour law to the changing realities both in Europe and in the world.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, The debate on liberalising the postal services has taken up a lot of our time today.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe concerns itself too little with employment problems, and, when it does concern itself with them, it does so totally inadequately, as if employment were not at the heart of building democracy and of the European social model.
Paragraph 2 quotes the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
