Preparation of the European Council, including the situation of the global financial system (continuation of debate) President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, Mr Jouyet, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to make an assessment of the role of the French Presidency of the Council.
As Mr Jouyet has just said, in the midst of the French Presidency of the Council, first there was the crisis between Russia and Georgia and now there is an unprecedented crisis, this global financial crisis.
Addressing this crisis is an important test for the financial sector, for the Member States, for Europe and its institutions and for the international financial institutions.
Last week I called for a coordinated European response, because I am convinced that, without it, it will be much harder for Europe to overcome this crisis.
But Member States need to act on the basis of common principles and within a commonly agreed framework and to take into account the cross-border effects of their actions.
Of course, there are also many things that we are doing and we still need to do at the level of the European institutions, both in the short and in the medium to longer term.
The proposals I have in mind are concrete, practical and realistic.
State-aid and competition rules have been shown to be essential to give guarantees of a level playing field.
In the legislative area, we will come next week with two proposals.
I am encouraged by the Ecofin Council, which has followed our proposal to at least double it, setting the common minimum threshold at EUR 50 000, with most Member States even going up to EUR 100 000.
Secondly, we will come with a proposal to make sure that European financial institutions are not disadvantaged vis-à-vis their international competitors in terms of accounting rules and of their interpretation.
The Commission role has been to promote awareness of the need to act and to create political momentum, and it seems that, now, the obstacles raised by some Member States have finally disappeared.
First I would like the Council and Parliament to give real priority to our proposal of last week on capital requirements.
Third, we will also review our December 2004 recommendation on executive pay, which unfortunately was ignored by Member States - or, to be fair, only one Member State decided to follow to some extent the recommendations that the Commission put forward in December 2004.
This is a good illustration of the kind of resistance we have been facing in this area in the last few years.
There are more than 8 000 banks in the European Union, but two thirds of total European Union bank assets are held in 44 cross-border institutes.
Some operate in as many as 15 Member States.
The current debates in the Council on the Solvency II Directive show the large degree of resistance that any attempt at improving cross-border supervision still faces.
Indeed, I am convinced we will have to go much further.
So it is important to underline this point.
The current crisis has shown that we need comprehensive rethinking of our regulatory and supervision rules for financial markets - which include hedge funds and private equity, as highlighted by Parliament.
As far as the Commission is concerned, I would like to inform you that I have decided to set up, inside the college, a permanent steering group on the financial crisis, composed of Commissioners Almunia, McCreevy and Kroes, which I will chair myself.
I know that Parliament has already signalled its openness to fast-tracking proposals, and I hope that we can work together on this very important and sensitive issue, because financial stability is a public good.
In all of this, the international dimension is critical, as was just now highlighted by the President of the Council.
We need to come with solutions in Europe, but we need also to work with international financial institutions.
There are in fact many other points but, because of time, I will just concentrate on two issues very briefly: the climate-change and energy package, and the Lisbon Treaty.
But it is a time to recall that the last few weeks and months have shown again how Europe needs the Lisbon Treaty.
That is why I think we should keep our commitment to the Lisbon Treaty ratification.
Together we must call and work for a European response to the financial crisis.
We owe it to our citizens. (Applause) on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis that has suddenly struck our economies is very worrying.
However, as European leaders, our absolute priority must be to combine our efforts to prevent the financial crisis from having too great an impact on the real economy.
We need to make sure that our fellow citizens maintain confidence in the banking system and do not give in to this tide of panic, which would only precipitate a downward spiral.
The current lack of supervision poses an extremely serious problem, and the inability of credit rating agencies to act in the general interest and publish the real solvency levels of the main players in the global financial markets can no longer be tolerated.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council will also discuss the Lisbon Treaty, and I would like to call upon all Member States that have not yet ratified it to do so as quickly as possible, so that each country can express a definitive opinion on the question.
We understand the situation Ireland is in and we understand that its government needs time to respond after the vote of its citizens, which we respect.
However, although the European Union is prepared to demonstrate patience and understanding, the status quo is untenable in the medium and long term.
I therefore call upon the European Council to demonstrate the political will necessary, after examining the situation in October, for a road map like the one you proposed along with a definite timetable to be adopted in December.
Of course, the European Parliament will have fewer seats and fewer powers than with the Treaty of Lisbon, but the European Commission will also have fewer Commissioners than Member States.
All political decisions come at a price, and if Europe wants credibility, it has to take responsibility for its political decisions, whether they concern the financial crisis or its institutions.
If we need another year, we will take another year to get where we need to be in order to save the planet and provide a future for our children and grandchildren.
However, now you have told us that Mr McCreevy is someone you want to include in this steering group to deal with this crisis.
In my country there are public banks that have less in the way of state guarantees than private banks are now being given by various states.
The new house must be different.
To close, I would like to congratulate you.
It is a good decision.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I would say to the President-in-Office: At next week's European Council you must move forward discussions on the Lisbon Treaty.
But no one can mistake the most pressing issue facing this Council.
Financial markets currently owe less to Adam Smith than to the Cincinnati Kid.
It is right to raise deposit guarantee protection to a EUR 50 000 minimum across the Union.
The European Council should ask whether the European Union budget might be used to allow the European Investment Bank and the EIF to give credit guarantees for small businesses.
I would like to share with you three comments, or three messages.
The first message concerns Europe itself.
Many people have wanted to point out that Europe was absent from the management of the banking and financial crisis.
We, the European Verts, would like to point out that the banking crisis particularly reveals the inadequacy of common European rules and that, in this area as in many others, there is a need for more of Europe, not less of Europe.
The second message concerns the responsibility of those involved.
To take a concrete example, let us look at the directive on deposit guarantee schemes: in November 2006, the Commission submitted a report which said that no further legislation was needed in this field.
A week ago, in this Parliament, we voted for a report by Mr Rasmussen.
We are experiencing the same thing today with the Lamfalussy report on the structure of supervision of the financial markets.
What I would like - what the European Greens would like you to put on the agenda of this group - is reflection on the instruments that the European Union might have at its disposal.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - Madam President, first of all I want to pay tribute to the Council and congratulate them for their efforts, particularly with regard to Russia and the situation in Georgia.
Never at any stage in our history is it more required that we bring together our partners at the Mediterranean level to guarantee that we can bring about not just economic development but also the peaceful coexistence of nations.
Member States have already given Ireland a period for reflection - for which we are thankful - but this is no different to the period of reflection which both France and the Netherlands got when they rejected the Constitutional Treaty.
It takes time to put forward proposals and ideas as to how these difficulties can be resolved.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, for several weeks now we have been watching global panic and unbearable losses, against a dizzying background of billions of spiralling euros and dollars.
Many people following these events, totally stunned, cannot help but see a lesson in them, not about excess, Mr Watson, but about the very essence of capitalism in all its injustice and brutality, whatever the phenomenal transformations it has undergone over the last few decades.
On 15 October, the whole of the European Council needs to formally provide an absolute guarantee for deposits throughout European Union territory.
This concerns the EIB as much as the ECB.
In France alone, SMEs need EUR 60 billion a year, and there are twenty-seven countries in the EU.
The smiles were weak, of course, because President Sarkozy's US-style bail-out plan had already collapsed into the dust.
But I think the last week is going to prove to be the watershed moment for this entire European project.
In fact to do that would be even more unpopular than your hated Lisbon Treaty.
Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment all politicians are offering guarantees to bail out irresponsible bankers.
By offering State guarantees they are laughing in the faces of taxpayers and the much vaunted small and medium-sized enterprises.
In addition, by abandoning the rules of fair economic competition we will be creating a jungle.
The financial crisis does not make the external affairs crisis go away, with Russia and Georgia and in other parts of the world; the financial and external affairs crises do not make the food crises and environmental crises go away.
You highlighted the first in your speeches; it is the return of confidence - as the President of the Commission said - so that our fellow citizens feel more protected in relation to Europe and to prevent a gulf opening up between the European Union - the idea we all have of Europe - and our fellow citizens.
The second priority is to adapt our institutional system so we have a more involved Europe, a better organised Europe, a Europe more capable of deciding - and deciding quickly - because we know that none of these challenges can be dealt with individually or at national level.
I will not go back over the various measures listed, but obviously it is up to the Council and the Member States to shoulder their responsibilities and it is up to this Parliament to assume its responsibilities in relation to the proposals on the table - which are very necessary - concerning standards, the credit rating agencies, capital to credit ratios, directors' pay and the pay of others working in the banking sector (there is also traders' pay, which is not often talked about but it also seems to me to be an important problem).
It is also very important, as he pointed out, that we have a dimension that supports SMEs, that the European Investment Bank really takes strong action.
The European Council will also be speaking about this, and we must take the measures necessary to ensure we have an institutional framework suited to financial groups, financial players that increasingly operate across borders.
President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, I would just like to underline two or three points that seem important at this stage in the debate.
The Commission and the European Central Bank do not have powers of financial supervision.
I can also tell you that cooperation with the European Central Bank has been excellent, and once again I have witnessed the extraordinary effort the French Presidency has had to make in order to achieve a European approach, against this difficult background of fragmented supervisory systems, though still with a European dimension.
Anyway, I would applaud, in this context, the decision the European Central Bank has taken today to cut interest rates, a decision taken in coordination with other central banks.
I believe we should find targeted measures, within the framework of all the reforms being put in place by Europe, to adapt to a much more difficult context of competition and to find ways of helping SMEs in concrete ways.
This is also the reason why, within the framework of these initiatives, the European Investment Bank has been encouraged to put measures in place for SMEs.
The whole of this dimension, the dimension of the real economy, must be followed very closely over the next few months.
Next year, they are predicting 100 million more.
I would very much like to see Europe take part in a constructive approach, not just for us, as Europeans, but also for the rest of the world.
As has been said, the current problem is also a problem of incapacity, not so much of the market - though many market operators are using unacceptable behaviour - but more of the competence of certain political or public authorities, which have not found suitable solutions for a market situation in terms of regulation.
That is why - and this is the first of my two related points - the rapid appointment of a new trade Commissioner is so important at this time.
So I strongly suggest that it would be in her interest, as well as ours, for her hearing to be brought forward from 10 November, if at all possible.
There is another reason: I have just been passed an e-mail saying that the Transatlantic Economic Council, scheduled for 16 October, has had to be postponed because the outgoing Commissioner has 'outgone' and the incoming Commissioner has yet to be confirmed.
I think her rightful place today was among us.
I am pleased to see our friend Joaquin Almunia beside you, but I find it a little strange that the Commissioner responsible is not here.
We need a policy based on pragmatism and not on hypocrisy, which is the trademark of the European Pact on Immigration and Asylum. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we fully agree with what President Sarkozy said in Evian: that only the coordinated action of central banks and governments will make it possible to curb the systemic risk.
This does not take away the fact that, notwithstanding today's interesting debate, we still have some worrying doubts over why the European Central Bank did not lower rates sooner in the light of events in the US market, in the global markets and in the financial markets, particularly in some EU countries.
We question this because there has been no clear position on the issue of derivatives, when we know that these products caused major public institutions and authorities in Italy and Europe to run up massive debts.
Since we were talking about small and medium-sized enterprises earlier, we also need the Council to be clear about the fact that the Commission has a duty to introduce further cuts in fuel costs. (NL) Madam President, a little modesty never goes amiss, and this includes politicians.
However, recent statements by leading eurocrats give me a very strong feeling of déjà vu.
One example is Commissioner Wallström, who stated just this week that the Irish referendum actually had very little to do with the Treaty itself, but more to do with ethical issues and taxation.
The people say 'no', but the eurocrats hear 'yes'.
It means two things: helping Georgia with strong financial support for reconstruction and helping to consolidate democratic reforms.
The European Union was quicker and more efficient than our American friends in handling the Caucasian crisis, and our response was coherent and based on a common approach - and thanks and congratulations to the French presidency for that.
We need a strong democratic Georgia, as Georgia needs us.
What we need is to be able to help our production system; in this respect, besides the Community initiatives, I will mention, for example, the case of my country, where yesterday it was decided to launch a EUR 30 billion fund, because what we need to do is to help businesses to function.
The second area in which it is important to bolster confidence is the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
To be frank, there are a number of bankers who are clearly no longer to be trusted and to whom we cannot entrust our savings.
This afternoon the Dutch Minister for Finance stated in the debate in the lower house of the Dutch Parliament that the purchase of Fortis and ABN-AMRO - not only the bank, but also the parts not of systemic relevance, such as insurance - had not been declared as State aid.
Therefore, I should like to know how the Commission intends to deal with this kind of case in the coming period.
Moreover, from the example of the deposit guarantees announced by states such as Greece, Ireland and Germany, in contrast to other EU Member States, it is obvious that there is not a single common tactic to deal with this.
If a common strategy on this is not worked out at the forthcoming EU summit, it will be a very bad signal for citizens of the EU Member States, because it is precisely in times of crisis that the people of the EU most need to feel that the EU is standing by in case of need and that it is there not only during the good times, but also when there is a problem. (DE) Madam President, unfortunately, the President of the Commission is no longer here.
A crisis in Georgia, a financial crisis, a crisis with energy prices - everything is crying out for a strong Europe.
Ireland's Foreign Minister, Micheál Martin, told my committee on Monday that there was a change in awareness taking place in Ireland and that people were recognising the value of the EU.
In politics, six months can be a very long time!
Now to my second subject: we also need to explain to citizens why we need the EU.
Even the New York Times printed the prophetic saying by Ezra Pound that 'with usura hath no man a house of good stone'.
In 1933, a group of economists in Chicago came up with a plan: to re-establish an exclusive state monopoly on issuing currency, prohibiting banks from creating counterfeit money, and imposing an obligation on banks to have a 100% reserve.
What we need today is a more efficient eastern partnership and a strong and democratic Georgia.
Unfortunately, even before Russia has met its commitments, some socialist leaders visiting Moscow have declared that the EU and Russia need each other more than ever and that Russia and the EU have to cooperate in filling the possible security gap left by the weakening USA.
President Barroso has admitted he got little cooperation from Member States in producing a coordinated response to the crisis.
Up to now, the reaction to the financial crisis has been provided mainly by Member States - which I welcome, for example when action was taken in the Fortis crisis - whilst the Commission has remained silent.
In my opinion, the financial crisis has been caused by the rapid innovation in the financial sector over recent years.
It must also present measures to improve supervision, and proposals to reinforce cooperation between central banks themselves and other supervisors.
If the European authorities act individually in this connection, State aid and also discrimination against foreign savers, customers and investors can result.
Only Europe can offer a rounded approach to the crisis, and that is why the Commission must take the lead, starting today. (PL) Madam President, just as the situation in the Caucasus this summer presented the European Union with a new geopolitical challenge, so today the crisis in the financial markets in the global market is presenting a challenge linked to the global economy, and the European Union is having to face up to this.
Everyone is agreed that at this time we must put together a coordinated response from Europe in relation to these challenges.
This is why ratification of the Lisbon Treaty is absolutely fundamental - 'to be or not to be' for the European Union, a serious response from the European Union in the current global order.
This is yet further evidence of the need to ratify the Lisbon Treaty as soon as possible in those countries that have not yet done so.
Another matter I would like to raise today is that the market is fine as long as it is a regulated market.
A capitalist economy that bears the human factor in mind.
I am addressing the European Commission on this - in view of the current crisis, what good to us are a further 100 000 unemployed? (PL) Madam President, the most important matter today is overcoming the financial crisis, but the main threat posed by the financial crisis is an economic slowdown.
The adoption of the wrong legislative solutions as part of the climate and energy package could worsen the prognosis for a way out of the financial crisis.
We wish to act on a fundamental principle - a 20% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020.
What lies before us now is a very difficult trialogue, as regulation is adopted here subject to numerous reservations.
They are not only an answer to crises but also necessary to prevent crises in our globalised world.
These crises show us how dependent we are on one another, how global, how interwoven the financial world is these days.
I have here a collection of requests by the European Parliament since 2002, only a fraction of which have been answered by the Commission, and many of which have been frustrated by the Member States, which impedes us from finding European solutions.
Everyone needs regulation - we must not exclude anyone - but this regulation must be in proportion to the risk and must relate to the product.
In order to expedite moves towards this road map, I would like to expound my idea on how to now move forward.
As to the nature of the second referendum, I would propose an extended plebiscite on the Lisbon Treaty in Ireland, where we would have a constitutional referendum on yes or no to the Lisbon Treaty while, on the same day, polling consultative referenda on key opt-in, opt-out issues such as the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights and European security and defence policy.
If in the extended referendum Irish voters were to opt out of either of these two areas, the Irish Government could then seek a separate agreement at the European Council to be signed by all 27 Member States.
With this plan, Member States who have already ratified the Lisbon Treaty would not have to do so again.
What we need now is to ensure that we have transparency, accountability and supervision that covers the modern markets as they are.
I too welcome the Commission's initiative to set up a standing working group to deal with the financial crisis in the Commission.
As the Commission's President, Mr Barroso, said, we can and should do much more.
The main responsibility, however, lies with the finance ministers, because most of the instruments for growth and solutions to the crisis are in their toolkit, and are not to be found at the ECB or among the European legislators or market actors.
The financial ministers have shown initiative.
I am not against the proposals, but I think that the action programme is inadequate.
It is not enough to do something: we also have to do the right things, and it is even more important to know how to do nothing, when legislation is not the right solution to the problems.
We continually assert that solidarity is of particular importance in the current financial crisis, especially coming as we do, as I do, from a country which is brimful of bank branches, affiliated organisations and subsidiaries, so what is essential here is how the head offices in their key positions, and their supervisory bodies, react to the problem facing us.
I am glad that the Minister has said that this was a good idea but it still had to be achieved.
The second question is solidarity and our defencelessness.
I understand that we wish to establish chambers, or colleges, and I believe it is important that we move towards some centralised supervision, just as we transfer certain key matters in competition policy to the appropriate EU body or to the ECB, the European Central Bank, but it is very difficult to comprehend how we could build up confidence in each other in a collegiate system.
Mr President, I would say to you, and to Mr Jouyet and Mr Almunia, that it is absolutely essential that the interbank market is restarted.
The only sure way to achieve this is to have sovereign state guarantees for wholesale interbank deposits, as indeed Ireland and Denmark have done in their domestic markets.
It is the proper role of the IMF, as he said, to coordinate this action, and only with such a bold move, on a global basis, will we put out the fire and start to rekindle confidence. (HU) The most important thing to be done here, and I quite agree with the French presidency, is to find some kind of a solution for Ireland and the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
The Hungarian Prime Minister will propose it again as, without it, without a European financial supervisory authority, global problems will occur again and again.
Yet those authorities such as the central banks, finance ministers and EU Commissioners, whose duty was to protect the citizens, have in essence done nothing to stop them.
Those to blame for the current global economic catastrophe and those who offered them a cover-up should have their assets seized and should be sent to prison.
I believe that the financial and economic situation is much more serious than he described.
The German Hypo is being rescued by subventions to the value of EUR 50 billion, aid for the British Bradford &amp; Bingley is a further EUR 35 billion, and the Fortis rescue is EUR 11 billion.
The European Central Bank has meanwhile pumped a further EUR 120 billion into bank deposits to keep them liquid.
I am curious to know how the European Commission would like to explain to Poles a situation in which hundreds of billions of euros are flowing into banks in the old Europe, while half a billion euros may not be transferred to three shipyards that may fail as a result of the Commission's actions.
Considering the future, I think that strict rules need to be applied from now on. (RO) Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Commissioner Almunia, honoured colleagues, over the past few years there were important leaders, especially socialists, who talked about the need to reform the world's financial system, some sort of a post-Bretton Woods, able to face the challenges of globalisation.
This is why I salute the recent interventions of president Sarkozy and of the French presidency as well as of other European leaders who have referred to the need to make such a reform.
As we have already said, in this area we need more of Europe and we need to adapt our regulations to the interdependency of financial institutions and the interdependency of our rules for financing the economy.
The French Presidency, as I said, will do everything within its power and devote all of its energy to increasing the necessary coordination and adaptation of rules in this area.
As you know, and Mr Saryusz-Wolski underlined this, we have expressed our concerns in terms of the election process, which we are not satisfied with.
This allows me to answer Mrs Isler Béguin.
We will hold a High-Level Conference on 14 October, in the evening, and on 15 October.
On 14 October, foreign ministers will meet with Bernard Kouchner, and on 15 October there will be a meeting of senior officials and leaders in order to find appropriate solutions to the situation in Abkhazia and South Ossetia, recognition of which - I must say this to Mrs Isler Béguin, although she is well aware of it - remains extremely isolated, which is fortunate as this unacceptable act was strongly condemned by the European Union and by the Presidency.
In terms of the European Pact on Immigration and Asylum, I would like to answer Mrs Flautre - although I have no doubt that Mrs Isler Béguin will let her know what I said - by saying that the difference with this Pact is that there is better coordination; harmonisation, if you will, particularly in terms of asylum applications and in terms of applications made by migrants.
Finally - and this point is crucial, because everything boils down to this - these crises are interdependent.
The economic and financial crisis is the most visible.
However, three months ago, it was the energy crisis.
I will say it again, to respond to these crises, to respond to these challenges, there needs to be more Europe, more coordination, greater capacity for decision-making, more visibility and more responsiveness.
We will use our best efforts so that, by the end of the year, we have a political solution to this institutional problem, which, when we look at the challenges that we face and that we have debated all afternoon, must be resolved as a matter of urgency.
As President Barroso said in his opening speech, the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty is essential in order for us to move forward with European integration, especially at a time like this.
The Lisbon Treaty will enable us to increase the effectiveness and the intensity of our action in such important matters for our own security and defending our values outside our borders as in the case of Georgia and other countries.
Some of you have quite rightly mentioned the importance of the debates on energy and climate change that are going to take place in the European Council.
Some of you have quite rightly mentioned immigration, the immigration pact, a commendable initiative by the French Presidency, along with some other Member States.
The Commission has also made proposals during recent times on immigration, which have been discussed and adopted, or are being discussed and adopted by the Parliament and the Council.
There are responsibilities in the Commission, without any doubt, there are responsibilities in the Council, there are responsibilities in Parliament, there are responsibilities in the Member States, in the supervisory bodies and in the central banks.
However, the Commission is also actively participating in the short-term, urgent, essential measures that are part of the conclusions of the Ecofin Council yesterday, including a commitment to improve deposit guarantee schemes, which are seriously affected, not by the insecurity of deposits in financial institutions, but by some unilateral initiatives with negative impacts for other countries.
The Commission is cooperating and also working to develop and apply the principles established yesterday in the Ecofin conclusions, which are essential in terms of the way in which the difficult situations in each of the financial institutions should be tackled: through recapitalisation and, in some cases, through other instruments.
The Commission is working, as President Barroso has said, to move forward more quickly than we have been up to now in terms of supervision at European level, at cross-border level, which we obviously need.
We cannot contemplate only having the central banks as a source of liquidity in the functioning of the financial system in the future and, of course, the Commission - and I am responding in particular to a speech by Mrs in't Veld - said in front of the Heads of State and Government in Paris on Saturday, and said again yesterday at the Ecofin meeting, that when it comes to regulating State aid, the Treaty has sufficient clauses and provisions to deal flexibly with compliance with competition rules and the rules on State aid in a situation such as we are facing now.
This was clear on Saturday in Paris, it was clear yesterday at the Ecofin meeting, and it is clear here, in today's debate, and I assure you that the Commission is going to ensure that it is clear from now on, even though we are going to experience very difficult circumstances, not only in the financial system but also in the real economy.
I think that, with this spirit, the vast majority of the speeches that I have heard this afternoon reinforce, support and agree with the consensus that we reached yesterday - which I think was a very positive consensus - in the Luxembourg Ecofin meeting.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (FR) I would first of all like to congratulate the President-in-Office of the Council, Nicolas Sarkozy, for his pragmatic and effective measures, and the excellent work of the French Presidency, represented today by my friend Mr Jouyet.
The European Union was formed amid the suffering caused by war.
On the subject of the financial crisis, the ECB has just decided to cut interest rates, and I welcome this decision.
in writing. - On 24 September I was asking in a written statement if Europe is prepared to absorb the shock induced by its indissoluble link with the US market and if the EUR 36.3 billion injected into the market by the ECB and Bank of England is enough to make the danger disappear.
Furthermore, Iceland's banking system hit the ground (culminating with acquisition by the government of Glitnir Bank) and the UK Government announced further money infusion (GBP 200 billion) in its economy.
Even when some ad-hoc measures that were rejected only a few months ago are accepted, such as the nationalisations of banks that have gone bankrupt due to poor management on the part of their administrators and some of their main shareholders, who have pocketed the substantial profits and gains and left the general public to deal with the damage, this is always done in defence of big business, without really taking into account the interests of workers and the least well-off.
in writing. - (RO) Apart from its trans-national character, the current global financial crisis risks creating a state of major panic very rapidly, not only in the financial, banking and economic sectors, but also at the level of the ordinary European citizen.
I believe that, even more than the severity of the economic phenomenon which must be kept under control both financially and economically, the danger of having European citizens being stricken by panic is much more difficult to measure and its effects will need a much longer time to heal.
We should not count on a single meeting of the European Council solving the problems of the financial markets.
There is no doubt that the current involvement of national governments is necessary at this time, but it will surely not replace joint actions at the level of the EU as a whole.
It is also interesting that this fake concern for the future of citizens is proclaimed by those who are making efforts to block the new European Treaty and do not like the idea of a common currency.
in writing. - The global financial crisis will rightly top the agenda of the October Council.
The demise of individual banks and dramatic intervention of governments to shore up the fragile financial sectors has resulted in great public unease about the ability of politicians to protect them against such eventualities.
in writing. - (FI) The United States of America has gone down with mad money disease.
These statements, the state-monopoly interventions announced by Ecofin and the bourgeois governments of the EU Member States, as well as the bailing out of the debt-ridden banks and other monopoly business groups with public money, are measures to support EU capital in a bid to shore up the monopolies' economic and political dominance.
