"Youth in Action" programme (2007-2013) (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on the Council common position (06236/3/2006 C6-0273/2006 for adopting a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council creating the 'Youth in Action' programme for the period 2007-2013 (Rapporteur: Mrs Gröner).
At first reading stage, we worked through 58 amendments, most of which found their way into the draft, and it is through this result of informal negotiations that we now arrive at the Common Position, which we are able to accept and on which we are able to agree at second reading.
It is with those purposes in mind that we have negotiated a budget of EUR 885 million.
I should especially like to thank Mrs Gröner, the rapporteur for the programme, as well as the Committee on Culture and Education, which dealt with matters in a very constructive manner during the procedure.
My group is glad that this House has been able to take the initiative in highlighting such important aspects of the Common Position as, for example, young people's participation in democratic life, the promotion of such fundamental values as human dignity, human rights, tolerance and non-discrimination, protection for participants by means of proper insurance - which is a very important consideration - the European Youth Weeks, seminars and structured dialogues involving young people, exchange schemes for young people in Europe and the neighbouring countries and, not least, EUR 2 million in financial support for the European Youth Forum.
In particular, young people who do not or cannot become mobile through programmes such as Erasmus, Comenius or Leonardo within the context of formal education need a change to gain useful experience of intercultural dialogue, and there needs to be more recognition of the role and importance of informal education in this respect.
I am glad that young people in the countries bordering the European Union - Russia, Belarus, Ukraine and the countries of the North Caucasus - will be able to benefit from the new programme as soon as next year.
The 75 million young people who live in the European Union are lucky in many ways.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, I should like to start by thanking Mrs Gröner for the work she has done on this report.
I would very much like to see us taking this policy area seriously rather than neglecting it, for young people are the key to Europe's future. - (SL) The 'Youth in Action' report is very important in strengthening European awareness and European citizenship amongst young people.
I do not think that 13 is too young to participate in 'Youth in Action'.
The Youth in Action Programme will end in 2013.
For the Youth in Action programme, the sum at current prices amounts to EUR 885 million.
