Adult learning: It is never too late to learn (debate) The next item is the report by Doris Pack, on behalf of the Committee on Culture and Education, on adult learning: it is never too late to learn.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, the title of the Commission's communication and action plan on adult learning, 'It is never too late to learn', and its German title, Man lernt nie aus ('You live and learn'), are both universally familiar sayings, but when you read between the lines in the present context, they actually imply an acknowledgement of past omissions in the field of European education policy.
The use of new technology must be constantly perfected, especially through the creation of wider Internet access to encourage recourse to such new learning methods.
I believe we must all remind course providers that they can obtain funding for their proposed courses from the European Social Fund, for example, or from any of the structural funds.
The first was on adult learning and the second, on the European action plan on this matter, adopted in September.
I welcome your support for many reasons, particularly for improving the quality and accessibility of adult learning, including through better childcare and e-learning, and in particular for groups with special needs, as well as for speeding up the assessment of skills and valuing informal learning, for investing more in general and also for adapting to the needs of women, migrants and the ageing population.
It is important that we make use of all the resources available in order to facilitate training for different groups.
It is important that we look at special groups, for example the elderly.
draftsman of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the report by my colleague Mrs Pack and I congratulate her on the way in which she has dealt with the topic.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
I would like to congratulate Mrs Pack on her important and timely report.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Pack, on an excellent piece of work and on her cooperative attitude towards our suggestions.
Lifelong learning is becoming more and more important in modern society.
Adult education experts in Lithuania are also actively putting forward proposals for this communication.
The problem in Lithuania is pressingly relevant in this context - the integration of vulnerable groups in society, and the disabled in particular.
We are in transit between an industrial and post-industrial society, and the type of society towards which we are moving will form the framework for adult education; on that point I have congratulated the rapporteur and would also like to congratulate the Commission because I believe that the current report is in that vein.
The first is the improvement in qualifications, an increase in the ability to find work and overcome discrepancies in the labour market, as well as an improvement in geographical and professional mobility.
It is fundamental in this process to take into consideration the improvement of conditions for the reconciliation of working and family life, solidarity between generations and cultures, language learning and an improvement in the quality of education and its prospects.
Of course, for these we need lifelong learning and also lifelong vocational training. (RO) We are aware that Member States recognise the extremely important role of lifelong learning, as it contributes to the citizens' welfare, self-confidence, social integration, and intercultural dialogue.
Enlargement in 2004 increased economic growth in the European Union by an amount which engendered unjustified confidence.
The trend towards having children later in life means that women find it twice as difficult to return to the labour market.
The young have many abilities and advantages in learning which sometimes they do not fully exploit, but older people must find willpower and receive encouragement because it is never too late to acquire knowledge and they can compensate for things for which, perhaps, there was no time or money in their youth.
In short, the report calls clearly on the Member States to make active use of instruments such as the European Social Fund and on the Commission to reinforce specific programmes in the field of adult education. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to speak this evening in a House which, I have to say, is well attended.
I would like to believe that the situation will fundamentally change even in the new countries on the back of examples and huge incentives provided by the European Social Fund.
I welcome the Commission communication and the report by Mrs Pack. (RO) Indeed, it's never too late to learn.
The degree of absorption of funds is rather low in these states, and the number of people involved in professional retraining and lifelong learning is very low.
I would like to propose that there be an even greater emphasis on this issue.
As a Commissioner, a politician as well as a father, I am convinced that education - and I mean accessible and high-quality education - is the most important factor for the political, economic, social and cultural development of individuals and society as a whole.
Witten statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (HU) I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the Committees for their successful and eminently social work.
The development of 'eskills' in lifelong learning and in general basic education will assume vital importance, as the foundation stone of a knowledge-based information society.
