With 160 000 organic farms and more than 6 million hectares of land in the European Union, the turnover of organic products is estimated to have a value of between 13 and 14 billion euros.
It is also a sector with plenty of optimism and confidence about what the future has to bring, as I was able to see clearly during my recent visit to the BioFach in Nuremberg.
In 2006 very intensive discussions were held on our proposal in the Council and in Parliament.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the circumstances of organic farming are somewhat paradoxical today.
Through all these exchanges, all these discussions and comings and goings, what did this Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development ultimately hope to do?
It would seem that you have nothing but praise for our work, for our contribution and, thus, for the fact that the European Parliament has become far more involved - not to mention codecision, in general, for farming, because that is another debate that we have yet to hold.
Coexistence and liability are fundamental issues here, issues that also still need to be resolved, Commissioner, and I know that you are on our side in this respect.
They decide whether they are prepared to pay more for food that is natural and GM-free.
The 197 amendments that have been tabled prove, however, that we are actually not yet able to vote on the report at the present time.
I therefore support the rapporteur on Amendments 37 and 39. (The President cut off the speaker) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (ES) The organic production sector is asking us for - or rather demanding of us - clear and simple legislation that responds to the needs of a market that is clearly growing.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (FI) Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Marie-Hélène Aubert, for an excellent report.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as an Italian, I would like to mention that worldwide Italy is the fourth-ranked producer of organic products, while in the European Union it is in first place.
With regard to labelling, on the other hand, we believe that there must be an absolute guarantee that products are organic and that therefore there must be no accidental contamination by GMOs at any stage of the production process.
On the issue of GMOs, I am pleased that you have established that 0.9% is not a contamination threshold.
Our group is concerned, however, that the technical means that we have at our disposal to prevent contamination are not being fully utilised and that as a result the 0.9%-threshold is being set too high.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the provision under examination can be significantly improved by Parliament during tomorrow's vote in the Chamber.
In fact, a provision such as this one, which lays down a threshold of contamination of 0.9% for organic products, namely a threshold equal to that for conventional products, is of no help either to organic producers or, particularly, to consumers.
I therefore believe that Parliament should return to the zero tolerance threshold in order to make these products even more attractive, ensuring that they are consumed in increasing quantities and providing ever more protection for consumers.
To conclude, the idea of imposing an EU organic logo on products from non-EU countries, without the indispensable indication of the products' regional and national origin, should most definitely be rejected. (EL) Mr President, Community legislation on organic products has been applied in the European Union for over 15 years with a fair degree of success, one might say, to judge from the results.
This report on organic production and labelling of organic products has finally arrived for debate in plenary at an important time, since the vote in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on 27 February, coincided with a demonstration by agrobiologists, who were rightly complaining about the new specifications for organic farming, which aimed and still aim at allowing 0.9% of contamination, which is the level allowed in conventional farming.
Finally, I fully support Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs' decision to apply the dual legal basis - Articles 37 and 95 of the Treaty - because there are two advantages to referring to the competence of the internal market, too.
Indeed, the regulation states that a product cannot be labelled 'organic farming product' if it contains GMOs, but it does nonetheless accept an adventitious contamination threshold of 0.9% of GMOs, which is inadmissible.
That is why I would ask you to endorse Amendments 170 and 171, tabled by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, which request that the presence of GMOs in organic products be limited exclusively and that the term not be used. (HU) We must ensure that environmentally-aware consumers who are concerned about and anxious to protect their health are able to use products that are free of chemicals or of contamination by genetically modified organisms.
We must guarantee that products bearing the European Union's organic indicator have been prepared 100% in accordance with the basic principles of organic production.
I can accept amendments 20, 31, 35, 56, 71, 75, 99, 101 and 120.
Furthermore, as I mentioned previously, 68 of the amendments are acceptable partially or in principle.
However, the fact that 77 of your amendments are either totally or partially accepted clearly indicates that we have more common ground on this issue than you might think at first glance.
