Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (FR) Madam President, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is trying desperately to contest the competence of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality on the question of equality between men and women in the workplace.
As the rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights on the basis of Rule 47 of the Rules of Procedure, I did my best, with the unanimous support of the Committee on Women's Rights, to propose specific corrections within the framework of the pension system reforms.
I am sorry that we have lost a battle, but the war and our fight will continue. (NL) Madam President, I have voted against the Klamt report for the simple reason that the entire concept of economic immigration and what is being referred to as the 'blue card' bears witness to short-term thinking.
We should, instead, adopt a policy of training, re-training and getting the approximately 20 million unemployed that are currently in the European Union back into jobs.
About 14 000 people are infected every day, and 2 000 of these are children under 15 years old.
It is all the more astonishing that, during the vote at first reading of the Breyer report on the placing of plant protection products on the market, in other words on the reform of Directive 91/414, many of those who today voted in favour of a resolution spoke out against the amendments guaranteeing better protection for bees.
I should like to thank all the Members who contributed to this debate and to the resolution on the alarming situation in the agricultural sector.
However, our recommendation and claim are extremely well formulated in paragraph 8 of the resolution, in which we call for exactly the same thing, in other words for research work on links between bee mortality and the use of pesticides to be stepped up with a view to taking appropriate measures in terms of the authorisation of these products.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (FR) On the basis of the report by my excellent friend and fellow Member Ingeborg Grassle, I voted for the legislative resolution approving, subject to amendment, the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 1073/1999 concerning investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
Inge Grassle has done a tremendous job of work in this report and deserves our thanks.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for Mrs Gräßle's report because anyone involved in an investigation conducted by OLAF needs to have the opportunity to make comments, at least in writing, about the matters relating to it.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted for the report by Mrs Gräßle on investigations conducted by the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF).
in writing. - (PT) Although there are some contradictory aspects in the resolution adopted by a majority of this House, with the odd positive aspect, the main argument is that, because of the ageing population and demographic change, greater fragility of the universal and public social security system is justified in order to respond to the interests of the private financial sector, which wants to manage the greatest possible slice of this cake.
in writing. - (SV) This report observes that in most Member States the population is getting older and that the social security and pension systems will therefore be put under strain.
We have therefore voted against this report in the final vote.
Apart from supporting families and a higher birth rate in Europe, the new Europe of the nations needs a policy of national and Community preference, a policy of national and Community protection.
in writing. - (EL) The report reveals the full extent of the deeply anti-grassroots aspirations of the EU and euro-unifying capital in terms of abolishing social insurance systems.
in writing. - (RO) The European Union cannot have a higher employment rate as long as we have social categories which are much more weakly represented and social groups excluded from the labour market.
In less than fifty years the population of Europe will be smaller and older.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have voted in favour of the report on conditions of entry and residence for third-country nationals for the purposes of highly-qualified employment, also known as the EU Blue Card.
The creation of new rights for highly-qualified workers from third countries represents an opportunity both for migrants and for the host countries.
in writing. - (RO) I voted for Mrs Klamt's report because it offers the possibility of work to immigrants with high professional qualifications.
in writing. - I regrettably abstained on the vote on the report by Ewa Klamt, the proposal for a Council Directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment, as Ireland did not opt in to this proposal under Article 3 to the Fourth Protocol to the Amsterdam Treaty and already has an existing national policy in this area which offers flexibility and a wide degree of discretion in terms of adapting to labour market conditions.
in writing. - (SV) Competition for ambitious, skilled workers has only just begun.
in writing. - (FR) The EU Blue Card, which it is claimed is reserved for highly qualified workers, offering cardholders freedom of movement and establishment in all the Member States of the European Union, will be a new suction pump for immigration which will be no more controlled at EU level than it is today in many countries at national level.
in writing. - (PT) Despite Parliament's adoption of amendments - which we voted for - which lessen some of the negative aspects of the proposal to create the 'Blue Card' in the European Union, we consider that these amendments question neither the motives nor the central objectives of the proposal for a directive presented by the European Commission to the Council.
The current trend is that the vast majority of highly qualified workers migrate to the USA, Canada or Australia instead of the EU.
The current text is simply off-putting to most highly qualified workers considering legal immigration to the EU and thus does not help in any way in efforts to make the EU more attractive for highly qualified workers.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Klamt report, which makes the EU a more attractive destination for highly qualified workers from third countries.
in writing. - (DE) The Blue Card concept in Ewa Klamt's report, which is based on a proposal by the European Commission, is an elite immigration concept which will prove to be disastrous.
As a representative of a Member State which joined the European Union in 2007, I voted in favour of this report, which will regulate effectively current and future requirements for highly qualified labour, taking into account the principle of Community preference applied to EU citizens.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am totally opposed to the report by Mrs Klamt on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment.
in writing. - (SV) The blue card is basically a very good idea and I have always advocated making lawful immigration easier and unlawful immigration more difficult.
in writing. - (NL) The blue card seemed like a good start to streamlined migration policy in the European Union.
European migration policy is necessary, to my mind, not least because, by 2050, the European working population will have dwindled by 20 million people.
It is predicted that in the next two decades the EU will find itself short of 20 million skilled workers, mainly engineers.
The EU should take further action in terms of economic and employment policy, though at the present time it needs economic migrants, if only because of the ageing of its population and increasing demographic changes.
In view of the above, I have supported the introduction of a European Blue Card scheme for skilled migrants.
in writing. - (FR) On the basis of the report by my fellow Member Patrick Gaubert, I voted for a legislative resolution approving, subject to amendment, the proposal for a Council directive on a single application procedure for a single permit for third country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a Member State and on a common set of rights for third-country workers legally residing in a Member State.
I did so because regrettably Ireland did not opt in to this proposal under Article 3 to the Fourth Protocol to the Amsterdam Treaty.
in writing. - (PT) As with the EP's opinion on the 'Blue Card', despite Parliament's adoption of amendments - which we voted for - which lessen some of the negative aspects of the proposal to set up a 'single application procedure' for a permit for an immigrant to reside and work in a European Union country, we consider that these amendments question neither the motives nor the central objectives of the proposal for a directive presented by the European Commission to the Council.
This should provide workers in third countries with a much simpler system for a single work and residence permit.
in writing. - (SV) I am choosing to vote against the amendment, not because I think it is bad in itself, but because I want to wait for the larger and more well thought-out directive that is being prepared by the Commission.
in writing. - (PT) The main issue in relation to wine is the content of the recently adopted CMO which, in our opinion, includes some very negative aspects, particularly for Portuguese production, which is fundamentally based on small and medium-sized agricultural holdings.
in writing. - (SV) The June List thinks that it is a good thing for the current 21 regulations on the sector-specific organisation of the market to be revised and consolidated in one regulation in order to streamline and simplify the legislation.
in writing. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, I have only voted in favour of the Commission proposal to integrate the wine CMO into the single CMO with all the other agricultural products because the Commission assured us in yesterday's debate that, as soon as the Council's proposal is accepted, it will include the functionality in the EUR-Lex search engine to allow users of the individual CMOs, for example for wine, milk or fruit and vegetables, to access only the articles related to their specific product.
In addition, the Commission has also guaranteed that future changes will only be made to individual products and other products will not be arbitrarily changed at the same time.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of the amendment to the EU regulation on establishing a facility providing medium-term financial assistance for Member States' balances of payments.
The current situation provides additional proof of the euro's usefulness in terms of protecting Member States which belong to the euro zone and invites Member States which do not belong to the euro zone to join it immediately, thereby meeting the Maastricht criteria.
in writing. - The current financial situation demonstrates the protective effect of the euro, and we should do all that we can to encourage all non-Eurozone Member States to adopt the euro as soon as they meet the criteria.
The June List believes that it is very important for Member States in the European area to be in a good economic position and is in favour of an independent European neighbourhood policy.
However, we believe that a common European aid system for medium-term financial assistance provides neither a guarantor nor a solution for that not being the case.
Countries that are members of the European Union - as they should be - but are not members of the monetary union - as they should not be - are forced to keep a fixed exchange rate with the euro and thus with their most important trading partners.
The June List is therefore of the opinion that the appropriation of EUR 25 million to support Member States' balances of payments is unnecessary.
This type of problem will then disappear and taxpayers will save EUR 25 million.
The proposal presented to us by the Commission is too vague and does not clarify the added value that collecting PNR data will bring, nor what the relationship will be with existing measures for controlling entry into the EU for security purposes, such as the SIS (Schengen Information System), VIS (Visa Information System) and API (Advance Passenger Information) system.
in writing. - (SV) The Commission wishes to collect and exchange passenger information at EU level in order to combat crime and terrorism.
in writing. - (PT) Although we disagree with certain aspects of this resolution, particularly its failure to demarcate the 'fight against terrorism', we consider that it reaffirms some serious reservations about the creation of a PNR data system (covering passengers of air carriers) within the EU.
in writing. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs in 't Veld, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council framework decision on the use of Passenger Name Record (PNR) for law enforcement purposes.
The need to guarantee a high level of security to citizens is sacrosanct, and it seems to me that currently there are many systems in force.
in writing. - Paragraph 2 of this resolution deals with membership of the Eurozone.
in writing. - (IT) I voted for this resolution, but I would have preferred the text to have been adopted with Amendment 1, paragraph 19, which was unfortunately rejected by a few votes.
That amendment would have made our specific commitment in this extremely delicate and crucial area even more valid.
in writing. - (SV) The situation in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo is dreadful.
The systematic, long-standing plundering of the wealth of this specific country and of Africa in general by European colonialists in the past and imperialists today and the fomentation or exploitation of civil conflicts in order to impose their interests, have resulted in a situation where Africa is the richest continent in the world with the most hungry, poor and downtrodden inhabitants.
in writing. - (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats believe that space should not be militarised and are of the opinion that research and investments should focus exclusively on peaceful aims.
in writing. - While I support the thrust of this resolution, I and my British Conservative colleagues are wholly opposed to the Treaty of Lisbon and cannot therefore support the reference to it in Paragraph One.
in writing. - I supported this resolution on 'how to bring space down to earth' as I believe we should support a European space policy.
However, I am of the view that the use of space must serve exclusively non-military purposes and we should reject any direct or indirect military use of systems such as Galileo.
in writing. - (PT) Among the important issues and priorities highlighted by this European Parliament resolution on the European space policy, this brief explanation of vote is intended to denounce the fact that a majority in this House advocates the use of space for military purposes.
in writing. - (PT) The Convention on Cluster Munitions (CCM) adopted by 107 countries in 2008 will be open for signature as from 3 December and will enter into force once 30 ratifications have been secured.
in writing. - The British Conservative Delegation voted for this resolution as a straightforward endorsement of the recently negotiated UN Convention on Cluster Munitions.
Eurostat still indicates Portugal as being the country with the highest AIDS-related death rate.
in writing. - (PT) I voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on early diagnosis and care of HIV/AIDS as, in my opinion, we urgently need to reinforce the measures and actions for diagnosing and treating this disease, given the alarming rise in the number of new HIV infections in the European Union.
in writing. - (SV) The proposal submitted by the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has some good and some not so good aspects.
For example, the European Parliament 'urges the Commission to propose a financial aid mechanism for apiaries which are in difficulties due to bee mortality' (paragraph 11).
We cannot support any such costs to the EU's budget and the European Parliament's federalist majority ought not to express their support for this without acknowledging the financial consequences of such a position.
in writing. - (RO) The dramatic reduction in the bee population and, by implication, in pollenisation is jeopardising the production of fruit, vegetables and crops in the European Union.
in writing. - (DA) On behalf of Ole Christensen, Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, Dan Jørgensen, Britta Thomsen and Christel Schaldemose.
The Danish delegation of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has voted against the resolution concerning the situation in the beekeeping sector.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the resolution on the review of Recommendation 2001/331/EC providing for minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the Member States.
in writing. - (PT) Without doubt, we need to pay more attention to environmental issues and we need to adopt measures to prevent the constant environmental damage which is compromising the present and future of our planet and the quality of life of our citizens.
Both documents also underline the need to strengthen the European Union Network for the Implementation and Enforcement of Environmental Law (IMPEL) and to support environmental education and information provision, the specific content of which must be determined at local, regional or national level on the basis of the needs and problems identified in a given area.
