Explanations of vote Oral explanations of vote (DE) Mr President, I was unable to give my explanation because of the noise level, and I would like to do that now.
The aim is that Eurojust and the European Judicial Network should complement each other or cooperate, as appropriate, and thus guarantee security for the Member States. (DE) Mr President, with regard to the enforcement of judgments delivered in absentia, it is of no use to us in the European Union if we have excellent police cooperation on the one hand while on the other hand the system of criminal prosecution does not work as well as it could.
Much in the reports on which we have just voted - the Kaufmann, França, Brejc, Weber and Lambert reports - is there to give force to aspects of policy, to initiatives and, in the case of Eurojust, to an entire institution, that have no proper legal mandate.
I rise in relation to the Lambert report - and also in relation to the Bowles report, if you are calling me on that.
It should not be a responsibility of the European Union. (NL) Mr President, the rapporteur, Mrs Lambert, is right when she says that the Dublin objectives for asylum shopping have never been achieved; quite the reverse, in fact.
That is also true.
Mr President, I voted against the Bowles report.
The reality is that while I fully support a coordinated approach in the fight against fiscal fraud - and we do need serious examination and coordination in this area - any suggestion of tax approximation and/or a decrease in tax competition throughout the EU of 27 Member States as part of the solution in the fight against fiscal fraud is wholly unacceptable.
I am not sure if Europe - as in the Commission - realises the damage that is being done in Member States by constant references to centralising, controlling or reducing Member State competence in the tax area in any way.
It was a huge issue - albeit a non-issue in terms of relevance to the Lisbon Treaty - during the debate on our referendum on 12 June.
Please be very wary of messing in this particular area. (NL) Mr President, I did not vote against the Kaufmann report, although I am not at all convinced that the Europeanisation of our judicial systems or the establishment of a European public prosecutor's office are necessarily the right way to improve the working of the police and justice or the punishment of even cross-border crime.
Nevertheless, all this must not result in an overpaid and arrogant European justice system that is cut off from the real world, such as we have seen in the past few months, meddling in a way that goes far beyond the necessary cooperation between sovereign Member States.
For that second reason, therefore, I abstained from the final vote on the Kaufmann report.
Written explanations of vote in writing. - (FR) I voted for the legislative resolution based on the report by Greek Member Katerina Batzeli, approving, at first reading under the codecision procedure, the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Decision No 1719/2006/EC establishing the Youth in Action programme for the period 2007 to 2013.
I welcome and support the amendments which have replaced the advisory comitology procedure with an obligation on the Commission to inform the European Parliament and the Member States without delay about any measures taken for the implementation of the decision without the assistance of a committee, in order to allow selection decisions to be implemented more quickly and efficiently.
in writing. - (IT) I voted in favour of Mrs Batzeli's report and I greatly welcome the substantial increase in the relative funds.
The 'Youth in Action' programme has been an important instrument in recent years for involving the rising generation of our Union in the great European project: a vital link, therefore, for bringing the new generation closer to Europe and enabling them to take part in several really interesting political and cultural initiatives.
in writing. - I was very happy to vote in favour of this report, as I believe the Youth in Action programme is an excellent initiative.
in writing. - (SV) Culture is about fundamental long-term issues affecting nations and civilisations.
in writing. - I welcome Katerina Batzeli's report on the Youth in Action Programme.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the legislative resolution based on the report by Greek Member Katerina Batzeli, approving, at first reading under the codecision procedure, the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Decision No 1855/2006/EC establishing the Culture Programme (2007-2013).
I welcome and support the amendments which have replaced the advisory comitology procedure with an obligation on the Commission to inform the European Parliament and the Member States without delay about any measures taken for the implementation of the decision without the assistance of a committee, in order to allow selection decisions to be implemented more quickly and efficiently.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of this report because it aims at reducing the decision-making time for granting European financing though the Culture Programme 2007-2013.
in writing. - Katerina Batzeli's report on the Culture Programme for 2007-2013 streamlines the process by which financial support through the programme is decided.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, the reports by Katerina Batzeli put to the vote, which concern the Youth in Action programme (2007-2013), the Culture Programme (2007-2013), the Europe for Citizens' programme (2007-2013) and the Action programme in the field of lifelong learning, show that the procedures followed in the adoption of multi-annual programmes in the field of culture, youth education and active citizenship clearly make the preparation and implementation of those programmes more difficult.
The question is: does that result from the European Commission's bureaucratic style of operation or from a lack of understanding of the important subject of active citizenship?
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the legislative resolution based on the report by Greek Member Katerina Batzeli approving, at first reading under the codecision procedure, the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Decision No 1904/2006/EC establishing for the period 2007 to 2013 the programme 'Europe for Citizens' to promote active European citizenship.
I welcome and support the amendments which have replaced the advisory comitology procedure with an obligation on the Commission to inform the European Parliament and the Member States without delay about any measures taken for the implementation of the decision without the assistance of a committee, in order to allow selection decisions to be implemented more quickly and efficiently.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the legislative resolution based on the report by my Greek fellow Member Katerina Batzeli approving, at first reading under the codecision procedure, the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Decision No 1720/2006/EC establishing an action programme in the field of lifelong learning.
I welcome and support the amendments which have replaced the advisory comitology procedure with an obligation on the Commission to inform the European Parliament and the Member States without delay about any measures taken for the implementation of the decision without the assistance of a committee, in order to allow selection decisions to be implemented more quickly and efficiently.
in writing. - (DE) It is counterproductive to encourage our own people to learn on the one hand but come up with 'blue card' plans on the other, as the increase in atypical employment and fiercer competitive pressure have already ensured that good basic and further training is no longer a defence against unemployment.
It is well-known that education and training are essential priorities for the European Union, in order to achieve the Lisbon objectives.
For this reason, lifelong training should involve all social factors.
Nevertheless, the lifelong learning programmes should also focus on mature people.
The importance of education and training in the Lisbon Strategy for growth and employment has been acknowledged and the European Council has repeatedly emphasized the role of education and training in the European Union's long-term competitiveness.
This is why I voted this report completely confident, because we need to develop the programmes designed for these purposes and here I refer in particular to the recent EU Member States.
in writing. - (RO) The partnership and cooperation agreement (PCA) between the European Communities and the Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Uzbekistan, on the other hand, became effective on 1 July 1999, before the European Union's enlargement with the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania.
In relation with the situation in the region, this year, the conclusion of a European Union - Azerbaijan partnership is required in order to provide Europe with the possibility to continue its energy projects.
in writing. - (FR) Following the referendum held in Montenegro on 21 May 2006 on the country's independence, in which a majority (55.4%) voted in favour of an independent Montenegro, the Montenegrin parliament proclaimed Montenegro fully independent under international law on 3 June 2006.
Serbia recognised Montenegro's independence on 5 June 2006, and the Serbian parliament adopted a decision defining Serbia as the successor to the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro, which was the new name for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia under the terms of the Constitutional Charter of 4 February 2003.
in writing. - I shall be voting in favour of Helmut Markov's report.
in writing. - (FR) On the basis of the report by my excellent British fellow Member Neil Parish, I voted for the legislative resolution approving, under the consultation procedure, the proposal for a Council regulation amending the Council Regulation of June 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products.
The Council Regulation of 28 June 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products is supposed to come into force as a mandatory requirement from 1 January 2009.
The purpose of this proposal is to postpone the compulsory use of the EU logo pending the design of a new logo in order to help to avoid confusing consumers by changing EU logos within a short time period, and creating an additional financial burden for operators, who would have to change their packaging and print-outs within a very short time frame.
It is therefore proposed to postpone the compulsory use of the EU logo until 30 June 2010.
In the vote on this report, however, we were only faced with the question of postponing the compulsory use of the EU logo on organic products.
in writing. - I voted in favour of the Parish report which accepts the Commission's proposal to delay the introduction of the use of a compulsory EU organic label.
in writing. - I supported the Morillon report relating to the Southern Indian Ocean Fisheries Agreement.
in writing. - (FR) The European Parliament has just given its assent to the Southern Indian Ocean Fisheries Agreement signed by the European Community in 2006.
The requisite cooperation between Member States in judicial, police and even criminal matters must not result in their subjection to a supranational legal order that has been established in spite of all the differences existing between the legal systems and traditions of the Member States.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of Mrs Kaufmann's report on the European Judicial Network.
The significant changes in recent years in connection with judicial cooperation in criminal matters have made it necessary to introduce and strengthen structures which are able to provide assistance and coordination at European level.
in writing. - (SV) I am completely opposed to including religion, sexuality, political opinions, etc.
as relevant information to be sent between authorities, but in this report this is only mentioned in conjunction with additional safeguards and as an attempt to tighten up existing legislation.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the legislative resolution based on the report by Portuguese Member Armando França supporting the initiative by a number of Member States (the Republic of Slovenia, the French Republic, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Slovak Republic, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany) to amend a series of framework decisions (2002/584/JHA on the European arrest warrant, 2005/214/JHA on the mutual recognition of financial penalties, 2006/783/JHA on the principle of mutual recognition of confiscation orders, and 2008./.../JHA on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters) in order to make provision for the enforcement of decisions rendered in absentia.
I congratulate the rapporteur on the proposals presented in the report, which I consider to be crucial for harmonising procedural guarantees in all Member States and for reinforcing the protection of fundamental rights, such as the right to a defence and the right to a trial.
in writing. - I will be supporting this report on mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters.
Otherwise, just as we make no distinction between criminals in Manchester or London, neither should we if it is Madrid or Lisbon.
in writing. - (NL) I voted against the França report on application of the principle of mutual recognition to judgments in criminal matters, because the report is aimed at harmonising criminal justice at European level.
in writing. -? (RO) Mutual recognition is the cornerstone of judicial cooperation at European level and any clarification of the instruments for enforcing this principle is welcome.
in writing. - (RO) I voted in favour of Armando França's report on the enforcement of the principle of mutual recognition to confiscation orders and of the Framework Decision 2008./.../JHA on the recognition and enforcement of the principle of mutual recognition to judgments in criminal matters imposing punishments or measures involving deprivation of liberty for their enforcement in the European Union.
Every effort must be made to render judicial cooperation between Member States as effective as possible.
In my view the proposed amendments will not only considerably facilitate cooperation between courts but will above all help to reinforce the rights of the citizen with respect to the administration of justice throughout the European Union, especially the right of defence and the right to a retrial.
in writing. - (SV) This own-initiative report highlights fisheries and aquaculture within the context of Integrated Coastal Zone Management in Europe.
in writing. - (PT) I voted for the report by my fellow Member Mr Gklavakis on Fisheries and Aquaculture in the context of Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) in Europe, and congratulate him on its quality.
I do so because it stresses the economic and social importance of these activities for coastal regions, and calls for them to receive assistance within the framework of ICZM.
in writing. - The Gklavakis report rightly recognises the importance of fishing to coastal communities and the retention of cultural traditions.
The report correctly notes the need for bodies at EU, national and regional levels to cooperate in matters of coastal management, and I consider that, within this context, coastal areas and nations must take the lead role, with the EU acting as a facilitator.
in writing. - (IT) Fisheries and aquaculture are two of the principal activities underlying the economic and social development of the coastal zones of the European Union.
in writing. - (IT) I am voting in favour of the Gklavakis report which underlines the need for a European coastal zone strategy with a view to sustainable development.
in writing. - I abstained on this vote because I am in favour of sustainable fisheries everywhere and I support the coastal communities and fishermen of Ireland.
in writing. (FR) - On the basis of the report by my excellent Slovene fellow Member Mihael Brejc, I voted for the legislative resolution approving, at first reading under the codecision procedure, the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 562/2006 as regards the use of the Visa Information System (VIS) under the Schengen Borders Code.
In view of the expectations that Europe's citizens have when it comes to internal security, I wholeheartedly support the amendments to be made to the Schengen Borders Code in order to guarantee the effective use of the Visa Information System (VIS) at our external borders.
The European Union, a real sorcerer's apprentice in terms of security, with methods that all too often pose a threat to the security of states and their peoples, has imposed on us this area of insecurity lacking in freedoms and justice.
in writing. - (DE) I voted for Mihael Brejc's report on the use of the Visa Information System under the Schengen Borders Code.
in writing. - (IT) I am voting in favour of the Brejc report.
in writing. - (PL) I am in favour of amending Regulation No 562/2006 as regards the use of the Visa Information System (VIS) under the Schengen Borders Code.
in writing. - (RO) Today, I voted in favour of the Brejc report because, for the effciency of external border controls, the use of the VIS (Visa Information System) is of fundamental importance.
in writing. - (FR) On the basis of the report by Romanian Member Renate Weber, I voted for the European Parliament legislative resolution supporting the initiative of a number of Member States (Belgium, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Spain, France, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Austria, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Slovakia and Sweden) to strengthen Eurojust.
I support the strengthening of the 'data protection' element of the proposal and the fact that the European Parliament is to receive more information so that it is better able to monitor the tasks and duties of Eurojust, which was set up in 2002 as a European Union body with legal personality whose role is to promote and improve coordination and cooperation between the competent judicial authorities in the Member States.
in writing. - (FR) I welcome the adoption of Mrs Lambert's report on the evaluation of the Dublin system.
The report opens the debate on the future of the common European asylum policy which was launched in June 2007 with the publication of a Green Paper.
in writing. - The Council's proposal and the related report on the amendment to the Eurojust Regulation give even greater power to this repressive EU mechanism.
in writing. - The Maltese Islands are the Southern frontier of the EU.
in writing. - (FR) I voted for the report by British Member Jean Lambert on the Dublin system, and I applaud the work done by my friend Patrick Gaubert, who was the rapporteur for our PPE Group.
All of this shows the urgent need for a European immigration and asylum policy, and I welcome the work done by the current President of the Council with responsibility for this field, my friend Brice Hortefeux, the French Minister for Immigration, Integration, National Identity and Mutually-Supportive Development, who has just chaired the European ministerial conference on the right of asylum on 8 and 9 September 2008 in Paris.
in writing. - (CS) I voted against the report on the evaluation of the Dublin system because I believe that it would not improve the system but, on the contrary, would create an obstacle to its effective operation.
The various injustices in its application set out in this report confirm its reactionary nature.
This is sanctioned by the Dublin Regulation, and was made a reality by the creation of Frontex for the expulsion of refugees from the EU's borders, by the recent directive on their detention for up to 18 months, by approving the extension of the use of Eurodac for other purposes as well, such as to keep files on them, and by the generally inhumane treatment.
It is therefore clear that we need to fight hard to repeal this regulation and the EU's anti-refugee policy in general.
in writing. - (PT) We believe the report contains positive points in its assessment of the Dublin system in relation to asylum applications in signatory Member States.
Hence our abstention.
in writing. - (SV) I voted in favour of Jean Lambert's own-initiative report on the Dublin system, although it contains opinions which I do not share.
The reason why I voted yes is that I concur with the strong criticism found in the report of the way in which the current EU rules undermine the rights of asylum seekers, for example, by transferring asylum seekers to Member States which are unable to guarantee complete and fair treatment.
in writing. - I voted in favour of my colleague, Ms Lambert's, report on the evaluation of the Dublin system.
in writing. - I have voted in favour of the Lambert report on the evaluation of the Dublin system.
After the unacceptable draft Directive on non-refoulement, adopted in June, the European Parliament is stressing today that asylum seekers have rights under European legislation and that the Member States have obligations.
Unless a satisfactory and uniform level of protection is reached across the entire European Union, the Dublin system will always produce unsatisfactory results, both from the technical and human point of view and the asylum applicants will continue to have solid reasons to address their application to a certain Member State in order to benefit from the most favourable decisions at national level.
The large number of multiple applications and the small number of transfers performed indicate deficiencies in the Dublin system and the need to create a common European asylum system.
in writing. - (SV) This own-initiative report focuses on potentially improving and increasing the protection provided for asylum seekers, but I distance myself from the statement in the report that a common asylum system would resolve this problem.
in writing. - (SV) Today the European Parliament adopted a report which clearly and critically points out the weaknesses of the current Dublin system.
Amendment 5 criticises some countries for systematically depriving asylum seekers of their liberty by placing them in detention.
I did this first and foremost in order to express my approval of the report's clear criticism of the way in which existing EU regulations undermine the rights of asylum seekers, for example by contributing to the transfer of asylum seekers to Member States that cannot guarantee full and fair processing of their applications.
in writing. - (NL) The agreements on Dublin II are based on the political fiction that the 27 Member States trust each other when it comes to dealing with asylum applications and that all Member States assume their responsibilities in the same principled way.
Whilst there is not an adequate and consistent level of protection in all 27 Member States, in my view Dublin II is not much more than a political fiction and it creates gross injustice.
It deserves our full support.
in writing. - (PL) One of the consequences of the free movement of persons in the European Union is the growth in cross-border car traffic.
in writing. - The Mladenov report gives an appropriate degree of prominence to consumer organisations in the evaluation of motor insurance.
in writing. - I would like to thank Mr Mladenov, our Committee rapporteur.
in writing. - (PL) In 2003-2005 some 17 000 citizens of third countries were sent to another EU Member State to have their application for asylum examined there.
in writing. - (SV) Fiscal fraud causes major financial losses for Member States and reduces opportunities to maintain and improve the quality of the services that we finance through our taxes.
However, we abstained from voting in the final vote due to several amendments in which tax competition between Member States was seen as something positive and in which the attitude towards the damaging effects of tax havens on the economies of Member States was toned down.
Fiscal revenue, in other words the total amount of taxes and compulsory social contributions, accounted for 39.3% of the European Union's GDP in 2004, at EUR 4 100 billion.
in writing. - (PT) We voted against this final resolution, since the majority in the European Parliament overlooks the true causes of the principal fiscal fraud - the existence of tax havens - although there are some positive proposals that we voted in favour.
In this instance, the solutions proposed to improve the fight against fiscal fraud involve the levying of tax in the country of origin and the setting up of a clearing house that would make individual Member States' tax receipts dependent on transfers made by other Member States.
in writing. - (SV) The fight against fiscal fraud is of course worthy of full support.
Paragraph 3 states that 'in order to be operational, a VAT system based on the "origin principle” requires tax approximation between countries to avoid tax competition'.
in writing. - I fully support the fight against fiscal fraud and recognise that there needs to be close cooperation between administrative authorities in each Member State and the Commission in order to achieve this.
Sharon Bowles rightly points out that tax fraud has serious consequences for national budgets.
According to various sources, VAT losses range from EUR 60 to 100 billion per annum across the European Union, which results in an increased need to call on Member States' own resources based on gross national income (GNI).
in writing. - (DE) After ten years of beating about the bush, we still cannot agree on effective methods with which we can put a stop to VAT fraud - which, after all, involves the evasion of taxes equivalent to between 2 and 2.5% of Europe's economic output.
The reverse-charge system looks quite nice on paper but still seems too embryonic, which is why most of the calls we have been hearing are still for better cooperation between Member States.
in writing. - The UK Conservative delegation regrets that it is unable to support the report by Mrs Bowles.
We recognise that tax fraud is a serious problem and that it needs to be tackled with great urgency, and in particular that a solution needs to be found to the so called "carousel" fraud in respect of VAT.
