I thank my colleagues on the Committee on Budgets for their support and input into this procedure, but above all I should like to thank the Committee on Budgets staff who have enabled all of this to be put together.
So we will know exactly what the legislative programme for the Union will be in February 2007.
The 2007 budget framework concentrates also on another important point, namely cooperation beween the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee.
The improvement of monitoring quality in the Member States is a recurrent issue in this Europe of ours, and it calls for more commitment on the part of the Council; perhaps Mrs Wideroos, the minister, will be so good as to affirm that the Council accepts the result from conciliation with this House achieved on 21 November, for if she does not, this House will not be voting on the 2007 Budget on Thursday.
This House will not be denied its right to voice an opinion when what we are trying to do is to play a constructive role in the handling of the EU's money.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to be here in Parliament discussing the 2007 budget, in a situation where the template for a very lengthy drafting process is clearly apparent.
That way this Council Regulation can be passed this Wednesday, that is to say 13 December, after Parliament has delivered its opinion on it.
On behalf of the Council, I wish to thank Parliament for allowing both budgetary powers to decide jointly now on pilot projects.
The Council will act responsibly in the years to come.
The budgetary powers are showing a sense of responsibility and realism in not using the Flexible Instrument in 2007.
This is very important for all of us because it is the first budget for the 'new Europe' of 27 Member States.
The result was achieved when we met on 21 November in conciliation and finalised in a week.
I am talking not only about the package for the 2007 budget, but also the Financial Regulation package.
I would like to say that today the discussion is very important as a final stage for Thursday's vote and I am very grateful to all who made this day happen.
With regard to Louis Grech, I want to say that his levels of cooperation were excellent and that we finally agreed on all the main budget lines.
The main thing, however, is that there have been good levels of cooperation and the budget will be signed on Thursday.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mrs Grybauskaitė, Mrs Wideroos, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I should like to say a big thank you to all of those involved in this budgetary procedure and, in particular, to our rapporteurs, Mr Grech and Mr Elles, without forgetting Mrs Gräßle and Mr Pittella, and our secretariats.
Thanks to them, we have been able to establish a budget that fully respects Parliament's budgetary powers.
Let me be clear: the global transfer votes or the SABs, which are as important now as they were in the past, are excluded.
Through this budget agreement we have achieved sound results.
We have ensured a budget that fulfils our political desires within the framework drawn up.
Agricultural aid accounts for approximately one third of the nearly EUR 126 billion of the budget.
Most of the 2007 budget is thus being spent on ensuring growth and solidarity within the EU.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FR) Mr President, having heard the Commission and the Council, I am delighted that an agreement is in prospect.
Among the changes is support for studies on the added value of the programmes, but we, for our part, are already looking ahead to the thorough review announced for 2008 and 2009.
I shall conclude by thanking the four musketeers from the Committee on Budgets -Mr Elles, Mr Grech, Mrs Gräßle and Mr Pittella - without whom nothing would have been possible.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, Minister Lehtomäki, next year's budget is less than 1% of combined GDP.
In negotiations on the budget, Parliament agreed to increase this militarisation expenditure when the Council agreed to compromise on the wording of the new Financial Regulation.
Given these circumstances, it would suit our group very well if Parliament were to use its budgetary powers and cut militarisation expenditure, which the Council has set as a priority area.
It is the first year of the new financial framework and not all the structural or other programmes are yet ready.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, taking the floor in the debate on the 2007 budget on behalf of the UEN Group, I would like to remind you that this budget is an extremely important financial plan for the European Union for at least two reasons.
Secondly, it is the first budget of an enlarged European Union, a Union of the 27 Member States.
The European Parliament has proved itself up to the task and has proposed spending of 122 billion euros, in other words 1.04 of the GNP of the European Union.
Fortunately, the unavoidable financial cuts resulting from the Council lowering the level of spending have only affected the new Member States to a limited extent.
The European Parliament's agreement to return the funding for the Common Foreign and Security Policy to a level of nearly 160 million euros should mean that the Council and Commission will, more than they have so far, take into account the suggestions of Parliament regarding the direction and implementation of foreign policy.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (SV) Mr President, there is a copious stream of exhortations from various EU institutions to the Member States about how important it is for them to reduce their public expenditure.
At the same time, this House constantly demands increased expenditure at EU level.
The Member States' expenditure is subject to continuous democratic scrutiny.
In brief, the Member States have some effective democratic control over the way in which taxpayers' money is used, while the EU institutions and this House have not. (SK) It is generally true that what is approved by democratic agreement with a large majority of votes tends to be good.
I assume that this premise will also apply after the voting next Thursday on the European Union's general budget for 2007.
With this amending budget, we are giving the Member States back more than EUR 7 billion.
This amount is partly due to the inclusion in the budget of a substantial increase in estimated revenue, and is partly attributable to a high level of under-utilisation of the appropriations voted on and available in the budget, in particular EUR 4 billion.
We wanted to incorporate this debate in the one on the general budget precisely because the return of EUR 7 billion is not a trivial matter, but one that ought to worry us.
Thus, instead of limiting ourselves to what is, by now, the tiresome exercise of blaming the European bureaucratic machine - the so-called Brussels eurocracy - let us also take a little look at our national situations, because if we more closely analyse the way in which our national public apparatus works, and if we call on the governments to work together in improving their administrative performance, then we might not have this figure of a EUR 7 billion return next year. (ES) Mr President, I have been taking part in budgetary debates for twelve years and I have never seen a President of Parliament withdraw the microphone from the main rapporteur.
I am aware that I made my interruption at the end of the speech and do not think Mr Elles had anything else of substance to say. (DE) Mr President, before I deliver my speech, I would just like to say to Mr Garriga Polledo that I, too, can look back on 12 years of budget debates in this House and in those 12 years I have never before seen a rapporteur on the Budget, once his own speech was over, simply get up and not listen to what the Members of this House had to say.
In particular, Commissioner Grybauskaitė, I can only urge the Commission to seize the initiative for 2008 and 2009, when we will have to give some thought to the preparatory work for the next Financial Perspective.
I think it highly regrettable that we have not done this as much as might be desirable when debates in this House are in the offing. (PT) I wish to thank Mrs Gräßle, Mrs Grybauskaitand, of course, the Council on the success of negotiations on the new financial regulation.
However, pointless expenses only exist in national budgets of Member States, not in our tiny community budget.
I am sorry to say this, but I think we are heading towards the wrong direction. (SK) The 2007 budget is the first in a seven-year programming period and as such has undeniable strategic significance for the years ahead.
It is extremely important that we step into the new financial period resolutely and sensibly.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the members of the Committee on Budgets, and all negotiators for their work in negotiating the European Union's budget for 2007.
In particular, I appreciate the support of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament for the effort made by the new Member States in reducing the administrative reserve by EUR 50 million.
The remaining budgetary headings, in particular heading 3 'Citizenship', represent a communication budget, for women, young people, consumers, the unemployed, people who have been made redundant, people who have been assaulted ...
There is, in fact, a homepage - set up by me - on the subject of our experience with the Financial Regulation, on which the EU institutions or their advisors can provide us with information on how things are working out with the changed Financial Regulation.
Indeed, every time, the Committee on Budgets does a huge amount of work, and we find ourselves penalised by the time allotted to us to present our work and to explain the way in which we have worked and the outcome we have achieved.
Truly, a very large job has been completed - all political groups and the Committee on Budgets have really worked quite intensively, so I would like to thank them too, because it was a task involving political responsibility.
I would also like to thank my people, my Directorate, who is sitting here and who put in a lot of effort so that we could discuss this today, that is, what we are now doing.
The vote on the Elles and Grech reports will take place on Thursday.
