Rules for the operation of air services in the Community (recast) (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the recommendation for second reading by Arūnas Degutis, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community (recast) (16160/4/2007 - C6-0176/2008 -.
The Council has unreservedly accepted 29 of Parliament's amendments and rejected 8, primarily because of technicalities.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we can accept the Council common position.
I believe that the agreement on the table, following Parliament's first reading in July 2007 and the adoption of the Council's common position in November, allows us to achieve the main objectives.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I want to thank Mr Degutis warmly for the good cooperation on this liberalisation package.
I congratulate the rapporteur on reaching an agreement both with the Commission and the Council and I welcome the result, in spite of the fact that a general consensus has not yet been reached regarding certain social conditions (working time and maximum working hours).
I must also make mention of the report's tightening of the 'wet lease' rules for aircraft outside the EU and its commitment to ensuring that social dumping is not acceptable when airlines lease in aircraft - again, something that has happened in the past.
Firstly, the anticipated measures would not only allow an increase in the transparency of air fares but would also help to combat misleading information, as has been mentioned before, as well as dishonest competition.
Today we want to make a reality of the Regulations from some 16 years ago on common rules for the operation of air services in the Community.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you sincerely for this debate and Parliament's commitment to seeing through to completion this text, which is essential to the functioning of the single aviation market.
rapporteur. - (LT) Even without knowing tomorrow's results, I would like to thank my fellow Members and the Commission representatives.
