I think it strange that it should take the Council so long to come up with a common position on the seven directives that are intended to prevent maritime pollution disasters and also to reinforce preparedness for when things go wrong.
The issue of ports of refuge has been a bone of contention between Parliament and the Council.
With regard to the Directive on port State control, a consensus is emerging on the principles proposed by the Commission, namely that all ships must be inspected, and that ships in poor condition must be inspected extra thoroughly.
Port State control must meet a suitable standard in order to render controls more uniform in all EU ports.
The ALDE Group fully supports the position of the rapporteur, Mrs Vlasto, and thus backs the reintroduction of a number of first reading proposals.
It is a difficult balance to strike, and there are some suggestions from Parliament's first proposal that the Council has not accepted, which we are therefore reintroducing.
Mr President, Commissioner, firstly I would like to express my appreciation to all the rapporteurs on this package for the fact that they are maintaining a consistent approach on this extremely important maritime legislation.
At the same time, I would like to express my group's fears regarding two points in Mrs Vlasto's report on port State control.
Firstly, it seems to us that, in relation to small States with small fleets, recital 13 was much better expressed in the common position than in the current version drafted by Parliament's committee.
I think that the Council common position had a very much more balanced approach towards EU Member States with small fleets.
I therefore call upon you in this instance to support the position adopted in the Council common position on this issue.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the catastrophes associated with the names Estonia, Erika and Prestige have shocked Europe.
The common position of June 2008 restricted liability and the obligation to inform.
Two sections have found their way into the Costa report on the liability of carriers of passengers that ensure that the same level of liability is imposed on carriers of passengers by inland waterway as is imposed on carriers of passengers on the high seas.
It strikes me as abundantly clear and logical that the same level of liability should not be imposed on such carriers as is imposed on large carriers of thousands of passengers by sea.
We must not make ourselves a laughing stock by imposing a sky-high, extremely expensive level of liability on carriers of passengers by inland waterway.
The Chair of the Committee on Transport and Tourism should never have declared the amendments concerned admissible, as there was already agreement on this matter at first reading between the Council and Parliament.
There should be no unfair competition at the expense of European shipping. (PT) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the shadow rapporteur for the report by Mr Costa and as rapporteur for the 'flag State' report, I should like to comment on the civil liability of passenger carriers and on the package as a whole.
The Scottish Government recently announced that a new operator is to resume a ferry service between Rosyth and Zeebrugge.
A serious issue is the enactment of shipowners' civil liability to compensate the victims of maritime accidents, in accordance with the 2002 Protocol to the IMO Athens Convention, which the governments of the EU Member States refuse to ratify.
There must also be one person bearing ultimate responsibility for an investigation - as citizens find it very unclear, and lacking in transparency, if three Member States each carry out their own investigation.
Thirdly, we must not only investigate rare accidents that receive extensive media coverage, but also, as the PPE-DE Group sees it, investigate other serious accidents meriting investigation according to the ground rules of this Directive.
I would ask the Council, therefore, to hold firm on this point, and I hope that no qualified majority is reached for Amendments 11 and 20 tomorrow. (PL) Madam President, we have been recalling examples of disasters - ones that are known throughout Europe.
Mrs Wortmann-Kool is right to say that we need to investigate the causes of potential disasters and prevent disasters from happening.
However - and now we come to a very particular point, to which some of my fellow Members have already alluded - the incorporation of inland waterway transport in the rules on liability is a European act of folly without parallel.
I would like to state that the new version of the Paris Memorandum entered into force on 17 September 2008.
It is essential that all ships entering European harbours should comply with certain safety standards.
Let me remind you that the black and grey lists published on 18 June 2008 on the Paris Memorandum website include one and six Member States respectively.
I believe that the masters' liability in the case of passenger freight should apply to inland waterways as well.
I would like to congratulate my colleagues who worked on and negotiated this maritime package.
All that remains for me to say is that, from our point of view, there are some reservations regarding the guarantees needed in order to ensure that ports of refuge are the ports that we all need. (EL) Madam President, the serious maritime accidents we have witnessed on European seas must certainly not be repeated.
The question of ports of refuge and of the vessel inspection system is crucial in maritime safety.
I would like to end by congratulating the rapporteurs on their strong position with regard to the Council, and I hope that after the vote the Council, understanding our position, will contribute positively towards completing the legislative procedure. (BG) Madam President, Commissioner, safety of the maritime transport sector is an important element of transport policy owing to the fact that a large part of the goods are carried by sea and by water.
This is exceedingly important, and I congratulate the rapporteur on this subject. (LT) The safety of sea transport, prompt response to accidents and the efficiency of accident investigations are of vital importance to the countries of the Baltic Region.
Moreover, it is very important that the same methods of investigating incidents are employed in all the Member States.
Of course, I am slightly disappointed that we have entered the conciliation procedure, but I am encouraged to continue our dialogue and to bring it to completion.
I have heard this and I will pass it on to the Council at our meeting on 9 October.
In the words of a compatriot of the Commissioner, Mr Tajani, the chairman, Mr Costa, and Antonio Gramsci, in these discussions we are seeking to balance the pessimism of our intelligence with the optimism of our will.
Whatever the case, I thank Parliament in advance for everything it can do to fuel this optimism.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my thanks to Mr Bussereau for the commitment that he continues to show.
Finally, three amendments - 18, 19 and 20 - are designed to add to the directive a mechanism to resolve any disagreement between Member States regarding a single investigation.
This is the aim of Amendments 12, 13 and 14, (first part), which the Commission endorses.
With regard to the Vlasto report, on port State control, I would like to thank the rapporteur and Parliament for their support for this proposal, which will lead to the implementation of an ambitious new inspection system for Europe.
For this reason, I cannot accept Amendments 19 or 23.
With regard to the amendments, I would say that Amendments 27 and 28 make changes to the civil liability regime of the recognised bodies, and these seem to us to be inconsistent in practice.
If a competent authority in a Member State takes a decision, there can indeed be a problem with the compensation of ports of refuge to which ships may possibly be taken.
I had a relatively simple solution to this, namely placing financial responsibility on the Member State in that case.
This responsibility must be clearly defined because, without responsibility on the part of the flag state, it will be impossible to take this package forward.
I guarantee you that we will come to agreement even on the limited overall liability that all shipowners would like to have, faced with the need for each passenger to be treated in the same way.
Finally, Mr Sterckx made a recommendation to us as Spanish people: for us to have the sensitivity to take on board his proposals.
On the other hand, it is important for the European Union to increase the number of ships registered with its Member States.
