Madam President, yesterday's incident has nothing to do with the fact that certain posts have not yet been approved.
However, there is no direct link to yesterday's incident. (Applause) Absolutely, Mr Schmid, that is what I said myself: yesterday' s incident is one thing, the general security problem is another.
Madam President, I also wish to address item 23 in yesterday's Minutes concerning security.
It is an extremely serious and vitally important point, because security in this House is not good enough.
We have had a very lively discussion in our own political group this morning on this matter, and I am going to ask you, Madam President, to convene a special meeting of the Bureau so that all these matters can be discussed.
Thank you Mr Provan.
That being so, on 30 May, we will look at the whole situation in all its aspects.
A Member in my group has apparently been mislead in this matter.
I want to say that I am all the more distressed about this incident because I do not think it serves the cause of the men and women who are dying every day in Turkey at this moment, and I believe that is the real tragedy. (Applause) Thank you very much indeed for that statement, Mr Wurtz.
Quite, Mrs Pack.
Is that what you said yesterday, Mr Berthu?
In this respect it is right, however - as you said - that the relevant provision is Rule 143 of our Rules of Procedure.
Madam President, with regard to my speech on the debate about the inadmissibility or supposed inadmissibility of the Schleicher report on the status of parties, I asked for the point to be included in the agenda for today, but I would like to add the following: I made this request pursuant to Rule 111 of the Rules of Procedure, which gives the President the authority to propose it, and I would like this point to be added because here we are not debating a referral back to committee, but whether a commando act during a plenary sitting of Parliament can modify the agenda and wipe a subject as important as this from the attention of the Members of this House for years to come, basically, for ever.
Quite, Mr Barón Crespo.
Mr Dell'Alba, you want to speak against this proposal.
This does not actually involve either Europe or the citizens as such, but only the bureaucracies of the European political parties.
Secondly, while Rule 111 does indeed authorise you to take a proposal for an amendment, that Rule also stipulates that the agenda cannot be amended, except pursuant to Rules 112, 143 and so on.
Mr Berthu told me that he himself had thought of asking for a referral back to committee, but then in effect I realised that the vote had been taken under Rule 143 and not 144.
Mr Dell'Alba, I want you to know that before using Rule 111, I naturally gave the matter a great deal of thought.
Today, all 15 Member States of the European Union are ruled by democratic forms of state, and therefore by governments composed of varying combinations of political parties.
The European Parliament is the only institution of the European Union which is legitimated by direct, free elections.
The European Parliament is also regarded as the cradle of European parties.
Cooperation in the groups required there to be increasingly close contacts between their constituent parties and with the national parties.
In this way, new international party structures and European parties gradually developed.
I should simply like to refer to the fact that the European People's Party has been in existence since 1976, the Party of European Socialists since 1992, the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party since 1993 and finally the European Federation of Green Parties also since 1993.
If my information is correct, two more European parties have apparently been founded since then, which means that we already have at least six European parties now.
The number of parties represented in national parliaments varies considerably across the Member States.
Our 626 Members of the European Parliament, at any rate, hail from 130 different national parties.
These different national parties have combined in the European Parliament to form eight groups, alongside the 14 non-attached Members.
In response to these various developments, Parliament has been calling for a legal base for European parties since the eighties.
The adoption of the Treaty of Maastricht ten years ago brought a breakthrough for the European Parliament in the shape of Article 191, which was adopted unanimously by the governments of the Member States.
To continue this work, European parties need, for example, office space and employees, which means, in other words, money.
Up until now the European parties have been supported by their groups in the European Parliament.
The European Union budget already provides funds for the current financial year in line B3-500: EUR 7 million for all parties.
The European parties are not permitted to use their funds to finance national parties.
Today we are taking the first step and until the Council makes a unanimous decision we can unfortunately only deliver an opinion.
The Council is full of good intentions to do all it can to bring this dossier to a conclusion, possibly even under the Swedish Presidency.
That is, we are getting closer to the citizens and strengthening democracy.
This Regulation, which comes in the wake of the Tsatsos report and incorporates the essence of the philosophy behind it, is the first great achievement of the Institutional Arch on which European democracy is founded.
It opens the door for the speedy conclusion of the statute of Members and assistants and also for the much needed uniform electoral law for the European Parliament.
That is why we need to amend our Rules of Procedure.
I should particularly like to express my appreciation - and for me as a democrat this was a cheering sight yesterday - of the fact that after yesterday's tumult four conscientious groups immediately realised their responsibility for Europe - the Christian Democrats, the EPP, the Socialists, the Liberals and the Greens - and sought a way out of the situation.
That was a test of democracy here in the European Parliament and I would expressly thank the other groups who took that step with us.
There, where democracy is only just being established, it is even more important than it is here for democratic structures to gain stability.
Obviously there will also always be the temptation of political opportunism to say yes or no to a political party.
Parties will have their flaws, but there is no pluralist democracy in the world without political parties that represent the will of the people.
In the United States we have just seen the McCain initiative on soft money and hard money.
Mr President, I have little time, that is why I hardly have the opportunity to highlight the importance of the forming of European parties.
Finally, we should be acutely aware of the fact that the citizens keep a watchful eye over the system.
The parties represented in our group have differing positions on the political proposal on European political parties.
The direct link to the people is not actually forged through Europe; it exists at national and regional level.
I should like to ask Messrs Poettering and Barón Crespo to reconsider their words.
They get involved in society through other organisations of civil society, such as citizens' action groups and non-governmental organisations.
Quite apart from that, I am convinced, personally, that European parties, as it states in Article 191 of the Treaty, do actually constitute an important factor for integration.
That is why I support Mrs Schleicher's report and would also thank the Commission for its initiative.
Legal certainty, financial discipline and transparency are indispensable, and I think that in particular the proposals on the statute, and especially the requirement for complete transparency of finances and any donations, should definitely be included in the Regulation.
On the contrary, we believe that this Regulation is against political parties on a totally illegal basis, because it is not provided for in the Treaties.
Given the ups and downs that this Regulation has been going through, it would not surprise me if, when the Court of Auditors first dealt with the matter, it raised the questions of the lack of legal base that have been discussed here itself.
I should also like to draw your attention to Article 191.
The Treaty of Nice introduces a special legal basis for aid to parties and thereby demonstrates that there is no legal basis in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The Court of Justice has laid down that Article 308 cannot be used instead of Treaty changes.
It deals with political parties at European level and, in a special declaration, rules out discrimination.
The Schleicher report would provide some parties with special aid not available to other parties.
I think the Court of Justice in Luxembourg will find the matter ... (The President cut the speaker off) Mr Dupuis, you too are part of this Parliament.
Then there are some other points: this report speaks of 'lasting' parties.
There is a political judgment inherent in this report: the Bureau of Parliament will be called upon to decide whether a party is worthy or not of receiving funding.
Jules Maaten tells us so many fine things about where the funding for the parties is to come from.
They are the expression, they should be the expression of civil society, and therefore either civil society, the citizens (nobody has said anything about the citizens) give money to the parties, and so the parties survive because they are the expression of civil society, or they are condemned to die, as quite rightly they should die if they do not represent anyone.
You have invented a new tax for the citizens, which forces them to finance your bureaucracies.
Mr Barón thinks that somebody here is against parties!
Rule 111 Paragraph 2 provides, you see, that the agenda may not be amended, except in pursuance of Rule 143, amongst others, or on a proposal from the President.
Since here the case in Rule 143 has occurred the second case does not apply.
I have one comment on the legal base: in COM document 2000/444 the Commission also proposed adding a legal base for the statute to Article 191.
Going back to serious matters and serious speeches, I am the secretary-general of a European political party and moreover, I would like to stress, of a party that does not sit in the European Parliament.
It is the only party that has its own headquarters, a small house in Brussels that is separate from the European Parliament, and funding that for the most part (more than 70%) is not dependent on the parliamentary group but on the parties that are members of our political family.
Because those of us who believe in a political Europe, and in my group we do, of course, believe in this, know that the parties are a fundamental part of a political union.
Europe needs parties that deal with and work in the whole of the Union, and this is what will give cohesion and coherence to the European Union.
Because, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a political union, a Europe of 23, 25, 27 or more Member States is going to be increasingly difficult to manage.
I can imagine the different European political families meeting prior to the meetings of the European Council with 27 prime ministers and reaching consensuses that will enable the European Union to move forward with a firm step towards the future.
Madam President, this proposal will probably succeed as a transitional measure to regularise what is at present a flawed system of financing our fledgling political parties.
I agree, however, with some of the critics who say that the proposal in front of us will not provide a lasting statute for the development of campaigning political parties, which are an essential factor should our vibrant transnational European parliamentary democracy flourish.
We hope that the fact that there was a sort of forced passage this morning is not going to secure the future of this text because, for us, it is imperative to have transparent financing for these European political parties.
Everyone is perfectly well aware of what that means too: when a company finances a party, it is hoping for advantages in return.
I hereby announce that if private companies are allowed to use their money to buy political parties at European level, our group will not vote for this report at the end of the day.
They will have problems because it stands to reason that this Regulation cannot be implemented with Article 308 as its legal basis.
This is completely clear following the Court of Justice' s pronouncement of 28 March 1996.
Madam President, the proposal for a regulation on the statute and financing of European political parties is both inappropriate for all the reasons I shall set out in my explanation of vote, and is also lacking a legal basis.
It is actually based on Article 308 (former Article 235) of the Treaty establishing the European Community, but that cannot be used unless there is a Community power in existence first and no such power to act has been provided for.
The Court of Justice clearly established this, in its opinion of 28 March 1996 on the possibility of the Community becoming a signatory to the European Convention of Human Rights using Article 308 as the basis.
It declared that the use of Article 308 in such a case was impossible, because no prior general Community power existed to define and modify fundamental rights.
Article 191 of the Treaty mentions them, but that only has declaratory value, because it does not entrust any mission to the Community as regards those political parties.
Therefore that article can in no case serve as a point of departure for using Article 308, that is clear.
The provisions being introduced here have been national law and have applied to the national parties in all the Member States for a long time, despite varying rules.
To all those who are now talking about parties I do have to say that each of us is sitting here because he was the candidate of a political party at national level.
They are an essential part of a functioning democracy and constitute a link between citizens, the groups and the public in the opinion-forming and decision-making process.
The Regulation helps to increase transparency in respect of the funding of political work, create greater clarity, and separate group and party work, something which the European People's Party - my friend Alejandro Agag has spoken about this - has been working hard to achieve for some time already, harder than the other parties.
This Regulation is, however, also a basic prerequisite for a debate which we need to have on common electoral law and on common rules governing incompatibility for Members of Parliament in the different countries, and a prerequisite for the debate on the possibility of European parties standing in European parliamentary elections.
We are in favour of the right to have recourse to legal action, enshrining the Charter of Fundamental Rights as a qualitative pre-condition for parties, European parties having legal personality and putting an end to cross-financing.
In reality, Mrs Schleicher, the pompous name of European political party disguises a trick as old as the hills, the great lottery for the benefit of the lottery organisers or, if you prefer, a comfortable pension granted to the parliamentary groups most docile towards the institutions this Parliament is actually either responsible for controlling - like the Commission - or supposed to share decision-making power with - the Council: a pension granted by those institutions themselves.
I have to say that my group and my delegation are opposed in principle to the regulation or financing of political parties at a European level.
We, like others in this Chamber, have deep concerns that the proposed funding for European political parties has no legal base.
It follows from this that we cannot favour a legal provision for state funding of political parties at European level.
State funding of European political parties is quite different, therefore, to state funding of political groups within the European Parliament.
Our view also is that the Schleicher report does not follow the principles of the Nice Declaration.
In conclusion, my late grandfather, Harold Macmillan, always held the view that Members of Parliament should not be paid, because when they were paid it attracted the wrong sort of chap.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are firmly convinced that Article 191 of the Treaty establishes an important principle.
They contribute to forming a European awareness and to expressing the political will of the citizens of the Union." If this is the case and if the European parties are also to play the role assigned to them, then they need, in an open and transparent way, to be put on a sound and legitimate footing and to receive the necessary resources to do their work.
This, in essence, is the reasoning behind the proposal for a regulation on the financing of European political parties which we are debating today.
At this stage I should also like briefly once again to address the issue of the legal base for the proposal and, particularly with regard to yesterday's debate, emphasise once more that the Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, has obviously checked very carefully what the legal base is and can be.
Article 191, as it stands in the Treaty of Maastricht, is merely declarative in nature and does not contain a specific provision which would make it possible to adopt the requisite legislation.
We understood the urgent appeal which was made to us last year in the wake of the Court of Auditors' report which criticised current practices, namely to find ways and means to establish a sound legal base.
At the same time, we proposed interim rules on the basis of Article 308.
We also share the view that European political parties ought to have legal personality.
Secondly, the Commission has considerable difficulties with Amendment No 21 on penalties.
Funds are granted by the Commission in accordance with the usual rules.
Article 274 offers neither the Council nor Parliament the opportunity to intervene in the budget's penal system.
Amendments Nos 33, 46 and 57, which concern the same issue, do - as I have said - merit discussion.
It is in the interests of democracy and in the interests of democracy in the Community.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we Members think of the Council of the European Union we are by no means always filled with a deep sense of happiness.
We have acted in concert and made good progress in the fight against serious cross-border crime.
I should like to express my thanks for this, in a personal capacity and on behalf of Parliament, but especially on behalf of the people who live in the European Union.
By so doing we want to create a judicial coordination unit which is as effective as possible and which works closely with the institutional partners, such as Europol, and the European Judicial Network.
It incorporates the essential features of my ideal of a European public prosecutor and goes far beyond the minimal concept occasionally put forward, which is based on the belief that it is quite sufficient to protect the financial interests of the European Union.
The fight must target cross-border fraud, corruption and crimes against the financial interests of the European Community just as much as computer crime.
Of course Eurojust's general responsibilities must also include all of the other forms of crime and offences in respect of which Europol, as a police authority, is competent to act, including such dreadful crimes as trafficking in human beings or terrorist acts, which we have to read about every day in the newspaper.
When collecting, processing and using personal data the international rules of the Council of Europe and the individual rules of the Member States apply equally in each case.
In conclusion, allow me to say that the Belgian government has announced that it wishes to complete the preparations for the definitive Eurojust unit during its presidency.
With this undertaking and the agreement of Parliament on my report - which I earnestly request - Europe is striking a powerful blow against international crime.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, one and a half years have passed since the Tampere Council decided to set up Eurojust as a European coordination unit for criminal prosecution authorities and public prosecutors.
After Europol, the creation of Eurojust is a further important step towards combating organised cross-border crime in Europe more effectively.
Eurojust has, first and foremost, a clearing function.
Eurojust and the European Judicial Network should not stand alongside each other or only enter loosely into contact with each other; they need to be bound together in one unit.
Madam President, the construction of the European Union as an area of freedom, security and justice is making steady progress and growing day by day, although rather more slowly than some of us would like.
Today we are discussing two important segments of judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
The more important is precisely the creation of Eurojust, which has already been started off with the setting up of the provisional unit, which has prepared the ground for the definitive body.
More effective judicial cooperation in criminal matters is a crucial element of the area of freedom, security and justice in order to face the challenge of crime in an area of free movement.
Madam President, history will show that decisions to set up networks are more important than many other decisions we take.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, faced with the continual increase in organised crime, the European Union has stepped up its initiatives to reinforce the fight against criminal organisations and improve cooperation between investigating and prosecuting authorities.
The Tampere Summit provided new perspectives for this cooperation between police and judiciary, long regarded as the poor relation of European unification.
More serious still is the lack of all jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, in accordance with Article 35 of the Treaty.
That is the purpose of my amendments, on which our support for this report will depend.
It is true, the European Union needs a supranational judicial structure to coordinate and enhance public action across the whole of European Union territory.
Eurojust is about giving Europol a real judicial partner.
The right hand of Eurojust will be the Schengen system and Europol, which is promoted to the status of institutional partner.
Madam President, for too long the European Union has had its hands tied when it comes to fighting organised crime.
Organised crime in Europe has been at least ten steps ahead of us, taking advantage of weaknesses in our legal and economic systems.
The European Union must no longer be a soft touch for serious crime.
This initiative specifies that it should include trafficking in human beings, and I wish to insist that this should also include the smuggling of illegal immigrants, prostitution rings and the sexual exploitation of children.
In addition, we are talking about competence for dealing with acts of terrorism, protection of the euro, computer crime and protection of financial interests of the EU.
Let us make it known that the EU programme against social exclusion can be matched by the crime prevention strategy.
Let us make it known that the Regional Fund can contribute to the national programmes, supporting initiatives to fight and prevent crime.
Let us make it known that the Community's cooperation and assistance policies and programmes already extensively incorporate the fight against crime.
My friends and I have studied the issue of Eurojust in depth and frankly it deserves to be called 'Euro Saint-Just' instead, in view of the way this matter has come before us.
Nice clearly rejected the principle of an independent public prosecutor.
A prosecution system cannot be developed without at the same time developing a defence system, a data protection system, and a rights guarantee system.
In our country criminal proceedings are obligatory, but that is not the case in others.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, international organised crime accounts for 10% of world trade, and a large proportion of it is in the European Union.
With Eurojust we now have a new instrument which will become operational in 2002 and will represent decisive progress in cooperation between the judicial authorities.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the initiatives adopted within the framework of the creation of a European area of freedom, security and justice have made this major political objective of the Union one of the most dynamic vectors for the broadening and deepening of European integration.
Eurojust and the inevitable European public prosecution service of the future confirm that European integration is a necessity for citizenship, a tangible response to tangible problems affecting the ordinary citizen.
Eurojust will help preserve the effectiveness and prestige of these institutions and will render a great service to the rule of law.
Information, cooperation and joint coordination measures are the key to a new push forward in the fight against money laundering, the trafficking of human beings, environmental crimes, forgery and other serious offences.
Secondly, we are taking one more step towards the creation of the Area of Freedom, Security and Justice.
It is particularly important to find a solution that is balanced between guaranteeing and safeguarding citizens' rights and freedoms, on the one hand, and the instruments needed to fight crime on the other.
We all believe that the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union is an important guide in the adoption of these solutions.
One of the most sensitive questions is the relationship between Eurojust and OLAF.
It is not a holy office; on the contrary, it is a first step towards guaranteeing the protection of fundamental rights and fighting crime at European level.
Not perfect, but an essential first step.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place in a moment.
Thank you very much Madam President.
It is not my intention in any way to delay the votes or to re-open the debate we had this morning, but I think it appropriate to place on record my thanks to the ushers for their very efficient and prompt handling of the situation.
I think their professionalism in the situation deserves much credit.
They are citizens who were working in Cabinda for Portuguese companies and were therefore totally uninvolved in the independence conflict which has been going on there for decades.
Madam President, two of these hostages have been held for practically a year, I repeat, a year in captivity, and the other five for more than two months!
Mr Queiró, we have understood your message very well.
VOTE Madam President, I realised just now that this question, which was set aside by the vote in this House yesterday, pursuant to Rule 143, and removed from the agenda by a motion of inadmissibility, had been reintroduced pursuant to Rule 111(2).
Before the vote on Amendment No 12: Madam President, I would ask, pursuant to Rule 130 Paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure, that of the three amendments on the table the committee's amendment be put to the vote first: a split vote has been requested here and I would ask that this request be taken into account.
Thank you very much, Madam President.
Fine, I do not think I need to respond to those remarks.
I am the President of the European Parliament.
In fact, cooperation must be encouraged in order to make it possible for the European Union and the Member States to fight against social exclusion and to eradicate poverty - social realities still unfortunately deeply affecting some Member States, such as my own, Portugal - in accordance with qualitative and quantitative targets to be agreed by the Council and Parliament.
Encouraging dialogue with our partners in this area at European, national and regional levels so as to combat poverty and social exclusion more effectively, and maximising financial support for innovative projects with a European added value are determining factors for its success.
In order to give full practical effect to the programme, providing for field inspections, the involvement of those suffering from social exclusion and poverty and funding for operations carried out by NGOs, it is essential to raise the reference amount to 100 million euro, including technical and administrative expenditure.
The aim of this programme is to encourage the Member States to combine their efforts to combat poverty and social exclusion in Europe in a framework of open coordination.
The European Parliament examined this text at first reading in November last year under the French Presidency, which promoted a number of social affairs initiatives and was intent on making the fight against poverty a priority on the European social agenda.
It has rejected the reference to the revised Social Charter (1996) of the Council of Europe, to which the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union must now be added.
It does not want to retain the 90% funding for the activities to be carried out by the NGOs under the programme to combat poverty and social exclusion, bearing in mind that the same level of support has already been approved for the programme to combat discrimination.
Believing that resources on a par with ambition are needed, the European Parliament hoped to increase the budgetary envelope from EUR 70 million to EUR 100 million, but in vain!
The main focus of this report relates to supporting greater cooperation between the fifteen Member States of the European Union to combat social exclusion.
The European Union is economically strong, but there are still key social problems in many rural and urban areas.
Putting in place initiatives to solve social exclusion and to give opportunities for the disadvantaged in our society must be a central policy of any government within the E.U.
The principle underpinning this new Community Action Programme is to create an open method of coordination between the Member States to help eradicate poverty and social exclusion.
The implementation of the Social Policy Action Programme 2000-2005 as published by the Commission will also help in combating social exclusion.
It is obvious that the current economic system is not delivering an adequate standard of living for many people within the EU, and before we push applicant countries in the same direction we have to know what we can do that is more effective in meeting people's needs.
We reject the view that only Member State governments should evaluate their own choices of research and other activities.
Ferber report (A5-0138/2001) This, Madam President, is an adjustment of the budget for the systems and administrative organisation of the European security and defence policy.
In this way, the ESDP management structures will be created, helping speed up the militarisation of the European Union, a process we reject and which is sufficient justification in itself for rejecting the current SAB and the Ferber report.
Firstly, the entering of this operating expenditure as administrative expenditure of the Council both confuses the nature of the expenditure and removes the possibility of democratic control over it, specifically by Parliament, which, in practice, is thus giving up its budgetary power.
However, in addition to the issues of democracy and transparency, there is increased pressure on the ceiling for expenditure under heading 5 - administrative expenditure - at a time when the European Union is preparing for enlargement.
We cannot, therefore, vote in favour of this rejection.
Schleicher report (A5-0167/2001) Madam President, the Pensioners' Party, represented by me in this House, has voted in favour of the statute and financing of European political parties.
As long as we have national parties, we will never have a Europe.
Madam President, the Treaty on European Union and the Charter of Fundamental Rights recognise the importance of and need for political parties at European level in order to promote integration.
The same applies to European parties.
The same can be said of the French government which, in its note of 9 May, sees no difficulty about using Article 308 in such a case.
In terms of content, the proposed text turns the logical progress of a free society on its head.
With this new text, the reverse would happen at European level: public finance from the Community budget would be intended to make European political parties - which do not exist today, or not with any real substance - 'emerge' .
The most important purpose of this statute is to create openness and transparency in the financing of the European political parties.
An important point are the demands that European parties be representative.
Although this European parties' initiative is presented as a way of getting round the criticism from the Court of Auditors regarding the financing of political groups in the European Parliament, it has really been imposed by the dominant forces in the European Union without there being any real support for the creation of such 'European parties' , since the Treaty of Nice has not yet even been ratified by any national parliament in a Member State.
Lastly, mention must also be made of our disagreement in principle with countless points included in the current proposal, specifically the criteria for their formation and funding possibilities.
This alienation will increase even more when European parties with even looser ties to their voters are set up.
As far as electoral power is concerned, the proposal is that the party must either have elected representatives in the European Parliament or in the national parliaments in at least 5 Member States (either in one third of the Member States or in one quarter according to today's resolution) or must have gained at least 5% in at least 5 Member States at the last European elections (either in one third or in one quarter of the Member States).
The parties are institutions set up to express the free will of their members, as regards both their programmes and their modus operandi.
Real parties do not come into being because the structures of a state have a need for organising a competitive battle during elections, but because there are groups of people who share the same ideas, interests and activities.
European political parties already exist and obtain public funds via their political groups in the European Parliament.
The new rules would make the system more visible, more open, more transparent and above that fairer.
The Commission does not want a relative number, but a fixed number, of Member States (five, irrespective of the size of the EU).
The wording in Article 3 concerning the approach to European political associations and national parties bears witness to a view of the future which I cannot in any way share: 'the party or its national components' .
In this way, the European Parliament has, then, established the national political parties as future 'national components' or types of district organisation of what are being called European political parties and which taxpayers around Europe are expected to subsidise.
Everyone knows perfectly well, even those who claim the contrary, that this plan for financing European political parties has no legal base.
The majority of this Parliament, however, like the Commission, pretends not to know that, because there is so very much at stake for the federalist parties and the federalist ideology.
There is a danger that the system of financing for supranational European parties proposed by the Commission and the Schleicher report will constitute an exceptional channel for corruption and in particular for money laundering, since companies can make unlimited donations and the conditions for accepting donations from individuals are extremely lax.
It seems to me that every step that we take and justifiably take in this direction must be, at the same time, one which recognises in the highest degree protection of the rights of the defence and of the rights of persons accused of crime in all parts of the Union.
The Eurojust judicial cooperation unit, as presented today following an initiative by a number of Member States, is intended to ensure good liaison between the national authorities responsible for criminal prosecutions in cases of cross-border crime.
And above all, these amendments totally undermine the intergovernmental spirit, transforming the applications for investigations or prosecutions issued by Eurojust into decisions binding on the Member States, and eliminating their whole margin of manoeuvre in applying the law in their own territory.
Lo and behold, though, Europe is trying to impose communitisation of our judicial system and our internal public order on the pretext of this cooperation, notably by creating a European public prosecutor' s office.
The Nice Council of December 2000 adjudged this latter measure a danger to respect for individual' s rights and democracy, and rightly rejected the creation of this supranational public prosecutor.
The European Parliament is once again treating the deep feelings of the Member States with disdain.
No, more like another step towards confusion of powers.
Situation in the Middle East (RC B5-0344/2001) Madam President, this is a very serious and important argument.
As you know, the Pensioners' Party - like all parties, in fact - is for peace and is aware of the difficulties in achieving this peace in the Middle East.
Since 29 September 2000, the date of Ariel Sharon' s provocative act in the Mosque compound (Haram al-Sharif), the Israeli army of occupation has already caused hundreds of deaths, mostly children and adolescents, injured tens of thousands and arrested hundreds of Palestinians who are fighting to make their right to a have a State a reality.
In the escalating aggression, Israel destroys Palestinian houses, continues its policy of occupation and the illegal building of settlements, restricts the free movement of Palestinian communities, drops bombs, sets up road blocks, does not fulfil financial commitments or signed agreements, carries out selective assassinations, invades territories under the administration of the Palestinian authority and attacks Syrian forces in Lebanon, attracting the strongest condemnation.
Where violence rules, however, it is difficult to classify it according to a scale of values and condemn only those who use it to defend themselves.
The 'principle of reciprocity' on which agreement was reached in Oslo in 1993 must be safeguarded.
An identical situation occurs in relation to so-called security and defence issues and the policy of interference in the internal affairs of peoples, examples of which are cooperation within NATO and the adoption of the new strategic concept, as, moreover, was made quite clear in the war against Yugoslavia.
Cercas report (A5-0147/2001) Madam President, on this document regarding safe and sustainable pensions I could not fail to give an explanation of vote.
The pensions problem can only be solved when the European Union has the competence to decide on pensions too.
Many large Member States still need to restructure their provisions for old age in the light of the ageing population.
The supra-national aspects affect the pre-conditions, such as the budgetary implications and the requirement that saving for a pension in one Member State should not hinder mobility to another Member State.
The document by the European Commission, on the other hand, gives a clear analysis of the issue.
The majority of Members of the European Parliament fully support the shift away from statutory pensions schemes based on solidarity towards a three-pillar model of pensions provision.
Maintaining pensions systems based on solidarity is possible even under current and future conditions as long as policies are guided by the principle of social justice rather than the self-seeking interests of banks, investment funds and insurance companies.
I also believe it is important that we not only promote good savings programmes in our country but also ensure that people take out a pension at an early age.
This report deals with a problem of the greatest importance for the future well-being of workers in the European Union, for whom it is necessary to guarantee safe and sustainable pension systems for the long term.
Although the report does not distance itself enough from the more negative positions of the Commission, particularly when it refers to the need for greater flexibility in pension systems, it does highlight the importance of the rise in the employment rate and of public systems based on intergenerational solidarity, and a fair balance between proportional contributions and benefits, on the one hand, and the principle of solidarity, on the other, in order to prevent poverty and social exclusion.
It also takes up the 1992 recommendation concerning the minimum income to be guaranteed by the social protection systems, by supporting initiatives for its implementation.
However, the report does not go far enough regarding what needs to be put into practice in terms of economic and social policies so as to effectively ensure that public systems are sound enough and guarantee worthwhile pensions.
You prove in the most striking manner, however, that the nation state is by far the only viable and reliable framework within which to organise solidarity and social protection. . (DE) I am most grateful that in its resolution on safe and sustainable pensions, the European Parliament has included a number of ideas and demands relating to women in particular for which I have worked actively for many years here and in Luxembourg.
The debates about the equal treatment of women and men in social security, which have been ongoing since 1975, have borne witness to the usefulness and importance of the European Union's support, through its equal opportunities and equal treatment policies, in dismantling discrimination against women in pensions provision.
Those who lament the low numbers of working women - in my country too - often forget the millions of 'invisible' women working in the 15 EU countries, namely the wives who work in family businesses and who do not appear in the employment statistics.
Naturally, I believe that women should increasingly build up their own individual pension rights.
The real answer is to start saving in good time for a general pension right for everyone at the age of 60, and to improve pensions caused by inability to work at a younger age.
This report still leaves something to be desired but is moving in the right direction. . (EL) Surely the title of the report under discussion - safe and sustainable pensions - is meant euphemistically, given that it is obvious both from the spirit and the letter of the report that its concern is for companies and employers and to radically dismantle social security and pensions in a way best in keeping with interests of big business.
The Greek workers have said the first resounding and steadfast "no" to the poverty and insecurity in store for them.
Mr President, since December 1991, Algeria has been in a situation of permanent violence.
So far, however, this policy has had a very limited effect.
It does not seem to have been accepted as a true policy of total democratisation and reconciliation.
The terrorist activity of the violent fundamentalists has continued, and the situation has been aggravated by the violence of the last few weeks in Kabylia, where demonstrations by hundreds of young people, following the violent death of one of them in a police station, were very violently suppressed in a real bloodbath, which left more than 60 young people dead from police bullets.
The situation is really very critical.
Tomorrow, a delegation from this Parliament will travel to Algeria.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the outburst of violence which rocked the region of Kabylia was, unfortunately, predictable - or even inevitable.
It is questionable whether we should enter into an agreement with Algeria where human rights are being violated on such a massive scale, even by government officials.
There is also a strong cultural demand in this region for the Amazigh language and culture to be respected, especially since the Berber Spring in 1980.
I am positive that the future of Algeria, whose people have courageously resisted barbaric pressure from Muslim fundamentalist terrorist groups, lies not in repression but in heeding the people's social demands and the often very courageous action of the various associations acting to defend women's rights, secure the repeal of the family code, care for traumatised children, keep solidarity alive in the face of serious social difficulties or defend human rights.
The European Parliament delegation travelling to Algiers tomorrow will certainly help us to gain an insight into the Algerian situation from our various contacts and listen in return to their expectations of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have followed the fate of this crisis-torn country since I was young.
In my view, the basic problem in Algeria is that the powers-that-be - le pouvoir, as the Algerians say - have failed to make genuine efforts to reach a consensus between the social groups in the country.
There can be no consensus here.
The many dead and hundreds of injured bear witness to the fact that the reform process in Algeria has still not achieved the desired results.
The European Union regularly addresses the issues of human rights violations, arbitrary arrests and torture in its political dialogue with Algeria.
At the 57th Session of the UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva in March 2001, the EU called upon Algeria to take substantive measures in this area and allow the UN Special Rapporteurs on the question of torture and on extrajudicial, summary and arbitrary executions to visit the country.
The speedy conclusion of this Agreement will equip the European Union with an effective instrument with which to engage in more intensive dialogue with Algeria at institutional level.
Since 1996, the Commission has committed EUR 300 million from its MEDA budget lines and under the financial protocols to support economic and social reform in Algeria.
The vote will be taken today at 6.30 p.m.
So far, the international community has made efforts to support the peace forces in those countries.
Needless to say, there are also opposing forces, and those claim victims.
It is therefore of key importance for us to join forces in a resolute manner, with all international, and particularly local, forces which strive for peace on the ground.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the West, or the European Union, became actively involved in Bosnia-Herzegovina because it wanted to promote peaceful relations between the different social, religious and ethnic groups.
Many of us here in this House are not satisfied with Dayton, but as I said, it was a chance to end the war.
This development has undoubtedly been caused by the fact that refugee return and thus the 'mix' of the various ethnic groups have not taken place on the scale demanded by the international community, and especially by this House.
We must call upon everyone in a position of responsibility in this region, and of course in Bosnia-Herzegovina in particular, to ensure that Dayton at least - which is the very minimum we can or should achieve at this time - and multi-ethnicity are restored on the scale or in the direction which formerly existed.
This House must call on all sides and groupings in Bosnia finally to fulfil their commitments, and the commitments which were adopted on their behalf by the international community, because we - after all - were the ones who helped them end this dreadful war and the dying.
Not only were these places of worship destroyed; hundreds of thousands of Muslims and Croats were forced to flee their homes at a time when there was no war in this region, namely between 1991 and 1995.
As Johannes Swoboda has already pointed out, the Dayton Agreement has now been in place since late 1995.
We have addressed a number of other issues in our motion as well.
We also need to underline the importance of building democracy and the role of democratic, political parties in that region.
The country will only survive if - at least in the medium term - all three communities want to live in this state.
Dayton was a step towards the absence of war.
Moving towards peace ultimately means creating a tripartite federation in which all three communities enjoy equal rights.
The second point which we must be clear about - as Doris Pack has already mentioned - is refugee return.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission shares Parliament's horror and revulsion at the incidents in Trebinje and Banja Luka.
My colleague Chris Patten, who is responsible for this area of work, is visiting Bosnia this afternoon.
Instead, a key prerequisite for the integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union is that the country itself undergoes a profound transformation at domestic level and that in doing so, it respects the fundamental values, such as human and minority rights, on which the European Union is founded.
Mr President, I am sorry, but my answer is simply that I cannot answer the question.
We have already had this problem several times on Thursdays.
The government also plays a crucial role in a number of peace-promoting initiatives, but is, at the same time, struggling to achieve good relations in Ethiopia, in its interaction with Eritrea, and also within Eritrea.
It is correct that unemployed young people have taken advantage of the student protests earlier this month to start plundering, but that in no way justifies the excessively harsh police action which claimed at least 30 lives.
As for the second problem, the Ethiopian government must pledge its unconditional support to a peace agreement with Eritrea, so that the necessary funds for development are no longer diverted to defence expenditure and weapons.
We have well-attested reports of the discovery of 2000 mass graves, of the arrest of senior officers of the gendarmerie, of inquiries into an organisation known as the Operational Command and generally matters of real concern.
It has been put to us that what is required is: an independent commission of inquiry to shed light on human rights violations, acts of torture, disappearances and extrajudicial executions, a commitment to protect adequately human rights defenders and local organisations working on this issue and the appointment of some special rapporteur on extrajudicial summary and arbitrary executions, with the working group on forced or involuntary disappearances being invited as soon as possible to inquire into matters in Cameroon.
By coincidence, today's Le Monde has a special supplement on Cameroon, the opening sentence of which tells us that all the evils of Africa are to be found in Cameroon and yet also all the reasons for hope for the better.
What has been revealed to us here suggests that both of these propositions are true: both the reasons for hope and the present evils.
Also, this week in Le Monde in relation to General Aussaresses we have been reminded that torture, disappearance and evil-doing and the use of humans as means and not as ends in themselves have terribly scarred the history of our own continent, both during the war of 1939 to 1945 and afterwards.
I strongly commend this resolution to the House and hope it will be adopted unanimously this evening.
Mr President, I am in complete agreement with my fellow members and would even add that the UN Committee against Torture has found that torture is rife in Cameroon and that this has been confirmed in the testimony of a former Cameroon minister who considers that the prison system is inhumane in Cameroon and that physical and mental torture are an everyday occurrence.
In order to prove good faith on the part of the government - my colleague said earlier that there were plenty of reasons for hope in Cameroon - I think that we have to go along with the UN proposal to set up a committee, as a matter of urgency, to look into all the extortion, torture, disappearances and extrajudicial executions identified over recent months.
Mr President, we in the Socialist Group and the European Parliament need to send a clear message to the Cameroon authorities.
The governments and in particular the State security forces of all the countries associated with the European Union need to have a clear understanding that security and public order cannot come before the exercise of people' s freedoms, not to mention their physical safety.
Press freedom in the world Mr President, freedom of the press and freedom of opinion are the cornerstones of democracy.
Understandably, our attention turns to the developing countries and the former centrally governed countries which are now in transition.
This is with good reason, for we can often lend these countries real support with our aid and resources to local NGOs, civil society and the different media involved.
The European Parliament' s socialist group will take the initiative for proposals which resist this threat of press freedom.
I am therefore taking part today in this motion for a resolution on the freedom of the world press, which I am, of course, defending at a time when many of our writers, journalists and photographers are risking their lives right across the globe for a variety of reasons.
General Morillon has just reminded us that, as the European People' s Party, we had decided on this initiative on the occasion of World Press Freedom Day on 3 May.
I think it is an excellent initiative because it supports those who commit themselves on a daily basis to the fight for freedom and put their own lives at risk to tell the world what is happening in vast areas of the Least Developed Countries or even - it is worth remembering - in Eastern Europe.
Someone thought of exploiting this excellent initiative for their own ends, bending it to a partisan political position, a political position that has emerged too often in this House, in my opinion.
Last Sunday, 18 million Italians gave their answer.
Above all, the role of this institution has been renounced and less and less respect is shown for politics.
Venom has never produced anything in history, and in general it has never rewarded those who have used it.
I should like to add that the problem of the press is part of the struggle for power.
Individual journalists accept work where they can find it, and they adapt to the prevailing editorial climate and ideas even when these contrast with their own personal ideas.
Here, of course, I should like to remind you of point number 10 in the draft resolution concerning conflict of interests, an issue that, as we all know, has been talked about a lot recently on the occasion of the Italian elections.
Freedom of expression and particularly the independence of the media help guarantee and promote democracy in the world.
The Kremlin is trying to impose its will on Russia' s national networks ORT, RTR and NTV, and to develop an ideology in which the media will only be able to advertise State interests.
We were able to witness this again recently when on 10 May, the Attorney General burst in on Echo Moscow, a radio station, and confiscated all financial and commercial documents.
Needless to say, we also need to keep a watchful eye on democracy in Europe.
There are similar developments in other countries too.
The Commission welcomes the fact that this issue has been tabled for debate here.
The European Community has supported Cameroon within the framework of the Lomé Convention with a grant of EUR 6 million for institutional reform in the area of the rule of law, democratisation and respect for human rights.
The situation is being monitored on the ground together with the Member States.
The project makes provision for an assessment of the situation of imprisoned journalists, financial support for these journalists and their families and information and public awareness campaigns.
Thank you, Commissioner Verheugen.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if 43 children are found on board a ship, which is taking them away from home to work in plantations in another country, our hearts bleed, with good reason.
In short, children are often slaves.
One could at least expect that the elite itself, which often forms part of governments in the relevant ACP countries, would not take part in this practice.
The international labour organisation estimates that there are 250 million child slaves worldwide.
I think that Parliament cannot simply continue to take note of the multiplicity of legal instruments intended to ensure that children's rights are respected at international level or to issue a sort of good conduct label under the various conventions which these countries have signed unless there is a binding force somewhere.
It is up to us to react rapidly, as has been said, by punishing or even excluding any country which violates these conventions.
We know full well today that this debt hangs over Africa like a sword of Damocles and the IMF in particular needs a clear policy here.
Finally, I think that, as my fellow Member has said, the summit of Least Developed Countries is being held at this very moment with the European Parliament, including European leaders.
It is terrible to think that children aged between 7 and 15 are used as modern-day slaves in a wide variety of work, and sometimes for the sexual perversions of certain people.
According to UNICEF figures, over 200 000 children are victim to cross-border trafficking in West and Central Africa.
We call on the governments of these countries to do everything in their power to combat and punish the criminal practices of child traffickers.
I should also like to stress that the Commission is pursuing a strategy to promote food security and rural development in the countries of Africa, focusing mainly on the situation of women and children in its bid to bring about sustainable development in the countryside.
At the same time, the Commission is funding measures which will help directly to resolve this problem.
For example, over EUR 1.2 million have been provided to promote the rights of children and to protect children from violence and exploitation in Gabon, Benin, Togo and Nigeria.
Benin ratified this convention last Monday, on 14 May, and Côte d'Ivoire should follow suit by the end of this month.
The Commission emphatically supports these initiatives.
The communication on human rights which the Commission adopted on 8 May 2001 contains concepts for political dialogue with partner countries.
Most importantly, it states that, during discussions, the parties should examine how basic human rights instruments and other international agreements based on human rights can be ratified and implemented effectively.
Thank you, Commissioner Verheugen.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 6.30 p.m.
First it was Brittany, now other départements have been affected, but it is the département of the Somme, and the town of Abbeville and the surrounding communes in particular, which have been hardest hit.
Hundreds of residents have been forced to leave their homes, have lost all their possessions and are destitute.
It is also important for us to reaffirm our concern at the rise in the number of serious natural disasters over recent years both in Europe and across the planet as a whole.
The European Union owes it to itself to do everything to respect and ensure that others respect the Kyoto commitments by the stated deadlines and to implement a policy of sustainable development.
Mr President, having rightly expressed our sympathy and solidarity with the people who have been hard hit, especially in the département of the Somme in France, we should think about the numerous floods which have occurred not just in France, but also in Portugal, Spain and elsewhere, and about the fact that other countries may yet be affected.
However, we also urgently need to take the measures needed to prevent the disaster caused by exceptional climatic conditions in France from turning into a crisis which permanently affects the families and enterprises in question.
Europe should not relax in its efforts to persuade its partners that a lack of respect for nature can have terrible social, environmental and economic consequences.
In the département of the Somme, where there was three times the normal rainfall between October 2000 and April 2001, several dozen communes are still under water.
Thousands of people have been evacuated, often having lost everything.
The floods have caused huge damage - estimated at several hundred million euros.
Numerous infrastructures have been damaged or destroyed, companies have lost and must replace their means of production, not to mention the damage to the countryside itself.
It is because I really am close to the ground and have been directly affected by this disaster that I called for European solidarity in Brussels on 2 May.
I expect the same on the part of Europe: an urgent and, more importantly, a specific response to this disaster.
Finally, measures should also be taken to fight the consequences of climatic change.
Mr President, I would, of course, like to join my fellow Members in voicing our deep sorrow and our solidarity with the people who have been seriously affected by this disaster, which is unprecedented in terms of its scale and its duration.
I am from a neighbouring region, and my father was born in Abbeville.
And this crisis is not an exception in itself, because the Somme has not been the only place in France or in Europe to be affected by the floods.
In our capacity as Europeans responsible for European policies, we directly face the need to take action in the three main areas, namely the common agricultural policy and rural development, structural planning and structural actions, and lastly, international action designed to put into practice the commitments given in Kyoto.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to join my fellow Members, who have signed this resolution, to express, on behalf of my group, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, our unwavering solidarity with all the people affected by the flood, and I am aware that even today, whole families are waiting to be relocated to safe new homes.
The Commission regrets the problems and damage caused by the bad weather, which were particularly severe in the département of the Somme in the region of Picardie.
The Commission has said that it is prepared to use all the measures at its disposal to facilitate the reconstruction of the area affected and the restoration of economic productivity.
As far as agricultural policy is concerned, the Commission has already taken the initiative to give producers a great deal of flexibility as regards the eligibility of aid for large scale arable farming and set aside.
The Commission has also introduced measures to extend the seed time beyond 15 June.
As you know, it is several years since state posts for disasters and immediate aid in the Member States were reported in the budget of the European Union and I do not think that Parliament will call on the Commission to make payments which it is not legally authorised to make.
Thank you, Commissioner Verheugen.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place at 6.30 p.m.
I hope the solutions proposed may find a broad consensus in Parliament in order to give greater strength to the arguments of all those in the Council and the Commission of the European Union that share them.
A common area of justice will only make sense if, within it, the court decisions of one Member State are effective in all the other Member States.
In concrete terms the intention is to allow the execution in one Member State of a final decision issued by the competent authority of another Member State.
In order to set up a mutual recognition mechanism, two possible solutions could be put forward: either moving towards harmonisation of the legislative and judicial systems in the Member States, or basing the mechanism on mutual trust in the adequacy of the laws of individual states and the proper implementation of those laws in specific proceedings.
We are, however, aware that, at least in the short term, it will be difficult to reach an agreement on a procedure for automatic recognition, since no Member State will ever be willing to associate itself with recognition of any final decision that does not respect certain essential common guarantees.
The question is, precisely, that of the identification of these essential guarantees, such as respect for the principle of ne bis in idem, or respect for the right to an effective and not simply a pro forma defence, or respect for victims' rights.
It will also be necessary to have common rules on jurisdiction and competence in order, above all, to prevent duplicated proceedings, just as there must be common rules for the application of penalties for re-offending or for the accumulation of penalties.
This report signals a first step towards the creation of the common area of justice, freedom and security.
I should like to thank the rapporteur for introducing this difficult topic of the mutual recognition of final decisions in criminal matters.
That need not be a bad thing because even the United States of America, which are basically more centralistic than we imagine the European Union will ever be, even in the final stage of its development, have very different criminal laws.
The first is that, if the European Union faces one challenge at the moment, if we really want to move from a market-centred Europe to a Europe of values and of citizens, that challenge is to build this area of justice.
We have before us one of those reports, and I think that this House should be proud to have produced a report which will be the point of reference over the months and years, for the work that awaits the institutions: the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
Mutual recognition, which is also based on the principle underpinning the European Union, namely mutual trust between States, which is in turn based on the Member States providing an equivalent level of protection of human rights, and in which they are seen to share the same procedures.
I think that we have before us an important report.
I am sure that it will receive overwhelming support in Parliament, and I hope that the two or three institutions take good note of this report, which without a shadow of a doubt, will be a milestone in this area in which we need to make progress.
Now, this trust may be founded on the shared respect for fundamental rights, ensured by, amongst other things, the supervision by the European Court of Human Rights, which may be further guaranteed by common minimum standards that may be adopted on specific aspects of procedural law in matters of respect for the right to a defence or victims' rights.
I too therefore invite Parliament to approve this important and thoroughly well argued report without reservation.
A criminal justice system which - hopefully - feels bound by the principle of legality, that is, the nullum crimen sine lege principle, cannot accept the consequences of deeds which are not punishable in its area of jurisdiction.
In this debate, as in the one we had this morning, we are taking steps along the path traced out in Tampere to create the area of freedom, security and justice.
In relation to this legal framework on judicial decisions in criminal matters, the report deserves our applause and gives a very balanced view.
Mutual recognition, ladies and gentlemen, is only effective if it can be achieved without great administrative obstacles.
A degree of mutual trust is therefore required between Member States concerning their judicial procedures.
We also know that the recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters is a matter of great sensitivity that raises delicate questions and reaches to the core of values protected by law in our various societies.
There are differences between our Member States, despite their extremely substantial, noteworthy common cultural and legal heritage.
We must therefore recommend that the Commission should be cautious in this matter and adopt a policy of taking small steps.
Implementing the principle of mutual recognition in judicial cooperation on criminal matters is an ambitious task which entails a fundamental shift in perspective from traditional forms of cooperation to a cooperative division of tasks.
This new attitude will result in a series of substantive and practical initiatives, as cited in the joint Council and Commission programme of November 2000.
The resolution calls for full application of the ne bis in idem principle.
The Commission supports this, especially as this principle is included in our new Charter of Fundamental Rights.
In relation to the framework directive on informing and hearing workers, may I say that the Commission will complete its amended proposal on a general framework for informing and hearing workers in the next few days, so as to ensure that it can be quickly adopted in the Council.
I am positive that the European Parliament will do everything to ensure that this legal act is adopted immediately after the summer recess.
Globalisation and industrial change bring social problems in their wake.
governments and companies must make optimum use of these instruments or devise new instruments.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to thank the Commission on behalf of the PPE-DE for its explanation and also for telling us that the framework directive will soon be ready, as will the Statute for European Companies.
I hope that the Commission will introduce an initiative this year which at least ensures that the social partners are informed and involved.
We therefore need another guarantee to ensure that consultation does indeed take place at the right time, in other words, before decisions are taken, during the working-out phase, to ensure that the works council may give an opinion, propose other solutions, and that negotiation can be based not only on the management' s plan, but also on counter-proposals from workers' representatives.
I believe that we must at last ensure the possibility of referral to a competent public authority on a national level, as already laid down in the 1998 directive on collective redundancies and, if required, on a European level, particularly in companies with a Europe-wide presence so that, if the procedure of information and prior consultation is disregarded, or if the decisions are blatantly unfounded and other solutions could be considered both on a social and an employment level, the competent public authority can declare the redundancy plan null and void.
The 1994 Directive must therefore be revised - I share your view, Commissioner - otherwise this text, which was pioneering when it was adopted, will end up being obsolete in the light of the new drafts adopted by Council, on the European limited company, or by Parliament in 1999, at first reading, on the Directive on a general framework for informing and consulting employees.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall present the ideas of my colleague, Hélène Flautre, who has had to leave in order to prepare for her visit to Algeria with our delegation.
The dream of a Europe in which the words 'new economy' are synonymous with growth and full employment is fading.
The suddenness and the increase in redundancy programmes have made employees think seriously about the delays in building a social Europe.
According to the Commission, a total of over a quarter of a million redundancies have been announced across the world in the last few weeks.
The Commission has just announced its plan to introduce a package to provide effective legal guarantees to workers regarding information and consultation.
This is good news at a time when employees who are up in arms are joined by a public which disapproves of unilateral action by employers.
At the same time, we must quickly adopt the directive on the information and consultation of workers, in order to put an end to the scandalous practices of companies that challenge the social legislation of the Member States.
We must revise the 1994 Works Councils Directive, give them real rights to receive advance notice of plans and to receive expert advice, and make them compulsory for all transnational companies of more than 500 employees.
Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of my group, I insisted that we should have the opportunity to hold this debate in light of the tidal wave of restructuring programmes announced in countries across the Union.
It is particularly timely today because, following the recent mobilisation of employees from the Danone group in Calais, the employees of Marks &amp; Spencer are now holding a large European demonstration in London.
In the eyes of the public, Marks &amp; Spencer, following its decision to close 38 shops and to make thousands of employees redundant has, like Danone, come to represent one of the most abhorrent symbols of the strategy known as 'shareholder value' , of shareholder law and of the social irresponsibility of major companies.
This is the eighth time since the Michelin affair in October 1999 that I have spoken in Parliament to warn the Council and the Commission of the urgent need to confirm the social responsibility of companies and to establish meaningful rights for employees.
First of all, a draft, revised directive on informing and consulting workers has existed since 1998.
If I have understood you properly, Commissioner, you are going to push for the Council of 11 June to override the veto exercised by the United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark and even Germany, whose Chancellor has just tried to pass himself off as a European visionary.
Now it seems that some countries have dropped their reservations, and so the conditions are right for the next Council to take up a position.
The information and consultation problem is one that has something to do with the possibility of intervening in a preventive manner so that the consequences of unilateral company decisions are not such that they place jobs, working conditions or the living conditions of workers at risk.
Mr President, Commissioner, this morning, the President of the European Parliament received employees from the Strasbourg branch of Marks &amp; Spencer.
The Marks &amp; Spencer employees, like those from the other companies mentioned by Harlem Désir, demand, as European citizens, that Europe establishes frameworks for protection and for organising collective action, which as we all know is the only guarantee of individual rights in the field of employment law.
The workers of the European Union, Commissioner, must not suffer as a result of European integration.
Respect for workers' rights and the building of a social Europe are the pillars which, unless strengthened, could dash all our hopes for building democracy in our Union.
The Commission sees this debate as important support for its initiatives.
Gas directive The next item is the oral question to the Commission (B5-0170/01) by Mr Westendorp y Cabeza, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, pursuant to Rule 42 of the Rules of Procedure, on implementation by the Member States of the Gas Directive.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the EU gas directive was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council in June 1998, i.e.
The Member States were required to transpose the directive by 10 August 2000.
The Commission is currently examining the situation in Germany in order to ascertain if further measures are needed in this respect.
The Commission is therefore determined to continue to make decisive progress with this file.
Mr President, it is a matter of great sorrow that we have to point the finger at one Member State - one of the founder Member States of this Union - for not fulfilling its solemn undertakings, for being prepared to act against the laws of the European Union and indeed for taking the law into its own hands.
What is at stake here is maintaining a public service in its role as a tool for social and territorial cohesion.
I would also like to talk about energy policy, environmental protection, sustainable development, security, social and territorial solidarity and also about local development, about developing balance between geographical areas and about everyone' s right to energy.
Mr President, the Commission has decided to haul France up before the Court of Justice because of its delays in liberalising the gas market, as laid down in the 1998 directive.
Instead of contributing to speeding up the process of liberalisation and deregulation, should the Commission, when presented with any new proposal, not undertake a study of the consequences of plans for liberalisation on employment, on working conditions and regional planning?
The debate is closed.
and resumed at 6.30 p.m.) VOTE The next item is the vote Report (A5-0145/2001) by Mr Di Lello Finuoli, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Commission communication to the Council and the European Parliament on the mutual recognition of final decisions in criminal matters (COM(2000) 495 - C5-0631/2000 - 2000/2295(COS)) Mr President, on a point of order.
I am not sure whether it is too late to raise this point, but there is a point concerning translation, given that Italian is the original version of the Di Lello Finuoli report.
However, in relation to criminal matters, in ordinary English 'execution' has a very particular meaning and one which attracts considerable hostility in this House and goes against our views on human rights.
The proposal creates no problems if the action for which a ruling has taken place is punishable in both Member States and if the same penalty applies.
Adjournment of the session I declare adjourned the session of the European Parliament. (The sitting was adjourned at 6.45 p.m.)
