Rapid Border Intervention Teams (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Deprez, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a mechanism for the creation of Rapid Border Intervention Teams and amending Council Regulation (EC) No 2007/2004 as regards that mechanism - C6-0253/2006 -.
In response, the European Union created the Frontex Agency in 2004 as a measure for channelling the solidarity between Member States and the Community in terms of operational cooperation.
The establishment of a mechanism for the creation and deployment of Rapid Border Intervention Teams is a further measure of solidarity.
As the Commission underlined in its communication of 30 November 2006 on reinforcing the management of the southern external maritime borders, it is not clear under what circumstances a state may be obliged to assume responsibility for the examination of an asylum claim when the interception or rescue operation takes place on the high seas or in the territorial waters of a third country.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my pleasure by saying straight away that, if the RABIT draft regulation can be put to the vote in this House tomorrow with a view to an agreement at first reading, it is thanks to the fact that our three institutions have cooperated in what I would describe as an exemplary fashion.
This problem now affects, as we know - and tragic images constantly remind us of the fact - the countries of the south of the Union.
They may carry their service weapons, in accordance with the national law of their own Member State, except in the event of a disagreement between the two Member States concerned.
The director of Frontex has a maximum of five working days in which to decide how to intervene.
Let us remember that, as a result of the practice of crossing the Atlantic using the criminal mechanisms of mafias, the European Union has just put at 10 000 the number of deaths recorded as a result of this inhuman epic journey.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, I shall use the mother tongue of our rapporteur in order to congratulate and to thank him for his meticulous work and for the outcome of that work: the excellent report that we are going to adopt tomorrow.
We have also been able to promote our proposals at the Council, thanks to the constructive dialogue that we have established with the German Presidency, which has included this regulation among its priorities and which has proved very receptive to our proposals. (ES) Ladies and gentlemen, together we have improved the text, which once again demonstrates the maturity of this House when it comes to legislating in such a sensitive field as the fight against illegal immigration.
To this end, the obligatory principle of solidarity on the part of Member States laid down in Article 3 of the Regulation is extremely important.
I believe that this is a very rigorous, very interesting and very well executed piece of work on a genuinely difficult subject.
The European Union has to be more consistent in order to provide the best measures in these cases.
We also need to help the development of the ACP countries and, in particular, our neighbours in the southern Mediterranean.
The same also applies to the southern European countries - Italy, Spain and also Malta, a country that we ought to help.
This will be a way of enhancing solidarity and mutual assistance between Member States.
This makes the issue of effectively managing the external borders through control and protection and by combating illegal emigration and human trafficking a very relevant one to us.
The only condition for setting up the Rapid Border Intervention Teams is our full agreement with the motion of the Member State whose borders are affected by the problem. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, illegal immigration has come to assume epidemic proportions.
You need only compare the figures for 2005 and 2006 to see that their number has multiplied sixfold.
With these RABITs, we in the European Union are certainly demonstrating that we are on the way towards a security union and that we are reflecting at the same time on how we can solve migration problems, and especially the problem of illegal immigration, in the medium and long term.
Let us not forget that external border control is in the interests of all Member States and not just the countries facing difficulties and once it is in everybody's interest, it must also be everybody's responsibility - a shared responsibility.
As we pointed out in the report on islands that was adopted in this Chamber, Europe cannot remain indifferent to the ongoing emergency situation in regions like my own, Sicily, with its peak in Lampedusa, or in the Canaries or Malta, which are unsustainably burdened by the arrival of illegal immigrants.
This problem does not pertain to one country or one region but to all Member States.
in writing. - (PL) Mr President, in the eyes of EU law, Member States themselves, including Poland, are responsible for controlling their external borders.
This approach will increase solidarity and mutual assistance among Member States.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, immigration is all too often hailed as a resource, even a vital resource, but that underestimates the terrible effects on those who really have to suffer it.
The ones who leave their peoples and countries are often not the poorest, but qualified young people and also - leaving aside any demagogy - people who are a potential workforce for organised crime in the host countries.
These migratory flows supply the hateful traffic in human beings, in tragic and well-known circumstances, and I hold politicians to be morally complicit in this if they claim that it is right and appropriate or even our duty to receive these people, without taking account of their reasons or of whether they can be received.
