Although the process of transforming Europol has yet to be concluded, I have decided to vote in favour of this Finnish initiative on adapting the basic salaries and allowances of Europol, and this as a message of good faith and of complete support for this process of transformation, which I trust will be completed at the earliest opportunity.
We have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. (SV) We have voted against this report.
in writing. (PL) Mr President, I am voting in favour of Edit Herczog's report on discharging the budget of the European Air Safety Agency for 2005.
in writing. - (FR) EU citizens are interested in fast, affordable payment systems and in the creation of an internal market that is effective and functional when it comes to their making transfers and receiving payments.
We actually finished our work in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on 12 September.
Currently each EU citizen is making on average 138 non-cash payments per year and this is likely to grow.
I firmly believe that European competitiveness will only improve when, in Ireland for example, businesses and consumers can make a payment from Dublin to Madrid as easily as from Dublin to Cork.
It is good preparation for the future of the Community over the next 50 years of its existence.
The accession of 10 countries from Central and Eastern Europe in 2004 and of Bulgaria and Romania in 2007 has increased competition and energised the entire Community, as well as bringing about stability and security and firm democracy.
In this seven-year programme period, a record 347 billion euro were earmarked for 84 regions in 17 Member States whose GDP is greatly below 75% of the EU average, and 16 regions whose GDP, due to statistical averaging after enlargement, was only marginally above 75% of the EU average.
My view is that the accession of Turkey would overstretch the EU's capacity to integrate by means of its cohesion policy, and I am astonished that a majority in this House does not share it.
in writing. - (FR) I was anxious to endorse the following amendments.
Amendments 25, 20 and 28, because adequate funding of regional policy is necessary in order to reduce the economic, social and territorial disparities between regions and to carry out future enlargements properly.
Amendments 14 and 24, because the rapporteur's proposal for an increase in national cofinancing in regions that have received structural funds over several programming periods would put an end to efforts to implement this policy in the most underdeveloped regions of the old Member States.
The presentation of the Commission's strategic policy for 2008 is the start of the process of negotiating the Community budget.
The Commission states that 'the 2008 budget will build upon the 2007 budget' - once again, it appears, falling short of the budgetary ceiling in the financial perspective for 2007-2013.
in writing. - (EL) In the report on the annual strategic priorities of the Commission with regards to the 2008 Budget an effort is underway to make the EU capital budget more efficient in order to serve better its anti-grassroots policies.
To conclude, the 2008 budgetary plan fortifies the aggressiveness of capitalism against the peoples.
It defines the strategic priorities of the European Parliament for 2008 and serves as a pointer for the Commission in preparing the draft budget for 2008.
in writing. (SV) We Swedish Social Democrats have voted in favour of report on granting discharge to the European Parliament for 2005.
in writing. - (FR) Our Committee on Budgetary Control has once again been over-zealous.
Instead of behaving like irresponsible populists, certain members of the Committee on Budgetary Control would be better off dealing with real problems, such as the potentially exorbitant costs of the pension system for the French and Italian MEPs, costs that will be in the region of EUR 150 million.
It is the Irish Government's position that such references should be contextualised by linking such rights to the Programme of Action of the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD), held in Cairo in 1994, and the Beijing Platform for Action (1995) and the UNGA reviews of these in 1999 and 2000, so as to ensure that Irish national legislative/regulatory regimes are respected.
in writing. (PL) I am voting in favour of the report on combating HIV/AIDS in the European Union and neighbouring countries in the years 2006-2009.
in writing. - (EL) The 2006-2009 report on treating HIV/AIDS in EU and neighbouring countries highlights some correct aspects of the issue.
The treatment of HIV/AIDS requires a comprehensive plan by Member States.
