I therefore support this initiative, which follows on from the Thessaloniki European Council of 2003, which recognised the need to set up more effective mechanisms for collecting and analysing information on migration and asylum in the EU.
I am therefore abstaining in the vote on this report.
in writing - (PL) I voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on Community statistics on migration and international protection.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the Leichtfried report on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a European Aviation Safety Agency.
in writing. (SV) Common rules governing air transport are necessary and desirable, especially from a safety point of view.
We have thus voted against this report.
Cooperation between Member States and third countries is already happening.
What is more, if an inspection of airlines or of the activities of civil aviation authorities reveals any anomalies or a violation of standard security rules, the European Aviation Safety Agency will have the power to set a penalty mechanism in motion and to ban the airlines at fault from transporting passengers within the Union.
in writing. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Leichtfried report aims at expanding the powers of the European Aviation Safety Agency by giving it control not only over aviation but also over the actions of carriers.
Today I voted in favour of amendment 12 of the above report to exempt 8 to 12 month old meat marketed as beef from the rules set out in this piece of legislation.
The 2006 Maritime Labour Convention of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) is aimed at guaranteeing decent living and working conditions on board vessels.
The Convention incorporates all existing conventions and recommendations on maritime labour adopted by the ILO since 1919 into a single text to serve as a basis for the first universal Maritime Labour Code.
We therefore voted in favour of the report and hope that the Convention will be ratified and complied with by the Member States.
I am pleased that a possible deadline of 2010 has been set for the ratification by Member States, as the European Community is not a party to the ILO or this convention and it is important that each Member State ratifies the ILO recommendations.
I voted in favour of this report as I agree that there is a need to draw up a first Universal Maritime Labour Code.
With the adoption of the ILO's 2006 Convention, there will be minimum standards on the health, training, working conditions and social security of workers in the maritime sector, which will ensure decent working and living conditions on board international vessels.
Taking into account the 27 different models and concepts applied in social service provision and financing, we have to leave to the Member States the right of defining the tasks of social services in line with standard practice in each Member State, and of matching them as closely as possible to each citizen.
rapporteur. - (FR) About time too!
It is therefore a good thing that the European Parliament has taken up this major issue.
The compromise that we have managed to reach in this House is satisfactory, so I have therefore voted in favour of the Hasse Ferreira report.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the report on social services of general interest.
This is in fact a preliminary step needed in order to establish a sectoral directive on social services of general interest, which Parliament clearly requested in the Rapkay report on the White Paper on services of general interest.
Evidence of this comes straight away in the division of services of general interest into services of general economic interest and social services of general interest.
Paragraph 6 of this report on social services of general interest points out 'the Member State authorities' freedom to define, organise and finance social services of general interest as they see fit', in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
Thus, in France, the granting of free State medical aid to illegal immigrants costs EUR 600 million per year.
Thirdly, the gradual abolition of public services, as decided in 2000 during the Lisbon European Summit.
in writing. - (EL) The report, apart from its gratuitous pronouncements about the 'particular character' of services of general interest, paves the way for their privatisation and integration into the directive on the liberalisation of services (Bolkestein directive).
I therefore accept that there needs to be a clear definition, in legal terms, of what is meant by services of general economic interest (SGEIs) and social services of general interest (SSGIs).
Accordingly, I am in favour of much of what the report before us contains.
in writing. - (FR) Social services of general interest are a key component of the European social model.
It grants hard traffic rights to the US airlines with full access to Heathrow, which is already 40 % of the transatlantic market, and despite the fact that four airlines - not just American - fly across the Atlantic from Heathrow already.
in writing. (SV) The June List accepts that the EU represents the Member States on issues relating to trade policy.
The current aviation agreement with the United States, aimed at enabling airlines in the EU to fly wherever they like in the United States, falls within this area.
We have thus voted in favour of this resolution in the final vote.
The European Union - and we in this House in particular - have made an essential contribution to getting these talks off the ground again and to getting what is termed the Peking Agreement with concrete measures put in place.
in writing. (SV) Nuclear weapons constitute a global threat to the world's population.
Sinn Féin is unreservedly opposed to nuclear proliferation and welcomes the European Parliament's stated opposition today.
The nuclear industry however still affects our environment and health as foreign nuclear power plants have affected our seas and countryside causing health problems for our population.
in writing. - (EL) At a time when the European Parliament is voting on its established annual wish list on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and disarmament, it is refusing to condemn the installation of new ballistic and anti-ballistic systems in Europe.
The installation of new US bases is already being prepared in the Czech Republic and Poland and the European Parliament, in the motions for resolutions by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the overwhelming majority of socialists and liberals, is giving its consent.
The possession of nuclear weapons has been a key element of the United Kingdom's defence posture for the past 54 years.
The UK is recognised as a legitimate Nuclear Weapon State under the Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) and Conservatives support the aim of eventual global nuclear disarmament as set out in Article VI of the NPT.
However, we are firmly against any unilateral nuclear disarmament that would expose our nation and its people to risk and leave our strategic defence entirely in the hands of others.
We therefore abstained in the vote on the resolution as a whole.
