In fact, 11 of the 25 current European Union Member States have since emerged to democracy as full members of the European Union.
Of course the nature of our societies has changed dramatically over these years, economically, socially and technologically.
It has changed in the composition of our communities, which vary across the Union, with many communities of differing races, faiths and histories living together.
It is our duty to promote the view that democracy, and not violence, is the means of bringing about change and governing ourselves.
As we look to that future we have to acknowledge that, despite the fantastic record, many of our citizens remain highly sceptical about the European Union, to such an extent that in some countries the national referenda rejected the proposed new Constitution in a way which suggested more deep-seated concerns.
These issues top the political agenda across Europe, and they are often the most potent in mobilising political activity, often in a reactionary and even dangerous way.
The threat from terrorism remains very real, as we tragically saw in London in July.
In 2004 over 100&#160;000 women were trafficked in the European Union and over 8&#160;000 people die each year from drug use, as crime and misery is fuelled in every part of the continent.
I therefore believe that the whole of the European Union – but in particular the Justice and Home Affairs Council – needs to give real priority to tackling these issues in a practical and systematic way.
The first is that in our globalised world no single nation can tackle these problems alone, even in its own country.
The truth is that in each of these areas we will all, including within our own countries, achieve most by sharing experience, information and resources and by identifying and then targeting the threats systematically and consistently.
The second principle that must underlie our approach is to strengthen the foundation of practical and pragmatic police and intelligence work.
We have rules on police and judicial cooperation and we have established Europol and Eurojust to support their work.
We have agreed a comprehensive programme of action in the Hague Programme and the Counter-Terrorism Action Plan.
These contain many sensible, practical measures that will make a real difference to our citizens.
If we want to demonstrate the real value of the European Union, we now need to work together to deliver on those commitments.
But it is the third principle which I believe poses the greatest challenge in its modern application.
That principle is that we need to use intelligence effectively and intelligently to target, track down, identify and convict the criminals who, through terrorist violence and serious and organised crime, threaten the security and strength of our society.
Indeed I would go further: it is only through the effective and intelligent use of intelligence that in our modern world we can contest the criminality which attacks us.
The rules that currently govern our law enforcement bodies seriously inhibit their ability to protect us against criminals.
To tackle organised crime and stop terrorist groups before they carry out their activities, they need a clear picture of who the criminals are, what they are doing, where they are and how they communicate with each other.
But if we are to be effective in dismantling organised crime groups we must analyse intelligence and information so that we can target our efforts on the most dangerous criminals.
However, that need is not always reflected in the rules that we apply to our police.
That is why the UK Presidency, following the proposals set out in the Hague Programme, has placed on the agenda proposals on the retention of telecommunications data, establishing a second generation of the Schengen Information System and putting in place a new Visa Information System.
This Presidency accepts that, in considering proposals in these areas, it is incumbent upon the advocates of change, such as the British Government, to make the case that measures of this kind have the practical advantages against criminality that I believe they do.
That is why I am publishing today, as I promised the LIBE Committee in July in Brussels that I would, an explanation of the cases for some of these measures, in particular those relating to retention of telecommunications data.
My colleagues on the Justice and Home Affairs Council will be considering these issues carefully at the informal Council meeting in Newcastle later this week.
Those rights are actively threatened by criminals and terrorists.
We have a duty and a responsibility to help protect them for our citizens through practical measures.
What matters in each case is that the steps are proportionate and that the protection against abuse is effective.
This is proving invaluable in the current investigations into the London attacks and in many cases in the UK it has proved essential to solving crimes, often months or years after they were committed.
That means that catching a murderer or stopping a terrorist attack may depend on which mobile telephone company a victim, suspect or witness uses or has used, or which European Union country they were in.
I do not believe that it is, because in many cases, some of which I have set out in the document I am circulating, the victim’s right to justice was only achieved through the retention of telecommunications data.
Similarly, with the Schengen Information System, the next generation enables our law enforcement agencies to exchange information about individuals wanted for arrest or to be refused entry to the European Union, as well as information on lost and stolen documents or other objects.
This is a critical tool for ensuring our collective security and for guaranteeing our rights.
We all need to be sure that we are striking the right balance between our collective security and our fundamental rights.
Biometrics are the most effective way to ensure that we can prove someone's identity.
The Council aims to have the system up and running in consulates from the beginning of 2006.
Each of these examples is a practical measure that can enhance security and demonstrate the practical benefits of working together.
That is why we need to ensure that in each case there is a clear legal basis for the exchange of information and that the basis should include the appropriate safeguards against abuse.
However, on behalf of the United Kingdom Government I also want to say that we believe that it is necessary to look very carefully at the way in which the jurisprudence around application of the European Convention on Human Rights is developing.
The Convention, established over 50 years ago in a quite different international climate, has led to great advances in human rights across the continent.
Its achievements must be fostered and developed and not undermined, but I believe that in developing these human rights it really is necessary to balance very important rights for individuals against the collective right for security from terrorist violence.
Our strengthening of human rights needs to acknowledge a truth which we should all accept: that the right to be protected from torture and ill-treatment must be considered side by side with the right to be protected from the death and destruction caused by indiscriminate terrorism, sometimes caused, instigated or fomented by nationals from countries outside the European Union.
This is a difficult balance to get right and it requires all of us, as politicians, to ask where our citizens – who elected all of us here – would expect us to draw the line.
I believe that they expect from us not only the protection of individual rights but also the protection of democratic values such as safety and security under the law.
I intend to discuss with colleagues in the Justice and Home Affairs Council how we might best address these issues in a manner consistent with our international obligations.
The right to safety and security is a fundamental concern for all our citizens.
Here we can show that Europe can and does deliver real benefits to our citizens.
It is not an area where we can fail them. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank the European Parliament for this important opportunity, which I shall use to reiterate, both personally and on behalf of the Commission, as has already been done on other occasions, our sympathy for the pain of all those throughout the world who have suffered and continue to suffer the consequences of terrorist attacks.
It is only here, right here, and by acting together that we can now and in the future win the fight against the enemies of our democracy, that we can offer concrete proof of our solidarity and profound empathy with all the victims of terrorism, whether in Europe, the United States, the Middle East or the many Arab countries that have also often been targeted by terrorism.
Our task, the commitment that we have undertaken and must assume again today before the citizens of the 25 Member States, is to promote an overall strategy in the fight against terrorism.
In my view, this strategy can and must be founded on three main principles: prevention, protection and reaction.
Europe cannot and must not fail in this task because, confronted with a threat that is and will remain serious, confronted with the challenges of terrorism, in the aftermath of New York, Madrid and London and of all the attacks in the heart of friendly, neighbouring Arab countries, Europe now has an opportunity to live up to the expectations, both rational and emotional, that its citizens have held for some time.
In my opinion, what is needed above all is a political response, not a response composed of special or emergency laws; what is needed is a vision for the future of a Europe that is at once a land of security and a land of rights.
This first kind of response, in my view, is called prevention.
Such prevention must first of all strike at the political design of an international terrorist network which attacks and rejects the cardinal values held by Europe and by democracies, which attacks citizens’ fundamental rights – one of the pillars of European integration.
It is a kind of citizenship of which we Europeans are the proud and also jealous guardians, because it is based on the right to life, on the right to full respect for human dignity, on equality for all the women and all the men on earth.
We – the Commission – shall therefore make our contribution to the debate: in a few days’ time, in fact, on 21 September, we shall issue a communication to Parliament and the Council on violent radicalisation and the recruitment of terrorists.
We must then develop international cooperation measures: Europe working together with international players, alongside the United States, alongside the countries of the Arab world, alongside all those who are fighting because they, like us, are victims of terrorism.
We must do so, in my opinion, by closing the financial channels and cutting off the sources of funding that sustain terrorism and terrorist organisations.
The second line of action is protection.
We are working towards enabling citizens to enjoy a basic, fundamental right, which is the right to live in safety, the right to live our daily lives without fear.
By the end of this year we shall be ready to put forward a European programme to improve the protection of critical infrastructure.
It will be a complicated project that will require a great deal of research into security technology, which is why we are promoting a thorough dialogue between the public and private sectors, as clearly both are involved in a project that aims at ensuring that the infrastructure supporting people’s daily lives is more secure than it is today.
We must also put in place an effective reaction capability and increasingly promote effective cooperation between the investigating authorities and the intelligence community.
Our objective is to try to create a genuine European network aimed at developing the principle of availability, a decisive factor in encouraging the exchange of information, which – where it is available – can sometimes be vital in preventing a terrorist attack.
That is one of the many tasks that, in my view, are very important, on the path towards establishing that mutual trust among the Member States that we are trying to achieve.
The next task will be the European evidence warrant, another important means of improving mutual trust among the Member States’ authorities.
Precisely on the subject of mutual trust, we are trying out an operational capability for cooperation that does not depend on legislation but on the will of the Member States’ authorities – above all on the political will of the Member States – to work together.
In short, we have to know how to balance both investigative activities and the defence or protection of the right that we all have to privacy.
We shall put forward a proposal for a directive on the retention of telecommunications and Internet data, and in October we shall put forward a proposal that is perhaps even more politically significant: the first structured proposal on data protection in the so-called third pillar, that is to say in the area of cooperation among police and investigation forces.
Above all, amongst other safeguards, there will be a clear guarantee that data can be used only for a certain period of time after being gathered, only for specific purposes, and only under the control and supervision of free and independent authorities, particularly the investigating judicial authorities.
One need only remember that there are currently 25 different bodies of law on this subject in Europe: there are Member States that keep data for up to several years, whereas others do not make the same data available to investigators because they destroy them straight away.
We must all understand, therefore, that only the harmonisation of a European framework can make us stronger even in this extremely sensitive area.
We are very well aware of how important our response is now and how much an effective, well-balanced response will help the future of the European project and, above all, our citizens.
However, I also consider it essential that Parliament should, by right, play a leading role in this undertaking at this time, more than on any other occasion, and that it should be fully involved in an institutional process that allows for as much dialogue and sharing of responsibilities as possible, especially through initiatives adopted in accordance with the Treaty.
In conclusion, we must demonstrate our common good will: Europe and its Institutions – this Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
On behalf, then, of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to express to you, in your capacity as the British President-in-Office of the Council, our sympathy with the victims and also our profound sense of solidarity.
The terrorist attacks on London are the latest in a series of appalling events – New York and Washington, Bali, Casablanca, Istanbul, Madrid on 11 March 2004, Beslan a year ago, as well as others.
Today’s debate must, as it is intended to do, make clear that we will be unstinting in our efforts to wage war on terrorism with words and deeds and with the utmost determination.
Although the European Parliament, the Commission and the Member States have recently moved closer to a common approach to combating terrorism, the problem is that many of the measures adopted have not been properly transposed into the laws of individual Member States or have not been implemented by these within the time limits specified.
I therefore urge the Commission and the Presidency of the Council to do everything possible to ameliorate that state of affairs.
It was as long ago as 2001 that the European Parliament defined what role the European Union should play in the war on terrorism.
Mr Watson, who was at the time the Chairman of the relevant committee, drafted that report, as he did the 2002 reports on the European arrest warrant and the common concept of terrorism.
We know – and both the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commissioner said so in their speeches – that Europe must act as one in combating terrorism from within and without.
That does of course mean that the Member States must work closely together, but also, and especially, that there must be action on the part of the institutions of the European Community.
The war on terrorism is above all else an intellectual and political struggle, for the object of terrorism is to destroy the free social order under which we live; it is for that reason that it cannot coexist with democracy.
If democracy is to fight back against terrorist attacks, that requires no more and no less than that we avail ourselves of all the legal means available.
In the aftermath of the Second World War, through the process of European integration, the European Union was very successful in bringing people prosperity.
The more we – by which I mean you, the British Presidency of the Council, the Commission, all of us together – succeed in guaranteeing that the public are kept safe from terrorism and criminal activity, the more the European Union will, in turn, be accepted.
What I have to say to the Islamic world is that terrorism, in the minds of those who spread it and engage in it, is often associated with, and justified by, religion.
We want, instead, to work together with Islamic states, in peace and as partners.
What matters now is that we should not content ourselves with words, but do what has to be done, with Parliament, the Commission and the Council acting together.
In so doing, we have to make it clear that we are willing to engage in dialogue with all those who seek to hammer out the issues peaceably, but we will wage war on those who do not seek peace.
Ten years ago, in this House, we were having the same debates.
Every Eurobarometer survey shows what the public think the EU ought to be doing, and high up the list are the effective combating of criminal activity, protection against the threats presented by terrorism and by trafficking in human beings.
Listening to Commissioner Frattini, though, we learn that it is this same mutual trust that is absent, and that, if the Member States work together, their 25 different legal systems mean that they do not trust one another, for one country will store data for five years and another will get rid of it at once.
What remains unchanged over ten years is that the EU Commissioner responsible for these matters declares that the European institutions need more powers and responsibilities, while all the governments, including your own, say that everything is just fine as it is, in the third pillar.
That is what we in this House must spell out to both the Council and the Commission.
In Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Portugal and Finland, nobody saw the London bombings as merely attacks on London; they felt them as attacks on all of us, on every single citizen of Europe.
What is apparent, then, to me from what is going on politically is that there is a system of values that matters to all the people of Europe and that they want to join together in defending.
Those, be they terrorists or criminals, who threaten our values, have no inhibitions; they have no respect for fundamental civil liberties.
It follows that we have to answer them in the same clear terms: on those who resort to violence, terror and criminal acts the hand of the forces of security and public order must come down hard.
It is a solution we must achieve, but we will manage that only if EU institutions on the one hand and national institutions on the other trust each other and cooperate with one another.
We should not, then deny access to the road to Europe to governments like that – Turkey’s in particular – or to a society like that, for if it turns out to be possible for our values to put down roots in an Islamic society, it demolishes the Islamists’ thesis that such a thing is impossible.
My Group welcomes the commitment of the UK Presidency and of the Commission to improve policies to strengthen security across the European Union.
We do not agree with the President-in-Office when he said in London that the human rights of the victims were more important than the human rights of the terrorists.
There is a worrying tendency in Member States to deport people considered to be threatening public order, national security or the rule of law, to countries where they may face torture or worse.
It is deeply troubling when the tools of justice and public order themselves violate the European Charter of Human Rights and well-defined international standards.
To suspend those values and invoke a form of summary justice would, in the words of the lawyer Cherie Booth 'cheapen our right to call ourselves a civilised society'.
The language of the war on terror leads too easily to the justice of Wyatt Earp and 'High Noon', a point illustrated by the tragic death of Brazilian Jean&#160;Charles&#160;de&#160;Menezes at the hands of the UK authorities on 22 July.
In Germany, police surveillance in public places has been stepped up.
Any of these measures in themselves may be justifiable but, in a climate of fear without proper democratic oversight and control, they foster insecurity.
No wonder that faith-hate crime has risen across the European Union and many Muslims feel they are being criminalised.
It would be particularly ill fitting for those of us who were teenagers in democracies in the 1960s – sometimes called the 'freedom generation' – to deny our children the standards of justice for which our colleagues from central, eastern and parts of southern Europe fought so bravely.
The Council sometimes laments Parliament's objections to security measures that it wants to introduce.
But the European Parliament would feel far more comfortable in agreeing to urgent measures if it was satisfied that the Council was operating in the normal framework of democracy.
The nub of our dilemma is that the State is the main protector of both our security and our liberty.
If the European Union is to provide security against supranational threats, it must guarantee liberty supranationally too.
My Group would thoroughly agree with what Mr&#160;Watson has said to the effect that human rights are universal.
We know from our own experience in the United Kingdom, when we were dealing with terrorism from the IRA years ago, that we could often see that convictions took priority over evidence and over correct police procedure.
In the United Kingdom, we have already derogated from Article&#160;5.
Much of what we are hearing this morning is based on the concept of a benevolent state.
We – the Commission, the Council and Parliament, including, of course, our group – can agree on all of these points.
I would add that we also disagree with this kind of excessively common Western conscience that prevents us from seeing the terrible flaws in our own systems.
In the name of the fight against terrorism, it seems that anything goes.
My colleague Mr&#160;Catania will discuss this point further during the debate.
This leads, whether we intend it or not, to endorsing the idea that the world is divided into ‘them’ and ‘us’, with ‘us’ being the reference point and ‘them’ being the source of the problems.
All of us here can still remember Mr&#160;Berlusconi’s appalling remarks following the attack on the World Trade Center.
This leads me to our third point of disagreement, in particular with the UK Presidency, which is refusing to listen to anyone who stresses the truth, even though it is becoming more and more obvious, namely that the war in Iraq, officially justified in the name of the war on terrorism, is, in reality, producing a continual stream of terrorists.
If condemning this war equates to making excuses for terrorists, then Mr&#160;Straw should remember that he encounters such accomplices of terrorism in the very heart of the Council.
I have been watching this debate ever since the appalling attacks in New York four years ago, and that is what people in the European Union have tried to do at every attempt.
It would be a terrible mistake to entrust this organisation with that amount of information.
We have been very lucky in a lot of ways in that, at those times of crisis, many of our leaders have been able to stay calm and wait for the intelligence information to come through before responding to the threat.
That is the essence of the way democratic control should work in the area of liberty and security.
When we hear talk about utilising jurisprudence in the work that is being done with regard to the European Convention on Human Rights and building on that, of course we should all be heartened to hear that our laws and our policies will be guided by those principles.
Too often when we bring in special laws and new laws in response to these kinds of emergencies or situations, they stay on our books after the emergency has passed and can be utilised again and again.
Of course we must give the tools to our security services to ensure that they are able not only to prevent terrorism, but also to capture the perpetrators of terrorism, those who finance terrorism and those who are involved in other forms of criminality, whether it be drug-trafficking, money-laundering or people-trafficking.
Let me hasten to add that I am not one of those people who say that all governments are wrong and all opposition groups or all non-governmental groups are right.
There is a balance to be struck between the rights of the individual and the rights of the common good.
We must become the heralds of a new world, a world that recognises those fundamental and basic rights of freedom, the right to life, the right to liberty, the right to security.
We enter into a social contract with our governments.
We abdicate some of our own individual rights and freedoms in the interests of the common good to make sure that our world, our countries, our towns are better and safer places.
But, in giving away those individual rights and freedoms, we also expect the same responsibility on the part of those in power.
I am therefore right behind a number of recent proposals and declarations that have been made in the wake of the events in London.
It is at last taking action, and the other Member States would do well to follow in Britain’s footsteps.
Our open society is entitled to defend itself against its enemies.
Freedom of religion can never be a licence for undermining our European society on European soil.
In that sense, I should like to praise the courage of the Czech President, Mr Klaus, who is the only Head of State or Government who dares establish the link between Islamic bombings on the one hand and, on the other, the multiculturalism by which our own values are diluted to the extent where they no longer exist.
We as Europeans must therefore put an end to lax immigration policy that allows the annual influx of 10&#160;000 people who refuse to adapt to our laws, our standards and our values.
The intention is not to question the basic ideas of these conventions, only to ensure that they are no longer used by ill-intentioned people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the United Kingdom Presidency for coming here to make this important statement.
We need to review the delicate balance of civil rights, – and I agree with that – but it is very important that those who go about their normal lives – their normal, innocent and lawful lives – should be protected.
I hope he understands that; hopefully, this House believes that – I and my colleagues certainly do.
Flexibility and adaptability are vital in the face of mutating threats.
Over the last three decades, we have seen Black September, the IRA, the Red Brigades, ETA, Bader Meinhof, animal liberationists, bombs on the Paris Metro, American Embassy bombings in Africa, then the attacks in New York and Washington in 2001, Madrid in March 2004 and, of course, in London in July this year.
We have seen some successes, as targeted measures against some of these organisations have brought results.
Only recently, several members of ETA were arrested on the basis of a joint operation between French and Spanish authorities.
Yes, some of us argue against harmonisation, but we also argue for cooperation between law enforcement authorities.
I was proud to be the rapporteur for this House on joint investigation teams, as I know the Presidency-in-Office is aware, in 2001.
They are a good example of targeted, effective, cooperative effort across the EU, without excessive bureaucracy, and we must be prepared to develop this level of cooperation, particularly now that we have the advantages of technology.
President-in-Office, you mentioned the issue of data retention.
They can be used by criminals as well as to the advantage of a great number of people who want to pursue their business and private interests.
We may have the technology now, and we must use it because if we do not use it, with the proper safeguards, then the criminal element will be ahead of us in that game, as they have been ahead of us in violence, in their lack of respect for democracy and in actions which are completely abhorrent and unacceptable – or should be – to all of us in this House.
No one disputes the fact that peace in Europe depends essentially on effective coordination of security resources and cooperation among the Member States.
If terrorism is of an intellectual nature, then we must get to know each other’s culture, and this duty of learning applies in both directions.
Irrespective of prejudices, we must coexist with the world beyond Europe, and children must learn what that world is like through stories, youngsters through school and adults through the Culture 2000 media programmes.
I am glad that this debate has laid emphasis on cooperation with religious communities, and I welcome the words of Commissioner Frattini.
Fellow parliamentarians, security and freedom have been the key words in this debate.
I would like to thank the British Presidency for making a life without fear the focus of their Presidency. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Clarke, Mr&#160;Frattini, you have just reminded us of the need to respond to the threat of terrorism whilst, of course, still protecting citizens’ rights, and, whatever our conceptions of Europe, I think that the time has come, in the next four months, to show that the executive and the legislature will move forward together, and will not go down any other route.
I have my doubts and I cannot help but regret the lack of an adequate response from the Council to the recommendations put to it at its meeting in The Hague and during the assessment of the Tampere Programme.
Therefore, in conclusion, can we expect the Presidency to take true account of the European Parliament’s position and make a commitment, as soon as it wants and in a very short timeframe, to serious negotiations?
Finally, I would like to say to the High Commissioner that the Commission has stated that it is prepared to respond to Parliament’s expectations, and it is in the process of preparing appropriate proposals that arouse our interest and justify our expectations. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we are seeing a growing and very worrying number of situations worldwide in which states are using the argument of the fight against terrorism as the basis for a policy of repression of other non-terrorist groups, or to violate the most fundamental rights of people assumed to be terrorists.
There are plenty of examples, in Pakistan, China, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Yemen, Kenya and many other countries besides, and often the defenders of human rights, as the United Nations’ Special Representative, Mrs&#160;Jilani, pointed out, are among the first victims of the fight against terrorism.
In Tunisia, for example, the government adopted an anti-terrorism law in 2003, a law that claims to support international efforts in the fight against terrorism, but that in fact attacks the basic rights of citizens, peaceful activities of civil society, trade unions and political parties.
Nor can we ignore the very serious accusations made, particularly against the United States, by international NGOs such as Amnesty International, according to which a number of individuals arrested as part of the war on terrorism are being detained in unknown locations.
These accusations are backed up by official reports discussing the situation of ghost prisoners, held secretly in prisons and transferred from one place to another to hide them from the attention of the International Committee of the Red Cross.
Such practices are contrary to international rules on respect for human rights, particularly the non-refoulement principle.
The fight against terrorism must not be associated with the fight against illegal immigration or with asylum policies, as it has been by Mr Clarke today.
In my opinion, victims should not be turned into killers: migrants are the weak link in a system that sustains terrorism, but they are certainly not the cause of terrorism.
Moreover, if the extent of tragedies can also be measured by the number of deaths, then terrorism should not even be considered a priority for the European Union: the real tragedy in Europe is the number of migrants who drown in the Mediterranean Sea because of our laws and practices that turn them away.
A serious omission hangs over this debate: Mr&#160;Clarke and Mr&#160;Frattini represent the two European countries that have most contributed to the war and the military occupation of Iraq.
Their analysis is wrong if they do not see the relationship between the war and terrorism.
Data protection is a means of making security prevail over freedom and justice.
Finally, I believe that certain initiatives require the consent of Europe’s citizens and that it will not be easy to build a consensus on this issue.
I do not think that the European Union should try to get out of its crisis by using this distortion of security.
Well, I suggest he pays them a quick visit, for instance, at a different level, on a different issue, one associated with culture, the considerable cultural difference that exists between them and us.
He could go to Tunis, for instance, where a poor Italian mother had to take refuge in the Italian Embassy to protect herself and her young child’s right to return to Italy, as she was being pursued by the courts of that country, because in Islamic countries, even moderate ones, when a ruling has to be made in a dispute between a Muslim and a non-Muslim, the decision is a foregone conclusion.
This is what we must do: take preventative action, certainly; strike right where the danger lies, not among the bargeloads of wretched people reaching Lampedusa – they are certainly not the danger – but among those who recruit and organise them in not all but a great many mosques, not all but many prayer centres.
Fortunately there are those who have researched the subject more thoroughly, as we have heard.
It is a very important issue: just this morning the newspapers are saying that terrorist organisations in France – and all credit to French intelligence for having reported it – have even taken over a vast industry: sportswear and sportswear sales to young people.
The danger is in our midst; it is in our houses and in our cities in Europe.
That is where we must act with firm, targeted measures, without giving in to the indulgent attitudes of which we have heard too much in this Chamber. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, terrorism is the enemy at Europe’s gates, and has unfortunately become part of life in Europe today.
We must not remain defenceless in the face of these criminal activities.
It is for this reason that both individual countries and international organisations must use all the means at their disposal, even if these result in a temporary and partial curtailment of civil liberties.
I should like to say to Mr&#160;Clarke that the UK Government deserves praise for its introduction of a simplified procedure for deporting individuals involved in terrorist activities in the UK.
One of the key proposals I would make to the UK Government and to other governments of EU Member States is that readmission clauses should be incorporated into agreements with Russia, Ukraine and the North African countries, in particular Morocco.
I welcome the fact that the debate immediately following this one will focus on the situation in the Middle East.
Terrorism is also a problem in this region, where it is directed against the state of Israel.
Israeli citizens therefore deserve our praise, and we should learn all we can from their methods of fighting terrorism.
At the same time, however, our sympathy should be with the thousands of Israelis who have lost their homes in the Gaza Strip, where they had lived for decades.
We should also acknowledge the efforts of the Palestinian Authority to achieve security in the region, even though these efforts have not always been successful.
The reason why I refer to this issue is that the fight against terrorism in Europe is not an isolated struggle, and that we are not cut off from the rest of the world in the war against terror. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the definition and specification of the rightful political role of the European Union and its institutions in the fight against terrorism is, I believe, an extremely urgent objective for this Presidency of the European Union.
The European Union must be an essential political element in the fight against terrorism, especially for the Home Affairs Ministers.
I know these Ministers face many urgent issues, they require many instruments and tools, but I believe one of the main urgent issues for the upcoming European Council is that you, the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers, need to be able to promote a European political project and that you need to find the European Union useful and effective in the fight against terrorism, because it is you who are going to need the Union most over the coming years.
We cannot carry on putting the cart before the horse; we must provide the European Union’s action with the essential political dimension.
So where can we find the European political project?
However, it is vital that we stop the ‘sticking-plaster’ approach and that we consider dealing with the root of the problem and new measures for combating terrorism.
It is worth repeating that these measures for combating terrorism must be in line with our legal rules, our rule of law and our democracies.
Certain Member States have instituted legal proceedings to find out why their citizens have been kidnapped and taken to third countries where they have been tortured.
The Commission recognises that this constitutes a violation of fundamental rights, but refuses to deal with the issue.
Rethinking our fight against terrorism means dealing with its roots in poverty, exclusion, discrimination, in a word, all injustice.
We must find the means to combat exclusion, in our societies but also in less developed countries, and we must fight against injustice all over the world.
All advanced civilisations have understood that it is justice and equality that are most effective in countering violence.
On the other hand, we need to train, to educate, to develop critical faculties, to fight against blindness when there are human beings prepared to self-destruct, to kill themselves even when, for example, they have just created life as was the case for one of the London terrorists; we understand that we absolutely must act from the top.
Only early and effective integration into our societies can put an end to this brainwashing.
Every citizen of our countries must truly feel like a citizen, recognised and respected as a person.
In conclusion, I would like to return to your proposals, Mr&#160;Clarke.
We will certainly gain more by sharing our experiences, our information and our resources.
We will only succeed at European level, but the European Parliament wants to be fully involved: if we work together, then we will make progress. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, I will say at the outset that I am in favour of the measures proposed by the UK Presidency to fight the terrorist threat and terrorist actions.
Acting without excessive security, but also without weakness, is the best way of avoiding the traps set for us by the terrorists and of responding clearly to the expectations of the citizens.
The retention of data regarding telephone and Internet communications has already demonstrated its worth and must be encouraged, provided that it has a legal basis, that the cost problem is taken properly into account and that the period of retention and the conditions of use &#160;this is essential&#160; are specified.
Finally, I would stress the fact that the exchange of information between states, international cooperation, as you said, is an essential element.
Parliament was almost unanimous in adopting three reports that I had the honour of presenting, which aimed to promote these exchanges.
I would therefore encourage the UK Presidency to reach a clear conclusion, with our support.
Ethically and politically speaking, we must also get sincere Muslims to condemn preachers of violence clearly, publicly and unreservedly and the responsible authorities to prosecute these preachers and deport them without any weakness.
That is our language, and, if we lose our balance under public pressure when we speak, we lose it even more when we act.
You utterly disregarded the Constitution and the fact that its rejection in France and the Netherlands was demonstrably not a rejection of the European constitution-making process, but an expression of disappointment at unfulfilled expectations.
It is not the rules of war that we should be discussing but the determination to defend rights, freedom and democracy.
You said nothing about the way in which parliaments are being circumvented.
You had nothing to say about the precarious nature of democracy, about prevention and cooperation between secret services and police forces, any more than you had anything to say about this House’s criticisms of shoddy reports that fail to clarify whether the means used are proportionate, appropriate or necessary.
It is an ancient phenomenon that is used to disrupt a society and foment unrest and instability.
Unfortunately, various Member States are already familiar with acts of terror that date back before Islamic terrorism, to, for example, the 1970s and 1980s, when the fight against terror went hand in hand with opinions on data protection that were held at the time.
I gather that many Members are reluctant to endorse far-reaching measures, but the restrictions and objections presented here in Parliament do not make it easy to work with data, and so I would ask Commissioner Frattini whether concrete measures can be identified that could boost confidence in the Commission and Council proposals.
In Germany, we had the Red Army Fraction, Ireland has the IRA, and Spain ETA, all of which tried to pursue their objectives by means of violence.
The ‘9/11’ events in the United States gave terrorism a wholly new dimension, and it acquired an unequivocally European one with the attacks in Madrid on 11 March and in London on 7 July.
What the atrocities in London showed was that the perpetrators do not pass through porous borders in order to carry out terrorist acts in Europe.
They are people living among us, who have taken our nationalities, attended our schools, people who go out to work and appear to be part of our society.
These were not people who were denied opportunities by being on the fringes of our society.
Far from it; these terrorists set out to kill indiscriminately as a means of turning Europe, our values and our lives upside down.
Some of them had been living in our midst, as our neighbours, for years or even decades.
The attacks on London in particular showed that the idea of the ‘melting-pot society’ has failed.
That is why there must be a response to this threat by the Member States and the European Union as a whole, using not only legislation but also the machinery of law enforcement.
Together and in cooperation with each other, we must protect our citizens.
What this shows is that mistakes made in one Member State can affect the security of people in all the others.
The right of permanent residence should be made conditional on a desire to really immigrate and the willingness to adopt a new manner of life, new forms and standards in a new homeland.
We have to make it clear that European society offers human rights, democracy, freedom, the equality of men and women, concern for our neighbours, social justice and much more, while, on the other hand, requiring people to adopt our democratic values, our conception of freedom and of its defence.
While action in the spheres of policy-making, the law and the criminal justice system are necessary, a European consciousness and sense of European identity must come into being to unite us, not merely economically as an economic and currency union, but as a community of values.
However, it would have been a good thing if, instead of three, you had proposed five basic guidelines: not only international cooperation, not only the need for effective police cooperation, not only the need to use modern technology, but also laws and institutions for the protection of personal freedoms at the same time, together with political and social programmes to combat the phenomenon of terrorism.
If citizens feel, even for no real reason, that they are being monitored excessively, then they censor themselves and that is a threat to democracy and a victory for the terrorists.
However, the Presidency has not yet tabled a study referring to all cases where access to these data, even if useful, was not necessary.
Minister, today there is as yet no framework for data protection under the third pillar, under which the Council is promoting its initiative.
We urgently need action: closer cooperation and exchange of information; full and rapid implementation of agreed measures; not just more data collection, but also much better use of the available data.
I welcome the coherent vision set out by Mr Frattini, with a proper balance between security and liberty, stressing the need for European cooperation for more effectiveness.
Frankly, I find it much more convincing than the one-sided wish list for tougher measures by the Presidency.
The Member States argue that they take these measures to protect our democracy, but they do so by circumventing parliamentary scrutiny because it is terribly inconvenient.
Let us not forget that people are nowhere safer than in our open, free and democratic society.
I should like to raise three specific issues.
If someone is on a list for the wrong reasons, how can he be taken off the list?
The usefulness of data retention for investigations and prosecution is undisputed, but the need for blanket surveillance has still not been convincingly demonstrated.
Constantly increased police powers will never prevent all terrorism and organised crime but only undermine democracy.
The best weapon is reduced recruitment to crime syndicates and terrorist groups, brought about through tolerance, social cohesion and lower levels of poverty and through permitting legal immigration.
Terrorism is one of the most serious threats to democracy, human rights and economic and social development.
The terrorist threat affects us all.
Any act of terrorism against a Member State should be viewed as an attack on the EU as a whole and on the shared values that form the basis of our civilisation.
The Union should therefore, in an expression of solidarity, take all possible measures effectively to protect the rights and freedoms of its citizens; let me stress, the rights and freedoms of its citizens.
Issues of security have acquired fresh urgency in the light of the most recent terrorist attacks.
Accordingly, we hope that the Commission will, at the earliest opportunity, present us with proposals on prevention, protection and the fight against terror.
I welcome Mr&#160;Fratini’s statement on the forthcoming presentation of initiatives on critical infrastructure and the protection of personal data.
The recent case in London of a young Brazilian killed by the police serves to remind us that if our societies descend into barbarism, the terrorists will have achieved their objective – to destroy our societies and our framework of values. &#160;&#160; Mr President, today’s debate on the measures we must take together to fight terrorism and terrorists is one that I regard as crucial.
I appreciate Mr Clarke’s pragmatic approach and sense of purpose when he says that we should manage to achieve a few things in the six months of his presidency of the Council with responsibility for these things.
At the same time, I also very much appreciate the Commissioner’s remarks about the social context in which we should deal with the problem of Islam-inspired terrorism.
I should like to add my own comments about the partly political dimension to the fight against terrorism, because there is, in my view, an important connection between domestic and foreign policy where terrorism is concerned.
The threat of terrorism we are facing is a perfect example of external and internal policy being interlaced, not only in the physical sense when individuals and groups from outside the EU enter it with terrorist intentions, but even more so because we are dealing with networks and ideas that know no borders.
These ideas often explicitly deal with the relationship of Europe, or the west, with the rest of the world.
We will therefore also need to accommodate them in our foreign policy, and that involves more than mere cooperation with police and security services in third countries.
We must also examine our relationship with, and our policy in respect of, the countries in the Islamic world.
While we share this objective with many Americans, we must also avoid the radical approach that many Americans, particularly neo-Conservatives, embrace with regard to the democratisation of the Middle East.
We must translate the dialogue with the countries of the Islamic world directly into our dialogue with the Muslim communities within our own society.
Our foreign policy is an essential piece in the internal security puzzle. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe can and must react firmly and adopt whatever measures are needed to respond effectively to terrorist crime, which is a new cancer in our society.
We therefore agree with the measures contained in the revised action plan on terrorism.
Of course, we realise that in doing so we run the risk of restricting the exercise of certain fundamental rights, such as privacy, but it is equally right and proper – and at this moment a top priority – to protect the rights of society as a whole, rights that are just as fundamental and under even greater threat.
We therefore strongly condemn the kidnappings organised by the CIA on the sovereign territory of Member States, as in the case of an Egyptian citizen in Milan on 16 February 2003.
We also regret the so-called licence to kill that is all too often issued to police officers on the basis of suspicions without being clearly justified on the grounds of self-defence, as unfortunately happened recently in a European country.
In conclusion, I say yes to the law on terrorism and yes to the resolute, determined fight against terrorism, provided that it is conducted within the law and in the name of the law. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we know that today’s terrorists operate on an international scale, their violence crossing borders and destroying on a scale previously known only in time of war.
It is more important to concentrate on this than to keep on tightening the screws at home and restricting the freedom of individual citizens.
Mr Wiersma quite rightly said that cooperation and exchange of data between secret services is much more important than the harassment of individual citizens of our Member States; it is also more effective.
This is true of almost all the Member States.
All these lists will be ineffective, and so I urge the nation states to at last do the homework to which they have agreed and get a grip on dealing with this cross-border phenomenon rather than constantly making new speeches to absolve themselves of blame whenever a terrorist act is carried out, after which – yet again – nothing happens.
I believe that during this period of reflection we must continue working to ensure that this Constitution provides us with a legal framework, and I believe that Mr&#160;Clarke, a committed pro-European, can do much within the British Government to convince it of the virtues of this Constitution.
However, if the security services openly state that they are targeting young, ethnic-minority men, the rest of society may also begin to view those who fit this profile with suspicion.
Our response to the terrorist threat must be intelligence led and, therefore, requires the contribution of the very communities that these policies are pushing to the fringes of society.
The protection of the human rights of EU citizens who just happen to fit a particular description should not be mutually exclusive from the tracking of the perpetrators and prevention of these terrorist attacks.
Public security is of paramount concern, but the Presidency must acknowledge that undue restrictions on the liberty of our citizens simply fulfil the ultimate goal of these extremists.
Today, Europe has an opportunity to respond to extremist forces within our borders in an intelligent, strong, liberal manner, considering our citizens as equal, unless and until any one of them actually takes actions which threaten the security of our society.
Then our response must be united, relentless and firm, but always proportionate and based upon the rule of law.
I hear much talk of the targeting of mosques.
I received my religious teaching in that very same mosque system.
In conclusion, I repeat, President-in-Office, let us not allow our reactions to deliver to the terrorists that which their actions can never seek to achieve. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the balance between individual freedom and the security of society as a whole forms an essential element of our democratic fabric.
You made a comment on how the issues of asylum, human trafficking and drug smuggling should be tackled.
As Mr Poettering, our group chairman, said, most Muslims in Europe are very attached to our European values.
All too often, undesirable organisations also slip through the net.
Let me single out just one example, that of Hizb ut-Tahrir, a radical Muslim organisation that is opposed to democracy and in favour of radicalisation.
If we agree to abandon that long-established level of protection for human rights and regard for these fundamental rights, we shall have given the terrorists their first resounding victory, that is to say that we shall have shown that our values – values on which we claim our Western civilisation is founded – are actually fragile, shaky and utterly partial.
Mr&#160;Clarke, allow me to put to you some questions that have arisen in part from certain omissions that we noticed in your speech.
More than ever, cooperation is needed to help prevent, investigate, expose and arrest those who plan terrorist acts or other cross-border crime.
Europol and Eurojust must be given many more resources and perhaps be developed into some kind of European FBI that can coordinate and lead preliminary and other investigations and perhaps even go in and make arrests.
It should be possible to coordinate information and intelligence from the various Member States.
The fight against criminality is always an important balancing act between the need for security and tough measures and the need for individual privacy.
Developments in recent years have forced us all in some degree to lower our standards regarding privacy.
For example, cameras in public places are accepted more and more.
They also played an important role in the work done by the police in London to identify the terrorist bombers.
The fact is that most of us, after all, are not criminals. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks of 11 September, Madrid, London and Sharm El-Sheikh and those that have taken place in other cities in Asia and Africa demonstrate that terrorism has acquired not only a new face but also new strategies, organisation and weaponry to strike at our democracies.
In order to defend its citizens’ right to security, Europe must make every effort to equip itself with the operational means and the legislation to forestall and to counteract Al Qaeda and its allies.
The Council, Commission, European Parliament and Member States must act fast to bring in joint measures, especially on sensitive issues that involve both security and the right to liberty.
Harmonised measures are needed, for instance, on the expulsion of those who preach hatred and violence and are a threat to security.
Italy – and I am delighted that the Netherlands agrees on this point – expelled an imam yesterday and is preparing to expel some more people in the next few days.
Harmonised measures and a sharing of political and economic responsibility are also required in the area of border controls and illegal immigration, as are harmonisation and coordination in the work of the police and intelligence services.
I therefore welcome the proposals put forward by the UK Presidency and by Mr&#160;Frattini.
Terrorism cannot, however, be fought or beaten just with a firm hand – with due respect for human rights, of course – that is, just through legislation and the work of the police and intelligence forces.
We must not confuse Islam with terrorism, but we must condemn those who, in the name of extremism, try to stop young European Muslims from going to state or officially recognised schools in favour of Koranic schools.
Just as individual countries cannot overcome the current threat on their own, Europe cannot do so on its own either.
Broader cooperation is needed, certainly including the United States and also the moderate Arab countries, which also lie in Bin Laden’s sights.
For all these reasons, the Forza Italia delegation in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will support the Union’s actions in the fight against terrorism, since they will simultaneously protect both the human rights and the security of everyone who lives in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I admit that I am not neutral in relation to the fight against terrorism.
I fully support the approach and the priorities suggested to us today by Mr Clarke on behalf of the British Presidency.
Its actions are not predetermined by any ideology, any religion, any social or political situation, and nothing can justify them.
Europe needs a clear voice which the citizens can identify as our political position in this field.
In a democracy, security is an instrument at the service of liberty.
We all know that there can be security without liberty, but there can be no liberty without security.
Only a plural, democratic and secure society can guarantee the full exercise of freedoms.
Both rights are inalienable and we must make them compatible.
I am the last to imagine that terrorism will be defeated merely by more intensive security measures.
But before involving the European Union, Mr President-in-Office, let us put our own house in order.
We are not hamstrung by compliance with the Schengen Agreement, yet we have no idea who enters or leaves our country and at least half a million illegal immigrants should not be there in the first place.
We know that the protections of our free society have consistently been abused by extremists who live in Britain while supporting, financing and recruiting for a host of well-known terrorist organisations.
Mr President-in-Office, you have a lot to do.
You have our support for robust, effective and proportionate measures. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the statements from the President-in-Office of the Council and from the Commissioner.
After 11 September, the bombings in Madrid, London and Turkey are a wake-up call.
Terrorists and organised criminals use modern technology while we, in this House, argue and debate whether our police and intelligence services should have access to the same tools and the same technology.
Yes, we must achieve a balance on privacy, on the retention of data and the use of data, but not to the point where we hand the terrorists and criminals an advantage that undermines our own way of life and gives them the opportunity to commit further atrocities.
In this House we must end the interinstitutional argument and act collectively with the Commission and the Council to achieve agreement, with checks and balances on data retention, the use of biometrics, passenger name records, Schengen Information System II, VIS, police and intelligence cooperation.
Our citizens fear that we have lost touch with reality and do not understand their fears, their needs, their lives.
We must be practical and sensible in our approach, but we must act.
That new right has been acquired because we have ceded another right.
We have consented to the fact that information can be collected, retained and used on us.
Had we not ceded that right of privacy, we would not have freedom of movement across the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council started off by saying that the citizens of Europe were disappointed and dissatisfied.
I call on the Council to give us the resources, to give us the tools, to give the Community the powers to do what Europe’s citizens rightly expect of us.
The European Union goes the furthest towards solving all those problems for which national borders present no obstacle.
For terrorists, egoists, extremists and opportunists, an EU with powers returned to its Member States is the best of friends; a common Europe, a strong EU, is their most deadly adversary. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it has already been said that the two speeches that we have heard this morning differ somewhat in the approaches they reflect.
Mr Frattini spoke about attacking the political and social structures of terrorism.
He spoke about dialogue between cultures and religions and about the promotion of fundamental rights and freedoms, not just as a goal but as a strategy to combat terror.
Mr&#160;Clarke's words reflect a more practical approach: he outlines concrete and practical measures to strengthen the police and justice systems.
Terrorists have struck in New York, Madrid, London, Turkey and Amsterdam.
When I was in Morocco just after the terrorist strikes in Casablanca, the streets were dominated by enormous billboards with the text – do not touch my country, do not touch my neighbours, do not touch my fellow citizens.
If you hurt our fellow citizens, we will find you and you will be punished.
In order to be effective, however, we need so much more than a strong police force.
We need a fundamental understanding of the problem we face.
We need a joint insight into the networks that recruit young men and women in our inner cities and in our prisons.
We need a common stance on democracy and rights and a common strategy on their promotion in Europe and beyond.
We need to abandon the simplistic idea that promoting security automatically means limiting fundamental freedoms.
In order to convince European citizens of the value of our measures, we need to take the measures that we can prove are necessary.
We need a dialogue on the place of Islam in society and about the future of multiculturalism – we need Frattini's approach.
However, we also need the down-to-earth approach that I read between the lines in Mr Clarke's words. 'Do not touch my country' – it does not matter who we are, what our religion is or where we are from: if you hurt our fellow citizens, you hurt us.
Do not touch Europe or the values it represents, the values that allow us all to live together in peace. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I believe the problem needs to be properly defined.
I must also add Mr President, that economic and security interests cannot set against each other and still less can they be camouflaged behind the guise of an apparent violation of public freedoms, even on a temporary basis.
These two concepts are interdependent, since without freedom and fundamental human and civil rights there can be no security, whereas without security it is impossible to establish freedom, human rights and the rule of law.
I say this as a representative of a new Member State that was deprived of freedom and occupied by a foreign power for many decades.
One of the reasons why citizens of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary and other countries were in favour of joining the European Union was because it would mean a strengthening of the rule of law, of human rights and civil liberties and, of course, of security.
The public is well aware of the fact that international terrorism, international organised crime and illegal migration cut across borders, and that in this age of globalisation no country is in a position to solve these problems alone.
It is for this reason that I welcome the comments made by Mr&#160;Clarke, who emphasised intergovernmental cooperation and cooperation between police forces, as well as the exchange of information between intelligence services.
As Members have just said, that, after all, is the real problem as regards internal security and the fight against crime.
We have 25 legal systems, none of which are harmonised; our exchange of data is inadequate and not enough information is exchanged between the secret services.
I really would like to see a list detailing where the gaps in cooperation are, what has been done about these measures and their implementation and just how well existing institutions function.
As things stand at present, the Council is not prepared to give Parliament a proper say as regards the retention of communications data, and that is not on. &#160;&#160; Mr President, following 11 September 2001, the United States, on the pretext of maximising security, have been waging an underground, and for a time secret, war.
I appreciate the contributions by Mr&#160;Poettering, Mr Schulz, Mr Watson and Mr Cavada, in particular Mr Cavada's remark that the time has come to work together in the next four months to reach an agreement on how to proceed.
The second point, however, is that for me this debate has illustrated the dangers and the desire of some political forces to spread poison, malice and disinformation about these difficult and problematic matters.
It is very important that when we have this debate we look at the true facts and discuss them in a proper way, because unless we solve these problems others will use them for their own purposes.
My third point is a very important point of principle.
Mr&#160;Voggenhuber said that we must defend our values by working within them.
To avoid any doubt, I absolutely respect the legal framework and the rights that need to be respected.
However, I say – certainly for the British Government but also for the Council as a whole – that we commit ourselves to such a legal framework and the terrible killing in question is an illustration of being able to do just that.
In these circumstances, it is right for our police and security services to give proper thought to how we deal with a threat from that quarter, subject to scrutiny and debate and subject to operating in a legal framework.
But that is what this Parliament should be about: asking what the correct procedures are in these areas.
That is why I say yes, we work within a legal framework.
But I also say to my friend Mr Watson that human rights are indivisible, that is true, but we also have to recognise that there are individuals and organisations seeking to destroy these human rights and we have to defend ourselves against them against those people who want to destroy those very human rights for everybody.
Mr Lambrinides, Mr Wiersma, Mr&#160;Barón Crespo and Mrs Roure – with her points about justice – are all correct.
As Mr Mayor Oreja said, we need to understand the role of organisations in these areas.
I do not have time to address the issues about Iraq that were raised by Mr Wurtz and Mr Fava.
That is very often the case in certain institutional areas.
Ladies and gentlemen, in reflecting on the future of Europe and in addressing security as a priority area for European action, we shall have to place greater emphasis on the fact that, if we are serious about wanting to reduce national rivalries, we must create a more solid and more cohesive institutional common ground in Europe.
I shall just take up a few of the suggestions that I have heard, starting with Mr&#160;Brok’s: fewer new laws, fewer new legislative initiatives and more implementation of the existing rules.
Furthermore, I myself and the Commission services will, of course, undertake to provide the Member States that request it with the technical assistance they need to implement the existing rules on terrorism.
Mr&#160;Poettering and then Mr Mayor Oreja, amongst others, spoke of a primarily political response.
I agree wholeheartedly and say: let us involve civil society more – the religious and civil communities that throughout Europe represent this great reality that is our reality – and let us work with them to eliminate the deep roots of terrorism and the recruitment of terrorists.
We shall also ask them to make a gesture of responsibility: in this open dialogue we should like to hear the prayers in mosques sometimes – more and more often – include a clear, strong condemnation of any act that seeks to destroy human life.
That is the dialogue and the partnership of values on which our political action must be based.
If the citizens feel distanced from this great challenge that we have in common, then we – the Commission, Parliament and the Council – will have lost effective contact with the source of our democratic legitimacy, that is to say the citizens.
That is a factor, ladies and gentlemen, that perhaps lies at the root of the mistrust and distance that led so many people in France and the Netherlands to say ‘No’, because they felt excluded and distanced.
In the fight against terrorism we need to keep them close. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I ask that you take note of the fact that I made, when speaking on behalf of my group, a comment on which Mr&#160;Voggenhuber seized in his speech and interpreted to mean that I would like to see the security forces respond to the use of violence by terrorists and criminals with the same sort of violence or a similar overall way of dealing with such persons.
Let me therefore say that the substance of what I said was that those, whether terrorists or criminals, who disregard human rights and attack society have to reckon with the full rigour of the security forces, but I did add – and will take this opportunity to repeat – that it is also a measure of democracy’s strength that it guarantees fundamental civil liberties to all, even to people such as these.
At the same time, the fact that policies such as the aggression and military occupation in Iraq, Palestine and Afghanistan in themselves fan the flames of terrorism has been deliberately swept under the carpet.
All of the evidence points to the fact that, despite what is being trumpeted, this security offensive has been a failure in relation to its stated aims, the worst aspect of which is that it has undermined the citizens’ rights and freedoms.
In the name of this security offensive, Jean Charles Menezes, a Brazilian citizen, was brutally and appallingly murdered on his way to work by the British police force, putting into practice its policy of shoot first and ask questions later. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have read Monday’s Minutes and note, to my regret, that they do not include my name, even though – as the lady Members sitting next to me can confirm – I was, as usual, present punctually for the beginning of the sitting.
The Presidency must do something. &#160;&#160; As you know, Sir Robert, I have every sympathy with your position.
This must not be done, however, at the expense of the market pillar of the CAP, or as part of a philosophy of replacing this pillar with rural development, as put forward by the British Presidency.
We must therefore provide ourselves with the resources needed to meet those challenges, whilst safeguarding ongoing development programmes and of course without jeopardising our other priorities.
In this regard, I welcome the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for the financial year 2005, totalling EUR&#160;15&#160;million for the purpose of financing reconstruction and rehabilitation measures in countries affected by the tsunami, as it is an appropriate measure that is worthy of my support. &#160;&#160; I&#160;would like to thank the rapporteurs and all my colleagues who have voted to provide Slovakia with 5.6 million euro from the European Solidarity Fund to replant the forests destroyed by the gales in the High Tatras in November.
The European Parliament’s gesture is a&#160;display of solidarity with all those who know and love our alpine regions and who did not wait passively for the aid that Slovakia will be provided almost 10 months after this natural disaster.
Yet the challenges now facing the EU cannot justify this underspend.
To conclude, I voted in favour of the Garriga Polledo report, as I had no objections to any of his pertinent observations. &#160;&#160; Experience has shown that the EU is unsuccessful at providing effective disaster aid.
Each Member State should instead set up, for example, a solidarity fund designed to help countries hit by various natural disasters.
I see the treatment of Europe’s citizens as children in every area of their lives as a profoundly Socialist approach.
I would rather that, instead of adopting a directive, we had mounted an information campaign, pointing out to the public the hazards presented by artificial and natural radiation.
Employers already have a duty to assess the risk to health and safety and to introduce appropriate control measures as specified in the Framework Directive (89/391/EEC).
The inclusion of natural sun radiation in the new Directive will disproportionately affect small agricultural and construction businesses and add unnecessary administrative costs, particularly in the Northern regions of Europe.
The wildly varying climates in the various EU Member States are enough to make it clear that European legislation on natural optical radiation is not appropriate.
The proposals that they rejected were aimed at obliging employers to assess the risks to health and safety of exposure to natural sources of optical radiation, and to draw up and implement an action plan comprising technical and organisational measures intended to reduce to a minimum the health and safety risks of workers who work in the open air, without prejudice to the Member States’ obligation to lay down specific criteria for carrying out risk assessments taking account of the nature of the activity and the exposure in question.
That is the case with the directive providing for protection not only against artificial radiation, but also against natural radiation.
I cast my vote in favour of a European solution that lays down the maximum level of protection for workers who are exposed to optical radiation.
Dramatic changes in climate make it necessary that more attention be given even to natural radiation.
Owing to the splitting of the proposal, the common position is concerned only with the specific minimum requirements for the protection of workers from risks to their health and safety arising or likely to arise from exposure to optical radiation.
This has led some to try and caricature this as the protection from sunlight directive.
As regards the issue before us, it is important to make a subtle distinction between employers’ responsibilities and the precautions that all workers must take in both professional and private life.
We support the overall direction of the Report and accordingly have voted in favour of the report. &#160;&#160; We have today voted against Mrs&#160;De&#160;Sarnez’ report because we believe that it contravenes Swedish legislation on freedom of the press and of expression and its clear rules governing media independence.
The report contains proposals as to how minors might best be protected from harmful and unsuitable content on the Internet.
However, the report also recommends that the Member States introduce a right of reply in connection with all the audiovisual and information services on the Net, as well as introduce rules on media ownership.
For these reasons, we have chosen to vote against the report as a whole. &#160;&#160; Ensuring that minors do not have access to broadcasts or services for adults in the field of audiovisual services is obviously a very important issue.
We believe, however, that to prepare legislative measures at EU level in order to protect minors’ physical, mental and moral development in relation to these services would be the wrong route to go down.
The draft report has positive features, but it goes absurdly far in proposing, for example, that a domain name, such as .KID, be set up at secondary level.
We believe that it is up to the democratic institutions in each Member State to solve these alarming problems.
The EU should offer a framework for common standards within this area, to which the Member States can subscribe, rather as happens with the Schengen Agreement.
We have definitely voted against all the amendments referring to the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.
The subject area was rather vast and our policies, I am afraid, rather too weak for the purposes of looking more seriously into these extremely alarming facts and attempting to deal with them in order to protect our children.
Young people spend more and more time on the Internet, where millions of pages with pornographic content can be found.
Accordingly, both providers and users have a responsibility to ensure that this new technology can be used with confidence.
The protection of minors entails politicians, businesspeople, teachers and parents working together.
This report makes it clear that self-regulation is good but insufficient protection for children against harmful content.
The report calls for a variety of measures to improve protection including automatic filter systems for Internet access for children and for the Commission to organise an information campaign for all citizens on safer use of the Internet and a Europe-wide toll free helpline with information on filters.
This report proposes a range of measures relating to education and the training of teachers and trainers, codes of conduct and information on illegal or suspicious activities on the network.
The industry and the authorities at national and European level should consider steps that they can take to enhance the protection of minors.
There is no doubt in my mind that we must all play a proactive role in finding ways of increasing the much-needed protection of minors, the protection of human dignity and the fight against crime and illegal activity. &#160;&#160; .– The very title of the Commission recommendation reveals the real intention of its authors, which is to leave the profitability of the entertainment and Internet industry well alone.
As far as minors are concerned, industry is typically left unaccountable while additional incentives are proposed for the use, for example, of special filters for violent, racist and pornographic images.
Consequently, once again human dignity and the harmonious physical, mental and moral development of minors is getting into the Procrustean bed of the European audiovisual industry and the Lisbon Strategy, in other words of the savage exploitative system of the profitability of big business.
I recognise and agree with the need for rewards and incentives to industry which will encourage the development of paediatric medicinal products.
I have closely reviewed the discussions and debates on how best to achieve this and I can support the Commission’s proposal regarding the SPC extension, in tandem with the review mechanism proposed in the Regulation.
I agree with the principles of transparency and public accessibility which are at the heart of the proposal to amend Article 40 to include a provision for public access to paediatric clinical trial information.
It makes sense to improve the treatment of children by increasing the research, development and approval of medicines which are suited to the metabolism of the child.
A decade or more after the USA, the EU is at last set to adopt legislation requiring the testing of pharmaceutical products for children as part of their approval process.
The financial compensation proposed by the Commission involves granting companies an extra six months Supplementary Protection Certificate, that is, a form of extended patent.
We therefore support the concept of extending the SPC, but question the Commission proposal for an automatic six-month extension.
This report contains a number of measures to ensure that all research and development regarding these medicinal products, and the final authorisation for their paediatric use, be reviewed by independent authorities that are specialised in this field.
Furthermore, the report proposes coherent measures on administrative deadlines, whilst safeguarding quality levels and ensuring that exchanges of information in the field can take place.
We must therefore take care to ensure that all measures that we take reflect the need for quality and rigour in pursuit of these goals.
Fifty per cent of medicines used to treat children in Europe have not been tested and are not authorised.
The aim of simplifying VAT is an admirable one.
I personally welcome the opportunity to discuss the situation in the Middle East.
I would like to begin by welcoming the historic progress made by Israel’s withdrawal from Gaza and parts of the northern West Bank.
The European Union commends the Israeli Government and the Palestinian Authority for their commitment to overcoming the difficult challenges they both face.
The security forces evacuated the settlers sensitively but with resolve and determination.
We applaud the close coordination between the Palestinian Authority and Israel, and encourage them to continue on this path.
The success of the disengagement process so far encourages both parties to continue their cooperation on the remaining steps of the process, not least in their close work with the Quartet’s Special Envoy for Disengagement, James Wolfensohn.
He has presented plans for action to support Palestinian economic and institutional development in the context of disengagement and beyond, identifying key areas where progress would be needed.
These include transport links, border crossings, customs issues between Israel, Egypt and the Palestinian Authority, the link between Gaza and the West Bank, and air and sea ports.
All of Iraq’s communities have worked together to draft this constitution and there have been compromises on all sides.
In particular, the principles of democracy and basic human rights are, with Islam, the founding tenets of the new Iraq.
No law can be passed that contradicts those tenets.
All extremist groups are prohibited.
The European Union will continue to encourage all Iraqis to play a part in the next stage of the political process by voting on the draft constitution in the October referendum.
Broad public support for the constitution will help ensure a stable future for Iraq.
The Iraqis have succeeded in drafting this constitution despite the actions of terrorists who are trying to destroy the country’s desire for that peaceful future.
The Council recognises the many challenges still ahead for Iraq, particularly in terms of the security of its people.
On Iran, however, we are deeply concerned by that country’s unilateral resumption of activity at the uranium conversion facility in Esfahan on 8 August.
The IAEA Board resolution, which was adopted by consensus on 11 August, is a clear and united signal from the international community of its wish that Iran return to suspending all conversion activities without delay.
We also regret that Iran has chosen to reject, without serious consideration, the European side’s detailed proposals presented on 5 August.
These are the most far-reaching proposals for relations between Iran and Europe since the Revolution.
The European proposal specifically offered support for that programme, but there is no civilian operational need for Iran to develop fuel cycle capabilities.
As part of our wider engagement with the region, November’s Euro-Med 10th Anniversary Summit in Barcelona will be a critical opportunity to help the European Union’s Mediterranean partners to meet the challenges of the 21st century.
The Barcelona Process needs to modernise and move towards a more results-orientated process, with much more focus on reform.
In other words, it needs to address the concerns of the peoples on both sides of the Mediterranean.
This includes the need to address obstacles to progress on governance, human rights, market openness and foreign investment.
We cannot achieve these aims without peace in the region.
We are determined to work hard to ensure that the Barcelona Process plays a full role in addressing the challenges facing citizens across the Euro-Med region.
The Summit would be a unique opportunity for us to demonstrate that our partnership is relevant to our peoples and can deliver results on the issues that matter to them.
After five years of the second Intifada, the past six months of calm have witnessed a downturn in violence and terrorist acts and the Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and removal of settlers from certain parts of the northern West bank has passed off smoothly.
This consists of a EUR&#160;40&#160;million infrastructure facility geared to labour-intensive, fast-disbursing projects to restore essential services in the West Bank and Gaza; EUR&#160;12&#160;million assistance to institution-building to help the Palestinians assume governance responsibilities following disengagement, and a package of EUR&#160;8&#160;million focusing on social services, as well as East Jerusalem.
I would like to mention here the fact that we have already in place the European neighbourhood policy and that we have already agreed common action plans with Israel, the Palestinian Authority and Jordan and that the Commission is absolutely convinced that in the context of the European neighbourhood policy Europe can play an important and helpful role in overcoming the problems of the region.
This assistance will not, however, achieve its desired results unless Israel and the Palestinian Authority tackle such important issues as movement of people and goods between Gaza and the West Bank and the outside world, the greenhouses, operation of the border terminals, the dismantling and removal of settlers' homes and movement of people within the West Bank.
It is for this reason that the Commission is providing financial, political and human resources support to the Quartet Special Envoy James Wolfensohn, whose contribution to the disengagement has been remarkable.
The Special Envoy has succeeded in fostering dialogue with the Palestinian Authority and Israel on each of these issues.
The Commission is helping in this.
The second challenge for the peace process is implementation of the roadmap.
On the Palestinian side, President Abbas was able to keep the Palestinian factions in check.
It is now for the international community to help move both sides forward in parallel, helping the Palestinian Authority to make progress on tackling incitement and the dismantling of terrorist infrastructure and pressing Israel to bring to a halt the creation of new 'facts on the ground', which threaten to undermine future final status negotiations.
There is already renewed impetus for Palestinian reform, institution- building, stemming from the intention of the Palestinian Authority to establish a medium-term plan for economic development and from the G8 political commitment to raise up to EUR&#160;3&#160;billion each year for the next three years in order to fund this plan.
In the coming weeks, the Commission will be putting forward proposals for a comprehensive and coherent medium-term strategy for the European Union's relations with a future Palestinian State, including better coordination of EU positions and financial assistance.
We need to see how best we can promote the political and economic viability of a future Palestinian State through targeted assistance in support of reform and institution-building.
In any case, it has shown that it is possible to make progress without violence on the road to peace and compliance with international law.
We are not ignoring the tensions that have arisen within part of Israeli society and particularly in the political sphere in that country, especially in relation to the prospects that are now opening up and the further steps that have to be taken.
The message that we wish to put across in this debate is very clear and is primarily a political message.
Continuing the settlements policy will mean condemning Israel to international isolation and encouraging the most extremist sectors in the Palestinian community.
Half a billion people live under dictatorships there, with the Israeli democracy as the only exception.
As has already been mentioned in this Chamber, the evacuation of Gaza which, in spite of everything, went so smoothly, is an incredibly important step for the continued peace process and the establishment of two states.
The Presidency mentioned Iran and the mullahs there who, with their nuclear weapons programme, have now been mocking, and trifling with, the world community for several months.
The oppression of people in the region cannot be tolerated.
The EU, together with the United States, international organisations, foundations and the opposition in these and other countries should therefore take a combined initiative and devise an international peace and democracy plan for the whole of the Middle East.
Nothing would be better for peace, stability and the fight against terrorism throughout the world than if democracy were to triumph in the Middle East.
The construction work would effectively amputate East Jerusalem from the West Bank and destroy the territorial continuity that is essential to any future remotely viable or credible Palestinian State.
They are fully committed to day-to-day political life and perfect their military formations in the process.
With this dual strategy, Hamas and Hezbollah not only bring the internal Palestinian and Lebanese political relations to a head, they also deliberately head for an armed confrontation with Israel.
The Council should give me this information on the basis of the UN resolution No 1559 with regard to Hezbollah and our own European list of terrorist organisations with regard to Hamas.
This is the perfect opportunity for the European Union, the Council and Commission to fulfil its ambition of being a peace-maker in the Middle East. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Middle East continues to be without equal as a crisis hotspot after the USA presented Iraq as its model example of how to democratise and liberalise the Islamic world, and as a way of, so to speak, solving all problems with a single stroke.
Although the evacuation of the Gaza Strip and the seeking of a two-state solution appear to have injected some impetus into the peace process, which has dragged on for decades, its success will largely be dependent on the economic success of the new structure, and that is where Europe will, no doubt, have to help out.
The consequence of this is that Arabs have become convinced that the USA, in any case of doubt, will always take Israel’s side, and nuclear weaponry has become more attractive as a prestige project.
There has been a degree of cynicism about this change of approach, but nevertheless it represents some sort of step forward in the relations between the United States and the Middle East.
I believe that the European Union should try and reflect this shift in policy; not that democracy is better than stability, but that democracy and human rights are better than ‘business as usual’.
One of the things that singles out the European Union’s approach to the Middle East is this conjunction of democracy and human rights.
In addition, the European Parliament has a role to play, through the Euro-Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, in particular.
The next elections in Egypt will be the parliamentary elections and I hope that this House will agree that we should send a mission to Egypt for those elections, whether or not we are invited. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, should we or should we not see the withdrawal from the Gaza Strip as an indication that there will be peace in the Middle East?
I therefore welcome this withdrawal from Gaza as symbolic of the fact that no settlement is a permanent fixture and that they can all be dismantled in the future.
I choose to believe that no extremist group will harm this fragile hope of peace with a terrorist attack and, above all, that no authority will take advantage of an isolated criminal act to carry out collective reprisals and ruin any hope of peace.
The withdrawal from Gaza has been difficult.
The Israeli Government has carried it out with courage and determination and the Palestinian Authority with a great deal of maturity.
Continued colonisation in the West Bank runs counter to the idea of long-lasting peace, in the same manner as the encirclement of East Jerusalem and the way in which Israel is gaining ground there.
The potential isolation of Gaza, which is over-populated and cut off from any possible economic development, makes it a real ticking time bomb.
That is why I emphasise the need for Europe, while paying tribute to those who have secured this successful disengagement, not to be blind to these worrying signs and to continue to exert pressure so that Gaza has air and sea ports and access to the West Bank and to Egypt, thus preventing it from closing on its inhabitants like a trap, so that international law and humanitarian law are respected and regularly evaluated in this region and so that the road map is relaunched.
Europe has always condemned terrorism and violence and has instead favoured political negotiation and international law.
Whatever may be our opinion on this withdrawal, however we may be divided and there is division on this issue we cannot but congratulate the Israeli authorities on the way in which they have carried out this operation; this is a human tragedy for the families concerned, a heartbreaking experience for the soldiers and a crucial test for Israeli society as a whole, which some people are underestimating in a slightly underhand manner.
Mr&#160;Abbas has spared no effort to facilitate the operations and, above all, to prevent any terrorist attack during the entire period of disengagement.
It is a question of turning this military success into a political success, of harnessing this positive energy in order to return to the road map, since the withdrawal from Gaza can only be the start of a process.
The major challenges awaiting Ariel&#160;Sharon as well as Mahmoud&#160;Abbas are on a huge scale: an end to the settlements, more substantial withdrawals, particularly on the part of the Israelis, and, of course, for the Palestinian leader the disarmament of the terrorist organisations.
Following the destruction of a building in Gaza on Monday and the assassination of his security advisor only this morning, Abu&#160;Mazen has just demanded scarcely a few hours ago a plan for disarming Hamas in Gaza.
We thank the Commission, we rely on it and we will be particularly vigilant, I wish to say, in ensuring that stringent checks are carried out to reassure European taxpayers about how this significant sum of money is to be appropriated. ‘There is a time to kill, and a time to heal, a time for war and a time for peace’, those are not my words, they are in the Ecclesiastes; I was talking about hope just now, not naïve optimism.
The unilateral pull-out from Gaza has justifiably raised expectations.
Europe’s position must therefore be a firm one.
Peace is possible provided we do not waste this opportunity. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, allow me to start by quoting from the Iranian media: 'Thanks to negotiations with Europe we gained another year in which the Natanz project reached a stage where a small number of centrifuges could operate.
I also welcome the EU statement on this engagement.
Twelve months from now, the Middle East will be a different region.
Gaza represents one of the most scarred and desolate corners of the world.
The World Bank says that nearly half of the Palestinians there live below the poverty line.
As a member of Parliament's Electoral Observer Commission, I agree with colleagues that we have a crucial role to play to ensure that the commitments made by the Palestinian Authority at the London conference on security, democratic reform and good governance are realised.
The differences on the 1967 borders and on the status of Jerusalem are as deeply entrenched today as is that much-disputed security wall.
We cannot avoid these uncomfortable truths.
The only hope remains the roadmap, endorsed by the Quartet, by this European Union.
The European Council, under the Presidency of the United Kingdom, must maximise its special relationship with the US to make joint efforts to add to the existing ties with other Muslim countries, such as Egypt, Jordan and Turkey, to name but a few.
Such political progress will have tremendous significance, not just as regards relations between these two states, but as a stepping stone towards a normalisation of relations between Israel and the whole of the Muslim and Arab world.
This week, there is a rare opportunity to begin rectifying these injustices.
The EU, as Israel's principal trading partner, is in a unique position to utilise the human rights clause in the EU-Israel Association Agreement and bring pressure to bear on the Israeli Government to comply, specifically with the ICJ opinion, and more generally to ensure that disengagement is followed by credible political process where outstanding claims for justice under international humanitarian law are resolved.
In conclusion, if the European Council, under the leadership of the UK Presidency, is to play a significant and constructive role in the peace process, it must ensure that concerns of economic and political expediency are not permitted to override the fundamental rights of a people that has suffered enough. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is now becoming clear to both sides that the use of force will not achieve victory: the Israelis cannot achieve their desired security, the Palestinians cannot achieve their independent state.
Both sides are now arriving at this conclusion, as demonstrated from the Palestinian side, with the democratic election of President Abbas, the mandate that he has received to negotiate peace and the fact that even Hamas is now slowly entering the democratic process; and from the Israeli side, with the Gaza disengagement, despite formidable opposition and the traumatic experience of the Israelis.
Now is the time to consolidate these positive developments.
Secondly, I would like to join Mr McMillan-Scott and others in highlighting the importance of our investing in the whole region, especially in the development of democracy and civil society.
We are deeply concerned about the way things are going in Iran, but they are a consequence of our toleration of the development of nuclear weapons not only by such countries as Pakistan and India, but also by Israel, and also of our inability to limit their general proliferation.
It is because unilateral sanctions will not be effective that this matter must be handed over to the United Nations in order for a common solution to be found.
Iran is a country with the express political objective of obliterating one of the UN’s Member States, namely Israel.
If the European Union wishes to be a power in the peace process, it must now support the active forces of democracy and peace.
The EU must take action against those who do not accept international agreements and who consciously choose the path of violence.
We must create both support and a structure for democratic development throughout the Middle East.
We have an opportunity to play a role in the interests of peace but, in that case, we must also show that we can strengthen democracy. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, the departure of Israelis from the Gaza Strip and from the four settlements on the West Bank represents a fresh chance for peace in the Middle East and for the conclusion of an agreement between Israel and Palestine.
This is proof of their desire for genuine peace with the Palestinian nation, and of the democratic nature of the Israeli state in the Middle East.
The reaction of the majority of Israelis is also proof that the country is a worthy partner for the European Union in the construction of an international order based on respect for human rights and democracy.
The European Union should continue to support the steps taken by James Wolfensohn, the envoy of the Madrid Quartet, to coordinate EU funds with those donated by other sponsors, and to ensure that these funds are used as efficiently as possible.
The Gaza Strip must not descend into terror and anarchy, or turn into a new terrorist bridgehead.
Europe must do everything in its power to ensure that the evacuation of the Jewish settlements in Gaza results in negotiations.
The ongoing terrorist campaign in Iraq, of course, still poses a serious threat to stability in the region.
October may see a rejection of the constitution by the Sunnis, but they will then have to get involved in the resulting parliamentary elections and the next constitutional draft, or face a fragmentation of Iraq, in which they will eventually lose out.
Syria must play a more responsible role in apprehending terrorists crossing from its territory into Iraq.
Iran must stay out of Iraqi affairs.
The Palestinian parliamentary elections in January will, of course, be telling.
We all wish the United Nations investigator, Mr Detlev Mehlis, every success in bringing those guilty to justice. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to take my turn to thank Minister Douglas Alexander and Commissioner Verheugen for their speeches.
However, I should like to ask them to read the interviews by the Israeli Prime Minister Arial Sharon in the Jerusalem Post, the and the on 22&#160;April 2004, in which the real objectives of the unilateral disengagement of Israeli settlers from the Gaza Strip are presented.
Mr Sharon speaks in these interviews about addressing the risk of demographic change in Israel and about addressing the security problems of the Israeli occupying forces.
Mr Sharon points out that we have merely rid ourselves of problematic settlements while, on the other hand, both the illegal settlements and the construction of the illegal security wall are continuing, in violation of the resolutions of the International Court at The Hague.
I believe that the departure of the settlers, in order to be a positive step and a window of opportunity, must be integrated into the framework of the implementation of the roadmap, without any new terms or conditions from the Israeli side.
Mr Alexander referred to serious problems in the Gaza Strip.
Firstly, it has been an important and timely debate for Parliament this afternoon.
I am genuinely grateful for the insights that have been garnered in our debate that reflect the experience and expertise of Members of this House.
Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra began by echoing the points made by Commissioner Verheugen, recognising the hopeful signs that have emerged over recent months within the region.
Let me, however, at this stage reiterate a point that was made by the Commissioner in his introductory remarks in paying tribute not to a European, but to an American, James Wolfensohn, who has already made a tremendous contribution to the work of the Quartet and indeed to the successful withdrawal from Gaza that we have seen in recent days.
Mrs Napoletano, in stating her abhorrence of terrorism, echoed sentiments that I am sure are felt by all of us in this House.
That is why we recognise the importance of building on the momentum that has been established in the region in recent months and why I believe that there is a shared determination between the Commission, the Council and this Parliament to take forward that momentum in the weeks and months ahead.
Ms Malmström recognised the importance of human rights in Iran.
The Council is especially concerned about the number of executions of juvenile offenders in recent weeks.
Disengagement offers the prospect of Israel withdrawing settlements from Gaza and part of the West Bank for the first time in history.
However, on the specific point made by the honourable Member about Jerusalem, the European Union has continually made its view clear on settlement activity, not just in the West Bank, but also in East Jerusalem.
Mr Belder quoted the High Representative, Javier Solana, when he spoke of his concerns regarding the activities of Hamas and Hezbollah.
Mr McMillan-Scott spoke of both the Egyptian elections – as did Mr Tannock – and also of the words of the Secretary of State of the United States, Condoleezza Rice, at a recent speech at the American University in Cairo.
I agree that after disengagement, it will be important to ensure that momentum is maintained and that both Israel and the Palestinians focus on implementation of the roadmap.
It will also be important for the Palestinian Authority to ensure that law and order is maintained in Gaza.
Conditions on access and on trade must allow economic growth and stability for the Gaza economy, a point made by a number of honourable Members, but equally allow for Israel to have security from militant or terrorist attacks, which is its right.
Mrs Hybášková raised the issue of Iran and in particular the issue of diplomatic sanctions being applied.
It is important to remind this House that the IAEA board meets on 19 September.
The European Union has said that it will support calls for Iran to be reported to the United Nations Security Council at that meeting, but we are discussing the next step with our international partners.
Mr Karim raised the issue of the barrier, and I would simply reiterate the point I made in relation to the stated position of the European Council as recently as June.
The European Union also uses the opportunity to raise issues of concern, including human rights, at the EU-Israel Association Council.
We will consider in due course what issues to raise in advance of the EU-Israel Association Council scheduled to be held at the end of our Presidency at the end of this year.
I listened carefully to Mr Kasoulides and I assure him that we will share the objective of maintaining the momentum for peace in the months ahead.
Mr Swoboda spoke of the need for a coordinated approach to address the issue of proliferation.
Mr Pinior paid tribute to Israel's step in withdrawing from Gaza and I once again echo that sentiment on behalf of the Presidency.
I need hardly make that point to the European Parliament in light of recent events.
But, to be entirely serious, it is important to recognise how challenging the achievement of a constitution has been in Iraq, against a backdrop of nearly 30 years of tyranny and in the face of ongoing terrorist attacks on innocent people designed specifically to prevent them reaching agreement.
In a country as diverse as Iraq, surely that is all the more so the case.
On behalf of the Presidency, let me thank all those honourable Members who have participated today, pay tribute to the contribution of the Commission earlier in the debate and express my gratitude for the points raised in what I believe will continue to be an important subject and focus of our work in the remaining months of our Presidency. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – In this debate on the Middle East situation, we must not overlook the fact that the territory returned to the Palestinian people belongs to them by right and that they have long been fighting for it.
This will keep it as an enclave within Israel and land links with the West Bank will remain subject to Israeli control. &#160;&#160; &#160;The next item is the report (A6-0235/2005) by Mr&#160;Queiró, on behalf of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, on new prospects and new challenges for sustainable European tourism [2004/2229(INI)]. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, during times of economic difficulty we all have a responsibility to seek solutions, and to find ways of promoting progress and development.
This is the background to our report on the future of sustainable tourism in Europe.
When we talk about tourism in the EU, we are talking about one of our largest and most competitive industries, one that generates the highest number of jobs and that has the biggest growth potential, even in the context of a Europe suffering from economic slowdown.
We must seek to address one of the biggest difficulties facing the tourist industry in terms of economic efficiency: how can we combat the effects of seasonal variations on jobs and on the quality of services provided?
At the same time, it should be understood that tourism is first and foremost a sector in which private initiative prevails and in which, on the basis of the subsidiarity principle, policies come mainly from the Member States’ authorities.
This does not affect the Commission’s role of improving the consistency of its tourism-related measures with the Community policies that feed into it, such as transport, jobs, the environment and the internal market.
We also support the creation and development of the European Tourism Portal to which all national portals will be linked; after all, we must not overlook the enormous benefits that this tool could bring in terms of publicising European destinations.
With regard to improving tourist facilities, we have put forward a range of initiatives to improve access for people with reduced mobility and to ensure that those working in tourist services receive special training for this purpose.
We have stressed the need to implement new tourist activities and infrastructure to cater for the growing demand among the elderly, who, in the coming decades, will account for over 30% of the population of developed countries.
We also endorse the proposal to create a ‘European Union’ tourism mark, characterised by the tremendous social and cultural diversity, high quality services and sustainable tourist projects in the EU, to be promoted via a suitable publicity campaign aimed at potential visitors from third countries.
This break in the talks on the financial perspective for 2007-2013 could and should present us with an opportunity to reintroduce the issue via the creation of a separate budget heading.
All of this should be done in order to ensure that European regulations are flexible and in line with what is required.
In a Europe in which private initiative is at the forefront of growth and development, our role as public decision-makers is to support it and to ensure that it is an integral part of a journey that will hopefully be laden with success.
When I speculate as to which sectors of the European economy might, in the years to come, make an outstanding contribution to growth and the creation of jobs, tourism is the first that springs to mind.
It is evident to all of us that this is an enormous market, with potential for growth, and that Europe needs to be able to maintain its leading position in it, but there are plenty of problems to contend with.
Tourism, in Europe, is not one sector among many; it has become a factor of people’s quality of life, and we have to take that seriously.
Europe is the world’s leading tourist region; it is the most attractive tourist destination not only for its own tourists, but also for those from other parts of the world.
Furthermore, I believe that we have all understood the role that tourism can play in terms of growth, job creation and sustainable development.
First, it seems crucial to me that the Commission and the Council should revive the work on the proposal for a directive concerning reduced rates of VAT by also enabling all the Member States to opt for a reduced rate of VAT for costs pertaining to the hotel and catering industries.
Secondly, I believe that it is altogether desirable to encourage the development of new types of sustainable tourism such as agritourism, rambling, bicycle touring, horse riding and so on and to remove the obstacles encountered by certain sections of the community that wish to travel but that experience difficulties in doing so owing to the absence of infrastructures and amenities.
Mr&#160;Queiró and Mr&#160;Verheugen have spoken about this.
The Commission could also provide for greater coherence between actions carried out to promote tourism and other related Community policies.
I would like to conclude by pointing out that tourism still has no legal basis whatsoever in Community legislation, which is a state of affairs that I deplore.
The opinion stressed that the development of tourism should go hand in hand with the protection of national, regional and local culture and with the protection of the natural environment, parks, landscapes, urban structures and architectural sites and buildings.
It underlined the importance of tourism for economic development, job creation and the maintenance of individual physical and mental health, as well as stressing the need for the proper management of tourist resources.
It supported the development of agrotourism, particularly in the new Member States, and the education of younger generations in the fields of nature, culture, science and active leisure.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism adopted the majority of these proposals and incorporated them into the final version of the motion for a resolution.
At the same time, however, the motion for a resolution either makes no reference or fails to give due weight to issues such as special-interest tourism, the protection of historic towns and architectural sites and buildings and the International Cultural Tourism Charter.
Commissioner Verheugen quite rightly pointed out that the rapporteur was right to describe tourism as something that can create jobs, for which it has enormous potential, but I would ask him to admit that tourism is a field that the Commission has neglected up to now.
Let me list five things that are called for: the first is an international advertising campaign to attract more tourists from third states to Europe, one that would have to form part of a support package for tourism and be mounted in consultation with the tourist industry.
Fourthly, national holidays need to be synchronised in order to avoid traffic jams on motorways and overloading of holiday destinations.
There needs – and this is my fifth point – to be better coordination of emergency plans between state and private organisations at both the national and European levels, to give tourist protection in the event of natural disasters and against health risks.
Those are just five points that I have picked out of Mr&#160;Queiró’s wide-ranging report.
In fact, tourism, which has until now been funded indirectly and in various ways by the European Union, has all too often remained merely a way of consuming land.
Tourism also requires the strengthening of the internal market, the gradual establishment of equality of treatment among operators, a Community-wide classification of facilities, and harmonised roles and professional profiles.
That is why we Socialists have tabled a few amendments that make this need more explicit, and I hope this House will adopt them. &#160;&#160; .
There is no need to remind you of the important contribution of tourism, which provides 4% of the European Union’s GDP, nor of the seven million direct jobs generated by more than two million companies, the vast majority of which are small or medium-sized businesses.
Tourism and transport are closely connected, but, in many tourist areas, the means of transport are so inappropriate that we are slowly but surely wrecking the foundation of a sustainable economy.
For example, the perversity of the way in which mass tourism has developed is apparent in many places from the gridlock that occurs on Saturdays in high season as tourists all arrive and depart at the same time.
This report endorses the idea of further development of air travel, which is the worst form of transport from the point of view of energy consumption and damage to the climate.
The anti-working class policy of the European Union and of the governments in the Member States deprives workers and the working–class from taking holidays.
I believe that the development of European tourism is inextricably linked to the development of transport and infrastructure across the EU.
As many of my colleagues have mentioned, tourism is a very important industry.
However, small regional airports are finding it more difficult to compete with larger international airports and as a result there has been an imbalance in the regional development of tourism.
This imbalance is very clear in my own country, Ireland, and I would like to dwell on that for a minute, if I may.
In 2005 we saw a 4% growth rate in overseas visitor numbers.
Although many sectors will therefore have suffered from the present continual rain, it may well be that the wellness sector, spas, and urban tourism have benefited from the bad weather.
Let me explain – for example in the sector of taxation such as VAT and Excise, the rules which we have, are difficult to apply to the cruise liners industry and are creating serious difficulties.
I am referring both to the existing regulations as well as for the Commission’s new proposals regarding changes in the VAT regime.
Thus my appeal to Commissioner Verheugen is, to address these anomalies, to give more attention to the cruise liner industry and to entice it to keep investing and growing in the countries of the European Union.
Finally, I would like once again to urge the European Commission, and Commissioner Verheugen in particular, to explore and study existing and new formulae for dealing with the local and regional imbalances resulting from seasonal concentration in the countries of the south, such as mine.
In that case, approaches or measures such as the moratorium or even ecotaxes, which are normal in the north of Europe, in your own country, on the beaches of the Baltic, could also be applied in the south. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too wish to congratulate the rapporteur Mr Queiró on an excellent piece of work.
Tourism is one of the fastest-growing industries in the European Union.
In Ireland alone, tourism revenue in 2004 amounted to EUR&#160;5&#160;billion and it accounted for 3.9&#160;% of GNP.
From my own perspective, I am particularly interested in the promotion of sustainable tourism, for a number of reasons.
Tourism has the capacity to provide employment and generate economic activity in its own region and for its own region.
This is of particular importance in rural areas, where numbers are declining in the traditional activities of agriculture and fishing.
With regard to rural tourism, there is a need to link projects together for the purposes of marketing and promotion in order to create a critical mass, and it is essential to decentralise tourism functions to the regions.
The question of access by air, road and rail to the more rural areas is also vital, as the trend is for shorter holidays.
The short tourist season is a real concern, with the need to spread the demand outside the high season and promote tourism products for different tastes, different interests, different seasons and different age groups.
Finally, having met a group of disabled people from Ireland yesterday and today on their Freedom Drive in Strasbourg, I was pleased to note that the rapporteur has invited the Commission to put forward an initiative to make tourism and leisure establishments accessible to people with reduced mobility. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend warm thanks to Mr Queiró for including the ‘Iron Curtain Trail’ in his report.
The project already involves twelve EU Member States.
It will be, in the truest sense of the word, an experience of European history, politics and culture. &#160;&#160; – In line with the subsidiarity principle, the responsibility for tourism lies with the Member States.
We therefore tabled amendments aimed at reaffirming tourism’s role in economic and social cohesion, its connection with the reality on the ground, the need to guarantee high-quality jobs and the importance of preserving cultural heritage.
We feel that the absence of a specific legal basis in the Treaties has not stopped specific measures and programmes geared towards promoting tourism at Community level in the past.
Hence our proposal to create a Community programme for the sector, to complement the measures put in place by the Member States.
Tourism is an important sector with huge potential which can offer added value to a country and fully develop its production capacities. &#160;&#160; Since I&#160;have long dealt with the issues of tourism, I&#160;appreciate Mr&#160;Queiró’s initiative.
The development of special types of tourism such as rural, spa or congress tourism would make it possible to overcome certain negative aspects of the industry, especially its seasonal nature.
Well-known tourist destinations are often situated on the borderline between two or three Member States, and supporting tourism at the&#160;European level would thus also encourage the development of border regions that are often marginalized.
For this reason, Europe should respond as quickly as possible and utilise this potential for its own benefit. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague and friend Mr&#160;Leichtfried has unexpectedly had to go back to Austria, I will take this opportunity of airing a number of his ideas in this Chamber.
Europe is the most important tourist destination in the world.
The tourist sector in Europe can take the credit for creating over 7 million jobs and is among the sectors offering the greatest potential for the creation of new jobs in the future.
The tourist industry is one sector of the economy in which services are generally rendered directly by workers themselves, and this makes it less entrepreneurial in character.
We know what that would mean in terms of the strain placed on our infrastructure and in terms of the services that could be offered.
I personally believe it is essential to strengthen our commitment in the area of training tourism professionals, in order to offer genuine career prospects to operators in the sector, reduce the adverse effects of the instability of the seasonal workforce and guarantee services in tune with the new demands of consumers.
In that respect, I have tabled some amendments, which the Committee on Transport and Tourism has accepted, in which I propose the creation of a tailor-made training network for tourism skills within Community programmes that are already in operation, such as Erasmus, for instance.
I believe that today Parliament is marking an important turning point, in that the approach and the attention devoted to the major topic that is tourism will no longer be episodic, but constant and commensurate. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I will be no exception in this debate in offering my own congratulations to our rapporteur and indeed the shadow rapporteurs.
It promotes sustainability, provides practical advice to businesses and provides a level playing field, a certification to ensure consistent quality among its 500 member businesses, all of which are good-quality tourist attractions.
I believe it is a model that would work very well when rolled out to other countries across Europe.
In Scotland we have had some success in this, although we also have some lessons to learn from it.
This report provides a framework for the sharing of best practice and it has our full support. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my appreciation to Mr&#160;Queiró for the excellent work he has done.
Tourism is a fundamental activity for my country, Italy, and especially so for my city, Rome.
Tourism is an essential resource for creating strong growth in employment at a time of serious economic downturn.
For the sake of brevity, I should like to mention two reasons why I consider that tourism can no longer be thought of as a policy that falls exclusively within the competence of the Member States, and that a European policy needs to be developed instead.
First, tourism needs to be promoted within Europe as a form of exchange and a way of getting to know each other; secondly, economic stagnation and international challenges force us to think of tourism in global terms.
The aims set out in the report are ambitious and innovative.
Europe is the world's favourite tourist destination, but with the emergence of new competitors, as has already been mentioned, we can maintain this situation only by creating better tourist facilities, higher quality services and information, and a high level of consumer protection and safety.
This requires cooperation between the public and private sectors.
Coming from a new Member State, I emphasise that all of us benefit from enlargement in the field of tourism, so future enlargements would give a further boost to the sector's economic weight and its importance to European growth.
As Vice-Chairwoman of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, I am sure that the growth of tourism will lead to more opportunities, prospects and appropriate working conditions for female employees, who represent the majority of the sector's workers, as well as businesswomen in tourism and, most importantly, to more jobs for women.
In developing tourism, we must not forget the socially vulnerable groups and people with disabilities, representing more than 10 million Europeans.
I welcome the initiative to make tourist and leisure establishments, facilities, services and itineraries accessible to people with reduced mobility and disability.
I stress that this is a great challenge for the new Member States, which will have to overcome huge disadvantages in this sector.
There is no tourism website on the EU portal and Eurostat publishes only a few tourism statistics.
Experience of Member States' practices in this area is important and increased cooperation between Member States on best practice could be useful. &#160;&#160; Mr President, please believe that as a Spaniard and as a Valencian, I was extremely apprehensive about this report.
The report starts by stressing the importance of tourism from the cultural and economic points of view.
In addition, thanks to the phenomenon of tourism, Spain was able to begin to leave behind poverty and take off towards a new economic horizon.
Sustainable European tourism can and must help to maintain high and stable levels of economic growth, especially in tourist regions, where it is the basic pillar of economic and social viability.
Despite the fact that tourism policy falls within the competence of the Member States, the importance of this industry at European level is such that provision needs to be made for a financial heading in the Community budget.
My second point is one that emerges quite clearly from the Queiró report, namely that we must not sideline, or even disregard entirely, such an important aspect of social, cultural and economic life.
Many arguments have been put forward during today’s debate in favour of this approach, and I should like to add one more, which in my opinion is of no little significance.
I therefore propose that the Socrates and Erasmus programmes be taken as models for the development of tourism schemes for young people.
The EU is the most popular tourist destination in the world and yet EU citizens visit tourist destinations outside the Union in the greatest numbers.
Although tourism remains under the competence of the Member States and their regional and local authorities, it should, however, be subject to EU guidelines, policies and measures.
The Union should support, coordinate and complement the Member States.
In order for it to assume its responsibilities as regards tourism, I would suggest that the Commission confer on the Union more effective structures and adequate financial resources in the financial perspective, in order to promote Europe as a destination, and to set up mechanisms designed to foster greater cooperation and exchange of information between the Union’s structures, the Member States and the regions.
What tourists in Europe need most of all are railways and roads that work.
If we attempt to tackle the synchronisation of holiday arrangements, then we must make the attempt – which we did not do in relation to the sunshine directive, that was made slightly weaker this morning – to make it clear, in the long term and very politely, to the Member States that the directive was conceived in consultation with the interested parties and is not to be seen as something forced upon them by Europe.
Something else that I believe will be of vital importance to Europe is the question of how the safety of facilities for tourists in Europe may be guaranteed.
We have all heard from people who have had adverse experiences in them, and nine of the ten victims of the fatal accident in Sölden in the Tyrol came from my electoral district.
Hence my appeal to you, Commissioner, in the hope that we may be able to take such action in relation to safety as the European Union is able to take, and, moreover, may encourage diversity in European tourism, for therein lies its strength. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mr Queiró warmly on his wonderful report, and I would like to say to the Commissioner: ‘Günter, look at paragraph 28 of the report in which we call on the Commission to produce a tourism programme for senior citizens during the low season, to be known as ’Ulysses’.
This programme has existed in Spain for 20 years.
Karl Deutsch talked about it in the 1930s.
There is real growth potential in the services sector.
In that sense, it is an important part of the Lisbon process.
We have an ageing population, a population with more money and more time, a population with more time to travel.
In our countries we are lucky to have the opportunity to draw upon the experience of the older EU Member States and thus avoid repeating their mistakes.
The growing tourist influx into Central Europe is expected to alleviate the pressure upon the EU regions currently suffocating from the over-abundant flow of tourists.
The tourism infrastructure in the new Member States is still lagging behind that of the old ones, which therefore offers tempting new investment opportunities.
Sustainable tourism is meant to preserve and protect nature, as well as the landscape, urban and rural infrastructure.
Specifically promising areas in Lithuania appear to be rural, cultural, sport and medicinal tourism.
Tourists show interest in history, but the tragic, historically significant and even complicated events of recent decades should not be trivialized or presented in a Disneyland or kitsch style.
The revision of the Sixth Tax directive with a view to introducing tax relief for incoming tourism is essential for all Member States of the European Union, and the new members in particular.
This report is important because Europe must promote high-quality tourism and tackle the challenge of mass tourism.
This is especially true because Europe is now lending its backing to the development of regional airports and cheap airlines.
The words ‘travel’ and ‘voyage’ should regain their original meanings.
Educational programmes must be put in place with a view to protecting the natural environment and historical heritage, and new initiatives are needed to promote sustainable tourism.
We should not forget that love of world heritage, nature and the non-material stems from knowledge of the values of the world that surround us, or in other words from our own ‘small fatherlands’. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to support Mr Yáñez’s proposal and stress what I believe to be one of the most interesting contributions made in this report, the proposal to create the ‘Ulysses’ programme.
Mr Verheugen, it is very important that in line with the notion of sustainable tourism that is respectful of the land and of the environment and is described in this report, the Commission should promote actions obliging the authorities in tourist areas such as mine to ensure their actions comply with the principles laid out in the document we are discussing. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, today's debate on the future of sustainable tourism in the European Union is proving to be highly important and interesting.
It is being held towards the end of the summer tourist season, of which we all have our personal experiences, and it is being held for the first time after the recent accession of ten new Member States to the European Union, which they enhance with their exceptional tourist destinations.
In addition, with Mr Queiró's report, this is the first time that the multifaceted nature of economic activity in tourism has been presented, together with its repercussions throughout the spectrum of the economy, society, natural and cultural resources and mutual acquaintance between nations.
It is highly satisfactory that the European Commission – as the Commissioner said – is targeting the leading role which European tourism can play in the future.
However, particular attention and a serious strategy are needed for this, because we must not forget that the increase in tourism in the European Union in the first half of 2005 was just 5%, compared with 17% in the Middle East as a whole and around 10% in the United States.
I should therefore like to emphasise in particular the added value which the European Union can bring to the policies of the Member States.
Apart from the development of secure transport at national and trans-European level, other proposals contained in the report are also extremely important.
I refer to cooperation and coordination on the conditions of entry of third-country nationals, cooperation on the flow of tourists in the high season, in order to overcome the imbalance between areas which are literally drowning and others which are seeking to attract tourists, on the promotion of tourist programmes such as the 'Ulysses' programme, on educational exchanges and mobility, so that we have certification of professional qualifications and, also, on the structured projection of Europe as a tourist destination with diversity and, of course, on the budget line for tourism in the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, first of all, I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Queiró on his report and on the splendidly cooperative manner in which it was brought into being.
It is, indeed, a very welcome development that an opinion on sustainable tourism should be worked out at European level.
This is not only a task for the Commission but also for the Council, for the report appeals to the Council to speed up the decision-making process on the reduced VAT rate.
It may be possible for the Commissioner to comment on the report, and perhaps we as Parliament and Commission should bring more pressure to bear on the Council to finally force it into taking a decision, for these proposals are very important for employment, particularly in this economic climate.
If nations and regions – and here I am also thinking of the principal works holidays in your own country, Mr Vice-President, as well as in the Netherlands and in Belgium – were to synchronise their holidays better, it would have an enormous effect on Central Europe and would, in particular, really take the load off the tourist industry and offer it new opportunities.
For this reason, I welcome the initiative in the Committee on Budgets by Mr&#160;Mulder – a specialist in the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises – together with the European Investment Fund, aimed in particular at the provision, in future, of equity loans and other guarantees, the intention being to make sure that the risk and investment capital in tourism enterprises is secure in the long term, too, with a view to their sustainability.
The fact is that negative equity is one of the main problems facing the tourism sector; a great many enterprises are going bankrupt, with the loss of large numbers of jobs.
The debate on Basel II is imminent, and that debate, in particular, is a matter of life and death for tourism.
After all, liquidity is a matter of life and death for every enterprise.
I would therefore urge the Commissioner to keep up his commitment, particularly as regards the relevant programme for small and medium-sized enterprises.
He has already done an exemplary job in this regard and, if we keep up the good work, we can succeed in doing what is best for tourism. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I will take away from this debate a great many very important ideas and, above all, the impression of broad agreement on your part that tourism represents a dynamo for growth for Europe’s future, and must be given a higher profile in European policy as a whole.
Let the tourism industry agree on its own quality requirements.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; Dear Colleagues, Good health is essential for physical and mental well-being.
So equal access to health care services should be obligatory in the EU.
It causes serious physical and psychological public health problems and effects also children's healthy development.
The situation is especially grave with Roma women in Central-Eastern Europe. &#160;&#160; – I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Queiró on his excellent report.
For years now we have all been aware of the important part played by tourism in developing local economies and creating jobs, especially for women and young people.
The European Conference on Tourism and Employment, organised by the Luxembourg Presidency in November 1997, showed ‘the pulling power that tourism exercises on young people and women, to whom it often offers a first job opportunity’.
For that reason as well, we in the Union for Europe of the Nations Group fully support the call for the Commission and the Council, when adopting the structural policy instruments for 2007-2013, to provide for an integrated approach to tourism, ‘allowing the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Regional Development Fund actions to be coordinated’.
This segment therefore needs measures to encourage its development. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0330/2005).
We shall examine a whole series of questions to the Council.
I shall await the judgement Members of this House on whether it is a pleasure for them.
It is therefore vital that we strive for an ambitious deal on services within the Doha development agenda negotiations.
The European Union's revised services offer, tabled in Geneva in early June, contains a significant number of new commitments, including the 'mode 4' commitments which allow people to travel to the European Union to provide services for a short time.
They must also have at least three years' professional experience, or six years for independent professionals.
In all such cases, European Union and national working conditions, minimum wage requirements and collective wage agreements will apply.
I have had the opportunity to travel to Bangalore and meet many of the service providers who are benefiting from the present proposals.
I am optimistic that there can be genuine mutual benefit both for the countries providing the workers and for the European Union, which benefits from their skills and expertise. &#160;&#160; I too am very pleased to have Mr&#160;Alexander here among us.
In many ways our diversity has proved to be our strength in recent years.
Mr Martin had a supplementary question. &#160;&#160; President-in-Office, to give effect to your mode 4 proposals, which I welcome, would the Council consider encouraging the Commission to create a database for the whole of the European Union that companies and countries from outside the EU could access, so they could identify potential skills shortfalls and opportunities to provide services?
I will certainly be happy to pass on to the Commission the point of view that was communicated to me this afternoon in relation to the merits of a database.
The question is whether the European Union's institutions are best placed to be aware of the constantly changing commercial opportunities available in a rapidly changing commercial sector.
We are still considering measures and will be consulting with partners in due course, because, as I am sure the honourable Members will appreciate, this is not a matter that is entirely in the gift of the Presidency. &#160;&#160; That was not a bad answer!
As I said, the position of the British Government was stated by our Prime Minister and the strong case for increased Council transparency is clearly recognised.
However, what is the position of other Member States in the Council?
We are cognizant of our responsibilities and it would be to the disadvantage of everyone if division was to become the hallmark of this discussion, if there is an opportunity for moving forward together. &#160;&#160; – In this question on openness and transparency I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his answer.
However, there is also another question, about Strasbourg itself.
I believe it is fair to say that there has been a long-standing debate on this matter and the position of Member State governments has been very clear for some time.
It is the case that we can debate the number of EU languages, but as regards the treaties, I believe that there is only one single version.
I have not yet read Foreign Minister Gul's statement in full but, under the revised Accession Partnership adopted in May 2003, Turkey is required to establish conditions for the functioning of non-Muslim religious communities which are in line with the practice of European Union Member States.
However, as the European Commission indicated in its 2004 Regular Report, non-Muslim religious communities, including the Ecumenical Patriarchate, continue to encounter obstacles.
In this context, a draft law on foundations is currently pending in the Turkish Parliament.
I can assure the honourable Member that the Council continues to do so. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the refusal by the British President-in-Office of the Council to comment months after the event on Mr&#160;Abdullah Gul's specific declaration, in which he refuses to recognise the ecumenical nature of the Patriarchate and the reopening of the Chalkis Seminary, makes a very bad impression on me.
I think it is fair to draw attention to the clearly stated position of the European Parliament on the opening of accession talks with Turkey and the decision reached, as I explained, in the European Council.
It also has to be borne in mind that discussions are currently under way through the Permanent Representatives of Council members, ahead of what we anticipate to be the opening of accession talks, if that process is taken forward, on 3 October.
You have to understand the issue of Turkey in the broader context of what has been set out by the Commission in relation to not just the Copenhagen criteria, but the broader criteria for enlargement.
At the recent Gymnich meeting that took place in the United Kingdom, Commissioner Rehn made clear that there were really three fundamentals that needed to be recognised in relation to enlargement: firstly, consolidation, secondly, conditionality and thirdly, communication.
The opening of accession talks would represent not the end of that process, but the beginning of a much longer one.
In that sense, the obligations which any candidate country has to meet are set out objectively and I hope, in the view of this Parliament, independently.
Over the last year, we have all seen serious abuses of human rights – and of women’s rights, in particular – continuing to occur in Turkey.
On the specific points that were raised: firstly, in relation to women's rights, a package of major constitutional amendments was passed in May that confirms the equality between men and women.
As for the next steps, the Council reiterated on 13 June 2005 that the intergovernmental conference to launch accession negotiations with Croatia will be convened by common agreement, as soon as the Council has established that Croatia is cooperating fully with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia – ICTY.
In her letter to the Presidency, dated 7 June 2005, the ICTY Chief Prosecutor, Carla del Ponte, noted that, by implementing its action plan, Croatia was on the road to full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal but that more time was required to determine whether these further efforts had produced tangible results. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, I did not ask you what happened in May or June; I know that already.
Specifically, will there be another General Council before 3&#160;October to deal with the commencement of accession negotiations with Croatia?
In June the Council took note of this new element – that is, the task force – with satisfaction and encouraged Croatia to continue with its efforts in that direction.
Indeed, the Council committed itself to continuing its examination of this dossier in July and, under the United Kingdom Presidency, the Council therefore considered this issue at its meeting on 18 July, following the task force meeting a week earlier.
It will be in light of that report that the task force will meet again in September.
The Council will, however, then discuss the matter further in light of the task force's conclusions. &#160;&#160; – When comparing the conditions for Turkey’s accession with those imposed on Croatia, do you not see any difference in the treatment of these two States?
If the official who has been constantly gesturing to me that I am not entitled to put a second supplementary question has this point checked by the competent authorities, he will find that I am indeed entitled to do so under the current Rules of Procedure, subject to your consent pursuant to point&#160;6(a) of Annex&#160;II. &#160;&#160; We will, in fact, leave it to the relevant services to interpret this question.
All the same, I, for my part, read in the annex to the Rules of Procedure concerning Question Time that it is recommended, as regards supplementary questions, that, as a general rule, the President should allow one supplementary question from the questioner and one or, at the most, two supplementary questions put by Members belonging ideally to a political group and/or Member State different from that of the author of the main question.
It seems to me that to give an even more generous interpretation of this recommendation would lead us to profoundly alter the spirit of Question Time, which is designed to have a certain tempo and to enable a large number of questions to be put.
There might be 15 or 20 of you here who wish to proceed with the supplementary questions on Croatia, which would result in the subsequent questions from other MEPs never being put.
Mr&#160;Ebner, you have said what you have said.
The question has been sent to the relevant services.
We are working with both the European Parliament and Europol to improve the exchange of information between the two institutions.
The Presidency is fully committed to making the system of accountability as transparent as possible.
This law has been strongly criticised by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights' representative in Colombia and by all human rights organisations.
The Council has been informed of initial reactions to the justice and peace law by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, who drew attention to insufficiencies of the law as concerns impunity, provisions on investigating heinous crimes and due restitutions or reparations for victims.
In this context, they will consult widely, including the government, civil society, the group of 24 and the United Nations.
As concerns police cooperation, the Council is convinced that training police in Colombia in accordance with the values and standards of the European Union will contribute to security and greater respect for human rights. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the answer seems very vague to me and puts off a decision .
The Council conclusions back in December underlined the importance of the establishment of a proper legal framework that addresses the issues of truth, justice and reparation for the victims of that armed conflict.
The case to which the honourable Member refers, the so-called Colombia three, is a matter between the Irish Government and the Colombian Government.
I can assure you that there is an awareness of these issues, not simply from a Presidency point of view but in the context of a Member State.
In terms of the application of the Postal Services Directive and in particular the report published by the Commission, the Commission strongly recommended that there should be intensified cooperation between national regulators, and that certainly has our full support.
The United Kingdom will soon fully liberalise, along with Germany and the Netherlands, which means that 60% of the market will be liberalised.
In relation to the specific point on VAT and regulatory asymmetry, the Commission has proposed amending the relative VAT Directive.
In the context of the annual report from the Council to the European Parliament on the main aspects and basic choices of CFSP, the Council will, of course, report on the situation in the said country. &#160;&#160; President-in-Office, it is absolutely disgraceful that up to 700&#160;000 people have been displaced from their homes, their houses and businesses completely destroyed.
These sanctions have the support of the democratic opposition and the non-governmental organisation community within Zimbabwe and they show that the European Union is determined to make its voice heard on human rights and the rule of law.
The European Union has shared the above concerns with the Burmese leadership on several occasions, most recently on 6 May at a ministerial meeting held in the margins of the ASEAN ministerial meeting in Kyoto.
At that meeting, the European Union handed over a list of political prisoners whose release was requested on urgent humanitarian grounds.
In that regard, of course, the European Union continues to support efforts, both internationally and in the United Nations General Assembly, to bring pressure to bear on the regime, to take forward the process of national reconciliation that we all seek and to address urgently the deep concerns we feel in relation to the unfair detention of political prisoners.
The EU has contributed more than EUR&#160;150 million to the humanitarian programme in Sudan, including funding for United Nations agencies and NGOs in Darfur engaged in protection issues and the treatment of victims of sexual violence.
The European Union has also allocated EUR&#160;92 million from its Africa Peace Facility to the African Union Mission in Sudan.
The Council urged the Sudanese Government to implement all the recommendations set out in the resolution.
It is clear that there can be no immunity for the people who have committed those crimes and those responsible must be brought to justice as a matter of urgency.
The prosecutor has already decided, on 6 June, that he has sufficient evidence of the scope and nature of the crimes committed within his jurisdiction to mount a formal investigation and he has reached this decision independently.
I can assure you of the continuing support for the International Criminal Court in its efforts to ensure that no-one can commit such terrible crimes with impunity. &#160;&#160; That concludes Question Time.
Questions Nos 13 to 37 will be replied to in writing.(1) &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Mrs&#160;Svensson (A6-0250/2005), on behalf of the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, on gender discrimination in health systems (2004/2218 (INI)). &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to begin by saying thank you for the opportunity given to me to draft this important report on gender discrimination in health systems.
I wish to thank all those fellow Members who have shown great interest in, and commitment to, the report and made valuable contributions to it.
The gender with which we happen to be born is as important a health factor as social, economic and ethnic background.
The UN conferences in Cairo in 1994 and Beijing in 1995 put gender-related discrimination in health care on the agenda.
Women’s health is still often seen as synonymous with sexual and reproductive health.
The first area is about submitting proposed measures to combat gender discrimination between men and women affected by the same or similar diseases.
The other focus area is women’s health from the perspective of so-called ‘women’s diseases’, that is to say diseases that almost only affect women, for example breast cancer, osteoporosis, eating disorders in the case of young girls and violence against women in all its different forms – physical and mental abuse, genital mutilation, sexual slavery, prostitution etc.
This shows that gender discrimination permeates thinking in the case of both men and women.
In order to combat gender discrimination, researchers and others must have access to gender-disaggregated health care statistics.
It really is high time that measures were taken enabling us to talk in terms of fair and equal care.
I also wish to emphasise that access to sexual advice, reproductive health care and family planning are important tools in the service of women’s health, as well as of women’s opportunities to participate in society on equal terms and of combating poverty and the ongoing feminisation of poverty. &#160;&#160; .
Mr President, I wish first of all to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Svensson, and of course the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality, for the very important job which they have done in drafting this report.
It is a fact that, from the day I took up office and became involved in health issues, I realised that there is indeed a gender dimension – a difference between the two sexes – in health issues.
Of course, that is why I consider the report to be very important and both I and the rest of the Commission will take very serious account of the proposals contained in it.
Nonetheless, we have ways, such as proposals, recommendations, the open method of coordination and guidelines, with which we can develop a common policy between Parliament and the Commission in order to persuade the Member States to apply it.
To close, what is really important, and I take it on board and will promote it in the Commission, is the question of collating data, really accurate data which will give us the real dimension of the difference between the sexes in the health sector; this will of course help both us and the Member States to plan the rest of our strategy.
For example, in 2006 we shall define indicators for gynaecological health and the menopause, such as an endometriosis indicator which is, of course, extremely important.
I wish to close by saying that in the pharmaceutical sector, together with my colleague Mr Verheugen, we shall soon be announcing an initiative in the pharmaceutical industry sector and we shall take account here in the patient information sector of the need for a different approach to women as regards the use of drugs which, as the report quite rightly says and there is no need for me to analyse it further, react differently in men and women.
Health is our most precious asset and this asset in currently in danger.
For a number of years, an increasingly clear link has been established between women’s physical and mental health and their economic situation.
Poor women have more physical and psychological health problems than other women.
More than half the number of single-parent mothers live in poverty; they take more medication than other mothers and their level of psychological distress is particularly high.
Women who are less educated or who are unemployed or poor are, in fact, the most affected by psychological distress and physical health problems.
Female poverty, single parenthood and social isolation therefore create an explosive cocktail that endangers women’s health, a state of affairs that is quite simply intolerable.
That is our political task. &#160;&#160; .
My group fully supports this report, therefore, as it requires Member States to finally take gender-specific health policy seriously.
This disease leads to female infertility in one third of cases, where it has not been diagnosed in time.
Although Caesarean operations present an increased health risk to mother and child, the number of such operations is rising dramatically in several States.
Therefore, my group supports the call – addressed to Member States, in the first instance, of course – for attention to be drawn explicitly to the health risks of Caesareans to mother and child, which are five times greater than with natural births.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the work of the committee, this report seems very confused.
His conclusion that the gender dimension should be taken into account and the areas of focus which he mentioned were truly welcome.
The European Union must not be content with making appeals, but must set a crystal-clear example, and I hope that the Commission will join with the next Presidency in launching an appropriate initiative.
The Dutch Parliament will not discuss further measures against female genital mutilation until later on this month.
Despite the Netherlands’ image, to which it is attached, of being a progressive country, clear policy on genital mutilation has been too long in coming, and even now, the Dutch Government has not yet decided in favour of a notification requirement for health professionals, because it fears that the public will avoid seeking medical help if is used for enforcement purposes.
I would advise the Commission to have similar gender effect reports drawn up in areas of policy that really matter to women, and would ask that these be presented to Parliament before new health care legislation is approved.
It is always easier to treat a disease whose cause is known.
After having studied the report, I should therefore like to draw Members’ attention to the fact that discrimination stems from a lack of respect for human rights and ethical principles, as well as from the present epidemic of mental illness.
The fact that most medical workers are female, which is a problem raised in the report, does not amount to discrimination.
The latter provide the only environment for normal growth and co-existence in an atmosphere of mutual respect and love, and a family environment of this kind requires legal support and pro-family policies.
At the same time, however, we must ask ourselves to what extent many of the problems facing women today stem from undesirable changes in civilisation, a flawed family model and negative ideologies that spread in the wake of modern ideas about good and evil and morality and immorality.
Men are working ever shorter hours, and in some Member States have even secured for themselves a 35-hour week, which means that nothing or almost nothing gets done.
In my opinion, this report fails to highlight the negative consequences of frequent abortions, although it states very clearly that women are suffering from extremely serious mental disorders.
The question that needs to be asked is the extent to which this results from flawed family types and models and from such things as the effects of abortions or of certain contraceptives.
During debates on AIDS and on the Millennium Goals, and during the debate this House held on equal rights for women and men, there was always someone who wanted to shoehorn in ‘reproductive health’, or in other words a covert endorsement of abortion.
Equal access for women and men to health services is one thing, but the internal workings of the health service are something else entirely.
While in our old European countries, in fact, the right to health care has become undeniable, the same cannot be said of these countries, where health and social protection is all too often aimed at those who have paid contributions so as to benefit from this protection.
Leaving aside the resources that might come from the Structural Funds, such as funding allocations for the health care structures already implemented in these countries, it is imperative to ensure that a minimum level of health protection is given to these sections of the community.
It is a challenge, admittedly; however, we must have the ambition to accept it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, it is important that we are debating in our Parliament the question of women's health for the first time within the framework of the enlarged European Union, especially in view of future enlargement to countries in which equality between the two sexes has not been established in policies and women's rights need protection.
I therefore thank our rapporteur for her initiative and the useful information contained in her report.
Indeed, a prosperous society with standards and cohesion is based above all on the physical and mental health of its members.
Our report raises awareness of the particular situations which women face in the health sector, such as childbirth, and of particular problems such as breast cancer, cervical cancer, osteoporosis and menopause.
The Commissioner has confirmed these peculiarities to us and assures us that he will incorporate them into his new strategy.
The rapporteur also gives us information about the lack of information and proper approach to these situations by society and by scientific and nursing staff.
We therefore understand the need – and here I support the rapporteur's proposals – for special studies, detailed statistics and indicators, so that we can study these situations properly and address them effectively with all the parameters and at all levels – prevention, diagnosis and treatment.
Turning to the Commissioner, I think it is appropriate to point out that this ambitious report, which combines a gender approach with health and the state of our health systems, deserves to be placed in the political spotlight, including by the Commission.
The Commission should make its voice heard and, based on a careful analysis of the various national health systems in the Europe of 25, tell us what its overall approach is, how it intends to include prevention and treatment in all the Union’s policies and, above all, what its assessment is of Europe.
Once we know that, and after the debate with Parliament, we shall be in a position to say what progress has been made in this continent, which is not merely a series of misfortunes, but a part of the world where women live better lives than in other areas of the planet.
The Commission should also specify the challenges facing us in building a new welfare state commensurate with women’s needs.
I am therefore grateful for this report, but I must admit that I have asked for a separate vote on three items: recital U and paragraphs 15 and 10, because they are superficial or poorly formulated and, despite the rapporteur’s very good intentions, they are liable to be damaging because they are not comprehensible.
Europe does not finance any programmes of that kind, and therefore the idea that one might say or think that we are trying to stop therapeutic cloning should be ruled out. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there is a great deal in this report, I hope not too much, but I want to thank the rapporteur for including a particular women's health issue with which I have been much involved.
The disease desperately needs serious research and attention.
We achieved a total of 266 signatures, more than has ever been achieved on a single health issue.
Seemingly, though, the pain caused by this disease goes unnoticed.
Even in our modern society, no one wants to talk about the pain associated with menstruation; women should 'just get on with it'.
As several studies indicate, men and women are treated unequally in terms of prescription, treatment and medical and health costs.
Of the reasons why we take a positive view of this report, I would like to stress its insistence on the need for the States and the Commission to adopt a gender perspective in their policies.
It contains good, practical recommendations that are worthy of support.
We hear now of statistics from Scandinavia suggesting that there are inequalities not only in health status, but also in the response of health systems and health services to women, as compared with men.
If this is the case in Scandinavia, with its relatively good record on equality, then it is time we took a very close look at trends in other Member States.
I also echo the proposal put forward here this evening by my colleague, Kartika Liotard.
Recognition of gender inequalities in health is required if we are going to successfully combat disparities and ensure that there is adequate health care for everyone. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mrs Svensson has written an extremely fascinating and complete report, which discusses many aspects that are related to women and health care.
Whilst the report devotes much attention to the well-being and health of adults, paragraph 21 fails to guarantee this for people at an earlier stage of their lives.
It appears that the rights of, and care for, adults are more important than those for people who have just started out in life.
To me, the life of every human being is just as valuable, whether they be very young or very old.
I hope that my fellow Members will be prepared to remove this blot on this otherwise excellent report. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, wish to start by offering my sincere congratulations to Mrs&#160;Svensson on her successful report.
The same goes for an amendment tabled by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament on unisex tariffs.
This is not only true of access to sexual and reproductive healthcare; there is also discrimination when it comes to diagnosis and treatment as a whole, particularly as regards what are deemed women’s diseases, such as fibromyalgia, breast and uterine cancer and osteoporosis.
This is therefore a timely and welcome report and I take this opportunity to congratulate Mrs Svensson.
Women are discriminated against because prejudices prevail over common sense and respect for others.
In order to reduce the number of women suffering, and to prevent more deaths, all Member States must, as a matter of priority, ensure access to sexual and reproductive healthcare and family planning.
Violence against women between 15 and 44 kills more women than cancer, malaria, road accidents and war.
Health policy falls under the competence of the Member States, but the Commission could and should do more in this area because there are many situations that go beyond national responsibilities. &#160;&#160; – It is always vitally important to bring to the fore the importance of gender mainstreaming in the public health strategies of both the Member States and the Commission.
Nevertheless, we must become far more proactive in promoting sexual and reproductive healthcare, sexual health and family planning, in guaranteeing women’s right to choose, in creating equal access to health clinics for the purposes of terminating a pregnancy in the first three months for all women regardless of their social and economic situation should they choose to do so, and lastly in putting an end to the mutilation of women, backstreet abortions and the criminalisation of women, which still goes on in some EU countries, including my country, Portugal.
The European institutions and the Member States should play a more active role in protecting women’s health and should take the opportunity of the forthcoming United Nations World Assembly to do so. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the word 'health' is feminine in most languages and the pagan Europeans of ancient times envisaged health as a beautiful woman, statues of whom we admire to this day.
The Svensson report comes at the beginning of the 21st century to prove that often, due to technological achievements and despite the progress of science and perhaps due to the breakdown in values, a large proportion of women in the European Union have or risk having bad health or are threatened by a plethora of illnesses, disorders and addictions.
However, the subject of today's report is gender discrimination in health systems; in other words, in the ways and means of addressing all the terrible and frightening threats described to women's physical and mental health.
Initiatives also on the health of girls and young women in the European Union, because its continuing life and prosperity depend on them.
This is a difficult subject, as the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work, whose contribution we must also call upon, also acknowledges on its website. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of the fact that I belong to what certain people – if only a few – call ‘the weaker sex’ and that I am many hundreds of miles from my children this evening, I want very much to be here debating this important issue.
Sweden became the first country in the world in which the number of women smokers exceeded the number of male smokers, a fact of which I do not feel especially proud.
Women are more vulnerable than men to the dangers of smoking.
One explanation is that, in general, women are smaller than men and have smaller hearts and narrower coronary arteries than men.
Discrimination of all kinds, in this case gender discrimination in health systems, is an international matter.
We in the EU should therefore come up with a clear policy and also draw on each other’s experiences. &#160;&#160; In the system of values of the consumer society, health has become a fundamental determinant of quality of life, and it has evolved into a major factor in economic and social policy.
A particularly strong point of this report is that it calls for the creation of the conditions for equal access to health care and equality of opportunities for pregnant women, women living with chronic illness or disability, older women and those belonging to other disadvantaged groups, for example Roma women.
Due to a lack of statistical data, we have no figures on the relationships between the Roma population as a whole or Roma women in particular and the various types of institutions that make up the health services.
We need to have a great deal more discussion on the decisive factors involved in curtailing the lives of fellow women who are Roma by 13 years. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to refer specifically to two diseases mentioned in the report: chronic fatigue syndrome and fibromyalgia.
It is calculated that 90% of the people suffering from these diseases are women.
For all of these reasons, I would like to call upon the Commission to carry out a study that compares the degree of application of treatments and their effects, both physical and psychological, in each of the Member States, in order to make progress with tackling these diseases.
We represent more than half of the population of the European Union.
In spite of this, women in our society encounter problems that are solely a result of their gender.
In doing so we must observe the principle of subsidiarity and we must also do so in the document we are discussing today.
In other words we, as the European Parliament, cannot interfere in the jurisdiction of individual Member States.
The financial resources we earmark for this programme must reflect demographic indicators and the genuine needs of our citizens.
I would like to draw attention to an important issue: we must not allow women to face discrimination in the health services again just because they are poor, on a low income or because they are suffering from specifically women’s illnesses.
In the health services we must not repeat the mistakes that put women at a disadvantage in other areas of life.
What I can say, however, is that our new programme makes special provision and gives us the facility to turn our attention to specific illnesses.
I am aware of Parliament's positive stand in this sector and I am depending on its support with the problems which exist as regards the adoption of the financial perspectives for the next budget.
As I have already said, we shall make use of all the non-legislative means we have at our disposal to promote policy in these sectors.
To close, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur and Parliament once again on this initiative. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
At the moment there are over 19&#160;200 pupils in fourteen European schools in ten locations, including Brussels and Luxembourg.
First of all I would like to raise the question of finance.
Mr Bösch is here who in fact did a report a couple of years ago on this subject and I think he will want to talk further on this.
However, it is important that we look at the way the schools are funded and make sure that we are using our funds to the very best advantage.
It is a very controversial issue and sometimes I ask myself why I am here on this side and not on your side asking the questions, because the European schools are quite autonomous bodies with autonomous structures, which decide a lot of these questions by themselves.
It therefore endorses most of the points made in this report, since the sound functioning of the European school system is our common objective.
As regards the budgetary features, we would like to ensure accountability for all actors through transparency, planning and control and therefore sound and efficient use of our citizens' money.
I understand people's frustration sometimes when everything comes down to money, but we must understand that in many cases the devil lies in the detail of these financial matters and they must be handled properly.
On governance aspects, I am very pleased to note that the report calls for greater representation for the EU institutions on the Board of Governors, more in line with the role they play and with the EU's financial contribution, currently at EUR&#160;127&#160;million, that is, roughly 60% of the overall budget.
Experience has shown that the 1994 Convention is no longer equipped to meet the challenges relating to enlargement and its consequences.
I am also pleased to see that we share the same concerns as regards children with special educational needs, in line with the measures advocated by the rapporteur on this subject.
Only by progressing in this manner and by making appropriate resources available will we be able to ensure a truly human and inclusive approach.
With regard to the financial aspects, we should find ways to seriously and concretely improve the management and reporting.
If we are to ensure the maintenance of the European school system as defined in its founding convention, we must have the courage to address the question of the future of those European schools that no longer fulfil the objectives for which they were initially created, without excluding any option.
As the rapporteur and also the Commissioner have already said, we are now at a stage at which such reports are extremely important.
The Commission will have Parliament’s backing.
A second point is that, of course, it is very important to this House that those who pay have a little more say on the Board of Governors than 1 vote out of 26.
The Commission is not entirely innocent of this.
Finally, on the subject of the smaller schools, we shall have to proceed differently according to regional viewpoints, which is why we have attached great importance to preparing a certain amount of budgetary decentralisation.
The European schools system has proved its worth.
Having paid particular attention to the Luxembourg school, I would like to congratulate the teachers and the management who have succeeded in bringing together, under the same system, children and teachers from the various Member States of the European Union.
Ghettoisation of the schools by only admitting pupils whose parents are sufficiently wealthy to pay the fees already required in Category&#160;III should therefore be prevented.
While the aim of the European schools system is to provide an education for the children of officials that does not neglect their mother tongue, this aim does, nonetheless, deserve a rethink in light of the mobility already achieved within the European Union and of what it will be in future.
Education plays a very important and fundamental role.
The defence of pluralism and diversity has always been one of the core values that have influenced the European Union.
EU enlargement has provided all of us with a new challenge for European schools.
This has to do with a new European Union facing its work.
In most respects, the rapporteur has considered the European schools in the same proper light.
First of all, the rapporteur defines Category I pupils as children of staff in the service of Community institutions and bodies.
Category I status also covers children of the staff of the UK Atomic Energy Authority seconded to the joint European tourist projects in Culham, near Oxford, and children of staff covered by the service regulations of the European Patent Office in Munich.
As I had to stress during the debate on computer patents, that means that it is most assuredly not a Community institution.
Too often we see an assumption in this Parliament that Europe and the EU are one and the same thing.
This is not a trivial point in a general sense, nor is it trivial with specific regard to this report, because the rapporteur states that only 1.6% of pupils at Culham are Category I.
She may well be correct, but if she actually means that only 1.6% of pupils at Culham are children of staff in the Community institutions then she could be very wide of the mark.
At the end of the day, the fundamental question arises as to whether this system, which actually did have some justification 20, 30, or 40 years ago, is sustainable as such.
Is it really necessary? &#160;&#160; I have heard a lot of good things about the European schools from parents.
However, as a result of more complex organisation and the large number of pupils, certain deficiencies have begun to appear, and particularly since the accession of the new Member States last year, when the number of pupils increased significantly.
The children attending these schools have varying talents and some are more hard-working than others, and not all of them can meet the demands of the programme leading to the European school leaving examination (baccalaureate).
In any event we should praise the efforts of all those who are striving to ensure high-quality teaching and assistance in the integration of and familiarisation with multicultural Europe.
We should try to ensure that as many children as possible can use their mother tongue for at least some of the time in the European schools, or when they finish school they will have a great deal of knowledge but will not be able to use their own mother tongue correctly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the few seconds that are available to me I would like to raise the question of children with special educational needs.
I support the Honeyball report and urge this House to support, in particular, paragraphs 24, 25, 26 and 27, which deal with this question of special educational needs and the need for the Commission to ensure that sufficient resources are available to ensure that no child is turned away from the European school system because of their disability. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that my experience as headteacher of a grammar school in a large provincial Czech town, where pupil numbers are comparable to those of the European school in the Spanish town of Alicante, makes me well placed to comment on the issues that most affect the European schools.
The Commission communication makes it clear that constraints are placed on the long-term financial planning of individual European schools in the shape of staff management and school development strategies.
Many fellow Members of this House, as well as teachers, experts and parents in the majority of Member States, would be up in arms if the maximum number of pupils per class were 32.
In most places such class sizes have been consigned to the dim and distant past, but in certain European schools they are part of everyday life.
It is self-evident that a smaller number of pupils makes it possible to apply different pedagogical methods and procedures in the classroom.
We must not neglect the requirements of pupils with special educational needs and those who receive most of their education in a language other than their mother tongue.
If the EU institutions wish to make good on the commitment they made 50&#160;years ago, namely to offer the children of their employees a high-quality education, then they should give due consideration to these obvious requirements.
At the same time, it would be appropriate to earmark a certain percentage of resources for the civic and practical skills needed to prepare all children for their future.
I should like to thank the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, first I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Honeyball, on her excellent work.
However, the objectives of European schools cannot be better expressed than through the words of Jean Monnet, who said that children of Europe educated side by side from an early age familiarise themselves with all the different cultures.
European schools, therefore, are an institution which promote the ideas on which the European Union was built.
The 14 schools which exist today provide a common education of a high standard which will prove in future to be fundamental to European integration.
The European schools are an institution which need to be safeguarded and developed in proportion to the demands of the times, because education is the most important means of shaping perceptions and because, to paraphrase Monnet, when children become European in spirit, they will find it easier to love their earth and to forge a more substantial path towards European union. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take this opportunity to address a number of questions to the Commission concerning the four smaller European Schools.
Firstly, does the Commission agree that the sharp increase in the number of Category&#160;I and Category&#160;II pupils in the Karlsruhe European School differentiates it clearly from the other three smaller schools?
Secondly, is the Commission aware that, currently, more than 60&#160;companies throughout the Karlsruhe region have Category&#160;II agreements in place?
Thirdly, can the Commission confirm that its own financial contribution to the Karlsruhe European School has been halved over the past five years thanks to these Category&#160;II agreements?
Fourthly, does the Commission agree that this school’s pupils now include not only Category&#160;I children of employees of the Institute for Transuranium Elements, but also some 50&#160;children whose parents work at institutions here in Strasbourg, and who take the daily shuttle bus?
Fifthly, does the Commission agree that the city of Karlsruhe only recently invested large sums of its own money in an exemplary school renovation and extension project?
I am very much obliged to Commissioner&#160;Kallas for his attention and for his readiness to provide a written answer to these questions.
The list of shortcomings grows longer; complaints by parents and pupils grow louder.
In the second school year following the major enlargement, the languages of the new Member States are still not on the curriculum.
In May, the Commission received a petition from parents of pupils in the German language section at Woluwé, voicing their concern and asking the fundamental question as to whether a fourth German language section would be set up in Brussels at all, and whether the German section would be forced to move from Woluwé to Laeken.
I therefore approached the Belgian authorities, who provide the schools, and asked them to speed up the process of building a new school.
We have a school, we have three categories of pupils, we have category 3 pupils, and we at the Commission say that there has been an increase in the number of officials in the European institutions with children and we have to provide these children with normal conditions in schools, but in fact they cannot go to these schools because they are overcrowded and the schools themselves have taken in a lot of category 3 pupils.
The Commission has asked the board of governors several times to suspend the enrolment of category 3 pupils until the opening of the fourth school in Laeken, but this has constantly been rejected.
From my point of view, I can only assure you that I come from a very small country, and multilingualism and linguistic problems are very serious for small nations.
I can only promote multilingualism, and we will try to find solutions to allow the continuation of teaching in all languages that are in use and to ensure that children can learn in national languages as much as possible.
I investigated this issue a little in Brussels.
Of course, the schools are considered to be good ones and are very attractive.
I would emphasise that this schools issue is a very serious issue and I can promise you that the Commission takes it very seriously.
Of course, financial matters are also very serious.
As I have said before, especially concerning education and cultural issues, people sometimes say that we are again talking about finances but nothing can be done.
Finances are a kind of common denominator, and in this particular case I must say that we are not satisfied with the current system of financial organisation of this entity.
Of course, on the question of agencies, there is an enormous desire to establish new agencies and new institutions everywhere in Europe.
I absolutely agree with the opinion that the educational aspects can also be considered, and so the Commission certainly asks for Parliament's support, and asks Parliament to be very cautious and to investigate all these proposals on all the possible consequences very carefully, including the consequences for the development of the system of European schools. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am afraid that the Commissioner is misinformed in relation to the question of discrimination.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
