&#160;&#160; Mr President, yesterday a motion was put forward to bring Commissioner McCreevy before Parliament.
The IND/DEM Group agrees with Mr Schulz that Commissioner McCreevy should be called before this House to account for his statements on the European social model.
The other 719&#160;Members may not yet know how Charlie operates and they deserve a chance to see what they are in for. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report (A6-0272/2005) by Mr&#160;Beaupuy, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the urban dimension in the context of enlargement [2004/2258(INI)]. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I should first like to thank those in the Commission, Parliament and indeed the Council, with which I had some contact, who helped me draw up this own-initiative report.
The first of these decisions – and, no doubt, a significant one too – was taken in 1988, when Article 10 of the European Regional Development Fund specified the need for urban pilot projects.
Two years later, in 1990, two documents were published: a Green Paper on the urban environment and a report on urban areas in crisis.
In 1993, Jacques Delors organised a European symposium on cities.
On 30&#160;November&#160;2004 the Dutch Presidency held an informal Council in Rotterdam, which placed the accent on the urban dimension and adopted an outstanding text on the subject.
A large number of articles on urban policy have appeared in all the documents relating to the regional funds prepared by the Commission before 2004.
What we see in our urban and suburban areas is a certain amount of waste.
I presume you have all read this own-initiative report.
I should like to highlight some crucial points, such as the fact that our three institutions – Parliament, the Council and the Commission, which prepares and implements legislation – need an internal shake-up so as to enhance the effectiveness of their decisions on urban issues.
We are witnessing a power struggle between the Member States, the regions, the cities and indeed the EU, and these authorities must now work together much more coherently in order greatly to improve their own effectiveness once and for all.
I shall conclude by emphasising good practice.
The motion for a resolution is clear proof of the European Parliament’s strong commitment and dedication to urban policy.
I also noted with great interest your proposal to amend Annex VI to the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament on the subject of the areas of competence of the Committee on Regional Development to incorporate the urban dimension.
I am convinced that towns and cities play a central role in achieving greater competitiveness, more growth and more and better jobs in Europe.
I share your view that urban planning should incorporate a wide spectrum of policies and develop integrated spatial and thematic urban policy on a human scale to ensure people-friendly cities.
I agree with you that we must further reinforce urban policy development priorities.
In fact, I have asked my services to prepare a detailed analysis on the contribution of cities to growth and jobs in the regions.
A working paper will complement the Community strategic guidelines.
It will also provide more specific guidance on how cities and regions can cooperate when preparing and implementing cohesion policy programmes.
This document will also bring out more clearly those city-focused priorities which the Commission considers to be indispensable or highly promising in order to implement cohesion programmes successfully.
Cities can make an important contribution to these.
The debate will be opened at the UK informal Council on Sustainable Communities on 6&#160;December in Bristol, where we will present our paper.
I look forward to an extensive exchange of views on this working paper on cities with the honourable Members of Parliament.
It will provide recommendations based on current good practice in promoting sustainable local communities through an integrated approach.
Your motion for a resolution also calls on the Commission to move towards a horizontal application of the urban dimension and towards coordination between the departments of the Commission that are directly or indirectly concerned with urban issues.
As you know, our proposal for the future cohesion policy programmes foresees that each Member State will present a list of urban areas that will benefit from specific assistance within the regional programmes.
However, unfortunately, as we all know, the Council has rendered these provisions optional, like a number of other measures in favour of cities, such as the consultation of urban authorities in the framework of partnership.
I count very much on your support to convince the Member States to reinstate our initial ideas in the negotiations.
The lack of strong commitment from the Member States would undermine our efforts towards strengthening the urban dimension in our policy and it would call into question some of our concrete initiatives, like the Urban Audit programme.
I also wish to tell you that there has been some progress on urban-related issues in the negotiations as well.
The UK Presidency has proposed to turn urban sustainable development into a fully-fledged priority, in addition to those priorities proposed under the convergence and regional competitiveness objectives.
I am also confident that the cities will receive the place in our policy which they deserve. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking our rapporteur, Mr Beaupuy, for addressing such an important issue to the development objectives of the European Union and the daily lives of its citizens, given that the majority of citizens live in urban and suburban areas.
More importantly, if we are to achieve social and regional cohesion within the Union of 25 Member States and in the run-up to further enlargement, we need to study the various factors which affect life in towns and cities and propose coordinated and effective intervention through all our policies.
As you know, we maintain that the strategy for towns and cities must include a wide spectrum of policies and opportunities as regards transport, the environment, planning, economic activity, migration policy, public health, social integration and safety standards.
This means that women must participate in planning the humane towns that we all want to achieve; in other words, towns and cities that address the common problems of our fellow citizens, but that also address those that arise from the particular circumstances of the two sexes.
The fact that over 80% of economic activity goes on in towns and cities is as indispensable justification for the principle of partnership as one of the key elements in cohesion policy.
The report was explicitly drafted as a response to enlargement, which had made these problems even more acute.
We need a decision from the Council as soon as possible, and that decision should coincide as far as possible with those taken by Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, right from the very start of this parliamentary term some of us have been paying particular attention to the subject of the urban dimension, and none more so than Mr Beaupuy.
Backtracking would only reduce the role of cities, a role which, in my opinion, is not only an essential part of cohesion policy, but also represents one of its central pillars.
Cities are, in fact, the key players in regional policy.
As well as being centres for the most complex issues, such as social exclusion and pollution, they are centres in which the futures of their entire surrounding areas are moulded, a fact I have also tried to assert in my role as shadow rapporteur on the European Regional Development Fund regulation.
The driving force of a programme which sensibly invests and manages funds earmarked for cities can, and must, give a similar economic and socio-cultural boost to suburbs and surrounding rural areas, especially in the light of the recent enlargement of the European Union.
If we squander this potential, we cannot be surprised when many people in Europe see the decisions taken in Brussels or Strasbourg more as interference in their internal affairs than as forward-looking action.
This is the way to really get European cohesion policy to work, and I look forward to continued good cooperation between the Commission, Parliament and, eventually, the Council too. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our debate today is on an own initiative report which would, however, gain by being a report with legislative force, so important is, I believe, the urban dimension in the context of enlargement to the European Union.
Therefore, with reference to the report by Mr Beaupuy, I should like to comment on five points which I consider important.
As a member of parliament from a country which became a Member State in the last enlargement, I cannot but welcome the effort of the Committee on Regional Development to address this issue.
The first point I should like to emphasise relates to the observation about the great disparities in terms of urban policy between the 25 Member States, particularly as a result of the enlargement to include 10 new Member States, which often have no clear and comprehensive urban policy at national or regional level.
Although I agree with this recital, we must not forget that the same drawback also applies in numerous older Member States, where urban policy is an endangered species and towns and cities are being left at the mercy of some higher power.
The effort, therefore, to address and find a viable solution to the problems which are the scourge of towns and cities must be a joint effort in all 25 Member States of the Union.
The second point on which I should like to comment and which is of major importance to Member States with a rural economy, is that towns and cities or areas form part of regional territory, and hence sustainable urban development must be pursued in harmony with neighbouring rural zones.
As you know, in numerous Member States, large rural zones often become isolated when neighbouring towns are deserted.
We therefore need to step up our efforts to make smaller towns more attractive, so that, for example, villages are not deserted in favour of cities, as this can have negative repercussions on the rural economy of some Member States.
The fact that over 80% of economic activity is exercised in towns and cities makes local authorities pillars of regional development.
Therefore, regional development and urban development have now become interconnected concepts.
Taking as a starting point the principle that urban and rural zones form part of the region and that they are interactive and interdependent zones, our action must centre on upgrading rural areas in order to iron out differences between and balance the two zones.
Similarly, on another point, the rapporteur calls on the Conference of Presidents of the European Parliament to propose an amendment to Annex VΙ of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament on the subject of the areas of competence of the Committee on Regional Development with a view to incorporating the urban dimension specifically, in addition to regional and cohesion policy, in its objectives and competencies, taking account of the work of the other committees concerned (transport, environment, research, employment and social affairs, internal market, culture and so on) in a horizontal approach.
This message is particularly important not only because it will increase the competencies of the committee in question, but also because it will send a message to the citizens that we are concerned, we are listening, we are paying attention to the problems of their daily life and we are trying to find viable solutions.
In addition, the rapporteur is right in pointing out that both the Commission and the Member States can each in their own way contribute to the development of cities: the Commission by monitoring the side effects general economic and regional policy have on cities, and Member States by drawing up development plans for their cities and urban areas.
I can therefore warmly support his calls to the Member States for added consideration to urban policy, and warmly congratulate him on this fine report. &#160;&#160; . &#160;Mr&#160;President, it is abundantly obvious that our old town centres are dying.
The Council of Europe turned its attention to this problem some time ago, but with little success.
There certainly are economic reasons for the death of these old town centres, but the so-called European social model has aggravated the situation further.
Rents in town centres are cheap and controlled, and rents for subsidised premises on the outskirts are also low.
Consequently, people prefer not to live in the centres, because it simply does not pay them to do so.
If this policy remains unchanged so will the state of affairs, and the situation in town centres will steadily worsen.
People do not wish to live in them because it does not pay them to do so.
The population of Europe is decreasing and this means people do not wish to live in the old town centres where criminals and drug addicts are concentrated.
Nonetheless, it suffices for someone to venture to make the least comment on the subject of this notorious social model in the House for all hell to be let loose against them.
The Commissioner had Europe’s own interests at heart when he indicated that Europe had to become competitive and efficient, and that it cannot allow itself to be as social as it is and would like to be.
This is not the way to build Europe and it is not the way to save our beautiful old historic town centres either. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the urban dimension represents man’s way of life today and in the immediate future.
The phenomenon of massive urban expansion is also underway on the coast of California, in India – between Delhi and Calcutta – as well as in Europe, along the Rhine axis of the Ruhr, which runs from Germany to the Netherlands, and in Italy’s industrial triangle of Milan-Genoa-Turin.
These are huge demographic melting pots of often very different cultures and social groups.
They should therefore try to sustain themselves by focusing on certain priorities: reduction of waste production and improved recycling of resources; and planning of efficient horizontal dimensions, which depend not only on what a city produces and how it produces it, but also on how a city interacts with other urban centres and surrounding suburban or rural areas.
Mr Beaupuy is surely right to highlight in his report the importance of urban partnership networks, at both interregional and cross-border levels.
This European Parliament has always shown an interest in the problems of towns and cities, both small and large, and in 1999, I would remind you, the Community URBAN initiative was maintained at the insistence of the European Parliament.
The Beaupuy report underlines this interest and sends the message to the European Commission and the Council that we need to show an increased interest from now on in the problems of towns and cities.
At the same time, we shall try in these negotiations to highlight the urban dimension even more, by emphasising the call for it to include a list of towns and cities which will be covered by the Structural Fund programmes for all the Member States for the period from 2007 to 2013, in order to make action by Member States on towns and cities more specific.
Similarly, we are waiting for the guidelines from the European Commission in order to ascertain how the interest of the European Union in towns and cities is being specialised, including through the guidelines, and we are here to support specific proposals by the European Commission, while remaining faithful at all times to the line which the European Parliament took a great many years ago. &#160;&#160; – Ladies and gentlemen, I had the pleasure and privilege of working with Mr&#160;Beaupuy on the report on the urban dimension in the context of enlargement.
We agreed fairly early on that the problems affecting towns and cities in the new Member States are no different from those that have affected – and to a large extent continue to affect – urban centres in countries that became Member States much earlier.
As I discovered in discussions with representatives from Czech towns and cities – and I have no reason to doubt that the situation is similar in the other new Member States – the most pressing problems include sizeable investment deficit inherited from previous years, property inherited from the army, transport and regenerating industrial waste ground and pre-fabricated housing estates; I could go on in this vein.
We must not forget that towns and municipalities are important stakeholders in the EU’s cohesion policy.
Between 2000 and 2006 some EUR&#160;30&#160;billion was earmarked for towns and cities, and I firmly believe that that figure will be exceeded in the forthcoming financial perspective 2007 – 2013.
I should like to remind those people that we are talking about the money of European taxpayers, our fellow European citizens, and we must accordingly establish clear rules and exercise a certain degree of caution when dealing with them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the budget there is a whole title devoted to agriculture and rural development which indeed gobbles up half the available EU money, but there is no heading for urban support, despite the fact that, as Mr Beaupuy’s report reminds us, four-fifths of Europeans live in towns and cities.
That is why I so welcome Mr Beaupuy’s report and indeed his leadership of the Urban and Housing Intergroup in this Parliament.
I also welcome Commissioner Hubner’s promise of a study on the contribution of cities to regional development and the UK Presidency’s apparent intentions to make urban development a specific objective.
I would be grateful if the rapporteur is able – as he has kindly indicated that he wishes to do – to make some small oral amendments to mention justice, security and liberty policies in his excellent report. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, I should like to congratulate Mr&#160;Beaupuy on his report, and say what an honour it was to be part of his team.
To date, there has been a conspicuous lack of cohesive European policy on urban-related issues, although over three quarters of the Union’s citizens live in urban areas.
Today’s debate is therefore indicative of genuine realism.
Cities have many other roles to play too, however, and I should like to mention education and the promotion of culture in particular.
Let us all therefore strive to be useful, be it in the House, in the Commission, in the Council or in any of the cities in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, urban development quite properly does not fall within the direct remit of the European Union, though in nation states it is substantially influenced by regional and other policies from Europe.
Under Urban&#160;II in my constituency in Northern Ireland, we benefited from a very worthwhile programme in North Belfast.
I note in terms of the future that the legislative proposal for regional policy from 2007 explicitly embraces an urban dimension and, within the competitiveness and employment objective for which my region will qualify, there is a commitment to concentrate on areas which have the most serious problems.
Thus, in terms of those deprived areas of Belfast that I have mentioned, I certainly will be looking for a meaningful programme of assistance. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, new challenges have arisen for the European Union as a result of the economic situation in Europe and also of current and future enlargements.
During the last 30&#160;years the main focus in terms of the implementation of policy objectives has been on economic and social cohesion.
The outcome of the actions undertaken indicates the need to include territorial cohesion amongst these objectives.
Pursuant to the Lisbon Strategy, cities are to become centres for innovative activities intended to promote development.
They are therefore set to become the potential engines of development in the European Union.
At the same time, however, it is in those very cities that increasing internal disparities have been noted, together with a worrying increase in social problems and even the social exclusion of certain groups.
Towns and cities play an important role in the social, economic and cultural life of Europe.
At the same time, more acute problems of racism are appearing in our towns and cities.
The connection between regional development and urban development is clear and cannot be ignored in the efforts which we are making to achieve economic, social and territorial cohesion.
Similarly, coordination is needed of efforts by all partners at local, regional, national and European level, with the proper utilisation of the potential of towns and cities for sustainable development.
Both the cross-border and the urban dimension must form part of all the policies of the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I speak on behalf of the New Italian Socialist Party.
I am Mayor of Tolfa – a delightful small town north of Rome – and even in this capacity have been able to see how significantly economic development and social dimensions are affected when citizens gather and integrate into an urban whole.
I realise, therefore, how actions aimed at fostering integration and social, economic and environmental development can have a correspondingly positive effect on citizens, which is then translated into added value for the European Union.
In that way, all types of friction and inequality may at last be overcome, for the sake of the unified project of a Europe particularly conscious of the problems faced by minorities and by the most disadvantaged groups in the least developed regions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today’s wide-ranging debate on Mr Beaupuy’s report and, above all, the pertinent and meaningful speech by the Commissioner have outlined in the House today the new European city, taking enlargement into account as well.
It is nevertheless necessary to emphasise and remind ourselves that a good 78% of the population of Europe lives in cities, 50% of which are in areas of high population density, and 26% in areas of medium density.
It should not be forgotten that in the heart of the Europe of 15 we also find the so-called Pentagon, that is, a zone linking London, Paris, Milan, Berlin and Hamburg in which a large proportion of the economy and population of Europe is concentrated.
The Pentagon idea is of course completely opposed to the concept of territorial cohesion, as set out in the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, which stresses cities – especially small and medium-sized ones – as key players in regional development and in achieving the Lisbon and Gothenburg objectives.
In my country and in most of the new Member States, there are serious large-scale problems that need to be clearly addressed with comprehensive interventions such as economic and social actions, aimed at the revitalisation of deteriorated inner cities and the renovation of large post-war prefabricated housing estates.
The causes of these problems do not only relate to the new Member States, even if in these countries the situation is worse than elsewhere in the Union.
In the new Member States, around 40% of the urban population lives in these deteriorated areas, creating ghettos within our cities.
Everybody agrees that cities and urban agglomerations or areas have a central role to play in achieving the revitalisation and Göteborg objectives.
It is also clear that cities and urban agglomerations play a major role in achieving regional development objectives.
We need to take on board that in the newly-enlarged Europe there are over 73&#160;000 local authorities, and it is those working in the local authorities who are the first to gauge the reaction of EU citizens and to deal with the immediate consequences of the proposals made by us in the European institutions or in national government.
As regards urban policy, we have an early opportunity during the debate on the role of towns in the revamped structural policy for 2007 – 2013.
For proper dialogue to take place, however, our partners require time and space to be able to make their contribution, and we need time and space to be able to make good use of their contributions, and in turn to improve the quality of the laws and initiatives on which we are working.
I shall conclude by thanking the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Beaupuy, for his work on this initiative, which, to my mind, takes account of the actual needs of Europe’s towns and communities. &#160;&#160; &#160;Madam&#160;President, it is high time that problems relating to cities and urban policy were given the priority they deserve in the context of the implementation of cohesion policy.
Cities are crucial to regional development and also to attaining the Lisbon and Gothenburg objectives.
There are marked discrepancies between European Union countries regarding urban policy, particularly after the most recent enlargement and the accession of 10&#160;new Member States.
It is particularly in the new Member States that complex urban problems have been noted, relating amongst other issues to management of the housing stock, inadequate infrastructure, transport, protection of the natural environment and waste disposal.
In addition, it is mainly in the new Member States that the most notable cases of problems caused by social exclusion or by living in neglected prefabricated slab housing estates can be found.
I would like to address my final point to my friend Mr&#160;Libicki in reference to yesterday’s debate about what Mr McCreevy said or did not say.
The World Economic Forum ranks Finland as the most competitive economy in the world, Sweden as the third and Denmark as the fourth, but I can guarantee one thing: the last person I want to have preaching to me about competitiveness is a German Socialist in the form of Mr Schulz! &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr Beaupuy has managed to draw up an excellent report that contains initiatives that can be implemented straight away with 2007-2013 in mind.
I unreservedly endorse this report.
Mr Jacques Delors used to speak about the Europe of the regions.
If we were to draw up the balance sheet right now, it would be the Europe of the regions and the cities.
This involved cities such as Milan, Dublin, Bristol and Nantes, and showed that it is the best possible cooperation between the region and the city that leads to the best results.
Good regional policy also implies good urban policy.
In summary, given that cities are the pioneers in their regions socially and economically, it is useful if we in the Committee on Regional Development could review the clarification of the Committee’s role in the urban dimension.
I would like to ask her if she could say anything about this during this sitting. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I am standing in for Mr Casa, who is indisposed, and has asked me to make use of his speaking time.
On Mr Casa’s behalf, let me thank Mr Beaupuy for his fine report.
I think we are all aware that towns and cities have to be the focus of any future regional policy, being, so to speak, the epicentres of the problems with which our regional policies will have to deal.
The task of using our regional policy to keep the rural areas around our cities attractive, and to prevent this flow into the cities necessarily devolves upon Europe, so the European Union, in the period of time between 2007 and 2013, must not only come up with rational policies, not only for cities, but also for rural areas, particularly in mountainous and isolated regions, in order to be able to offer the people who live there proper conditions under which to work.
We have listened very carefully.
Regarding the debate on the urban dimension, I see that debate as a broad and strong support to this need to strengthen the urban dimension in our cohesion policy.
Once again I want to say how much I appreciate the efforts of Mr Beaupuy and of the other Members of the Parliament who worked with him.
We look at all the problems and all the contributions of Europe-wide cities and towns and the contribution to the change in Europe.
Two or three specific issues were also raised.
One, with regard to regulation, we have the provisions in the general regulation, but – also in response to many of your comments – what we have done over the last weeks when revising the position of the Commission was to propose adding the gender dimension for the first time in the history of cohesion policy to the ERDF regulation.
Housing was mentioned in different contexts.
As you know, the housing issue is among those few issues which are still outstanding in the negotiations in the Council, in addition to some other very difficult issues on which Parliament has also voted, including cofinancing rates and eligibility of VAT.
My understanding is that these questions will be solved in the context of the debate on the financial perspective, not in the context of the negotiations on the regulation.
It is under major threat because, as you know, the budget proposal under the Luxembourg Presidency for the European territorial corporation objective in particular as regards the transnational dimension has been drastically reduced.
In response to Mr van Nistelrooij, with regard to timing, we are working on the document on urban issues.
I hope I will be able to say something when I come in November to the meeting with Mr Beaupuy’s group, but generally all I can say at this stage is that we would like to have the first discussion with the Member States already in December and then, as I have said, continue the consultations until more or less March.
I certainly look forward to further cooperation with your Intergroup on urban and housing issues and I once again thank you very much for the discussion today. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I must express my gratitude for the open attitude taken by the committee and the rapporteur, in particular to the arguments put forward by the Commission, resulting in a report which the Commission can accept almost in its entirety.
The Community has adopted some additional rules for its own waters, which now cover all of the Baltic Sea except for the two small portions of Russian waters.
In Community legislation, the measures are spread out in three different Council regulations: the Baltic technical measures regulation, the regulation on industrial fishing for herring – both from 1998 – and the annual TAC and quota regulation, which also contains a number of technical conservation measures.
On 14&#160;March 2005, the Commission adopted a proposal for a new regulation on technical conservation measures for the Baltic Sea.
Let me finish by once again thanking the rapporteur and the committee for their excellent work. &#160;&#160; . &#160;Madam&#160;President, my report concerns the proposal for a Council regulation on the conservation of fishing resources through technical measures in the Baltic Sea dated 14&#160;March&#160;2005.
I had to find a way through this political maze, which was no easy task.
Thanks are due to the Members involved and to the representatives of the European Commission for the efforts made in this regard.
Most importantly, they succeeded in finding a compromise concerning the issue of cod fishing gear.
I should also like to thank all other experts, researchers and fishing gear manufacturers from the Baltic countries who gave their time voluntarily to help the rapporteur become familiar with this very important aspect of fishing activity which is also challenging as it requires specialist knowledge. &#160;&#160; . &#160;Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise the issue of banning salmon driftnets in the Baltic.
It might not be evident from the outcome of the vote in Committee, but there were a number of points on which a compromise could be reached only after in-depth discussions.
With this in mind, I would like especially to draw attention to Article 12 of the Commission proposal, which deals with restrictions on, and the prohibition of, driftnets.
Our group has previously endorsed all attempts to provide for a reduction in the use of these devices or a ban on them, and so it necessarily follows that the same strict rules should apply in the Baltic as in other European Union fishing grounds, in which driftnets have for years been banned in order to give small cetaceans a better chance of survival.
I have waited for a long time for driftnets also to be banned in the Baltic Sea, the last sea in the EU where these are still permitted.
These issues should be resolved by sensible negotiation between national government and fishermen, not by an unelected bureaucracy with an absolutely appalling track record for environmental vandalism. &#160;&#160; &#160;Madam&#160;President, concerning the report by Mr&#160;Chmielewski on the conservation of fishing resources in the waters of the Baltic Sea, the Belts and Sound through technical measures, I would like to say how much I appreciate the technical standard of the report.
The rapporteur has worked hard to take account of the interests of the four former Baltic partners and also of the interests of the four new Member States that joined at the latest enlargement of the European Union.
I confirm that ISIS advises that the T90 codend has the same selectivity as the BACOMA exit window and we can therefore accept its use.
It is true that the number of porpoises is very low.
First of all I should like to thank Mr Kindermann and Mr&#160;Schlyter for their support.
However, at the moment we are preparing a recovery plan for cod in the Baltic Sea and it is obvious that technical measures and measures relating to closed areas and closed seasons will form an integral part of this recovery plan.
With regard to what Mr Titford said, I can only say that I cannot agree with him. &#160;&#160; That concludes the debate on this report.
The Presidency-in-Office of the Council clearly thought it more important to make a telephone call than to answer our questions.
I understand that this is first time under any Presidency that MEPs’ questions have gone unanswered for so long.
It is absolutely unacceptable that these things should be dealt with in the manner that you describe, and we have already taken the matter up. &#160;&#160; – The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make it clear that this amendment does not challenge the WTO regulations.
Honourable members of the Chinese National People’s Congress, you will be aware that dialogue between Europe and China is of crucial importance in terms of continuing globalisation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, could you inform me of by what democratic decision-making process our esteemed Chinese fellow parliamentarians have been elected?
You will yourself be aware that the sending of delegations appointed in accordance with national rules is something that national sovereignty makes possible. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have an oral amendment to paragraph 14 on death sentences for juvenile offenders.
In the original wording, where we used the term ‘juvenile offenders’, it seems as if we agree with the Iranian Government that having sexual relationships is a crime. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following on from yesterday’s debate and from the Iranian response to our demand that Akbar Gandji be released at once and that guarantees be given that he is still alive, I wish to move an additional amendment &#160;&#160; Mr President, the background for this request is as follows: the debate on the serious situation in Ethiopia and the motion for a resolution have been in the making for quite some time.
Between 2003 and 2004, for example, there was a 20% rise in operations leading to the seizure of forged euro, whereas the same period saw a 38% drop in the counterfeiting of banknotes, such as EUR&#160;100.
Agreements of this nature simplify and aid the flow of relations between the 25 Member States and Switzerland, and improve the lives of citizens on both sides.
The report was based on the opinions of administrative fisheries bodies in the new Member States, of the processing sectors and of other fishing industry representatives.
I welcome the participation of the new Member States from the Baltic in the amendments to this legislation.
I should also like to stress the importance of this proposal to the development of fisheries in the Baltic, with particular regard to maintaining fish stocks.
The opening up of assessments to the private sector paves the way for the creation of a new trade, in which capital exerts a greater influence on the institutions and their programmes, objectives and social strategy.
In each country, a network of interests could be set up between the agencies, the Member States, the institutions and the economic powers, with the aim of establishing assessment criteria that favour the best possible assessment of their own institutions and harm those institutions and teaching systems that are not up to the mark.
Many Member States have already made progress in this regard, but much hard work lies ahead if we are to succeed in developing the European higher education area.
Universities must improve their quality levels by introducing a system of internal mechanisms and through their relations with external quality assurance systems.
Implementing these systems represents a major step forward towards the mutual recognition of university qualifications in Europe, something that we very much wish to see. &#160;&#160; . – Claims about safeguarding standards and improving education through evaluation are an insult which is being hurled directly against any previous standards of higher education.
The balanced development of scientific sectors and the response of universities to their social role are a matter for the university community, in cooperation with the grass-roots movement, not the subject of revision and control mechanisms with private-sector economic criteria.
Our interests and those of the countries and the people of Europe, of our jobs and of our economies must take precedence over suicidal adherence to the dogma of free trade carried to extremes.
Sweden has experienced such attempts for 30 years in both the shipbuilding industry and the textiles and ready-made clothing industry.
I fully endorse the focus given by the Rapporteur to the challenges posed to EU industry by the rapid growth of the Chinese economy in both unskilled labour-intensive industry as well as high-tech domains.
The paragraphs which draw attention to the growing problem of declining labour standards and unfair trading practices are particularly important in the run-up to the Hong Kong Ministerial Meeting of the WTO in December.
We must take action – without abandoning our industries, without stopping production, without leaving our citizens high and dry – mindful of forthcoming developments in this trade relationship and of the consequences of those developments for Europe’s economy.
Defeat is a bitter pill to swallow, but losing because your opponent has broken the most basic rules of the game is disgraceful and unacceptable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I abstained on the resolution on Iran, and many of my British Conservative colleagues voted against, as Amendment l – making a referral to the United Nations Security Council a requirement – was rejected.
I also did not like the fact that paragraph 7 was included in the report.
I fully support the condemnation of Iran in the resolution for its brutal human rights track record, including the execution of minors for sexual chastity offences. &#160;&#160; We certainly cannot support the position adopted by Iran, which promises ‘tougher measures’ in the event of the nuclear question being referred to the United Nations Security Council, and even a step backwards with regard to the commitments it has entered into on this delicate matter.
The Commission must also make effective use of the European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights to intensify contacts and cooperation with Iranian civil society and independent media and to support democracy and respect for human rights in Iran. &#160;&#160; .
It is for this reason that I welcome the resolution whilst emphasising the fact that the EU should seek to be in good relations with Iran as it is a potentially important partner for the EU.
Furthermore, I urge the EU to treat Iran with the respect that such a significant and important country deserves. &#160;&#160; . – The debate on Iran in the European Parliament, on the pretext of the nuclear problem and violation of human rights, relates to more general imperialist plans and the vying for control of the wealth-producing resources of Iran and the area as a whole.
The nuclear problem in Iran cannot be addressed selectively; it must be addressed under a more general nuclear disarmament policy.
I oppose nuclear power as a matter of principle, but the agreement between Iran and the EU, as put before us, was a sham and could only been seen as escalating the dispute.
In this context, the message that this resolution sends out to Ethiopia should be clearly understood.
Lastly, let us take action, first and foremost, in the name of our principles and our populations.
Firstly, in order to achieve the objectives laid down in the Lisbon Strategy, aimed at establishing a knowledge-based society, the Member States must make a clear commitment to lifelong education and training and in so doing help to create jobs in Europe.
Furthermore, it highlights the financial bottleneck in most countries, which is a significant problem, especially given the situation in Portugal.
Hence our abstention. &#160;&#160; We are voting against this resolution from the European Parliament.
The committee adopted a wording to the effect that care must be taken to ensure that the Member States’ exclusive responsibility for the organisation of education and for the content of education systems is fully respected.
This agenda must be considered a&#160;high priority for the European Union; without this support, it will not be possible to attain the Lisbon Strategy objective of becoming a competitive knowledge-based economy.
I supported Mr Bono’s report stressing the importance of education not only at a young age, but also throughout life.
I appreciate the views of the rapporteur on the role of universities in this process.
At the same time, we must realise that the creation of a knowledge-based economy and society will not be possible without adequate financial support.
We must therefore invest in ensuring that we have qualified human resources, given that this is our development model. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the main thing to be said in response to the Portas Report is that it is only those who speak the language of their new host country who stand a chance of getting an education, protecting their own interests and being integrated into its society.
In this report, the so-called multi-culturalism of the European countries is reinforced even further by encouraging second, third, or even fourth-generation immigrant children to develop their own language and culture on our territory and thus to make even less of an effort to integrate in our society or assimilate themselves to it.
It is important that immigrants should learn the host country’s language.
I understand and share the rapporteur’s concerns, but I feel compelled to focus my attention on this idea of the ability to integrate, which entails strict controls on who enters a country and who stays.
In this context, the Commission should draw up measures aimed at protecting the circus, in order to help ensure that it is recognised as part of European culture. &#160;&#160; This report contains quite a few proposals that we absolutely cannot support.
The issue is that of why the European Parliament should call on the Member States and the Commission to recognise the circus as a part of European culture.
The report also contains proposals to the effect that service points should be set up and information campaigns carried out, all designed to make life easier for circus companies.
I address the 20 million pensioners – former workers, hence pensioners – living in Italy, as well as the 150&#160;million pensioners who have worked in Europe and who live in all 25 Member States of the European Union.
The existence of small and medium-sized towns in interior, outlying and rural areas boosts development in these areas and helps to offset disparities between areas and combat the effects of agglomeration that the large urban centres have on the interior of a country.
Whereas towns and cities are capable of stimulating development, they also bring a range of complex problems, such as congestion, accommodation requirements, pollution and social exclusion, owing to the economic, social and regional planning policies currently pursued.
Making the urban dimension an across-the-board policy in a context of budget savings might pit objectives in competition with one another and this may jeopardise support for the least favoured regions.
I therefore voted in favour of the Beaupuy report. &#160;&#160; We voted in favour of Amendments 1, 3 and 5.
We are well disposed towards a guaranteed reasonable standard of living.
Of our proposals that were adopted, I should like to highlight the following: - calls for the promotion of access to high quality jobs, with, first and foremost, a decent wage, as a means of preventing and combating poverty; - points out, at the same time, that part-time work and low-quality jobs, which mainly affect women, are a factor in the increased rates of women among poor workers, which is a factor in social exclusion.
We do not support the proposal for a ‘minimum guaranteed income’.
One reason for this is certainly our inability, despite our many good intentions, to make much of an improvement to equal opportunities for women in the workplace.
The result of McJobs or 1-Euro-jobs or call them what you will remains the same: even two or three such jobs are not enough to feed a family.
We can help to combat poverty, a phenomenon that must be seen today as a violation of human rights and as a situation that must be tackled as a matter of urgency.
