rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by thanking the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and, in particular, my fellow shadow rapporteurs for the work that we have done together, because I believe that it can be said - even though, as is customary at this hour, the Chamber is not very full - that we have genuinely carried out a joint piece of work and that this report, which bears my name, could just as well bear the name of my fellow Members, Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines, Mrs Ries or even Mrs Lienemann, who apologises for not being able to take part in this evening's debate.
Thus, it is LIFE+ that will govern Europe's innovative policies, that will rise to the challenges, such as the fight against climate change and the efforts to rid the air and soil of pollution, that will prevent biodiversity damage and that will provide the Environment DG and the NGOs, our bio-indicators par excellence, with the means to endow the Member States' environmental policies with European added value.
The debate focused back then on support for the Natura 2000 network, our flagship environmental policy.
By adding EUR 21 billion, which even the Commission felt was necessary if Natura 2000 was to be managed properly, the European Parliament sent out a strong signal to the Commission and to the Council.
The common position proposed to us has spectacularly ignored our warning.
If there is one policy that can be seen, identified, recognised and appreciated by Europeans, it is indeed the one that we have succeeded in implementing on environmental protection.
We all know that LIFE must enable us to deal with emergencies and to implement policies aimed at restoring our environment.
In the first part, I shall put the oral question on Natura 2000 by Mr Florenz, who is not present and who has asked me to speak on his behalf.
With a view to its being able to do so, we undoubtedly believe that part of the management should be returned to the European Commission and that international European projects should be created, so that Europe can improve its capacities in the future, by means of 'capacity building', in order to ensure that projects are better monitored, to find ways to coordinate policies and to continue taking action that cuts across policy areas.
I must stress that, since September 2004 - when the College of Commissioners adopted the Commission proposal - about one year after first reading, we have made a great deal of progress with LIFE+ and the position of the European Commission has changed significantly on several counts in comparison with its initial proposal.
As far as the question of funding for Natura 2000 is concerned, the Commission has secured funding opportunities through the Structural Funds, the Fisheries Fund and the Agricultural Fund for Rural Development.
I repeat that one of our top priorities is to safeguard suitable funding for Natura 2000 and that is why I particularly value Parliament's support on this issue.
According to the common position, 80% of funding for LIFE+ is to be made available to the Member States.
Unfortunately, the outcome of the informal meetings between Parliament, the Council and the Commission following the vote in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety on 14 September did not enable us to make significant steps towards achieving agreement as regards delegated management.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Within the framework of the LIFE III programme, running since 2000, we have spent more than EUR 950 million on various environmental protection programmes for the successful completion of countless local, regional and cross-border projects.
The status of LIFE+, and within it of the Natura 2000 programme, gives cause for concern and raises at least two significant questions.
The first is the fact that it is already clear that no timely decision will be taken regarding the new programme, and, as a result, we will not be able to launch the environmental protection programmes next January, as planned.
Therefore, I propose that we follow the solution adopted in 2004, when a regulation of the European Parliament and the Council extended the LIFE III programme, which was then expiring, for two more years with an additional budget of EUR 317 million.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, please accept Mrs Lienemann's sincere apologies for being unable to attend this evening, as you are all aware of her commitment to this matter.
I would like to remind you of all the support that our group offers to Mrs Isler Béguin's report and to pay tribute to the agreement reached by our political groups on an ambitious strategy to consolidate the only direct financial instrument intended for European environment policies.
It should also be emphasised that it is our Parliament that obtained additional budgetary credits for LIFE, although well below our initial aims.
It is clear that we must guarantee Member States the level of funding that they expect, while requiring that the selection of projects is informed by a double rationale: one involving the European dimension and meaningful environmental practice.
Mr President, twelve months ago, together with our rapporteur Mrs Isler Béguin, we deplored this veritable gift made by the Commission.
The fact that we have all rallied strongly around our rapporteur - whom I would like to thank and congratulate once again - is the best proof of this today.
Last year, I was the rapporteur for Parliament's report on the financing of Natura 2000.
The slackness and lack of supervision that have been the case up to now are on the point of having disastrous consequences, first and foremost for the natural world, but also for the reputation of the EU, as many of my fellow MEPs have mentioned today.
The Commission should make it a condition for the payment of, in particular, rural development funds that the Member States put forward plans and also appropriate sufficient resources to Natura 2000.
Natura 2000 must receive its share, and without agriculture receiving compensation for this.
That is why I heartily support the call for another EUR 50 billion to be added to the LIFE+ budget.
If we leave the 50 million in the margin, with just one political commitment, as called for by the Council, we shall have no clear guarantee.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, I would tend to support the 80% management of LIFE by Member States.
In my willingness to support management of LIFE+ at Member-State level, I would still like to see a reasonable level of scrutiny to ensure that the projects selected prioritise efforts to improve compliance by industry with EU environmental law. (PL) Mr President, a number of amendments were proposed during the first reading of the LIFE+ Regulation.
LIFE+ is an indispensable financial instrument for all our environmental policies.
I therefore welcome Amendment 18, which restates the sum of EUR 100 million agreed during negotiations on the financial perspective.
There are, however, some reasons why I am not enthusiastic about Amendment 10, which, for the new Member States, deletes the very important second paragraph of Article 6 of the Council's common position.
We must, then, take care that European taxpayers' money is used properly. (DE) Mr President, the second reading of the financial instrument for the environment shows us once more that the Financial Perspective for the period from 2007 to 2013 does not adequately enable the EU to perform its functions as regards the environment, and, indeed, much else besides.
As has already been said, handing this programme back to the Member States would imperil European environmental policy and the value that Europe adds to it, and it is for that reason that I support all the rapporteur's amendments to delete, for they take us several steps in the right direction. (IT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the determined work by the rapporteur has already produced substantial results at first reading.
Turning now to the 31 amendments on LIFE+, I will divide them into four distinct blocks.
Secondly, on allocation of funds, the budget, ring-fencing etc., Parliament has tabled an amendment aiming at adding the whole EUR 100 million extra to the LIFE+ instrument.
If Parliament and the Council were in agreement to allocate that amount to the LIFE+ programme, I would welcome the opportunity to see the programme expanded.
We need a funding instrument for the environment in order to spend our EUR 2 billion budget.
The debate is closed.
