The directive under discussion today took on its original form as early as 1976.
We can state that in over a quarter of a century our societies have developed considerably in many respects and it is time to revise our view of equality between women and men at work to meet the requirements of today.
The Treaty of Amsterdam also obliges us to do so, as it lays down that equality between women and men must be broadly taken into account in all the work of the Community.
In this directive the European Union presents for the first time actions binding on Member States to prevent sexual harassment which is prevalent in the workplace.
In this respect, the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities suggests that we go a little further than the Commission originally intended.
I have also emphasised the fact that this may improve the position of the employer, since if employers can show that they have initiated such preventive work, they will surely be in a stronger position should conflict arise.
I am sure that such independent bodies for equal opportunities already exist in most Member States but I would like to emphasise the importance of this issue when considering candidate countries.
In another context the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities has focused considerable attention on the fact that issues concerning equality between women and men in candidate countries have not been as strongly emphasised in accession negotiations as they should have been.
I believe that we have reached a good compromise in including fathers and their rights in this directive.
Mr President, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs felt that, despite the progress that has been made in legislation, discrimination remains in pay and the labour market is still segmented, with salaries remaining low in the traditional sectors and tending to persist in services and in the so-called 'new economy' .
The Lisbon Council decisions, the broad employment guidelines for 2001, the Social Agenda and the new provisions of the Treaty all define the importance of increasing employment amongst women, in both quantitative and qualitative terms, not simply to comply with a law, but mainly for the sake of economic balance and to ensure that pensions are sustainable.
The Commission believed that it was doing the right thing by submitting a proposal to us in 1996 to amend that directive - a directive which at least had the great advantage of encouraging, in practical terms, equality between men and women in the workplace, in the areas concerned.
The amendment proposed in 1976 was intended solely to safeguard positive actions, which were put at risk by the 1975 judgement.
On 8 March 1999, therefore, we asked the Commission, here in Parliament, to withdraw its proposal and to submit to us a new one based on the ratified Treaty of Amsterdam.
Our message was clear: the proposed directive should contain an imperative legal mandate to take positive measures whenever they are necessary in order to achieve equality between men and women and to remedy the under-representation of women in the decision-making process.
Personally, I should have preferred the Commission to present us with an entirely new version, rather than piecemeal amendments here and there, because the Commission' s text gave rise to almost 200 amendments by the rapporteur and the various committees involved, and these were often drawn up without reference to the basic text, and with the intention, albeit worthy, of trying in that directive to reinvent the entire policy on equality in a number of other fields covered by other directives.
One might rightly regard these other directives as being in need of improvement, but this amendment has nothing to do with those directives.
This did not make my task, as the previous rapporteur and as the notional rapporteur, for my group this time, any easier, because unfortunately I was not prepared to forget the message I referred to earlier in the context of my 1999 report.
In particular I regret those amendments, which disregard Article 141 of the Treaty.
The inclusion of harassment and sexual harassment as elements of discrimination is, without a shadow of a doubt, equally clear, as is also the clarification that the right to maternity, like the right to paternity, cannot be used as an instrument for enforcing discrimination.
The possibility of putting into practice positive actions like, indeed, the possibility given to us by Article 141(4) of the Treaty, is, I believe, an equally clear instrument, so that the directive - which I hope will be operational by the end of this year and will be an instrument at the service of all the Member States, all women, all organisations - may truly become one more instrument added to those that the European Union has for all these years placed at the service of so many Member States.
Well, in my opinion, not even this could ever be used as an excuse by anybody, because the legal instruments that can be adopted are specified here and in some cases there are obligations associated with them and in others opportunities, depending on the laws of the Member States.
This revision is very important in that respect and accordingly I am glad that this is now going ahead in Europe.
I mean the intended amendment of the terms of employment of employees of institutions like, for example this Parliament, and also the Commission.
Mr President, Commissioner, the eleventh annual report on the Structural Funds, which for the first time examines Community measures in favour of equality between men and women, indicates that although the active participation of women in the labour market has been continuously increasing in the last three decades, there are still considerable differences between the two sexes.
In almost all the Member States, unemployment rates are higher for women than for men.
The difference in employment rates between the sexes is an average of around 20% in the Member States.
Moreover, the differences in salary between men and women are still considerable: 28% for medium term at Community level.
It is true that the Lisbon European Council has stated an objective of increasing the Community average rate of employment among women from the current level of 51% to above 60% by 2010.
But when I think that, for example, in Spain the level of women in employment currently scarcely reaches 35%, I think that it is not going to be 10 but 20 years before we can talk about real equality between the sexes, especially if the shortages of jobs in general continue to be so great.
Perhaps it is time that we took ourselves more seriously, for example, the proposals from Orio Giarini and Patrick Liedtke, and their Report to the Club of Rome, entitled "The employment dilemma: the future of employment" -where they advocate the division of the working day, or the proposals of Peter Hall that focus taxation on business consumption and remove the burdens from the cost of labour factor.
I therefore welcome the initiative to modify Directive 76/207/EEC, from 25 years ago, on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment of men and women.
I also congratulate Mrs Hautala, chairman of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, on her excellent report.
The 1976 directive played a fundamental role - and I do not want to dwell on this - but the attempt being made today with this report, with this directive, to enhance the implementation of equal opportunities through legal instruments may, I feel, take us down the wrong road, where the benefits run the risk of being more than counterbalanced by the harm done.
The creation of independent national bodies - this is true in this case but, in my view, it is true in all other cases too - that deal with pre- or para-judicial tasks, would incomprehensibly duplicate traditional means of judicial redress.
With regard to access to the labour market, then, I believe that, first of all (this is true for the Italian situation) some measures must be considered that are wholly conventional - flexibility of the labour market, reviews of social spending, wholly absorbed, for example, by social security spending - measures that would address, and to a great extent are already addressing the issue of equal opportunities in the labour market, but without any need for new laws or new bureaucracies.
Mr President, Mrs Hautala, no one can be against equality between men and women.
Our society is aspiring towards a new feminism.
As women, we want to develop according to our own model, our sensitivity, our intuition and our intelligence.
As wives, the complementary role of men and women implies the need for cooperation in professional life, in social life and in family life.
Mr President, Commissioner, we have here today a proposal to amend the directive on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training and promotion and working conditions.
The modifications are presented taking into account the Treaty of Amsterdam and the rulings of the Court of Justice in recent years.
For the first time it is considered that sexual harassment in the workplace is discrimination on the grounds of sex.
Women, especially younger women, now have a high level of professional qualifications, but this is not reflected throughout their working lives, as in general they are in lower-qualified posts that do not enable them to fully achieve their professional expectations.
The directive will help solve these problems, but it is the Member States, through their national legislation, which ultimately need to ensure that women can work full-time without their personal or family lives being badly affected as a result.
I have to say that it has genuinely been difficult working on this proposal, but we have made an effort to highlight the points of agreement and the objectives of the directive over and above the logical differences between different political groups.
The amendment of the directive comes at the right time now that we finally have a sound legal basis in the Treaty of Amsterdam, and it contains more detailed provisions to protect women from discrimination in their professions and in the workplace.
Because in the history of Europe this directive is the most well-known of all the directives on equality between the sexes.
It is the most well-known in all our Member States.
However, we can also spread the word in our own Member States as well.
I hope that our Member States will also be equal to the task that we are proposing here today.
For the first time, it defines sexual harassment in the workplace as discrimination on grounds of sex, and it recognises the special protection granted to women due to their biological condition.
Mr President, the 1976 directive has proved a powerful weapon in combating discrimination against women in the labour market in Europe.
Deviations from this principle should be based on the nature of the case itself, for example in relation to pregnancy, or the provisions of the Treaty, as in the case of positive measures.
That is necessary because, after all, 314 people have to vote in favour in order for the report to be adopted.
Women are under-represented in senior management.
Mr President, the directive at present under discussion aims to adapt the existing 1976 directive to the social and economic developments of recent years.
I congratulate the Commission on its initiative in adapting the legislation in this area to these developments at European level and also in giving new impetus.
The directive must be seen in combination with the recommendation on child care, the directive on parental leave and the directive that lays down minimum conditions for the improvement of the safety and health of pregnant women at work, and with the directive that we discussed last year on the basis of Article 13 and on which we approved a report.
Mrs Van der Laan, my sentiments are shared by many other women in the Christian-Democrat group.
It is therefore necessary and useful that legislators should now act.
I am therefore glad, Commissioner, that in the proposal sexual harassment is seen as a form of discrimination based on sex.
For that reason the European Parliament would be well advised to provide an efficient prevention policy, as was provided for at the time in the code of conduct accompanying the recommendation of 1991 on the protection of the dignity of men and women at work.
Accordingly I hope that this directive, in its present form, with the amendments made by our committee, can be approved under the Belgian presidency.
The position of women particularly was very important: equal pay for equal work, equal treatment by social security, independent rights in pensions and social security and a number of regulations relating to the combination of work and care.
The proposal gives a new content to the principal of discrimination, which issues from the Treaty of Amsterdam, but certainly also from the judgements of the Court of Justice, which has always been a fighter for women' s rights.
Sexual harassment is a violation of the principle of equality between men and women and also violates the dignity of men and women.
With regard to the content given to the principle of discrimination I am grateful to the rapporteur that my amendment, which was intended to broaden the concept by including alongside the workplace admission to work and to a profession, as well as the training and education which lead to a position, was immediately accepted.
Mrs Van der Laan, if you had paid better attention, you would have known that that idea would at any rate have obtained a majority in our group.
Mr President, Commissioner, today we are extending the borders of equal treatment to all aspects of women' s working life, which means not only employment, but also the whole training and career cycle and working conditions.
Insofar as equality between men and women is an objective and also a mission for the European Union, we need to adapt, update and also think up new strategies, new legislative texts that will enable us to complete this task effectively.
The article on sexual harassment should be highlighted, and I will not expand on this point as it has already been sufficiently highlighted.
We need to intervene with positive measures such as this in order to change an order that is profoundly unfair and that is contrary to the development of our societies.
When I look at my own country - since I believe everyone is exploring what the impact will be on their own country - I see three crucial points.
Firstly, the annual report on the equal treatment of men and women that is required from companies in this directive.
I also think that Amendment No 42 is good, i.e.
It is completely intolerable that even today in many sectors, even in the public sector, the average earnings of women are lower than those of men with equivalent education and experience.
Our society must offer all its members equal and unlimited opportunities for self-development along their chosen path.
There was excellent cooperation between the committee and the Commission and I really believe that agreement can be reached on this proposal at the Employment and Social Affairs Council on 11 June.
The Commission can also accept, in principle, part of Amendments Nos 39 and 68, which extend the powers of independent bodies to cover all directives in the area of equality of treatment between women and men.
However, the Commission cannot accept the part of Amendment No 39, which provides for funding and human resources for these bodies.
The Commission can only accept this in cases of approval or consent of the complainant.
The spirit of Amendment No 10 and part of Amendments Nos 25, 46 and 69 stress the importance of the reconciliation of family and working life and call for complementary action on paternity leave.
We can accept Amendments Nos 12 and 38 on the protection of victims of discrimination, including employees and trade union delegates against any adverse treatment.
Amendment No 33 clarifies that the application of the principle of equal treatment concerning membership of, and involvement in, an organisation should not ban organisations of a single sex.
The Commission never intended such a ban.
We also accept: Amendments Nos 14 and 42 urging Member States to encourage employers to establish annual equality plans in order to promote equal treatment; Amendment No 41, encouragement of dialogue with non-governmental organisations having an interest in promoting equality of opportunity.
The Commission cannot accept part of Amendments Nos 11, 27 nor Amendment No 55 insofar as they introduce a definition of positive action into the text of the directive itself.
This definition of positive action is already contained in the text of treaty and therefore should not be part of the directive.
However, the Commission could agree to a reference to Declaration 28 of the Treaty, which provides for priority for women in positive action measures in the recitals and in the text of the directive.
The Commission can accept part of the rest of Amendments Nos 11 and 27, the establishment of reports on positive action every two years but not annual reports and not linked to the employment process.
I cannot accept Amendment No 1 and parts of various other amendments, which replace "equal treatment between women and men" with "equality for women and men".
The Commission can accept the latter wording.
Other amendments that the Commission rejects are part of Amendments No 9 and 59 as a matter of principle since they refer to the need to amend another Community directive on equal treatment relating to maternity.
Nor can it accept Amendment No 4, which refers to the necessity for the Commission to make proposals on the basis of Article 13 to cover areas beyond employment, occupational and vocational training.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 36 and 61 which extend judicial protection to all cases where discrimination takes place after termination of the employment relationship.
Finally, as you can see, the Commission can accept most of Parliament's amendments.
I would highlight our acceptance of Amendments Nos 7 and 21, definitions of direct and indirect discrimination, harassment and sexual harassment and Amendment No 39 in part, scope of powers of independent bodies.
I accept in spirit Amendments Nos 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 10, 15, 16, 20, 21, 32, 33, 34, 35, 37, 38, 51 and 60 and partially Amendments Nos 5 and 9, first part in spirit, Amendment No 11, first part, Amendment Nos 12, 17, 19, 23, 25, 27, 30, 39, 40, 43 (second part), 46 (second part), 50 (second part) and 69 (second part).
Many amendments could be accepted in full such as Amendments Nos 13, 14, 18, 22, 24, 26, 28, 29, 31, 41, 42, 45, 47, 60, 66 and 68.
However, I reject Amendments Nos 1, 4, 36, 43 (first part) and Amendments Nos 44, 48, 49, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65 and 67.
Thank you, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although EURES was created in 1993, as the successor to the old SEDOC, few people are even aware that it exists.
Our first recommendation, therefore, seeks to publicise EURES and its database more intensively, which must be reflected in its budget, in its activity plan and in the implementation of its budget and also in the various Member States, where it should be monitored and followed up appropriately by their public employment services, which are now linked by means of EURES.
EURES is a network of networks, consisting of around 500 'Euroadvisers' , public and private organisations and partners and provides a valuable opportunity for direct consultation via the Internet in an open network.
EURES covers not only the Union, but also the European Economic Area and currently includes 17 countries.
As a matter of fact, as a result of growing Internet use, the efficiency of EURES will increasingly depend on the widespread knowledge of the general public and much less on simple improvements to the workings of the bureaucratic network of services and organisations.
Today, there are already twenty specific structures in this field, but a great deal remains to be done.
As a result of the considerable potential that these EURES cross-border structures offer in terms of local development, decentralised social dialogue and specific development of cross-border mobility, being able to work in another country without changing residence is clearly another priority for the future.
The future reports by EURES will be much more useful and will make much more political sense if they present their critical vision of the successes and failures that have been notched up, if they include information which is more relevant, both in terms of statistics and of quality, if they better enable us to make a more accurate assessment of the definition of priorities of future goals and targets and if they also enable us to undertake a proper parliamentary assessment of the reasons underpinning the choices that are made.
Furthermore, once a new legal basis for the organisation of EURES is announced, probably in 2002, Parliament will only need to say one simple thing, and that is: Parliament wishes to participate in this redefinition.
Mr President, Commissioner, the free movement of workers - a cornerstone of the Treaties of Rome, and the most important of the four fundamental freedoms in our internal market - can only operate effectively if the employment services also do not end at national borders.
We agree with all the key points contained in Mr Ribeiro e Castro's report.
I should also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his competent work.
I think it is excessive, for example, to devise and implement permanent information systems, in particular within youth organisations, universities and the media, as demanded in Article 15 of the report.
I also have great reservations about the creation of additional operational units, as set forth in Article 16, because they lack substance and are often used as a fig leaf in order to conceal the failures of existing bodies.
Mr President, to begin with I should like to congratulate Mr Ribeiro e Castro most warmly on his brilliant report and thank him for the excellent cooperation we enjoyed in the committee.
The 450 EURES consultants who have day-to-day contact with people who are mobile, can testify to the difficulties they experience.
But even in their own organisations, whether it be job centres or trade unions, they do not always receive the attention they really deserve.
That is first and foremost, Commissioner, the question of Parliament that has been on the table for years in relation to the introduction of a Europe test, a test which could monitor internationally the possible consequences of social and fiscal legislation in other countries.
The European Commission promised us that at the end of this year, during the Belgian Presidency, a conference on border work would be organised.
We very much hope, Commissioner, that that conference will contribute, not only to greater understanding and insight into the problems of border regions, but specifically to the removal of the obstacles to cross-border mobility in the European labour market.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur for his serious and very painstaking approach to this work and would support many of his introductory remarks and also many of those made by my colleague, Mrs Van Lancker.
EURES has an important role for them and it is a great pity that employment and employers' organisations are not more involved in the development of these services.
It is obvious, as others have said, that EURES needs to be adequately resourced, expanded and promoted if it is to meet its full potential and respond to the needs of individuals.
This suggests, of course, that we are concerned with a political rather than a solely practical problem when we talk about free movement in Europe.
The fact that we have come close to full employment is a practical example of what is achievable.
I am confident our people will give practical recognition to this fact when they vote next week on the Nice Treaty.
One of the key functions of EURES is to make information available on current job vacancies in the Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the right and the opportunity to live and work in other Member States of the European Union are important political aspirations for Europe' s citizens.
The basis for the EURES network is the existence of this right, enshrined in law, for workers to move freely within the territory of the European Union and the European Economic Area and the unpleasant fact that barriers to labour mobility remain in place.
The truth of the matter is that specific directives do exist in the field of employment, which seek to eliminate the social, cultural, and linguistic barriers that obstruct mobility in the European Union.
This report is timely, insofar as it highlights the role which EURES can and should play in the more general context of the European employment strategy, particularly if, as has been requested, the question of its having its formal legal basis in the Treaties is reviewed.
Secondly, let us emphasise the importance of information on the existence of the European Employment Service, particularly in border regions.
I should like to touch on certain choices made by the Commission in order to promote and strengthen this tool.
The Commission will announce a new EURES service from June onwards which will allow jobseekers in specific sectors in which there is a shortage to file their CVs via the Internet and, at the same time, will allow employers to register for this service.
Thank you, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, we in our group discovered, after the group meeting, that there was a compromise amendment, Amendment No 70.
I therefore went round to see him to congratulate him on his election, accompanied by the driver, Ugo Gustinetti, a pensioner, who said to me, 'As a pensioner, I am very much in favour of this report on the environmental programme because we must have clean air to breathe.
After the expenditure of substantial community funds in the EU on unintended environmental destruction, the necessity of environmental protection is now considered more and more obvious.
Therefore, now, having heard President Johannes Rau, Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder and Prime­Minister Lionel Jospin, I am convinced and have the regrettable feeling that, if the majority Members had known beforehand the positions of these national leaders, the report that has just been adopted would have been quite different.
I hope that in the future constitutional process, this Parliament will maintain a self-respecting position, which is more responsible, especially with regard to the interests and aspirations of our citizens.
Mr President, I voted against this report on the Nice Treaty, but I found it ironic that my colleagues from the main political establishment parties in Ireland, who criticised the no-campaign in Ireland saying we have no grounds for criticism, endorsed a report today which is extremely critical of the Nice Treaty.
I also find it quite alarming that this treaty basically endorses the whole concept of a European constitution which is something that has not been debated in the national parliaments.
The kind of Europe the Nice Treaty proposes is far more detrimental to the eastern European countries, because it divides Europe.
Mr President, I think that the Treaty of Nice will go down in history as a clear example of a lost opportunity, due to the specific requirements of the unyielding defenders of the power of the Member States.
But since Marshall McLuhan talked about the world as a global village and Tofler himself pointed out information technologies as the third human revolution, the globalisation of political relations with regard to trade, the economy, defence, leisure, and so many other things has meant that the Member States are now also small and inadequate and cannot respond to the current needs of the people.
Therefore, the future path for the European Union cannot be resolved through the measures adopted in Nice: what is needed is fewer powers for the Member States and more for the European institutions.
Mr President, I voted for this report on the Treaty of Nice, which I have read with the eyes of a party secretary.
I am convinced that, in the Treaty of Nice, there is an important point that we should develop, which is the point that favours the creation, maintenance and development of European political parties.
Power, Mr President - I think perhaps you agree with me, or perhaps you do not - is very often in the hands of the parties.
The problem is that this resolution is quite hypocritical in that even if it says that it recognises its commitment to upholding the rights and freedoms set out in the Charter, these freedoms, such as those in Article 4 of this Charter, are not defended inside the European Union, as can be seen in the case of torture in Spain.
The Nice European Council, which was held from 8 to 11 December 2000, enabled the Intergovernmental Conference to make a certain amount of progress.
In particular, the following are worthy of note: Declaration 23 on the future of the Union, and the launching of a wide-ranging and in-depth debate; the revision of Article 7 of the Treaty on European Union on the respecting of fundamental rights in the Member States; the loosening up of procedures, making it possible to engage in enhanced cooperation; the increasing of the powers of the President of the Commission and his appointment by a qualified majority of the Council which, together with the recent proposals by the French Prime Minister, Lionel Jospin, on the election of the latter, make it possible to reinforce considerably its legitimacy and therefore its authority.
All the federalist speakers raised their heads above the parapet, one after the other, to urge the setting up, at the next Council in Laeken, under the Belgian Presidency (a presidency which, of course, is in favour of ultra-federalism), of a 'convention' which would open up a 'constitutive process' which was to produce a 'European federal constitution' which the 2004 Intergovernmental Conference would be called upon to adopt.
The debate on 2004 has taken the place of the debate on Nice, and no doubt the debate on 2010 will only serve to cover up any debate on the future draft submitted for ratification in 2004.
The result, in the short term, is that practically nobody has talked about Nice, and public opinion is still just as ignorant, except in Ireland, where they are holding a referendum, about the content of a very important treaty which will be stealthily submitted for ratification by their national parliaments.
Some provisions even contradict it openly.
For example, there is the introduction of integration as an objective for the Union and the Community (Article 43 of the EU Treaty), the introduction of uniform regulations and conditions governing Members of the European Parliament (Article 190(5) of the EC Treaty), the creation of regulations governing political parties at European level (Article 191 of the EC Treaty), the appointing of the Commission by a qualified majority (Article 214(2) of the EC Treaty), the approval by a qualified majority of certain international agreements on common foreign and security policy (Article 24 of the EU Treaty), the new measures taken, by majority vote, to introduce the euro (Articles 111 and 123(4) of the EC Treaty), the transfer to Community level of international trade negotiations on services and intellectual property (Article 133 of the EC Treaty), the inclusion of the Community in responsibility for modernising social security (Article 137 of the EC Treaty), or the creation, in vague terms, of a rapid-response military force (Article 17 of the EU Treaty).
This finding has led the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to demand that the convocation of the new IGC (responsible for carrying out the next revision of the Treaties) should be based on a fundamentally different process, a process which is open and transparent.
Having said that, the accession of new Member States requires an in-depth revision of the way our institutions function, because those institutions have almost been brought to a standstill already, when we have only fifteen Member States.
The debate is underway.
This would give a strong political signal to our fellow-citizens.
I wish to put on the record my support for the Treaty of Nice.
The future debate about the European Union must also be about the role of the national parliaments in the future Europe.
The role of the national parliaments must be strengthened in decision-making in Europe.
It is very bad that, even in the new areas on which it was agreed in Nice that decisions would be taken by qualified majority, the codecision procedure was not incorporated.
In fact, the Member States recognised the limitations of Nice, convening a further IGC for themselves in order to revise the Treaty of Nice in 2004, with specific objectives that will have to be finally fixed in the meeting in Laeken, under the Belgian Presidency, at the end of this year.
Of course, I defend the Brussels Declaration signed on Monday of this week by seven constitutional regions, of which Catalonia is one, and we need to ensure that the European regions with legislative powers participate in a very prominent way not only in the preparatory debate, first in Laeken and then at the IGC in 2004, but also in the decision-making processes on the policies of the Union.
For the party and coalition represented by Convergència i Unió, this aspect is of fundamental importance in order to ensure that the citizens of the Union participate in it to a higher degree, and it is obvious that the constitutional regions are already an element of representation, responsibility and contribution on a European level that the Union cannot do without.
Therefore, the Méndez de Vigo-Seguro report should have been more emphatic, because it was important for Parliament to highlight the inadequacies of Nice and send a clear signal about this, which is why I also regret that some of the amendments tabled that were going in that direction did not stand.
There should have been a debate about a real charter of social rights and freedoms, rather than about ratifying a cut-price charter of fundamental freedoms.
I do not believe - in common with the former President of the Commission, Jacques Delors, incidentally - that we should have a European Constitution as long as there are individual states with their own constitutions and as long as there is no European nation.
When it shortly has a possible 30-plus Member States the complex and obscure decision-making of the EU will become hopelessly bogged down.
This resolution acknowledges that the last remaining institutional obstacles to enlargement have been removed and we welcome that.
Nonetheless, the resolution contains some criticisms of the Treaty of Nice which are unfounded and also contains some proposals for the future which pre-empt the debate on the future of Europe due to take place over the coming years.
All 15 national parliaments in the Member States will ratify the Treaty of Nice in 2001, regardless of the fact that the majority of members of the European Parliament appear to be dissatisfied with it.
If it is to be possible to talk in terms of democracy - and not just diplomacy - within the EU, this openness must be achieved, i.e.
This is why I welcome the fact that our rapporteur is proposing to create a convention, based on the convention which drew up the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in order to make preliminary plans for and to propose to a future IGC a Constitution for the Europe of the future.
This step, let us not deny it, will constitute a historic moment in European integration, and its task will be to link our peoples and their future in a way which will be irreversible.
Despite the respect I have for the rapporteur Mr Méndez de Vigo, today I voted no to his report on the Treaty of Nice; however, this does not mean a no to Europe.
The Irish electorate has the right to know what the consequences of the Treaty are for the people of Ireland and Europe as a whole, including candidate countries.
There is also the deepest concern with a Charter of Fundamental Rights, clearly intended to be legally binding in 2004, as a constitution or constitution-treaty, which through the decisions of the EU Court of Justice could take precedence over our Irish Constitution and our Courts.
In addition, the fact that the Charter of Fundamental Rights will not be binding means that it will not be possible to provide a solid framework for a Europe in which the issue of the greatest deprivation of rights must remain a priority, for example the protection of workers from the arrogance of certain employers.
The fact that the IMF and the World Bank have admitted their responsibility surely means that the development of Africa deserves to be made a priority, in view of our colonial history.
Any new European plan will have to be accompanied by a radical transformation in the thinking behind the CAP.
Myller Report (A5-175/2001) I would like to justify why the Group of the European People' s Party voted against the Myller report while saying that we fully support the project and the Commission' s Environment Action Programme.
As a group, in order to demonstrate our willingness, we have broadened the usual horizons of the environment and we have added very clear support for the urban environment, which did not previously exist, we have increased interest in the countryside and the rural environment, we have also supported municipal participation, which did not feature in the proposal, and we have also supported public health with great enthusiasm.
For all of these reasons, we voted against the report because we defend the people and a viable and common sense model.
Mr President, the Myller report as it has been submitted to us to vote on, is a report without a concrete plan of action.
For all these reasons, I abstained in the vote.
Mr President, I too voted against the Myller report, but not for the reasons that Cristina Gutiérrez explained so well just now.
Changes in direction are now possible and desirable.
The fact of the matter is that the greater the use of greenhouse gases, the greater the effect that this has on climatic change which in turn will have a devastating effect on coastal communities and island communities not only in Europe but world-wide.
We must all redouble our efforts so as to be sure that next year' s World Summit is up to the challenge of ensuring that development takes place in a sustained manner and also in a matter which protects existing communities.
The fact of the matter is that the greater the use of Greenhouse Gases, the greater the effect that this has on climatic change which in turn will have a devastating effect on coastal communities and island communities not only in Europe but world-wide.
We must all redouble our efforts so as to be sure that next year' s World Summit is up to the challenge of ensuring that development takes place in a sustained manner and also in a matter which protects existing communities.
It is important that the concept of sustainable development should be taken into account at all levels of decision making and in all sectors.
In addition, and despite the fact that the environment knows no geographical boundaries, it is essential that the European legislators should respect the principle of subsidiarity, in other words, they should not over-regulate at European level, but should leave it to the national authorities to define sustainable development at local level, since it is a concept which includes not only environmental protection but also the economic and social context which is essential to human beings.
This is why we did not vote in favour of certain amendments which we felt exceeded the bounds of this context.
The purpose of this action programme is to define objectives, to establish a basis for reflection, and to ensure the success of future Community projects in this area.
The report that we are voting on today will cause difficulties.
Then again, some amendments go against directives which have already been adopted by the European Parliament, or else they place too many restrictions around those that we shall be considering in the near future.
This applies in the case of environmental responsibility.
The report which we have voted on today at first reading is concerned with a legislative proposal to amend Directive 91/671/EEC.
Such provisions are essential as they make it possible to reduce the severity of injuries in the case of an accident.
With regard to safety conditions for children less than 12 years old, I believe, like the rapporteur, that it is more logical to take their height into account rather than their weight, because they do not need special restraints if they are at least 150 cm tall.
As a result child seats will apply to children not only below twelve but are also shorter than 150 cm.
It is a shared competence based on Article 251 of the Treaty.
As far as the final voting is concerned, many of us were unable to vote in favour of the report because, against our wishes, amendments such as Amendments Nos 4, 36 and 44 were adopted.
As the Commissioner has said, they are unacceptable because they ignore the most basic procedures, and in particular the provisions of the Treaty.
These are the reasons why many of the members of my group were unable to vote in favour of this report.
I await the second reading, and I hope that the wisdom of the Council will be brought to bear on the irrational proposals which we have adopted.
I think most people in Europe would consider today's vote on this subject as one of the most important steps towards raising the credibility of this House.
Not all of our proposals were adopted but something of their spirit is implicit in the report, particularly in terms of the need to prevent any discrimination against female workers on the grounds of pregnancy and maternity leave, in terms of the need to adopt the necessary measures for reconciling family and working life and in terms of greater restrictions on opportunities for any discrimination in access to employment.
The European Parliament has already had an opportunity to say what it thinks about the issues of equality of opportunity and the special nature of women in a social and professional context, and I am pleased about that.
The Hautala report' s amendments to the old directive on equal treatment for men and women as regards access to employment, vocational training, and working conditions are, to a great extent, progressive.
The inclusion of positive action in favour of women, the distinctions made between direct and indirect discrimination, the definition of sexual harassment, and the claim that women, at the end of their maternity leave or after adopting or fostering a child, should have the right to go back to their own job in the same way as men do when they have been on leave, all these are intended to combat discrimination and to achieve greater equality between women and men in the workplace.
For example, in France, despite the equal rights laid down by law, the difference in pay between men and women is still, on average, 27%.
Dell'Alba Report (A5-0176/2001) .
I believe that the Commission's proposal, in the parts which Amendments 14 and 179 seek to amend, is in conflict with the recently adopted regulation on Article 255 (Public access to documents).
This regulation states that "All rules concerning access to documents of the institutions should be in conformity" with the recently adopted regulation (Recital 12).
Ten years after the concept of sustainable development was recognised as the development system that can reconcile economy and ecology, despite a whole host of standards and regulations, on the whole the environment has suffered more than it has gained as a result of development.
Although the concept of sustainable development seems to be understood by the Commission and certain Member States, this is almost certainly not the case in all fifteen Member States.
The environmental aspect still ends up playing the Cinderella role.
The resolutions have succeeded in giving practical expression to our responsibilities and obligations in the face of the continuous deterioration of our planet, global warming, and the disappearance of biodiversity, and they serve as a reminder that only a completely new approach to policies can hope to reverse these trends.
Ribeiro e Castro Report (A5-168/2001) Mr President, allow me to congratulate you on your excellent French just now, which I heard you speak in such ringing tones that I very nearly thought you were a Frenchman who sometimes speaks Spanish.
I voted for the EURES report, which says that it is necessary to inform citizens about their pension rights.
Therefore, I too am a EURES-Fatuzzo or a Fatuzzo-EURES, and so I am in favour of this report.
It is much better to bring work to people that to take people to work.
