Member of the Commission. - (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remember that you invited the Commission here today to discuss the dispute between the United States and the European Union on the support provided by the governments concerned for Airbus and Boeing.
The US Government claims that money that the European governments have invested in Airbus infringe WTO rules on subsidies.
That was on 18 October.
It is important to note that Airbus has paid back 40% more than it has received from the European governments since 1992 and has actually repaid in excess of EUR 7 billion.
The third element is the illegal export subsidies that Boeing continues to receive under the legislation on FSC/ETI (Foreign Sales Corporation and Extraterritorial Income Exclusion), in spite of the fact that the WTO has outlawed them on several occasions.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking also on behalf of Mrs Tokia Saïfi, who is a member of the Committee on International Trade.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - As you know, the European Union is currently defending Airbus in a case before the WTO brought by the United States on behalf of Boeing.
For 11 years, competition between Airbus and Boeing flourished, resulting in important breakthroughs in commercial aviation technology and design that have led to safer, more efficient and more environmentally-sensitive air travel.
For example, Boeing's current knowledge about composites, which is being used extensively in its new 787 Dreamliner, stems - by its own admission - from its work on developing the V-22, the F-22, the B-2 and the Joint Strike Fighter.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, to many observers, the WTO dispute between Airbus and Boeing is starting to sound like a never-ending saga.
The demand for ever more economical, safer, larger, faster and more modern aircraft assumed dimensions in the 1990s which ultimately left only two well-performing companies in the running: Airbus and Boeing.
This future proposal was also put forward by numerous trade union activists at the hearing on Airbus organised by my group on 28 March.
However, that model is causing problems for Boeing, as illustrated by the very serious difficulties it is experiencing with the industrialisation of its 787 Dreamliner.
We have high hopes of a settlement to this dispute. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome this debate and the Commission's presence here to discuss the legal dispute between Europe and the United States, which has been running since 2004, when Washington took a case in the WTO against the European aid granted to Airbus.
The US complaint in the WTO against the European mechanism of repayable loans for the aviation sector is, in my view, unfounded and surprising.
They are repaid to the extent that the European states have been able to get a return on their investment, and since 1992 Airbus has repaid 40% more than the sums loaned to it.
In the dispute between the US company Boeing and the European Airbus, each side is accusing the other of paying billions in subsidies and brought complaints before the WTO in 2004.
Both sides have declared their willingness to find a solution outside the WTO and reach an agreement on a bilateral basis.
The Commission must act on this, for we all have an interest in ensuring that by 2010, the EU is the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world.
