Lastly, it is strategic for the genuine integration of European society: social and cultural integration that is neither forced nor impeded, but which requires effective links between every Member State of the Union to allow communication, exchange, recognition and appreciation of identity and diversity to take place.
Community rules and decisions to facilitate all of this – from the Eurovignette directive to the creation of a special fund of loan indemnities – are necessary additions.
It is in that context and in view of the EUR 20.3 billion proposed for the TEN-T by the Commission under the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective – a budget that would guarantee that an average 15% of the funding of the trans-European transport network is met – that the Committee, through me, would like to learn from the Council whether it considers that sum adequate to cover the amount of Community cofinancing that is necessary and sufficient for all 30 projects.
In other words, can the Council guarantee that the Member States will be able to finance the remaining 85% on average of the estimated funding from their own public or private resources, or ought we not to consider increasing the Community share?
The next question is addressed to both the Council and the Commission and includes a proposal or explicit recommendation: is it not advisable to concentrate Community cofinancing as a priority, if not exclusively, on the 48 cross-border sections of the 30 projects: those that straddle two Member States, which in many cases do not get off the ground as a result of conflicts of competences or interest?
This would have many positive effects: by limiting funding just to the 48 cross-border sections, it would put us in a position to make the idea of a 30-50% level of cofinancing a feasible one and ensure that those sections were constructed promptly.
If Community cofinancing were made conditional and the endorsement of international bilateral treaties were required, the Member States would be forced to clearly accept their responsibility even for internal sections.
We agree, in fact, with his analysis of the importance of the trans-European networks, which is evident in many respects: these trans-European networks are first and foremost part of a growth initiative that has been relaunched by the European Council; they contribute, or must also contribute, to the objective of competitiveness as defined at the March European Council; they represent, moreover, an essential element of the smooth functioning of the internal market; and, above all, they are indispensable for guaranteeing the territorial cohesion of the European Union.
It is precisely on these issues and on the reasons for the delays that a high-level group on the trans-European transport networks, led by Mr Karel van Miert, has carried out its studies, in particular regarding the delays occurring in the cross-border sections.
To alleviate these delays, the Council adopted Regulation No 807/2004, in April 2004, which specifically aims to increase the proportion of Community financing of certain projects.
On 27 July 2004, the Council received a new proposal for a regulation on this matter.
I am able to state, on behalf of the Presidency, that the implementation of this programme and of these projects is of the utmost importance for the reasons we have outlined.
The Council is also busy examining a communication from the Commission regarding the possibility of introducing a Community loan guarantee instrument for loans granted to trans-European transport network projects.
I believe that we will only succeed in implementing this series of projects if we are also able to create innovative financing methods.
You have suggested a number of them, particularly a better division between private and public funding.
Before answering the questions raised by Mr Costa, the Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I would also like to mention a few figures confirming the importance of these networks.
The time lost in congestion in Europe has been put at 1% of gross domestic product or more than EUR&#160;100 billion; that is almost as much as the European Union budget.
That aid has not in fact always been enough to persuade investors to mobilise and to coordinate their efforts, especially for transnational links.
It is quite clear that these projects will not come about without an EU financial effort, which will take the form of this reasonable and much thought-over increase in the Community budget for trans-European networks.
The first concerns the van Miert Group’s estimate for all 30 priority projects at EUR 225 billion for the period from 2003 to 2020.
The requests for funding that the Commission received from the Member States in 2003 and 2004 are already enough for spending three or four times the present budget.
In addition to these priority projects, we will have to cofinance the rest of the network, in particular such technology projects as the European Rail Traffic Management System (ERTMS) or the Sesame air traffic control initiative.
That is my first answer.
This programme should be settled in the course of 2006.
Secondly, part of the budget will be distributed on the basis of annual calls for proposals.
The Commission will be particularly keen to obtain firm commitments from the Member States in order to ensure that the priority projects go as planned.
That is my answer to the second question.
Secondly, the project will have to be technically and financially indivisible.
Lastly, the Member States concerned will have to be committed to the project jointly and set up a common structure.
To be honest, however, without these EUR 20&#160;000&#160;300&#160;000&#160;it will be extremely difficult for us to rise to this challenge.
I therefore thank Parliament once again for raising this important question today.
The delay in compliance with the commitments made in 1996 by means of codecision between Parliament and the Council, with regard to the funding of the trans-European transport networks, is a fact.
The Commission's proposal of a sum of EUR 20&#160;300 million for this objective, within the framework of the financial perspectives 2007-2013, is also a reality.
The Council is being asked whether there is sufficient funding to meet the commitments laid down in Decision 884/2004.
So the conclusion is very clear; Mr Barrot has demonstrated his ambition and the Council has told us that this budget is sufficient, but we believe that if it is not supplemented in this way, the great projects which peripheral countries such as Spain are hoping for will be frustrated.
Let me remind you that building the trans-European networks is a task given us by the Treaty of Maastricht.
Even in the days of the Christophersen group, we were told that the projects were all ready to go ahead, that they were a practical proposition, and that the excavators could start work tomorrow.
I would also like to remind you that last year, in May 2004, the Council and this House specified completion dates for the projects.
Now, in Europe, what belongs together can grow together, and the TEN projects help to bring this about, but we also know that the 30 TEN projects are a wish-list drawn up in a spirit of national ambition.
The bridge over the Straits of Messina has nothing to do with European integration, but it is on the list.
We also know, though, that, if we presuppose a 20% share, the EU, under the present financial plan, will take 120 years to do that.
We want absolute priority to be given to the joining-up of the European rail links between Berlin, Warsaw, Tallinn, Riga and Vilnius, and we want a rail link between Vienna and Venice to Ljubljana, Bratislava, Prague and Budapest.
It is imperative that this level of funding be viewed as an absolute minimum.
The Commission needs to give an assurance that this proposed level of funding will meet the needs created by the higher levels of Community cofinancing, which can be as high as 50%.
We need to be realistic in order to meet the objective of advancing these projects, particularly when the number of priority projects has increased from 14 to 30.
Member States need to stand up and take responsibility for their respective infrastructures.
Much of the funding will be directed towards major cross-border projects, but I do not believe that this can be effective without all countries concerned signing binding bilateral agreements.
I should therefore like to ask the Commission whether it is not finally time to take a bird’s eye view of Europe, and whether it would not be worth drawing up a comprehensive study of the trans-European transport network.
This study should cover not only the Balkan states, but also Moldova, Ukraine, Belarus, Georgia, and probably also Russia.
In my opinion, it is high time that a comprehensive and methodical study of this kind be drawn up in order to gain a bird’s eye view of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to thank Commissioner Barrot for his courage and the Presidency-in-Office of the Council for the good will it has demonstrated, but more than good will, it must show rigour in demanding greater funding, or sufficient funding at least, for the trans-European networks.
I would like to end by mentioning the necessary flexibility and provision of additionalities at the different levels of funding, both at Community level and at national and regional level, both public and private, including the possible synergies between transport networks and energy networks. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;The limited amount of funding set aside for transport policy made it necessary to draw up a list of priority trans-European transport network projects.
With regard to the Commission’s proposals for levels of funding under the 2007-2013 Financial Perspective, it should be noted that there is no justification whatsoever for citing EU enlargement as the reason for increased expenditure in this area.
The new Member States are involved in only 10 of the 30 approved projects, and they receive only 10% of funding.
I must perhaps offset the pessimism and negative analysis expressed in certain quarters, since if it is true that progress in the achievement of these projects has up to now, since the Maastricht Treaty, been insufficient, a number of them have nevertheless been carried out or are on course to be carried out since the 1994 European Council in Essen, if my memory serves me well.
Certainly, as someone pointed out, money provides the backbone for this effort.
We must therefore ensure that our political priorities can also be translated into budgetary priorities.
As President-in-Office of the Council, I can but state that until June, the Luxembourg Presidency attaches great importance to this section of the financial perspectives and would not wish it to be reduced, because that would mean that the political priority would be decreased or further delayed.
It is, in actual fact, the responsibility of the Member States first and foremost and of your Parliament to decide upon them, since the financial perspectives are not only decided upon in the Council.
Mr&#160;President, I should first like to follow Mr&#160;Schmit in thanking all of the Members and speakers who have demonstrated their great interest in this matter by being here today.
I am expecting great things of this work, which will enable us to reflect on the future of relations across the European continent and that will also contribute to our thoughts on the neighbourhood policy.
I believe, Mr&#160;President, that Parliament must promptly issue its opinion on the proposals.
Armed with the opinion of Parliament and that of the Council, I would then have to present the nomination of these coordinators that I sincerely hope for to the College of the Commission.
The coordinators would in fact have both technical skills and, I believe, the necessary political and moral authority to truly get everybody moving and, if need be, to make sure that two neighbouring States can commit to the project of extending the network by means of bilateral relations.
That said, I believe that it is also the responsibility of Members to point out to their leaders and to the leaders of their Member States that, if we want a fully competitive Europe that achieves territorial cohesion, they too must play their part in implementing these large-scale projects that can prove a real opportunity for the future of Europe.
Whatever their motives may be, these terrorist acts can occur in any place, at any time.
The fundamental objective of this proposal for a directive is to complete, at port level, the measures adopted in 2004 exclusively on port terminals, within the context of the regulations regarding the security of ships and port facilities.
You will recall that this regulation transposes, at Community level, the security measures adopted by the International Maritime Organisation in December 2002, particularly the ISPS code on the security of ships and port facilities.
At that time, the Commission had chosen to extend the security measures to the entire port area only at a later stage and by means of a directive.
Our final objective is to emerge from this near artificial separation between the port, on the one hand, and the port facilities that make up the port, on the other, and to implement a coherent security plan that takes into account the geography and the topography of different ports, as well as the various areas of which it is composed, on a case-by-case basis, according to the Member States’ transposition.
We believe that this approach is viable in terms of efficiency and cost.
I would like to stress that our proposal is largely based on the results of a piece of work carried out jointly by the International Labour Organisation and the International Maritime Organisation, which has led to the publication of a code of conduct on port security.
That is why the Commission’s proposal requires the same structures and security measures as the regulation already in force, in order to create a security regime that applies to maritime transport as a whole, starting with ships and extending as far as the port area.
This approach enables procedures and synergies to be simplified where security is concerned.
The proposed directive calls on Member States to define the confines of their ports and to ensure that port security assessments and port security plans are drafted in an appropriate manner, and in accordance with minimum requirements.
The proposal submitted before you also makes provision for a port security authority to be designated for each individual port or group of ports, a port security officer to be appointed, and focal points to be set up in Member States in order to ensure that the necessary communication takes place with other Member States and, of course, with the Commission.
I shall conclude my speech, Mr&#160;President, by stressing in particular that some of our major trade partners have already carried out an extensive implementation of the International Maritime Organisation’s ISPS-code.
These third countries enforce the security measures in all of their ports and naturally expect the same commitment from us.
I believe that the European Union cannot be outdone in this area, both for reasons of trade but also for the protection, naturally, of our fellow European citizens and of such vital infrastructures as our ports.
I therefore once again thank your rapporteur and all those who have examined this text.
In many cases, they are also the nerve centres for the transhipment of dangerous freight for important chemical and petrochemical production centres and are located near cities.
The two issues I should like to discuss are related to guaranteeing a level playing field in the European Union.
In the final agreement, the Commission is therefore urged to present – as soon as possible and by no later than 30 June 2006 – a study about the distribution of the costs between government bodies, port authorities and industry.
The additional security measures should on no account lead to distortion of competition.
Secondly, I was determined that the interpretation of the rules in all Member States should be unambiguous and that their implementation should be harmonised.
As rapporteur, I have also tried my level best to avoid creating an additional bureaucratic institution, and proposals to that end have consequently been repealed.
This compromise is made up of Amendments 13 to 75, inclusive, which the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and my own group can support, as can also the Council and the Commission.
If we actually adopt this compromise later on today, the directive can be finalised at first reading.
Although you may be inclined to be sympathetic to Amendments 10, 11 and 12, tabled by the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, I would nevertheless advise you to vote against them.
First of all I would like to express our broad support for this proposal and in particular welcome the flexibility contained therein, so far as Member States and their implementation is concerned.
However, my committee had some concerns about the lack of a proper cost benefit analysis, or an adequate impact assessment of the costs arising from this directive.
We also had concern about the absence in the proposal of any specific reference to funding or financing measures.
Therefore, we tabled an amendment, which draws attention to these aspects of the proposal and calls for them to be borne in mind by the Member States when they draw up the guidelines for action.
I nonetheless think it necessary to add some points: the ease and confidence with which the terrorists were able to strike in September 2001 and in other circumstances have created the need to extend security checks not only at airports and border points but also at ports, which record a significant flow of goods and passengers on a daily basis.
With regard to the proposal of the Council and Parliament to additionally subject cargo ferries to checks, I, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, take the liberty of pointing out that a greater number of checks at ports would also make it possible to stem the trade in counterfeit goods, drugs trafficking and a long list of activities carried out by criminal organisations.
My proposal, presented as an amendment in the Committee on Civil Liberties, was not accepted, in the same way that other amendments calling for the extension of checks to people, in addition to goods and vehicles, were not accepted.
The House has rightly debated these issues many times recently.
Port areas have been better defined to limit the costs imposed on the supply chain outside the geographic area of the port.
Indeed, since 2002 and with the specific provisions of 2004, the issue has no longer been seen merely in terms of protecting human life at sea and environmental impact, but also of preventing terrorist attacks.
The security rules that already apply, as cited by Mr&#160;Barrot, moreover, are fragmented, they are not legally binding and they lack an overall picture.
It would therefore seem fundamental to approve this regulatory framework, in order to prevent distortion of competition and to recognise ports as nodal points in the logistical chain.
The contribution made by the Socialist Group in the European Parliament to the drafting of the overall proposals was aimed in the following two directions: defining ports in the transport sector – not only at the ship/port interface, but acknowledging their functional link with the common transport policy – and asserting the need for inspections by the Commission to guarantee a uniform framework, while respecting the Member States’ authority.
A burgeoning number of documents that deal with problems relating to port security could well result in a proliferation of bureaucratic structures, and EU regulation of this issue will mean that two overlapping sets of legislation and legal systems will be in force.
We must not deprive the Member States of yet more powers by declaring that the directive will also apply to areas outside ports.
We must not impose constraints on the Member States’ judicial systems by dictating what is to be considered an offence and what is to be considered unlawful.
I am all for enhancing port security, but wherever possible it should be the Member States and the ports themselves that decide how this goal is to be achieved, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
The effect of this directive must not be that ports have to undergo never-ending inspections, carried out by countless different bodies.
The attacks in New York, Washington and Madrid have shown that no mode of transport is yet safe from terrorism, and it is therefore logical that seaport security should be stepped up.
Commissioner Barrot pointed out a moment ago that by doing so, we are simply discharging a number of international obligations.
In fact, this is not just about the threat of terrorism, but also about the fight against illegal immigration, organised crime and the trade in drugs and fake goods.
Finally, I should like to express my approval about the amendments tabled by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done in tandem with the shadow rapporteurs.
I think we have here a sensible compromise ready for tomorrow’s vote, one that all the groups can support, and that will bring this matter to a close.
There have been terrorist attacks, which endanger the transport of persons and goods.
One point that has to be made in this context, though, is that responsibility for security cannot, ultimately, be passed on to the ports alone; this is, on the contrary, a task for all those involved in transport, and that is something we must not forget.
Unless I am mistaken, the Commission has already started giving consideration as to how this aspect may be included. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the security of vulnerable locations such as ports is essential to society.
This applies to both the ship-quay relationship and to the other port sections.
Finally, I should like to express my appreciation for the rapporteur who managed to bring this dossier to a good end in a succinct manner by holding on to the core principles in consultation with the Council. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;I very much welcome the fact that a debate is being held on this issue, as this proves that we are endeavouring to act wisely before any harm is done.
Finally, this debate will boost consumer confidence.
The advantage of the proposed directive is that it provides us with clear goals, and allows us to be flexible in implementing and achieving these goals.
There was some controversy within my group over issues such as funding for institutions with competences in the field, and inspections and whether or not they disrupt port operations.
Their responses were positive in every instance. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, there is no doubt that we need to defend and guarantee the security of ports as well as airports.
However, equally terrible is the fear of terror, which various governments use as a pretext for committing crimes against civil liberties.
So let us protect our citizens.
All the money which we are spending on terrorism – we spent a billion euros for the Olympic Games – could have been spent differently, repelling fanaticism and the extremism which leads straight to terrorism. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, terrorist action over recent years has targeted public transport – trains, buses, aeroplanes, ships and the areas in which they operate.
Memories of terrorist attacks, such as the attack in Madrid, remain fresh in our memory.
The proposal for a directive aims to serve that purpose.
Most of the measures introduced by the directive are satisfactory.
We need to take measures at Community level, so that there are commonly accepted security rules and, at the same time, equal conditions of competition between Community ports.
The successful example of the Olympic Games in Athens, where innovative security measures were applied, should be taken into account by the Member States, who need to acquaint themselves with these measures.
We are well aware that there is a cost issue and, as regards the costs liable to be generated by these measures, we in fact plan to undertake the commitment to prepare a communication on the security of different transport methods, including the issue of their financing, in our 2005 work programme.
This reference to financing is, moreover, included in a preamble.
I now return to you, Mrs Hennis-Plasschaert, to express my deepest thanks as, thanks to you, I believe that we will be in a position to gain time in the context of implementing these security rules.
You have embraced this rather technical proposal and you have adopted a pragmatic and constructive approach in your handling of the dossier.
I am pleased to observe that there are a great many points on which Parliament, the Commission and the Council fundamentally agree, with regard to the measures to be taken.
The Commission can therefore subscribe to the compromise reached by Parliament in the context of negotiations with the Council and which is expressed, Madam&#160;President, in Amendments 13-75.
We can therefore endorse Amendments 13-75, but unfortunately not Amendments 1-12.
Thank you also for your brevity.
The vote will take place at noon today. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report (A6-0105/2005) by Mr Cercas, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2003/88/EC concerning certain aspects of the organisation of working time (COM (2004) 0607 C6-0122/2004 2004/0209(COD)). &#160;&#160; .
Our aim in revising the directive is quite clear, namely to ensure continued high standards of health and safety at work.
At the same time, we are all aware that the future will belong to flexible businesses that introduce innovative working methods, in so doing motivating their workers to be more productive and also offering them high-quality jobs.
The Commission’s aim has always been to ensure that the revised directive maintains the current level of protection for workers at the same time as contributing to a more flexible organisation of working time.
I will comment in more detail on the Commission’s position on the amendments that have been tabled after listening to your debate. &#160;&#160; .
Madam President, thank you very much, Commissioner, for your kind words, not just about my report, but also about the joint work carried out by all members of this Parliament’s Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Ladies and gentlemen, by chance, our debate on the Directive on working time has coincided with the European anniversaries of 9 May.
The words of our President, Mr Borrell, yesterday in this house on the relationship between our duty to remember and our duty to build a Europe in which euro-scepticism and anti-europeanism have been defeated are still ringing in my ears.
Our debate today and tomorrow’s vote are very much related to our responsibilities.
They are very much related because millions of Europeans are awaiting the result of certain debates in which they have placed very great hopes, since this Directive is at the heart of social Europe and will be a clear signal of our will and our conviction that the European social model has a future, otherwise we will be at the mercy of a future dictated not from the other side of the Atlantic, but from the Pacific.
And at the heart of the concerns of the citizens currently facing the question of whether or not to take the constitutional route is always the same question: what is Europe doing to improve our living conditions?
European social laws must apply to all countries without exception.
It is not sufficient, Commissioner, to eliminate the abuse and fraud committed in the past under the previous legislation.
Because the opt-out blatantly contradicts the objectives of the Directive, the health and safety of workers and the fundamental principles of the Treaty.
Because it contravenes the Charter of Fundamental Rights and our Constitutional Treaty, Article 91 of which lays down the obligation for a high quality of life in work and a restriction of working days.
Because, Commissioner, European workers, their organisations, women's organisations and also, in private, many employers who want a typically European model for industrial relations, are asking us for it.
Greater flexibility is not incompatible with a higher level of social protection for workers, provided that we ensure that there is a minimum level of regulations and guarantees, as the Wim Kok report stated.
On-call time is working time, because workers cannot use their time freely and they have to be in the places dictated by the employer.
We have therefore sought a solution which creates a synthesis between flexibility and safety.
Commissioner, the Members in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs believe that these two things are compatible.
Those who believe they are not compatible are the people who are seeking to perpetuate the opt-out or those who are seeking to define on-call time as non-working time.
We cannot therefore even debate the existence or otherwise of the Working Time Directive without being subject to accusations of that kind.
The principle of subsidiarity is fundamental, with tribute paid to it on solemn occasions of every conceivable kind.
The Working Time Directive is in itself a breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
We have different arrangements in the public sector, with different rules governing such matters.
That is a hugely serious accusation to make against those countries that we have accepted as members of the EU and which all fulfil the Copenhagen criteria and are constitutional states entitled to organise themselves as they see fit.
Parliament has now attempted in this House further to exacerbate the Working Time Directive already in place.
The proposal should therefore definitely be rejected with reference to the principle of subsidiarity. &#160;&#160; . – Ladies and gentlemen, political decisions are sometimes the result of compromises that are intended to keep both sides happy.
The vote in the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality, of which I am a member, has demonstrated that Members of all political persuasions wish to tackle inequalities between employees and employers, and to ensure that there is a gradual move towards equal treatment for men and women on the labour market.
It is the culmination of a long struggle for the recognition of human rights, and hence of the right to fair working conditions, which right is enshrined, , in the Lisbon Strategy, and emerges quite clearly from the Cercas report.
It is an unfortunate fact that altruism by employers towards their employees has not to date been a founding principle of our civilisation.
We adhered to the principle of work-life balance when voting on the proposal in committee, and we would insist that the following proposals are adopted, in order to ensure that this principle becomes more than an empty phrase to salve our conscience.
It is in tune with the Lisbon Strategy, it protects small and medium-sized enterprises, and it contains a number of points providing for greater flexibility in the labour market.
What it would mean is deregulation in an area as sensitive as health and safety at work.
There are other, more effective, ways of bringing flexibility into the labour market, such as extending the reference period, which is covered in this proposal.
There are two crucial points in the report: they are the twin proposals to phase out the opt-out, while opening a way to the annual calculation of working time.
It needs to end and we need to bring about a proper balance between working and family life.
Family and working life balance has to do with the social and psychological wellbeing of all workers within the European Union.
This point is essential, you suspect, in the context of the debate on the Constitution in France and in view of concerns raised by the drafting of European rules in the social field.
For us, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of sending a clear signal as regards the social system that we hope to promote at European level.
The ambitious objectives of the Lisbon Strategy make it necessary to adapt the European economy to new challenges.
It is obvious that businesses should benefit from a dose of flexibility in the management of working time, but we sincerely believe that greater flexibility is not contradictory with a high level of workers’ health and safety.
The balance between flexibility in the management of time and the safety of workers enforces the definition of minimum regulations and safeguards as well as suitable controls.
The option for an employer to contravene the legal limit of a 48-hour working week with the individual agreement of workers is, for us, clearly at odds with the spirit of the directive.
Finally, we remain convinced that all instances of on-call time must be considered working time.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs nevertheless proposes that Member States may authorise the calculation of the inactive parts of on-call time in a specific manner in order to comply with the maximum weekly working time.
For our Group, this is an extremely important piece of legislation.
But according to a recent report from the Work Foundation, based in the UK, the pattern of working in excess of 60 hours a week is prevalent now throughout the European Union, particularly in certain sectors.
For the Verts/ALEGroup,the control of working time is also about who controls your life, and this working time directive applies to employees.
It is very important that people realise that.
This is not just about having flexibility as a one-way street, but of bringing in the rights of employees.
Indeed, we find that in the UK two thirds of workers do not even know there is a limit to their working time.
At the same time, it is highly critical of the report approved by a majority in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs because, unfortunately, on most issues it goes along with the Commission proposal.
This will allow employers, in both the private and public sectors, to unilaterally and abusively manage the working time of workers, in the absence of the workers themselves, under the law or regulations.
Similarly, the clear case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities has been circumvented with the misleading device of dividing on-call time into active and inactive on-call time.
So, allow this UK representative to bring to the table today some UK experience and practice: that less regulation equals more employment.
These countries have not taken the euro and the UK has not indulged in the more restrictive employment practices.
Flexibility can be provided by the opt-outs from the working week, which are due to be phased out in spite of a vote in this House on 24&#160;February.
In my country, which without doubt has the EU’s highest standard of worker protection, these conditions are agreed between the two sides of industry.
It is incredible that we should have to put up with a situation in which the EU, which has not been able to solve these problems nearly so well as ourselves, is to tell us what to do.
In Denmark, people work efficiently, so the country can manage with shorter working hours.
The reasons for this include the scourge of unemployment and the economic problems faced by employers, particularly in the new Member States.
It is for this reason that I regard Mr&#160;Cercas’ report and the amendments by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs as a sensible compromise, and one aimed at improving people’s overall wellbeing.
There are certain issues that need to be regulated jointly in the EU, and working time is one of them. &#160;&#160; Madam President, by saying, today, at first reading, that minimum rules for work are very important for health and safety in the workplace and also for the reconciliation of professional and family life, we are in fact underpinning the 1993 legislation.
Thirdly, I note that there are many myths surrounding this topic, which have culminated in a polemic, even – and I do not wish to conceal this – in my own group.
Firstly, with regard to flexibility, it is claimed that Lisbon and flexibility are no longer compatible with this legislation, but that is not the case, for the reference period for measuring 48 hours has been extended from 4 to 12 months.
Finally, I would like to thank Mr&#160;Cercas and Mr Silva Peneda, who have tried to incorporate respect for the principle of subsidiarity into this document. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the very good job he has done.
Denmark, Sweden and France, for example, are at liberty to have standards higher than those in this minimum directive.
No, we cannot, for a directive of this kind also affects indirectly what may be some countries’ very significantly higher standards.
If we were to have a situation in which countries began to compete with each other in terms of long working hours, then that would affect the situation in Denmark, Sweden and France.
Because we have free movement of capital, these matters are not unrelated to the principle of subsidiarity.
That is why we need this proposal by the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has carried out and on the conclusions reached in the vote of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
I will only make reference to a few fundamental issues in my speech: protecting health and safety in the workplace is not merely the legal basis, but the reference that warrants this proposal for a directive.
We must bear in mind that the principle of health and safety protection beyond certain limits on working hours constitutes a general safeguard value that demands a foundation of common rules and references for the very definition of the social and economic employment model and the principles from which the European Union must take its inspiration.
Every opportunity for flexible and specific regulation in this area must be defended and it is precisely because of that that I, like other Members, would prefer the fundamental principle to be that of referring back to the solutions adopted by means of collective bargaining in the various countries.
I hope that, on the basis of this work, the positions that may develop in relation to the Council’s common position will guarantee ever more adequate solutions in the future. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would like to remind the House that we really do have to take responsibility for Europe’s social dimension, quite simply because many believe that the accession of the 10&#160;new Member States will make it a utopia.
A social Europe requires minimum standards, and so we reject the Commission’s amendments to the Working Time Directive, which suspend these standards and turn the directive into nothing but an arbitrary abstraction.
Although I wish to thank the rapporteur for including this crucial sentence in the report, we cannot support the compromises that follow it.
We see here a need for improvements, for we believe that on-call time must continue to be regarded as working time. &#160;&#160; – This proposal for a directive on working time is one of the most dangerous facets of the attack on workers’ rights.
It jeopardises gains made in the course of a struggle that has lasted more than a hundred years and affects millions of workers and their families.
It is therefore crucial that this Commission proposal be removed and another drawn up that completely scraps the opt-out, rejects the classification of inactive time, abides by the rulings made by the Court of Justice, helps people to reconcile working life and family life and protects workers’ health and safety.
What Europe needs to do is to set an example when it comes to protecting rights, and not to veer towards Asian standards in the name of flexibility and competition. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the revised Lisbon strategy aims at growth and employment.
Granted, we need to become more flexible and more competitive, but that is precisely what we find in the Cercas report on the Working Time Directive, and in the compromises on which my colleague Mr Silva Peneda and others from our group have worked.
We do not want to put the whole of the EU in a straitjacket; rather, we want a reasonable framework for action that leaves room for national regulations, for example to extend the reference period from four months to one year, provided that the social partners agree to this.
Decisions on possible extensions of the 48-hour week, too, are a matter for them and for collective agreements.
I can tell Commissioner Špidla that I, on one occasion, joined the staff of the biggest accident and emergency unit in Hessen for their night shift.
I do so because many Members are wondering why it is that this appears to be a particular problem in Germany, where the owners of hospitals are up in arms against the change proposed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, just as they once were against the rulings by the ECJ.
So, for the sake of clarification, let me explain that the ECJ’s ruling has been implemented in Germany, too, since 2004, when German law began to treat the whole of on-call time as working time, in precisely the same way that Mr Cercas’ report demands.
Secondly, in practice, too, this can be done without too much difficulty, as is demonstrated by a study to which even the German Minister for Health has referred.
A high level of unemployment, in particular in some new Member States, the slow development of new workplaces, reduction of old workplaces in some sectors, for example, in the textile industry, and the fear of people, particularly in the provinces, that they will lose their jobs, enable employers to misuse the possibility of eliminating workplaces, or threatening dismissal if an employee refuses to work overtime.
Work exceeding 48 hours per week can worsen the conditions of employees in all sectors even more, in particular those working in the service sector, creating not only physical, but also moral discomfort, and causing undesirable effects for families and the education of children.
If the necessity for prolongation of the workweek is argued from the point of view of the fear that businesses in the European Union will move to China or other countries, then we should ask ourselves whether one of the essential motives of the establishment of the European Union – the welfare of its citizens – becomes just a catchword, and whether we should seek other means for economic development and competitive abilities.
On the other hand, the proposal of the European Parliament, in respect to employees having several work contracts and to summing up their working time according to each contract, deprives the citizens of those states where salaries are low, in such sectors as the health sector, which employs duty time, of the possibility of ensuring themselves an appropriate standard of living.
Therefore, when adopting the amending directive, I suggest refraining from the ‘opt-out’ introduction into all sectors and not to sum up the working time in respect to people voluntarily working according to several work contracts, and leave such decisions to the national level. &#160;&#160; Madam President, if we want to win the European public over to the European project, the EU must not become a self-service store where social and labour law are concerned.
This is a good compromise, not least because, through the social partnership, it enables the trade unions to intervene.
Whilst the hanged men of Chicago died in 1886 for an eight-hour working day and a 40-hour working week, here we have, at the beginning of the 21st century, the great social innovation of the European Union, which should seek to raise the ceiling on the maximum weekly working time from 48 hours to 65 hours, or indeed above that in the event of individual or collective agreements, with the reference period for calculating the maximum weekly working time increased from four to 12 months.
Generously, periods of compensatory rest at the end of 72 hours’ work are guaranteed.
The zealous servants of European employers have toiled well and although they know, like those who will choose to vote in favour of this text … &#160;&#160; Madam President, I will confine my remarks purely to the issue of the opt-out.
My good friend Mr&#160;Silva Peneda says that this report proposes more flexibility and is good for SMEs.
I believe that it should not be for us in this Parliament to decide and to dictate excessive and rigid restrictions on how people choose to spend their lives.
People want more freedom and more flexibility.
We should give that to them and vote against this report. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the rapporteur on his fine work.
It is impossible to imagine the economic growth and development of Europe without the crucial contribution of the workers, the safeguarding of their quality of work and the protection of their health in the workplace.
The working time directive is an essential element of a social Europe.
The high road is based on quality and innovation: in that context, human capital is vital and its qualitative contribution must be our objective.
The Cercas report offers a legitimate response to this objective.
In many cases the Liberal Democrats will support them.
But blanket controls imposed on every country by Brussels will limit the freedom of Member States to decide the approach most appropriate for them.
Speaking for myself, I have never worked less than a 48-hour week and I do not intend to start doing so.
Applying these restrictions rigidly to workers in the tourist industry and the agricultural sector, with their extreme seasonal fluctuations, will simply drive people into the black economy.
For practical reasons and for reasons of principle, the right to opt out should remain. &#160;&#160; Madam President, it is good that we have now been given the opportunity to revise the Working Time Directive.
My main focus in the course of this work is to ensure that it is made easier for the Member States to create new jobs.
It is therefore important that flexible solutions be provided and that there is a reduction in detailed regulation and central control by the EU.
Issues relating to working time should, in the first place, be the responsibility of the Member States, each of which should therefore have broad scope for finding its own solution.
Industries too operate differently, and as individuals we also have different needs and desires regarding our working hours.
Unfortunately, there are powerful forces in this Parliament which wish to move in the opposite direction.
I want to give each European country the opportunity to retain its distinctive features and to give the Member States the power to decide about the issue of working time.
Good sense alone will tell us that, with the exception of jobs clearly demanded by those who carry them out, the reality of working 60 hours per week - or worse still, 63 hours with the authorisation granted in 1993 – as is the case in certain countries in the European Union, will pose problems in terms of adapting to one’s personal, family and social environment in the long run.
The desire to extend the practice of 60 or 65 hours of working time is at odds with social progress.
In this regard, the opt-out must disappear. &#160;&#160; As Members of the European Parliament, it is for us to assume the responsibility for ensuring that the people of Europe have the chance of a good future.
The fundamental task must surely be – or so I have heard in this House over and over again in the course of the past year – that we give priority to enabling them to keep their jobs or to enabling them to have jobs in the first place.
We have now been presented with a Working Time Directive that committees of this House have considered – and made worse, not least in terms of the criteria of the Lisbon strategy.
It is a fact, though, that there is a difference between what goes on in an accident and emergency department, where people often have to go out in the middle of the night, and the situation in an orthopaedic ward, where, at night, everyone is asleep!
Different work situations call for different solutions, and if we do not enable people to find them, we will be doing people an injustice and Europe a disservice. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that the biggest challenge we face today in our parliamentary work is the abolition of the opt-out, which – let me tell Mr Davies – has nothing to do with subsidiarity but everything to do with lawlessness and a lack of rights.
I hope that the whole House will give Mr&#160;Cercas and his excellent report their backing, and let me say, Commissioner, that I hope that the Commission will change its position. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the proposal for a working time directive to be put to the vote is the product of a synthesis of theoretical opinions on the organisation of working time and an effort to strike a compromise between the interests of employers and employees.
An effort is being made to place the actual situation and the needs of each Member State within a general framework, which each partner evaluates from his own point of view and finds uncomfortably narrow and anything but protective of health and safety.
However, the rapporteur, Mr Cercas, who deserves congratulations, and the shadow rapporteur of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Silva Peneda, and all the members of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality and, above all, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, did their very best, even if their opinions differed, to reconcile the differences.
The Cercas proposal reinstates respect for the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities with regard both to working time limitations and on-call time, which is expressly referred to as working time.
As regards the issues which concern working women in families, I would comment that the European Commission may have forgotten them, but Parliament is being called on to vote in favour of Amendment 12, which emphasises that employers must take account of the needs of lifelong professional and family life, and Amendment 22 requiring the Commission to submit .... &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, the 8-hour working day and the 48-hour working week were enshrined in one of the first conventions adopted by the International Labour Organisation, which was founded in 1919.
The Commission’s proposal does away with all that, however, and cites hypocritical reasons for doing so.
The opt-out clause, which is a disgraceful practice, invalidates everything that the trade union movement has managed to achieve over the past centuries.
If the Cercas report makes provision for the abolishment of this clause, it deserves our support. &#160;&#160; Colleagues, we are in the middle of a debate and have approximately another eight minutes left, including the Commissioner’s statement.
Please sit down and be quiet for another eight minutes or leave the Chamber. &#160;&#160; There is no doubt that Europe has managed to establish a social model that is among the best in the world.
At a time when we are talking so much about the Lisbon Strategy in order to make our economy grow and to create work, we should not pass laws that are less flexible.
I would be the first to agree that the working week should be shorter, but only if wages are enough to live on.
Some countries have not yet reached that position.
If there is anyone who abuses the opt out and works an excessive number of hours with risks to health and safety, then let us attack this abuse.
We should not, however, remove workers’ right to choose for themselves whether or not they want to work longer hours. &#160;&#160; Madam President, if the Lisbon Strategy’s objectives are to be met, the social and employment situation in Europe needs to be improved.
No country should be exempt from the rules governing working time and thus have a labour market in which employees are exposed to impossible and exhaustingly long working weeks.
It opens the way to social dumping, whereby countries can pick and choose which rules they want to follow.
All studies clearly show that long working weeks are harmful to both safety and health.
A 48-hour working week which had better definitions of working time and recreational time and which called on companies to take account of workers’ family lives, would increase employees’ options.
By voting in favour of the committee’s report, we shall show the people of Europe that we want a social and just Europe. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to revive the Lisbon process, the Barroso Commission has publicly committed itself to cutting through red tape and to deregulation, and this House must support it in this endeavour.
Tomorrow, we will be able to take a step in the right direction by voting in favour of a flexible, modern and forward-looking revision of the Working Time Directive.
It cannot be fair that we should set down as applicable to the workers concerned the principle that time spent on call is seen in its entirety as working time, for there is no likelihood of, for example, fire-fighters, youth workers and staff in rehabilitation centres over-exerting themselves, as being on call in these involves being inactive for most of the time.
Let us opt for flexibility, which requires the opt-out, longer reference periods and reasonable and appropriate differentiation between different types of standby duty.
It is for these that we are aiming with our Amendments 26, 27 and 32, along with Amendments 29 and 30 on on-call services, and these I ask you to support. &#160;&#160; Madam President, reviewing the directive takes more than a simple legal step.
The more means a country needs to mobilise in order to catch up, the larger the gap becomes between rules and reality.
In the new Member States, the length of working time is just barely above the European average, but the actual number of hours worked annually is 112 more, almost three weeks more, than in the existing States.
It is therefore especially important for us to set clear limits for working time.
Consistent participation of social partners in the creation of local rules is important, and so is the improvement of monitoring mechanisms on both a Community and Member State level.
Firstly, I would note that this proposal for a directive is a proposal for an amending directive.
The original directive, which has already been in force for 10&#160;years, needs to be amended from time to time, not least because provision is made in the directive itself for future amendments.
Furthermore, I should like to emphasise that this is a directive that relates to safety and health at work.
Its aim is therefore not to reorganise working time, but to protect workers, at the same time as maintaining the much-needed flexibility demanded by the Lisbon Strategy, and indeed by modern life itself.
The issues that form the backdrop to this directive are extremely complex.
Consideration is currently being given to an extension of working lives as a result of demographic developments in society, and there can be no question that people need to reach the end of these working lives in good health.
As you will be aware, the Commission is proposing that matters should be left as they stand, or in other words that the ‘standard’ reference period should continue to be four months, with the option of extending it to twelve months by means of collective agreements.
I am glad to see that Parliament’s position does not differ greatly from that of the Commission on this matter, and in fact Parliament’s proposal offers a better guarantee that this extension will be possible.
I am therefore able to tell you that the Commission can accept almost all of Parliament’s proposals in this respect, with the exception of that stating that the reference period may only be extended by means of legislation if the worker in question is already covered by collective agreements.
The Commission cannot accept Parliament’s position with regard to on-call periods, although it does appreciate Parliament’s concerns.
The Commission has chosen not to regard ‘inactive on-call time’ as working time for safety and health at work purposes, in order to leave the Member States free to take the measures they believe will best protect workers’ safety and health.
I do not believe that Parliament’s proposal, as set out in Amendment 10, would provide the same level of legal certainty, and it could well leave the door open for further judgments that would lead to even greater legal uncertainty.
The inclusion of inactive on-call time in the daily rest period of 11&#160;hours and the weekly rest period of 24&#160;hours will not be permitted.
I should now like to say a few words on the delicate issue of individual opt-outs.
Although both Parliament and the Commission are critical of the practical implementation of this provision, the two institutions hold differing views on its future.
The Commission is proposing that the issue be reviewed, whilst Parliament is calling for the opt-out clause to be abolished three years after the directive comes into force.
The Commission cannot accept this proposal as it stands.
It is, however, willing to discuss it, and to work together with legislators, who are themselves divided on the issue, in order to find the best possible compromise.
The Commission can accept Amendments 1, 4, 8, 11, 16, 18, 19, 24 and 29 either in principle, in part or on the condition that they are reworded.
The Commission is unable to accept Amendments 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 14, 15, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25 to 28 and 30 to 52, some of which relate to the individual opt-out that I have already discussed.
As I said before, the Commission intends to seek a compromise solution to this issue.
The remaining amendments deal with matters not covered in the Commission’s original proposal, for example Article&#160;17(1) on the derogation for managing executives.
In conclusion, I should like to thank Parliament for the high quality of the debate that has been held on this proposal.
The dialogue between the Commission and Parliament has made it possible for me to state with confidence that the directive which we now have, and which serves as a symbol of a social Europe, does even more to protect the health and safety of workers, whilst ensuring that the latter are not jeopardised by the flexible organisation of working time called for by our entrepreneurs.
Thank you also for being patient with this House and for speaking under more difficult conditions than usual.
It is not your fault, you are not responsible for every detail, but when is the Presidency going to start timetabling debates properly? &#160;&#160; Mr Davies, we will take note of that in the Bureau, but it is also the fault of the House itself.
The debate is closed.
Mr&#160;President, the Commission will shortly, and in an appropriate manner, inform Parliament of the results of these considerations. &#160;&#160; – The report is referred back to committee in accordance with Rule 52(3) of the Rules of Procedure.
Few countries have had such a turbulent history as yours: the Soviet occupation, the civil war, the international military intervention following the attacks of 11 September and now the difficult process of transition to democracy in a country which has suffered so much and which has seen its social, economic and political structures profoundly transformed.
We are also aware of your commitment to equal rights for women, but you will also understand that, when specific events revive our consciences, concern arises.
We wish to offer you our commitment to this difficult process of transition.
This House, therefore, Mr President, is keenly awaiting the Parliamentary elections of next September and, as we have mentioned to you previously, this Parliament should seriously consider the possibility of sending a delegation to assess the current situation before the elections take place and then to send observers to monitor them on the ground.
It gives me great confidence for the future of Afghanistan and our region to see the countries of Europe come together here in a spirit of unity and cooperation.
Two days ago, Europe celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Victory in Europe day, the anniversary of Europe’s new beginning.
We, the people of Afghanistan, are also grateful for the international security and economic support we have received over the last three years.
Most importantly, you show us what our region’s future could be: a future of peace, a future of unity, and a future of cooperation.
Ten years of fighting the Soviet invasion, followed by more than a decade of foreign interference and factional conflict, further impoverished our country.
Given that opportunity in 2001, the people of Afghanistan enthusiastically began the process of rebuilding our country.
The first presidential election in our history was held last October in which more than eight million people participated.
The success of the election graphically illustrated the defeat of terrorism in Afghanistan.
The presence of the International Security Assistance Force, led by Europe from the beginning, has provided us with a secure environment to exercise our political rights.
With help from Europe and others in the international community, we have trained a new police force of some 50&#160;000, along with a special force to conduct counter-narcotics operations.
The new Afghan National Army, currently 20&#160;000 strong, is increasingly taking responsibility for supporting security across the country.
Institutions of government and civil society are gaining increasingly in strength, giving the citizens more confidence, more services and more rights to enjoy.
The Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission continues the important work of promoting human rights throughout the country.
Thanks to the open political atmosphere in Afghanistan, the free press has enjoyed great development and success, as demonstrated by the publication of more than 300 independent papers, more than 30 independent radio stations and four independent television channels in less than two years.
Certain industries, such as the hospitality sector, banks and mobile communications, have particularly benefited.
Three years ago, Afghanistan’s trade with Pakistan was less than USD 50 million.
Therefore, because of a lack of confidence in the future and a lack of means, society became involved in that easy crop.
My hope, and that of the Afghan people, is that the international community will continue to assist us in decreasing poppy cultivation in Afghanistan and to replace it with legitimate forms of agriculture.
Parliamentary elections in September will mark the culmination of the Bonn process in Afghanistan.
The Afghan constitution decrees that at least 27% of members of the Afghan Parliament should be women.
The end of the Bonn process will not mean the success of Afghanistan or the total success of Afghanistan.
In particular, as you deliberate here about the European Union’s future international commitments, I hope you will see the need for multi-year pledges of aid to Afghanistan to support our efforts at rebuilding our country.
Allow me to take this opportunity to thank you once again, on behalf of the Afghan people, for the generous support that the European Union, as one of the largest donors to Afghanistan, has provided over the last three years.
The people of Afghanistan are especially grateful to your sons and daughters in uniform who are serving courageously in our country.
To those who have given their lives to provide us with security, we offer once again our gratitude, our prayers and our pledge that we will never forget.
In a true spirit of cooperation, people from all corners of the world, people from different faiths, cultures and backgrounds, are together helping to secure the lives of the Afghan people and rebuild our country.
We are very grateful. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak in order to draw attention to the content of Rule 9 on standards of behaviour and the code of conduct of this Parliament, since today, in this House, flags have appeared of a nation that does not exist – Padania, as it is described by Mr&#160;Borghezio.
Just before the French referendum it is important to understand the important and frontline role of France in preserving and saving the common cultural heritage of Europe.
If Members adopt my amendments co-tabled by the Liberals and the PPE-DE shadow rapporteurs, there will be a first reading agreement in May in the Council of Ministers.
Once these countries have complied fully with the Copenhagen criteria, they should become Members.
The European Parliament should not, however, adopt a position on a Framework Agreement before there is a clear basis for the financial commitments to be provided by such an agreement to other Member States.
The document concerned should also show what types of aid and entitlements a Framework Agreement would entail.
Experience of previous Framework Agreements shows that a ‘yes’ vote creates political pressure from then on to support every conceivable form of aid and subsidy.
Firstly, the report proposes amending Regulation (EC) No 999/2001, to extend the transitional measures further until 1&#160;July&#160;2007, in order to give time for the debate needed on the two measures.
The objective of the agreement and Swiss participation is to provide objective, reliable and comparable information on the environment.
We note that they are still not free to choose the sector or the products subject to a given tax.
In addition to providing support to farmers in the event of outbreaks of infectious diseases, in the form of practical, financial measures to establish a level playing field in the market for farmers from all Member States, the EU must also take action to prevent such diseases, by means of support for farmers, particularly those with fewer resources.
It is well known that we are opposed to the reform of the common agricultural policy and to the measures proposed, given the impact on Portuguese agriculture, and especially on small and medium-sized farms and family farms. &#160;&#160; The EU’s task is to solve cross-border problems.
Under the existing Directive of 1976 (76/160/EEC), the majority of Member States support the ‘sufficient’ classification as this classification establishes realistic, enforceable standards with a minimum legally binding requirement that will apply to all bathing waters in all Member States.
From this shabby performance we have more than enough evidence that standards of environmental controls are far from good enough and I hope today's adoption of the MAATEN report leads to further pressure for improvement. &#160;&#160; .
The undersigned Members voted against Amendment 27 of the Maaten report on the quality of bathing water, because, according to epidemiological studies, there are differences between coastal and inland waters.
It therefore makes complete sense to maintain the difference between coastal and inland waters, which is in fact what the Council had proposed.
The undersigned Members voted against Amendments 5, 7, 8, 12 and 32 because they are in favour of the existence of the ‘sufficient’ category for classifying bathing water.
Epidemiological studies have demonstrated that, in fact, there are differences between these two types of water.
In this area, as in others, it is therefore essential to heed the World Health Organisation’s recommendations.
On 21&#160;April, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety adopted 34 amendments to the Council common position on the management of bathing water quality.
Portugal has maintained a clear distinction between the two, given that epidemiological studies have demonstrated differences with regard to quality indicators and levels of bacteriological activity, using a range of different methods.
I see no reason to take decisions that run counter to the recommendations hitherto made by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and to the scientific studies on which those recommendations are based, which indicate that a distinction should be made between ‘coastal and transitional waters’, especially because in Portugal around 21% of bathing waters that currently comply would lose their classification.
I therefore feel that I cannot support this proposal by Parliament. &#160;&#160; I have voted against all of the amendments contained in the Maaten report that sought over-regulation.
The public must be informed about the quality of bathing water, and its quality must be improved.
Parliament’s proposal has taken no account of the principles either of subsidiarity or of proportionality.
We have thus voted against the present recommendation.
We therefore object to a number of the wordings, for example the one stating that emergency plansneed to be set up to cover events such as floods, accidents or infrastructure problems that could affect the quality of bathing water.
We are not in favour of the detailed regulations Parliament wishes to introduce, for example stating that the scope of the directive should be extended to include further recreational activities. &#160;&#160; .
The quality of bathing water thus represents both a health issue and an important indicator of environmental quality and tourism development.
I am also opposed to the removal of the ‘sufficient’ classification, which gives Member States greater room for manoeuvre in terms of managing the suitability of bathing water.
Adopting these two amendments would have serious repercussions for Portugal, given the disproportionate costs involved in relation to the benefits gained. &#160;&#160; .
However, because policy of this nature does not need to be incompatible with economic growth and development, the measures taken in this regard must not, in the name of staunchly protecting the environment and public health, end up damaging the economy, particularly the tourist industry, which is so important to Portugal.
In this report, and more specifically in some of the amendments tabled therein, this balance was not struck; far from it, some of them had no scientific basis whatsoever.
I agree with the rapporteur that the cultural heritage of European cinema must be preserved, ‘encouraging policies of innovation, research and technological development in the field of conservation and restoration of cinematographic works’, but with a cultural and educational end, rejecting competitiveness as a principal factor.
These measures should form part of a cooperation framework between Member States, under the scope of the cultural diversity that characterises Europe’s different regions, countries and peoples.
We believe, however, that this is an issue to be dealt with not by the EU but by the Member States and that we can have plenty of confidence in the latter’s way of handling this issue.
We have therefore voted against this report, since we believe that this recommendation need not have been dealt with at all by the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; In order to better protect the European cultural heritage, Europe intends to establish exceptional conservation and protection measures that will enable its film heritage to be preserved and that will promote efforts to protect the linguistic, cultural and artistic identity of our ancient continent.
This directive has been designed in such a way that there is a danger of its dealing a heavy blow to smaller ports, which would have to implement a disproportionate number of costly measures in order to continue with their activities.
We wish to see the directive reviewed and reworked from the perspective of the smaller ports. &#160;&#160; The terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001 have put the issue of transport security at the top of the political agenda.
France is susceptible to this dossier as it has three particularly well-exposed coastlines.
The English Channel in the north (the ports of Le Havre, Dunkirk, Calais, Boulogne and Rouen), the Atlantic coast (the ports of Bordeaux, Nantes, Saint-Nazaire and La Rochelle which form entry ports for trade with Eastern, Southern and Northern Europe), and finally, the Mediterranean coast (the Marseille-Fos port).
The Member States must be free, however, to establish different security levels commensurate with the amount of risk in the ports, and to define the perimeter of each port under this directive and its adjacent areas.
On the pretext of terrorism, the directive in question is being used to create ghetto workplaces, strengthen repressive mechanisms and strike at the collective and individual freedoms of workers in ports and on ships.
The Communist Party of Greece voted against the reactionary directive enhancing port security.
We call on the workers to take joint action against the anti-grass roots policy of the EU, to fight to defend and extend their rights, for radical changes, for ports which belong to the people for the prosperity of the people. &#160;&#160; The resolution on the murder of Robert McCartney identifies the IRA as being responsible for the murder, in spite of the fact that the issue has still not been decided in court.
GUE/NGL calls on those responsible to come forward and take responsibility for their actions and calls on those who witnessed any of the events surrounding the killing to come forward and provide information to the police or in any other form that will assist the prosecution of Robert McCartney's killers in a court of law.
Respecting what the sisters of Robert McCartney underlined when they visited the European Parliament on 6 April, that this murder had no political background, but was a criminal act which should be prosecuted and those responsible brought to justice, GUE/NGL made every attempt to agree a common resolution with the other political groups.
Morally, at any rate, the Kyoto treaty is binding upon all of us, for we all share in responsibility for the policies we adopt with regard to this planet’s climate.
The countries I have in mind are, of course, India, China, Brazil and the United States.
Who, after all, would have believed that the Federal Republic of Germany, to take one example, would, by means of a well thought-out waste policy, have saved 21 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent over the last 15&#160;years?
I believe Europe has become a real leader in this field.
We have managed to show the way by applying the Kyoto Protocol, but we also know that we cannot stop there, that we must continue to develop the policies we have implemented on the basis of the Kyoto Protocol.
And while we must join with our partners to find solutions internationally, we must also, as you so rightly said, find solutions at home.
As the March European Council showed, I think climate change is indeed a major challenge for Europe, as it is for all the industrialised and industrialising nations, but it also offers our industries new possibilities and prospects.
It is quite clear that Europe is also capable of exploiting its role as an engine to become an industrial power in development technologies, especially in the realm of alternative energies; when it comes to energy savings, Europe can consolidate its leading position and benefit more economically by cooperating with other partners, countries like China in particular, which is beginning to attach greater importance to these questions for a variety of reasons, especially reasons of climate.
I therefore believe that competitiveness and environmental protection are entirely compatible, as are competitiveness and a solution to the climate problem.
At this seminar, the parties will exchange views on present policies and initiatives and on the future adjustments that will have to be made to alleviate the problem of climate change.
The European Union’s contribution to this seminar is therefore an important part of its strategy with a view to formal negotiations to draw up a post-Kyoto regime.
The European Council which met on 22 and 23 March 2005, and of which I have already spoken in connection with relaunching the Lisbon strategy, has already adopted some key elements which will be essential for designing the future climate regime.
It also welcomed the Commission communication entitled ‘Winning the battle against global climate change’ and in that connection clearly emphasised the need to give fresh impetus to international negotiations by exploring options for a post-2012 regime and ensuring the widest possible cooperation of all countries.
It also stressed the need to develop a medium- and long-term EU strategy that will be compatible with the 2°C target and in that respect I believe that it answers all the concerns you have voiced and that it takes on board the suggested solutions for the various sectors to which you referred.
During a visit by the troika to the United States on 18 and 19 April 2005, which I think the Commissioner may speak about, agreement was reached to explore ways of relaunching the EU-US High-Level Group’s activities in order to examine policies for fighting climate change.
I can tell you that the President of the United States assured the President-in-Office of the European Council that the United States was going to adopt a more open and more sensitive approach to these problems.
Contacts with other key parties involved in the climate change process, and I will mention China and India in particular, will be made in the months ahead.
The issue of climate change also figures prominently on the agenda for the G8 and I know that the forthcoming British Presidency considers this problem one of its priorities.
The European Parliament certainly has an important part to play in our joint efforts to reach an agreement on a future climate regime.
The Council also invites Parliament to assist it in heightening the awareness of European public opinion and of national parliaments in the European Union and elsewhere.
First I wish to thank the chairman, Mr Florenz, for giving us this opportunity to debate climate change and, in particular, the strategy of the European Union for the seminar of government experts on climate change due to meet in Bonn next week.
The European Union's contribution to this seminar therefore constitutes an important part of our strategy, the aim of which is to obtain a mandate to open official negotiations on the development of these arrangements.
Basic elements of the communication in question were adopted by the Environment Council on 11 March and by the European Council on 22-23 March, as Mr Schmit mentioned earlier.
First in importance is the need to investigate, jointly with basic partners and during the current year, both the potential for a strategy after 2012 and the shaping of a favourable climate for opening official negotiations on future arrangements.
Three weeks ago, as Mr Schmit said, I and my colleagues from Luxembourg and the United Kingdom visited the United States and the outcome of these truly constructive talks, as you acknowledged Mr Florenz, because we had discussed all this beforehand, was the agreement to find ways of restarting, of reactivating the EU/US high-level group, with a view to examining policies to combat climate change.
Climate change is also high on the agenda of the G8 Group, while I personally have already held unofficial talks with my counterparts representing our basic partners both within the framework of meetings of the G8 Group and at the United Nations during talks on sustainable development.
We met, either jointly with Mr Lux and Lord Whitty or separately, with representatives, with ministers from China, Brazil, Spain, South Africa, Australia and Russia and got their initial reactions.
As far as the seminar of government experts is concerned, this is an important opportunity to broaden these contacts at the level in question through open dialogue within the framework of the United Nations convention on climate change.
I wish to agree with Mr Florenz that we also need to include other sectors, if we are to be able to combat climate change more effectively, including in the transport sector.
As we said earlier, the Commission is preparing a communication for next June on the question of air transport, the contribution of which to greenhouse gas emissions is increasing constantly.
Similarly, we must say that the new agricultural policy supports the production of biofuels and, of course, the housing sector and the construction sector in general are very important sectors in which we can achieve important results.
Finally, I should like to say that Parliament is being called on to play an important part in our efforts to achieve an agreement on future arrangements with regard to climate.
The Commission is particularly interested in your opinions on the problems and on the recommendations for the European Union's strategy, as presented in our communication.
Moreover, I call for Parliament's support in further raising the awareness of the public in the European Union and of your parliamentary counterparts in other countries.
You did a very good job in Buenos Aires and I want this work to continue with the same demands on the part of the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, may I thank everyone, and especially Mr&#160;Schmit and Mr&#160;Dimas, for their contributions.
It is, of course, just as important to engage in dialogue – and dialogue of a strategic nature – with large developing countries such as China and India.
Our resolution indicates the need for short- and long-term emissions objectives.
It is, of course, good that a seminar managed to keep the Kyoto process on the rails, if only just, and that the EU had its own way and that next week’s seminar in Bonn will be about future developments, but this is a shamefully poor result.
The EU will need to be constructive in Bonn if a much stronger international coalition is to be built up, and sound, productive and well-founded proposals will have to be tabled there.
First of all, we must put far more work into adaptation and help others, certainly developing countries, to adapt.
Secondly, with regard to the transfer of technology, which has already been mentioned by Mr Wijkman, we must abandon our ideological reservations about the mechanism for clean development and go all out for investment in technology transfer, concentrating on further research and development in the area of environmental technology, to which subject I will gladly return during the debate on the seventh framework programme for research.
Thirdly, we will need to focus far less on the national approach and objectives within each country, but far more on sectoral objectives.
Moreover, a sectoral approach is ideally suited to our Lisbon strategy, which was reviewed during the last spring summit.
Finally, although it is more controversial for me to say this, I would ask you to consider the role that the WTO can play.
In the present context, greater security provisions are required: the Kyoto Protocol is only the first answer; we must move forward and provide a systematic solution.
It is not only the issue of energy production that is at stake, but also the consumption habits of our society.
We must emerge from the age of fossil fuels, and the Kyoto Protocol is only the first step; we must go beyond this and work in earnest, because we must radically alter the ways of our society. &#160;&#160; .
After Kyoto, we will need bolder cuts in emissions and more countries to be involved.
We will also need to involve major economically developing countries, such as China and India.
Above all, however, it is the biggest polluter, the United States of America, which ought to recognise its responsibility.
It is pointless trying to imagine the involvement of China and India if the richest country on earth remains a free-rider.
The industrialised countries have to acknowledge their historical responsibility for the fact that climate change has begun generally, and, accordingly, it is we who have the main responsibility to cut emissions.
We should seriously think about whether we can, for example, impose protective tariffs on imports into Europe of steel produced in the United States.
The rules of the World Trade Organisation make this possible.
In February, four members of our group attended the IPCC’s Climate Conference in La Réunion where we were shocked by the conclusions of the scientists that had gathered there.
Even if we resorted to all the measures listed in the resolution, we would not be able to resolve the problem of climate change entirely.
The Hague will disappear into the sea and with it, the embassies of all the countries represented here today, our government buildings, the International Court of Justice, the Yugoslavia Tribunal and the Palace of our Queen.
Fortunately, the Netherlands has the technical capacity to prevent this from happening, but many other countries do not.
Since these measures are now beginning to take shape in a concrete manner, opposition from some Member States or sectors will increase and there will be a call for moderation, something that we oppose, and we would ask you, Parliament and the Council, to stand firm.
The UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has noted that this change mainly affects the world’s poor people.
The reasons why it is mainly poor people who experience the effects of global climate change are many.
The world’s rich countries need to coordinate their common efforts in combating climate change and to work in particular with preventive measures.
Thus, we cannot operate unilaterally through European institutions.
I therefore call on the Commission and the Council to do everything possible to encourage absolute compliance with the Protocol within the EU, and to examine every possible means of exerting political and economic pressure on countries that have not adopted said Protocol. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, it is very important to lay down the right preconditions so that policy on climate change, based also on the Kyoto Protocol, can start to bring about specific results.
I agree with the previous speakers that the United States of America, China, India, Brazil and other countries need to participate.
I was delighted to hear the Commissioner talk about a strategy after 2012.
This policy must take account of the increased needs of our planet and of the pressure caused both by the population increase and our various manmade activities.
Sustainable development cannot be achieved without developing new environmental technology and innovations, especially in the transport and energy sectors.
We need to promote this policy not only at European Union level, but also at global level.
The seminar of government experts must also include the question of promoting environmental technologies and innovation.
With this objective, the seminar is seen as useful in identifying the factors which currently impose the greatest burden on the environment and, consequently, in promoting the necessary environmental technologies and innovations to mitigate these harmful repercussions. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, thank you Mr&#160;Schmit and Mr&#160;Dimas for your extremely hopeful contributions.
I really hope that you are right in your analysis and that things are moving in the right direction.
Shipments of that type cannot make economic sense or be in any way sustainable, and we must ensure that the economy is partly driven in a manner that makes it unprofitable to transport food in this way.
Finally, good luck with the conference, and do your best to let it be known that the EU is in actual fact doing something in this area.
We need to show our electorates and citizens that we are in actual fact doing something about the greatest challenge we face, namely climate change. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, several of the scientific studies carried out recently show that climate change is probably proceeding even more quickly than we thought and that greater reductions in the quantity of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are also needed in order to prevent this change.
This means that the demands upon us are increasing and that the measures we need to take to reduce emissions by 60 to 80% by 2050 – which is a realistic figure – will require quite different energy and transport policies than those we have at present.
We saw in Buenos Aires how, at present, the United States does not only refuse to accept its own share of responsibility but also tries actively to prevent global cooperation in the climate sphere.
That is why it is even more important that the EU dare to conduct a consistent policy involving far-reaching objectives.
I also believe that the nation that, in the end, will be the main loser in this situation, not only ecologically but also economically, will be the United States itself because its outmoded and cumbersome energy and transport systems will force it to make even more rapid and more comprehensive adjustments further down the line. &#160;&#160; Mr President, last week the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety adopted my amendment relating to the World Trade Organisation in which I propose that government experts should investigate the possibility of imposing trade sanctions at WTO level on those that remain outside the Kyoto Protocol in the future, in phase 2.
Hopefully, the weaknesses of the Kyoto Protocol will also reveal themselves to us, so that we might learn a lesson, and so that by 2012 we might have much more effective weapons to fight climate change.
Political decisions and rhetoric in the EU are now in a good state, certainly, but practical development is becoming a problem.
Progress in the reduction of emissions in the EU has come to a halt, as the easiest action to make cuts has been taken.
Nine of the fifteen old Member States have exceeded their own Kyoto targets by more than 20%.
We are all aware that the issue of climate change deserves our full attention and must be fully integrated into our policies.
It is also the reason why the Luxembourg Presidency made sustainable development one of its major priorities, together, as part of the sustainable development strategy, with everything more specifically concerned with climate change.
With regard to the United States, mentioned by Mr&#160;Sjöstedt, Mrs Hassi and Mrs Korhola among others, I have to tell you that during our discussions with the United States authorities, we were very clear that we consider that cooperation in research and development of new technologies and the deployment of new technologies is very important, but we are not going to consider this a first step forward because it is something on which we in any case agree.
That was made very clear to the United States because, as we correctly said earlier, other countries will refuse to cooperate and, after a few years, the developing countries of South Asia and South America and other developing countries will contribute more to the greenhouse phenomenon than the European Union and the United States combined.
We will follow a common but differentiated policy because we cannot ask developing countries to contribute towards the reduction of emissions as much as the developed countries that have contributed far more up until now.
The Commission highlighted in its communication of 9 February ‘Winning the battle against climate change’ that we should focus on leadership by example.
Mr Prodi said that we have a moral duty to do so.
One of the central recommendations was that the European Council should give a clear message that the European Union wishes to engage with other countries in an open dialogue on what further multilateral action is required to address the challenge of climate change.
However, the timing of targets is very important.
I should like to respond to the suggestion made by several speakers that the European Union should use trade measures to protect our industry or other measures to offset the competitive advantages of companies in countries that do not restrict their greenhouse gas emissions.
The European Union’s climate policy has been carefully designed to minimise costs to industry.
Our goal should be to work towards a future climate regime that is not only a decisive step in winning our battle against climate change, but also allows us to do so in a way that strengthens our competitiveness in clean technologies.
Such a regime will get us much further – also in climate terms – than trade sanctions.
With regard to the developing countries, I agree about the importance of assisting developing countries to adapt to the adverse effects of climate change.
The European Union is the main contributor to the 2001 Bonn Political Declaration, which pledges USD 410 million per year in climate change funding for developing countries, starting this year.
Those countries have to face all the consequences of climate change, but they are not in a position to take the measures needed to adapt properly.
It is also in our interests, because in this way they will also contribute to reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases.
The Commission recently agreed with China on the setting-up of two new European Union-China action plans in the area of energy: one on clean coal and the other on renewable energy and energy efficiency for which the Commission has secured initial funding.
Once again, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the Bonn seminar and the forthcoming negotiations on the future international climate change regime.
I am confident that Parliament will, as usual, play an important part in this debate.
The Commission and Parliament have always been strong allies in this respect.
I look forward to working with you in the future. &#160;&#160; To conclude the debate, I have received a motion for a resolution B6-0278/2005.
The debate is closed.
The United Nations programme of action to prevent, combat and eradicate the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons in all its aspects is one such strategy.
It was adopted on 20 July 2001 and the European Union is actively seeking to apply the recommendations it contains at national, regional and world levels.
As the European strategy underlines, conflicts in which weapons of this kind are by far the principal instrument have cost the lives of nearly 4 million people since 1990 and have forced more than 18 million others to leave their homes or their countries.
The increased access by non-state players to these stocks of arms has changed the nature and duration of conflicts.
It is a situation that risks compromising our own security and the European Union needs to cooperate closely with its international partners in responding to it.
We are therefore very actively preparing for the second biennial meeting of states to consider the implementation of the United Nations programme of action on small arms and light weapons, to be held in New York in mid-July.
In connection with preparations for this important event, the Presidency has compiled a list of subjects that should be given priority in the competent international fora.
More particularly, the European Union stresses the importance of creating a group of government experts immediately following the 2006 conference that will examine the programme of action; the group will consider further measures to strengthen international cooperation to prevent, combat and eradicate illicit brokering in small arms and light weapons.
Another of our key priorities is to negotiate an international instrument for the identification and tracing of such weapons.
At the two meetings held by the working group of diplomats and experts up until now, the European Union and the other parties have explained and confirmed their priorities on the different aspects, in particular the type of instrument, its scope and definitions, the marking and tracing of small arms and ammunition, registration and international cooperation.
The European Union itself is working to see the adoption of a legally binding instrument to complement the United Nations Protocol against the Illicit Manufacturing of and Trafficking in Firearms.
It is also insisting that this instrument should include suitable provisions on ammunition.
If the working group reaches a positive outcome at its final session in June 2005, the EU will do all it can to see that the instrument comes into force quickly.
As you know, the code of conduct is currently being revised; it will cover virtually all activities closely or remotely connected with arms transfers.
So far as assistance to third countries is concerned, following a few limited common actions, in 2002 the European Union adopted a common action and on that basis launched specific actions involving projects for the collection and destruction of weapons in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Balkans.
We welcome the renewed attention being paid to this issue and we are looking forward impatiently to taking part in the biennial meeting of States to be held in New York in July 2005.
We are very grateful to the European Parliament for taking the initiative of drawing attention to this forthcoming event.
It is therefore essential that we tackle these questions through multinational partnerships combining preventive and responsive measures and it is also essential that we use the United Nations instruments to that end.
The effectiveness of the fight against the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons depends on communication and cooperation between states.
The Commission favours a multilateral approach and has committed a number of its services to different projects in this area.
It is important to stress that, if an answer is to be found to this problem, action must be taken in several directions, ranging from development aid proper to reform of the security sector, by way of the actual destruction of these weapons.
Some of these areas are matters of Community competence, others unfortunately are not.
The European Union is trying to achieve this through international cooperation, financial and technical assistance programmes and effective arms control.
These programmes seek to bring about an overall improvement in the economic and social structures of the areas affected by a conflict by helping to reintegrate former combatants and their families into civilian life.
In particular, a treaty on the arms trade is being discussed.
The Commission will be actively involved in the debate on these subjects that will be held in the Council.
It would be premature to discuss these points in detail at present, since some of them will have to be examined in depth by several commissioners.
Here in Europe, in the European Union, the state has a monopoly on the use of armed force, and that is of enormous benefit.
What that means is that the use of small arms is reserved to soldiers and police officers, with special arrangements being made for those engaged in hunting and in shooting as a sport.
Almost one person every minute is killed by the bullet from a gun and two million children have been killed in the last decade.
It is not simply a question of supporting ad hoc disarmament, demobilisation and reconstruction programmes as part of our crisis management response, we have to mainstream this into broader development assistance programmes and include it in our political dialogue with all other countries and regions worldwide.
Here in the EU, our Member States have only to consider applying these controls to our citizens operating outside of the European Union.
I would have liked, this afternoon, to have heard a commitment from the Luxembourg presidency to strengthen the common position to make it mandatory to control EU nationals involved in arms brokering, wherever they are based.
Action by the EU to control the proliferation of small arms in fragile states is undermined by our role as major arms exporters.
Because today, as has been pointed out, these are the real weapons of mass destruction, not just because of the millions of victims they cause every year, but because of their social and political consequences.
Next July, the governments of the Member States of the United Nations will meet again in New York for the bi-annual meeting on the implementation of this action plan, and the review conference is scheduled for a year later.
The action programme urges the governments to control the production and sale of this type of weapon, to mark pistols in order to facilitate their identification once they have been sold, to penalise the production and possession of illegal weapons, to identify and destroy surplus weapons and to establish final use certificates for export and transit, amongst other measures.
Within this context, the European Union and its Member States must continue to lead the debate.
I must say that, in general terms, I am optimistic, especially since the Presidency-in-Office of the Council, not just today, but on other occasions, has insisted on the need to go further and urge the governments to produce a legally binding text on brokering and transfers of small arms.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent that we provide real impetus for the establishment of an international treaty on the trade in weapons which should be possible immediately after the review conference on the United Nations action plan in July 2006.
The European Union should actively support this campaign.
For all of these reasons, it is essential that the European Union adopts the treaty on arms brokering drafted by a group of NGOs and Nobel prize winners, and launches a convention on arms brokers that, , makes any activity with the aim of transferring arms between third parties subject to state authorisation.
The European Union must improve its code of conduct on the transfer of arms, clarifying the circumstances in which it is possible to refuse an authorisation to export arms, extending checks to all military equipment, forcing individual States to bring in legislation in compliance with the code of conduct and to publish an annual report on their respective arms exports.
We cannot forget that it is precisely small arms that are responsible for nearly the entire sum of deaths in conflicts taking place across our world. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Schmit and Mr Michel for their speeches, which I found to be notable fundamentally for their level of commitment.
Secondly, it is fundamental and very important — as other Members have said — that we prepare the conditions to ensure that at the 2006 meeting we can make progress and achieve a genuine international treaty to regulate every aspect of the arms trade.
It is very important that, in the debate we are holding on the code of conduct, we ensure firstly that it become more restrictive and, above all, binding on every Member State.
If we all work in this direction, I believe that Europe will be able to make a modest contribution to putting an effective end to this lack of control, which leads to the majority of the suffering of many populations and to many territorial conflicts.
I would, therefore, very much hope that we can combine our wills in this way so that, within no more than two years, we can put an end to this scourge of humanity. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we are all agreed that conventional weapons, and particularly small arms, still cause the largest number of victims worldwide.
Let me remind you of the supply of arms to Nepal or the Democratic Republic of Congo where, since August 1998, more than three million people have been killed.
The President-in-Office, Mr Schmit, talked about cutting off the arms supplies.
I would repeat with great emphasis the political request made by fellow Members to the Presidency-in-Office to ensure that a political pledge is made that an international treaty on the trade in conventional weapons is drafted.
First of all, the strengthening of the control mechanisms within the European Union itself to make it easier to trace the route taken by arms, since this information helps us to uncover, spotlight and identify the existing and growing export trade in this type of arms.
Some industrialising countries have in fact become exporters in this field, and the only way of effectively controlling exports of this kind, which underlie the regional conflicts to which several speakers have alluded, is to have much stronger international commitments and also a sounder and more effective system of control.
The European Union must in my opinion take the initiative with such a treaty and support the Secretary-General’s efforts to that end, because we want to play a part there.
As someone has said, and Mr Michel knows this, we want successfully to conduct a peace mission across part of Africa in particular, and peace will only have a chance if we can manage to break the supply lines for such weapons, since they are often the weapons of the developing countries, the weapons of the poor.
It is obvious that preventing the proliferation of small arms and light weapons is a European Union priority objective.
Equally obviously, it must also be a priority objective of the Member States.
In my country, for example, the law now makes provision for this scenario, and there is normally a requirement, but obviously it needs to become the norm.
Research in this area is already well advanced and I believe we should support initiatives of this kind.
Most of those arms do not come from the European Union, they come from other countries and in particular from the unused leftovers of certain armies.
Regarding the treaty on the arms trade, which introduces compulsory national-based approvals for all international arms transfers and puts in place effective machinery for permits and licences, we do of course support such measures and I hope that in a few months’ time we will have made that kind of progress.
However, the present text remains very vague in a number of areas.
Its main purpose is to get a sufficient number of governments to agree on the principle of an international legal instrument on arms transfers.
The treaty has been conceived as a framework convention that may be added to by protocols concerning, among other things, arms brokering or manufacture under licence.
As always in such cases, however, maximum pressure will be required to get all states to subscribe to it, because if it is always the same States which subscribe and the same other States which do not, discouragement is bound to set in.
In fact, in some cases, Mr&#160;Staes, where, for example, the army or police of a country that is perhaps not necessarily a democracy asks for access to arms or to buy them and that same government, that same country, is faced with really very dangerous rebels who, for example, make use of human shields when attacking police stations or schools, it is extremely difficult, as a responsible politician, to make a choice.
What I am really trying to say is that you never have the choice between a good and a bad solution, you always have the choice between two bad solutions.
I do know what you are referring to and I can assure you, to answer your question, that if I had my time over again I would take exactly the same decision, because in my heart of hearts I do believe that was the decision I had to take. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday&#160;26 May. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0094/2005) by Mrs&#160;Berès, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the appointment of an Executive Board Member of the European Central Bank. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as provided in the Central Bank Statute and the Treaties, we are required to replace the members of the Central Bank’s Executive Board by rotation to ensure that it has some continuity in the exercise of its responsibilities.
The European Commission does not participate in the formal procedure for selecting and appointing members of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, but it has been lucky enough to work with and know Mr Bini Smaghi for a long time in his role as a highly qualified and very experienced economist in the Banca d'Italia and in his work within the Italian administration and also within the context of his very active participation in the Economic and Financial Committee, within which, until he was appointed as a member of the Executive Board and of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank, he has been chairman of the subcommittee on monetary and financial affairs.
The Commission does not participate in the procedure, but it is the guardian of the Treaties, and we have monitored extremely closely whether the Treaties and the rules in force have been complied with throughout all the stages of Mr Bini Smaghi’s appointment.
They have, in fact; I had the opportunity to say so during the Ecofin meeting that unanimously proposed him as a candidate.
However, I would like to take this opportunity to say that there are still four Member States of the eurozone which have yet to participate in the Executive Board of the European Central Bank (Belgium, Luxembourg, Ireland and Portugal).
I would like to take this debate as a starting point, by saying that I agree with the Commissioner, that there must be nothing automatic about nominations being made by certain countries, and that it would have been a good thing if we had had several candidates for the seats available, and hence a competing array of qualities, principles, opinions and fundamental beliefs to choose from.
That this was not the case on this occasion is no discredit to Mr Bini Smaghi, but it is something we have to highlight.
Thirdly, it has to be said that the European Central Bank plays a very important role, and does it very well, by virtue of its independence, and also as the euro’s guardian and the driving force behind it.
What we need is a strong and independent Central Bank, enabling the euro to continue on its successful course. &#160;&#160; . – In my opinion, Parliament should vote in favour of appointing Mr Smaghi to the Executive Board of the European Central Bank (ECB), in line with the draft recommendation drawn up by Mrs Berès.
His appointment offers us the opportunity to reiterate some of the aspects that have proved crucial in the European Central Bank’s approach to the EU’s economic situation and especially its contribution to a swift and solid recovery.
Mr Smaghi’s appointment follows the Council’s decision that significantly amended the rules governing the Stability and Growth Pact and that was intended to improve its procedures.
It later came to accept the changes laid down by the Council, but always did so tentatively and conservatively.
Whilst it is true that the Stability and Growth Pact comprises a pillar for preventing and a pillar for remedying, it is also true that this political, economic and financial instrument must be implemented across the board.
It is unacceptable that so-called relevant factors and exceptional circumstances, now identified and formalised by the Council, should be reduced to small amendments to the regulations in force.
The reading of the document adopted by the Council is clear and unequivocal, and indeed comprises substantial amendments to the model currently in force.
The International Monetary Fund indeed recently urged the ECB to reduce interest rates again.
This forms part of the new framework adopted by the Council for supervising, monitoring and remedying fiscal imbalances.
We were therefore certainly not voting against the person, who is someone we admire, but against an institution that we cannot accept and in fact positively condemn. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating Mr Bini Smaghi on his nomination.
I would remind Mr Bini Smaghi that without effective rules that are equally applicable to all, the EU would be nothing but a loose grouping with weak powers of coordination.
Surely, as a member of the ECB Board, he cannot favour development that would increase economic asymmetry between eurozone Member States.
I am not against his nomination but I am concerned about the more general circumstances surrounding it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is to be hoped Mr Smaghi will bring some semblance of financial discipline to the ECB.
The Commission’s reply to my questions would have stunned even a simpleton.
We wish Mr Bini Smaghi every success, because success in his work as one of the members of the Executive Boards of the Governing Council of the European Central Bank will be a success for the single currency, it will be a success for the economic and monetary union and it will be a success for the progress, happiness and well-being of all the European citizens. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
We believe that with this programme we have launched a second stage in Europe’s freedom, security and justice policy.
Another aspect of our work will be to monitor the way the Member States implement individual initiatives.
The three major objectives that the Commission intends to pursue are, first of all, the promotion and protection of people’s fundamental rights.
We shall be giving this aspect special attention, but, as I have already pointed out, our measures to strengthen security must not come at the expense of everyone’s freedoms and fundamental rights.
The guiding principles will be more security, more respect and more protection, as well as the promotion of individual freedoms.
I am, of course, summarising these aspects as much as I can, but you will find the details in the communication: civil justice and criminal justice.
We cannot just think about criminal justice, but rather we must emphasise the fact that civil justice and the harmonisation of rules, or at least the solution of common problems, can help the people of Europe with serious problems in their everyday lives.
I am thinking of certain points of family law, such as inheritance among people of different nationalities, or the execution of orders for payment where the creditor is from one country and the debtor from another: in civil law, too, we can find solutions that improve or resolve certain problems in people’s everyday lives.
All that certainly requires a commitment by the three European institutional players: Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
As you will see, the document takes up many of those recommendations and suggestions.
I strongly hope and trust that on this occasion, in the course of Parliament’s work, you will be able to find some agreement with the Commission’s strategy in terms of lines of action.
We are counting on it because freedom, justice and security are among people’s fundamental needs, because they are pillars of the European Charter of Fundamental Rights and of the Constitutional Treaty in the European Union, and also because they are subjects that have a strong political dimension rather than a bureaucratic one.
However, your action plan contains only one new programme for citizenship and fundamental rights; do you think that is enough?
Finally, we reiterate our concern to preserve a balance between the protection of privacy and security. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner for his presentation.
Point&#160;3 is devoted to migration management as a so-called new balanced approach to migration management.
The problem, as mentioned, is that the decision as to how many migrants coming from third countries can be admitted to the European Union remains a national decision.
We may be looking at an infringement of the agreement between the European Union and the United States, so it is urgent that we receive a reply.
Such cooperation goes beyond the purely formal aspects, that is to say when the legal basis allows us to acknowledge him explicitly in the procedure, but extends to cases where we want to make sure in advance that the personal data protection rules are being observed.
That applies to many areas.
It says that the passenger data for that flight had not been forwarded on a Passenger Name Record (PNR) basis – on which basis the Commission would have been able to intervene – but on the basis of a bilateral agreement between Mexico and the United States known as the APIS agreement.
In such a case, therefore, the Commission cannot interfere in an agreement between the United States on the one hand and Mexico on the other, precisely because the PNR agreement was not invoked, on which basis we could, of course, have intervened.
These are the initial points that I have been given, but the written reply will, of course, be much more detailed. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to Vice-President Frattini for being here today.
I feel that what he has told us reveals a number of good objectives, but all too often the means for achieving them are not the most appropriate.
I have personally witnessed the treatment to which illegal immigrants are subjected in Libya – including those who are sent back there from a European country – and I have witnessed blatant violations of human rights.
In the context of the implementation of the principle of availability, of interoperability, of databases, of transfers to third countries – which become transfers to fourth countries – I do not see how you are going to be able to hold the line, because it is not happening at the moment.
I am also pleased since the political programme of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and Euroopean Democrats highlights this very issue.
Regarding data protection, Baroness Ludford, you are well aware of the extent to which this subject is a constant concern of mine.
We shall concern ourselves precisely with alleviating the effects on those who have suffered the tragic consequences of crime. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B6-0236/2005).
Import figures for the first months of 2005 show that Chinese exporters have availed themselves of the opportunities offered by the elimination of quotas.
In that case China will be under an obligation to limit exports to the Community to certain specific levels, with a growth rate of, in general, 7.5%.
On the other hand, the United States Government has accepted a request from its textile industry to investigate the sharp increase in the import of textiles from China.
On 29 April, the Commission opened an investigation of nine categories of textiles and clothing imports.
If these talks are not successful, the Commission reserves its right to request formal consultations with China via the WTO and, possibly, impose safeguard measures, if warranted by the facts.
This would mean going directly to formal consultations with China via the WTO without an investigation, if there is evidence of irreparable damage to the EU industry in the absence of such a course of action.
The second question that the Member asks about the currency situation is something that is not being considered under the current WTO rules.
The United States, in a different context, has being referring to the currency situation in China, namely the Chinese peg, which United States commentators are saying is compounding the situation regarding exports from China.
The question of currencies is a totally unrelated matter to the investigation under WTO rules.
It is not currently being considered under the rules of the WTO and this particular question. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, no one doubts that China is an important factor in the world trade system.
This would significantly limit imports of Chinese counterfeit products and, more generally, would safeguard compliance by China with the rules and disciplines of the WTO.
That is why Commissioner Mandelson awaited factual information regarding exports from China into the European Union for the first three months of this year.
However, as my colleague Mr Mandelson has pointed out, under the agreement in the WTO, Member States throughout the Union have had ten years to prepare for this.
The fact-gathering that the Commission’s services have done gives details from all the Member States as to what the volume of imports from China has been in the first few months of this year.
I am taking this question on behalf of my colleague, Mr&#160;Barrot.
It has launched a study on the functioning of the internal market for air transport, which covers as a distinct part the issue of bankruptcy.
In addition to providing the Commission with a database containing important information on relevant insolvencies in the EU air industry as of 1&#160;January&#160;2000, the consultant has been asked to consider the issue of passengers stranded due to bankruptcy.
Based on these conclusions, and if it is effectively confirmed that a large number of citizens are faced with a lack of protection, the Commission will decide on possible future actions. &#160;&#160; Thank you for that response.
That is why the Commission carried out a study in this particular area.
The second part will deal with the possibility of bankruptcies and what should be done when they occur.
Some Member States take it upon themselves to look after their stranded nationals.
Commissioner Barrot will then propose some amendments, if he thinks necessary, on the basis of the study. &#160;&#160; Madam President, does the Commissioner believe that this problem could be resolved if the companies involved were required to take out insurance?
The study being done will look at all aspects and I am sure we will put forward proposals to address some of these problems.
As you know, one of the great successes of opening up markets in Europe in recent years has been the airline industry.
The national authorities, including members of the Greek Government, have thus had several opportunities to present their arguments in meetings with the Commission.
Article 15 of the Constitutional Treaty establishes the principle of sincere cooperation between the Union and Member States.
It requires the fulfilment on behalf of both parties of their task described in the Constitution in full mutual respect.
I would like to say the following: First, I conclude from his answer that Commissioner McCreevy and the Commission are always open to dialogue and that is a very, very positive point.
Secondly, as far as my reference to Article 1.5 of the Constitution is concerned, of course I too recognise that the Constitution has not yet been ratified; however, the Constitution introduces the principle of dialogue and cooperation which, I note, is something accepted by Mr&#160;McCreevy. &#160;&#160; .
Of course we would like to bring this matter to a conclusion, but I must point out to the honourable Member and to the Greek authorities that we have been very specific in our request to the Greek authorities.
We have proceeded on that particular basis. &#160;&#160; – Commissioner, this issue of the basic shareholder is very dangerous.
We have pointed out to the Greek authorities that neither the article in the constitution nor the law are compatible with either the EU directive or with the Treaty provisions.
We sent a letter of formal notice to the Greek authorities on 23&#160;March, they replied on the same date.
That is the situation.
The Commission is undertaking ten specific communication initiatives.
I fully understand the concern of the honourable Member that the debate on the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe lacks the necessary clarity.
Precisely because they have been well aware of this risk, the Commission, Parliament and the Heads of State and Government decided to get involved in the debate from the very beginning and to implement in good time information campaigns on the Constitution which, while respecting the national specificities of each Member State, would inform the citizens and encourage them to take part in the debate and the referendums.
We must use every communication tool available to allow our citizens to make informed choices based on the content of the Constitution.
I have been very clear that the Commission as an institution should not be involved in issuing propaganda.
The rest has to be part of, I hope, an informed debate in each and every Member State, where the ‘yes’ and ‘no’ sides will be fully represented.
We have limited our work to ensure that we can contribute to this informed and factual debate on the Constitution. &#160;&#160; I wonder whether the Commissioner shares my frustration at the Janus face of Member States on this issue, where on the one hand they complain about lack of knowledge by their citizens of EU activity, and then on the other hand frustrate the European Commission in terms of distributing information.
We instead offer our support, our help, the material and all the facts that we can make available to each and every Member State.
I hope that we will continue these talks and see how best we can help the UK Government with information on the Constitution, but the strategy always has to be a national one.
We can assist, help and back up the national strategies, and that is how it has been planned up until now. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, in the Basque Country we have already voted on the Constitutional Treaty and we have voted in favour, but one of the things I have noticed is that those who opposed the Constitution argued that the European Union’s Charter of Fundamental Rights reduced the rights already enjoyed by the citizens of the majority of the Member States, particularly in the field of housing, work, etc.
The best way is often to show the text as it is so that people can read for themselves what are actually set out as fundamental rights for European citizens and explain what that means.
There is a constant dialogue with citizens in trying to explain and discuss it with them.
The only way to develop this partnership is by bringing in the European citizens and taking their interests into account.
The first responsibility of the present Commission is, therefore, to connect with citizens.
In fact, it is very much the responsibility of all players: Parliament, the Council and the Member State governments.
The Commission will, therefore, put forward a White Paper on communication, which will address the role of all involved and which will give the other institutions the possibility to define and organise their input.
The Commission for its part will pursue a new approach on communication, which will focus on the need to interest Europeans in EU politics.
This demand-driven communication approach has to involve a better understanding of target audiences and those who act as multipliers, a better use of modern and effective communication tools and techniques, and a more professional attitude to all our communication work.
The Commission needs to make better use of its polling and intelligence services – if I may call them that – in its consultation procedures and to use its communication tools according to the needs and interests of its audiences.
The Commission will explain its policies and their impact on EU citizens’ daily lives and communicate the tangible benefits of Europe rather than overload people with technical information.
Interinstitutional cooperation is a key element.
The Commission has kept Parliament regularly informed on the development of the communication strategy, which was also discussed at the last meeting of the Interinstitutional Group on Information and in the Committee on Culture and Education during the discussion on the Herrero-Tejedor report.
According to the latest published Eurobarometer survey, which carried out its fieldwork in November 2004, approximately one third of Europeans have never even heard of the Constitution.
Furthermore, according to that Eurobarometer, 75% of those who know the Constitution well are in favour and even 60% of those who have only a modest knowledge are favourable.
However, the support of those who have never heard about the Constitution so far is only 22%.
The conclusion is clear.
There is a vital need to communicate on this cornerstone project for the future of the European Union.
As you know, the main responsibility for communicating about the Constitution lies with Member States.
Nevertheless, the European Commission is determined to undertake all the actions necessary to inform citizens about the content of the Constitution, but also about its importance for the future of the Union.
Members of the European Parliament and individual Member States also have a crucial role to play. &#160;&#160; Thank you for that reply, Commissioner.
In Ireland we are obliged to have a referendum.
The two biggest issues around the Constitutional Treaty are firstly, that 60 million Europeans died in the first half of the last century because we did not have an integrated Europe and secondly, not only governments and parliaments but civil society were involved in the formation of this Constitutional Treaty.
It is absolutely urgent that we establish across the whole of the European Union, using the network of Commission offices, a system whereby we can respond immediately when myths and lies are told about the European Union, and particularly about the content of the Constitution.
There is no point in responding 20&#160;days or two months later, because then the myth has become stuck in reality.
I agree with you that this is very important because sometimes pure lies are presented about the text of the Constitution.
They have made up some kind of title or headline in the newspapers that is totally wrong.
According to Eurobarometer’s latest full report, TV is far and away the most popular source of information for people in all 25 Member States when it comes to issues concerning the EU.
With a view to giving people factual and other information about the EU, its policy areas and the decisions and measures it adopts, the Commission has, every year since 2003, published an invitation to submit proposals for the cofinancing of high-quality and accessible programmes which appeal to popular taste and which at the same time serve to promote the EU’s ideas and values.
The total budget for 2004 amounted to EUR&#160;6.7 million.
In devising their projects, applicants are free to choose the type of programmes they prefer to produce and transmit.
This is borne out by the results of the Commission’s latest quality studies and opinion polls carried out in the EU’s 25 Member States.
The applicants are always entirely free to choose what type of programme they want to produce, provided that it helps communicate the European message to people. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I wish to thank you for that extremely informative answer.
We cannot impose further demands.
But if we give money or ask for calls for proposals, then we have to be very specific about what it is that we expect in return; and probably in this case there was something wrong in that respect. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, it seems as if Commissioner Wallström and quite a number of those who have taken part in the debate in this House are of the view that the press in the European Union and perhaps also radio and television have a strong bias against the draft Constitution.
According to the information currently available to the Commission, the Greek authorities have not proposed the cofinancing of a metropolitan park on the site of the old Hellinikon Airport, nor has such a project been approved under the two above-mentioned operational programmes.
As you will know, the choice of project proposals is the responsibility of the Greek authorities.
You should make the Greek Government understand that the area must not be developed.
A study carried out by the Kassel College of Higher Education in July 2004 on German regional aid (EU and German federal programmes) shows that up to 96% of the appropriations paid in subsidies have no lasting impact in economic terms owing to geographical relocations and the deadweight effect.
Under current regulations there is a provision which clearly states that a firm which relocates within five years of using the funds must reimburse the aid it received.
This proposal is currently under negotiation and discussion in the Council.
With future regulations, the Commission intends to play a more active role in monitoring, which would mean we can gather information on any on-going relocation processes and deliver it to Member States.
DG Competition at the Commission has also sought comments from Member States on the issue of relocation.
The Commission is currently analysing the Member States’ positions. &#160;&#160; Madam Commissioner, the mechanism you have described has to do with the permanence of the investment rather than with any relocation that may already have taken place.
Decisions on where to base a business are always taken in response to market considerations – infrastructure, the market to which the firm intends to sell, the tax position in different places and the state of the labour market, but subsidies do not enter into it.
In terms of getting the European ideal accepted, they are absolute poison, particularly in the regions affected by site closures, and their end product is in fact nothing whatever; they produce neither additional jobs nor added economic potential.
However, I cannot act in the broader context of relocation processes in general.
Once those conditions are in place, priority should be given to other competitiveness factors, such as knowledge, innovation, research and development, and also the quality of human capital.
The second issue is, of course, limited resources.
This could include improving links to trans-European networks – to regional railways, airports, ports and also multimodal platforms providing radial links to main railway lines – and promoting regional and local inland waterways.
The Commission is, therefore, ready to examine the possibility of introducing a degree of flexibly in the definition of the scope of use of the funds in the phasing-in regions.
Consequently, the compromise text of the presidency has already been modified on this point and would allow for a derogation.
The natural effect regions will see some hope in the reply you have just given.
They are looking for exactly the same conditions as those regions that left Objective 1 in 2000.
As you know, the Greek authorities provided at the due time a description of the entire management and control systems of the ERDF established in Greece.
As a follow-up, in October 2003 an audit – carried out by the services of the Directorate-General for Regional Policy – confirmed the existence of serious deficiencies in the systems and the management process.
We agreed an action plan with the Greek authorities; the final deadline for the implementation of the actions under the plan was the end of September 2004.
The deliverables of the action plan have been analysed.
The conclusion was that certain types of operations that were cofinanced and certain operations that were carried over from the Second to the Third Community Support Framework do not justify the contribution from the ERDF.
In response to your question, the amount of any correction will have to take full account of the audit findings, but the consequences in terms of loss of Community funds cannot be quantified at this stage.
Nevertheless, we shall keep open the possibility of continued dialogue to find a solution.
The next meeting with the Greek authorities will take place tomorrow.
I also wish to thank her for the agreement, at the beginning of 2004, with the then Greek government, on the action plan to improve the Community Support Framework management system.
The second issue was the failures in the management and control system which led to those systemic irregularities, particularly with regard to the ERDF.
Our first priority was to identify the range of actions needed to alleviate the consequences of the closure.
These actions are undertaken with a view to securing long-term growth prospects for the region.
To this end my colleague, Commissioner Verheugen, has set up a high-level group called ‘CARS 21’.
The group is expected to present proposals on a competitive automotive regulatory system for the next ten years.
The Commission adopted, a few weeks ago, a communication on restructuring and employment, setting out measures to be developed or strengthened.
Europe’s ministers for labour and employment and the European social partners have also met recently, again underlining the need to anticipate and work in partnership for successful corporate restructuring.
However, you very kindly covered a lot of these issues.
We have proposed in the future regulation, for example, setting up a kind of special reserve.
So we will be deprived of this kind of flexibility in the future.
At the same time, not only through the funds but also in general, we have embarked on a process that would allow us to contribute to the European structure in such a way as to ensure that future structures, based on new factors of production and growth, would be more flexible.
This would allow the industries to adjust in time and in an evolutionary manner, rather than leading to the kind of restructuring we are facing in the case of Rover.
This is a question of flexible structures, which we can usually achieve if we base industrial development on modern factors, such as research and development, and modern technology.
These structures are much more flexible than the old industry. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I represent the West Midlands.
It has been much appreciated by my region and the support that we have given to the people immediately affected.
However, for the future, with the revitalised Lisbon approach, clearly we want to help, be innovative and contribute to the restructuring.
First of all, Article&#160;88a of Directive 2001/83 calls upon the Commission to present to Parliament and the Council a report on current practice with regard to information provision – particularly on the Internet – and its risks and benefits for patients.
The report will be prepared following consultations with patients' and consumers' organisations, doctors' and pharmacists' organisations, Member States and interested parties.
It is due within three years of the entry into force of Regulation (EC) No&#160;2004/726/EC – which means by 2007 – but the Commission will do its best to present this report in advance of that deadline.
Secondly, the G10 process: the report will also take into account experience from related activities in this area, such as the work of the European Medicines Agency with patient organisations, the public-private partnership under the G10 initiative and other relevant activities, such as the new European database on medicinal products.
The Regulation I already mentioned calls upon the European Medicines Agency to set up a publicly accessible database, which will cover medicines authorised by the Community and by Member States.
The third matter is the European Union Public Health Programme running from 2003 until 2008, which has as its objective the creation of a comprehensive and reliable information and knowledge system.
That is being created on the basis of a shortlist of agreed indicators for which data is collected mainly through Eurostat and ad hoc services and projects.
All project reports are published on the Commission public health website.
It is planned to launch this initiative before the end of this year. &#160;&#160; Commissioner Wallström is always welcome to the stage, but she may understand that we are a little disappointed that the Commissioner designated – to whom we tabled this question – is not here to answer it.
Too often they go to the Internet and get information that may be misleading or may be dangerous.
The Commission intends to present a new framework for SME policy in the second half of this year.
The first is better regulation.
The economic analysis of these assessments will be improved, which will strengthen their quality and make a significant contribution to competitiveness.
The Commission will also address regulatory excess in existing legislation.
Based on their input we will draw up action plans for simplifying regulations per industrial sector.
The Commission is initiating a test phase for a common approach to measuring administrative costs in the EU, an issue of particular importance to SMEs.
On 6 April, the Commission adopted its remaining proposals for the new financial perspectives.
They included two instruments of significance to SMEs: the EUR 4.2 billion Competitiveness and Innovation Programme (CIP), and the EUR 70 billion Seventh Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development.
On the basis of experience of existing instruments, the Commission estimates that well over 70% of this competitiveness and innovation programme budget will be targeted to SMEs.
I will inform my colleague of your views. &#160;&#160; I was pleased that the Commissioner put emphasis on the whole question of better regulation because we know that regulation bears much more on small businesses than on larger ones.
I can tell you how this envoy’s tasks have been defined, and I guess that she will also see her role as a watchdog for SMEs.
But there always has to be a balance between different interests.
We meet in Strasbourg on a Wednesday every other month.
He may then be able to put things rather more in context. &#160;&#160; Questions Nos 49 to 85 will be answered in writing.
National autonomy means that each Member State lays down rules and procedures for the practice of the professions, whereas under the Treaties every EU citizen should be able to enjoy the right to work in any other Member State of the Union, either temporarily or permanently, on a par with any citizen of the host country.
The points contained in the directive are fundamental.
Such a definition should put an end to the debate that dragged on during the last legislative term about orders, colleges and associations.
In addition, it establishes that representatives of the individual professions shall be consulted in future at a European level in relation to any other innovation that concerns them.
In conjunction with the Commission, we shall try in future to solve specific problems through common platforms and other instruments.
I also wish to thank the shadow rapporteurs, Mrs Weiler, Mrs Rühle and Mr Lambsdorff for their cooperation and constructive attitude in working towards an agreement with the Council on this vital piece of single market legislation.
As you all know, this directive is an important practical contribution to skills mobility.
The directive improves conditions of free movement for professionals through simpler and clearer rules, in particular for the temporary provision of cross-border services.
In an enlarged Europe, more effective systems for managing our legislation have become an absolute necessity.
The mechanisms and procedures provided for in the directive update the existing ones and should ensure its efficient implementation in the years to come.
Last, but not least, I appreciate the additions to the common position suggested by Parliament, such as those regarding: firstly, the possibility for professional associations to create professional cards; secondly, the possibility of further harmonisation for additional professions in the future; and, thirdly, the anti-abuse clause which will preclude so-called ‘qualifications shopping’.
I would thus very much like to congratulate the Commission on the initiative it has taken, and Mr Zappalà and the other groups’ shadow rapporteurs on the work they have done.
Virtually on a daily basis, we have to explain to the people in our Member States that the free movement of goods has a concrete, positive benefit for many people.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats fully supports the result presented by the rapporteur today.
The polemics of various newspapers provided for a regrettable interlude and resulted in some people being unsettled.
Let me, then, take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Mr Zappalà, and the Members from the various groups – Mrs Weiler, Mr Wuermeling, and also Mr Manders from my own group.
There really has been very constructive cooperation, including, in the final stage, on the part of the Commission and the Council.
It must also be borne in mind, in connection with the freedom to provide services, that EU citizens will in future be acquiring a kind of driving licence, with which they can set off, with no fear of hindrance or discrimination, into the countries of the European Union, whether to settle down in one of them or to offer their services on a temporary basis.
At the same time, everything that is subject to the special provisions of this directive is removed from the scope of the services directive, about which there has been much discussion.
This leads me to hope that our agreement today will serve to objectify the debate on this important project.
I might add that I am very pleased that it has been possible to bring the professional associations on board for the comitology procedure.
Over the past years, the existing rules on professional recognition became a rag rug of multifarious parallel regulations in different versions, all of which the public found complicated, baffling and, quite simply, scarcely manageable.
The adoption of the proposal for a directive, scheduled for tomorrow, is therefore a crucial step towards the completion of the European internal market, and one in favour of which my group will be voting.
The new directive replaces a hotch-potch of 15 old ones, thus ensuring greater transparency and legal security.
This directive will make it easier for EU citizens to seize the opportunities they have to work in other European countries, something that the problematic state of the labour market in many Member States is making ever more important.
Although it removes unjustified restrictions on mobility imposed by an excess of bureaucratic regulation in Member States, there is no reason to fear that there will be a rush to ‘dumb-down’ qualifications.
It also imposes the obligation on professionals of informing clients or consumers about their qualifications.
Unfortunately, however, this principle is not always adhered to, as can be seen from the huge number of complaints received by both Parliament’s Committee on Petitions and the SOLVIT system.
Many European countries have put in place various types of restrictions and deliberate obstacles that inhibit competition, hold back the development of the common market, prevent prices from falling and contribute to a reduction in the quality of labour.
I am in favour of introducing the simplest and quickest possible system for recognising professional qualifications, in order to ensure that the citizens of our countries can move about as freely as possible.
I am in no doubt that the compromise reached by the Council and Parliament will make it possible for this directive to be adopted, but it is a shame that Parliament appears once again to be putting the brakes on much-needed and courageous reforms proposed by the Commission.
Amongst other things, I refer to Parliament’s proposals regarding the five levels of professional qualifications and the division into various professions that was mooted during the Commission’s deliberations.
A system should be introduced for cases in which different rules are in force regarding the length of time it takes to gain a qualification in the country of origin and the country where the individual in question is working, so that either qualifications can be verified or any necessary and additional qualifications gained.
I hope that the report that Parliament will adopt tomorrow will be another step on the road towards simplifying the provision of labour and services in different Member States, and that it will make it easier to move from one country to another.
It is my belief that this directive, along with the services directive, will bring us another step closer to the completion of the common market and to creating economic growth and new jobs throughout Europe, provided that the country of origin rules are observed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as coordinator for the PPE-DE Group on the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, I wish to pay special tribute to our rapporteur, Mr Zappalà, for piloting this very complex legislation safely through to a final conclusion.
It has been necessary to deal with the frustrations that have been felt by many professionals about some of the difficulties in accessing their rights under internal market legislation.
It is important we deal with those issues now, as part of our overall strategy to open up the internal market for services.
They are all parts of a clearly integrated approach.
If you look at the Danish economic study on the opening-up of the internal market for services, it identifies professional qualifications as the area with the most potential for growth.
I am sure that by the end of this year, or early next year, we will also have agreed a substantive proposal to open up the market for services.
That is very important, and I am very glad of it.
I am also very glad that both this House and the Council have managed – and who would have thought this possible? – by means of this legislative document, and with such overwhelming consensus, to bring to nought the Commission’s original approach, which relied on the country-of-origin principle.
I wish us every success in the vote, which is to be held tomorrow. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications could open up new opportunities.
The purpose of the directive is to remove the factors restricting the free movement of people and services between the countries of the European Union.
In practice, the aim is to make it possible for people to practise their profession in a country other than the one in which their professional qualifications were obtained.
The professional needs to show that he or she has the adequate level of education.
The recognition of professional qualifications in another EU country cannot be allowed to hang on a matter of a few months if the education systems and quality of education are otherwise equivalent. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are very many examples – to be found not least in my own country – of the ways in which complicated and long drawn-out procedures are used to hinder the recognition of professional qualifications and hence to keep out competing outsiders, to the benefit of one’s own people.
The compromise we now have is well thought-out and a significant success, introducing as it does minimum standards for vocational and professional qualifications at five different levels, while, at the same time, preventing any devaluation of standards.
It is intended to be the basis for unambiguous rules intended to facilitate, if at all possible, the automatic recognition, in all Member States, of the professional qualifications of all EU citizens, whether they be employed or self-employed.
What has come out of the trialogue sessions is a comprehensive and good compromise, one that we Greens, too, are happy to recommend. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, the question we must ask ourselves today is one that we should in fact never cease to ask ourselves, namely whether the European Union is a union of institutions, states, governments and parliaments, or whether it is a union of citizens, people and Europeans.
We only see the tip of the iceberg, but it is the tip of a very large iceberg.
The aim of the Commission directive was to remedy this state of affairs, and it did in fact largely succeed in doing so.
Ladies and gentlemen, in the interests of Europe, and in order to ensure that Europe can really compete with the United States and the Far East, we must make it possible for people and institutions to be competitive.
One of the key directives, closely linked to the Service Directive, is the directive on mutual recognition of professional qualifications.
It was drafted by means of a complicated inter-institutional legislative procedure that the Commission launched as early as the beginning of 2002.
It is encouraging to note that after sustained efforts of Member States extending over several years, this directive will finally establish a system of mutual recognition of professional qualifications that will enable the citizens of one Member State to look for employment in another Member State under the same conditions as the nationals of the host state.
This directive should remedy the situation.
I hope our fellow Members will recognise that.
I commend it, and I hope the Commissioner will give it speedy effect. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, I am delighted that you called my name, but an entire party was involved in the trilogue which reached agreement.
I was convinced that this directive would never see the light of day, but we have only worked on it for the past three years and have already finished it.
I would therefore like to congratulate Mr Zappalà for the strategic approach which I had failed to see in the first three years.
The definition is clear.
What I considered crucial, and that has also been adopted by the Commission and the Council, is that a liability scheme will in any case be put in place, particularly for the medical professions, because it is unacceptable for people employed in that sector on a temporary basis to be able to escape all disciplinary provisions and liability because of the temporary nature of the job.
I would therefore like to congratulate all those who have worked on what is – to my mind – a fantastic directive.
After all, no conditions are prescribed in this directive, because training is provided in the country of origin.
It is essential to obtain a legally sound Europe, but above all in order to obtain a democratically strengthened Europe.
I should also like to thank our chairmen, Mr&#160;Gargani, the previous chairman, and Mr Whitehead, for their patience in this connection, and extend special thanks also to Mr Zappalà. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Zappalà, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is very clear evidence of the good work done by everyone concerned.
Achieving a result like this in such a problematic subject area is something to which one must draw attention.
Our task is to make the four freedoms a reality in the European Union; our objective, to build the internal market, making it a domestic market for all – employers, workers and consumers alike.
The directive also testifies to the European Union’s desire that quality standards should be maintained rather than downgraded, and to our recognition of specific professional criteria.
For the first time, this directive modernises the Community’s system for recognising professional qualifications.
This directive is also, of course, evidence that, even now, the services directive’s country-of-origin principle applies to none of the provisions of the directive on professional qualifications that apply in the destination country.
This means that this directive complements the services directive.
As they complement each other, I believe that the work we have done on this directive should be a good example for future work on the services directive.
Let us hope that our success will be just as evident when this debate is over. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too am delighted that we managed to approve this important directive this week, after a period of 40 years during which the situation was made very much more complex by the general sectoral directives, to the extent that one could, as the saying goes no longer see the wood for the trees.
The fact that a destination Member State can continue to impose national rules in this respect is not a protectionist measure at all, but no more and no less than proof of this balance.
This makes me optimistic for other initiatives before this Parliament.
Some Members raised the question of the craftsmen or .
The new directive in no way affects the national regulations on qualifications in the craft sector, nor does it entail any levelling down of national quality standards.
Two existing regimes for the recognition of professional qualifications in this sector are maintained: fully qualified craftsmen can apply either for recognition of their professional experience or for recognition of their formal qualifications, where appropriate, subject to an aptitude test or a supervised traineeship.
I confirm that this special status can be extended to further courses through the adoption of implementing measures within the framework of the committee set up by this directive.
The Commission will hand over a detailed overview of the amendments that the Commission can accept for inclusion in the record of this part-session(1).
This overview confirms that the Commission fully endorses the agreement reached by the co-legislators. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
These are Amendments 2, 5, 7, 10, 12, 13, 26, 27, 28, 29, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54 and 55. 21 amendments must be rejected.
In view of the broad support achieved in the Committee on Agricultural and Rural Development, I hope that this report will now receive the support of the immense majority of Members of this Parliament.
The announcement by Commissioner Fischer Boel, who is here with us, that the reform of the sector would be postponed has caused great malaise amongst producers, a malaise which I would like this European Parliament to reflect.
The Commissioner’s announcement is a symptom of the lack of importance attached to such a significant sector as fruits and vegetables, and I would remind you once again that the fruit and vegetables sector represents 17% of the European Union's final agricultural production, a fact that the Commission has apparently not taken into account at this crucial time when the financial perspectives are being negotiated for a period of seven years.
Today, however, the special system, based on the existence of operational funds, co-funded by the growers, has provided them with a means for better adapting their production to the needs of the market.
The draft report that I have presented to the European Parliament in fact proposes an alternative to the crisis management system in force, which would consist of the introduction of so-called ‘safety funds’, managed by the groupings themselves, intended to finance withdrawals at times of serious crisis, reductions of production in the event of market saturation, and also the implementation of a system of insurance for incomes.
The Commission communication on the common market organisation in fruit and vegetables had three aims.
The first was to describe how the Commission had started the simplification process; the second, to present a Commission working document analysing the principal figures of the sector, the implementation of the producer organisations and the related operational funds and budgetary aspects; and the third, to stimulate a debate in the Council, the European Parliament and within the sector.
In addition to the horizontal measures for crisis management proposed in this context, we will evaluate the need to provide specific tools in the fruit and vegetable sector.
Concerning processed products, the Dutch presidency conclusions stated that the Commission should carry out an impact analysis.
That was to include a possible shift from the current regimes to an approach based on objectives and instruments already used in the CAP reform.
Once the studies are finished, we will consider the appropriate measures, both in the framework of the common market organisation and vis-à-vis imports from third countries.
If the sector wishes to survive in Europe, it has to be able to work under the conditions that apply to import products.
Secondly, there is no denying that a huge number of growers in the ten new Member States have problems integrating in the European market.
Here are our responses, the responses agreed by Parliament and by the parties in question.
I would like to remind the Commission that the report calls clearly for a legislative proposal to be presented before this summer with a view to enhancing and improving the role of producers’ organisations fundamentally in the management of the market; the future of this sector lies in the market, and the market is the future.
For these reasons, we want a reform that takes account both of Parliament's report and of the demands of farmers themselves and, above all, that it be maintained and serve to improve agricultural income.
Finally, we are following the Doha Round negotiations very closely, with a view to introducing these agricultural products as sensitive products.
I would like to end by thanking the rapporteur for her willingness to reach this consensus, not just in the committee, but also here in Parliament, and I hope that the Commission will show goodwill in terms of the future, since that is what the sector is impatiently awaiting. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, the fruit and vegetable sector is one of the most dynamic and that is why it is rightly being debated.
It accounts for 17% of agricultural products and only receives 4% of agricultural resources.
At the same time, it employs a sizeable section of the agricultural and manual workforce.
Furthermore, agreement is being expressed with the WTO and, at the same time, it is being proposed that fruit and vegetables be kept out of WTO negotiations.
At least that will be clear. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Mrs&#160;Herranz&#160;García, I very much welcome this motion for a resolution, and I should like to thank the rapporteur for having ensured that it also covers the situation in the new Member States.
It is a matter of great importance to the new Member States that protective measures are put in place on the markets for soft fruit and apples.
European producers are facing enormous problems and suffering tragic consequences as a result of the influx of soft fruit such as strawberries, currants, raspberries and cherries, from China, Morocco and Serbia.
The end result of this has been that the Commission has also taken the matter seriously, and has sent a delegation to Poland to carry out on-the-spot investigations.
Do not disappoint the producers who have made sacrifices in order to adjust and adapt to this model.
You can do it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I must congratulate the rapporteur for producing what, even by general standards of EU documentation, is 19 pages of the most unreadable, bureaucratic gobbledy-gook, all of which comes under the laughable heading of ‘simplification’ of the market in fruit and vegetables!
Never in the field of vegetable and fruit cultivation has so much been said to so little purpose.
I urge Members to reject this report or, at the very least, require it to be translated from the original bureaucracy into plain language, so that we can all understand. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, thank you very much for being here with us this evening.
I hope that you will communicate to the Commission the clear and firm message that this Parliament is against the postponement of the reform of the fruit and vegetables sector, announced by yourself a short time ago.
The fruit and vegetables sector is active in practically every country of the European Union and it suffers from the same problems everywhere.
I am delighted that the report takes up measures in favour of this category of products and at the same time advocates a simplification of the import system in force, in order to prevent the irregularities we are witnessing as a result of the existence of three different formulae that operators may employ, as they wish, thus promoting fraudulent practices about which the sector has on occasions complained to the European Commission.
I also agree with the raft of proposals included in the report to improve the competitiveness of the sector and to take the best possible advantage of the budget available, which is underused year after year as a result of the lack of flexibility of the current COM.
The failings of the system, such as a large amount of bureaucracy, the legal insecurity of the producers’ associations and the Community's lack of generosity in terms of incentivising the concentration of supply, are the main reasons why the system implemented in 1996 has become inefficient.
This means that funds are not being used properly, and I hope that this problem will be resolved by means of the new proposal. &#160;&#160; Mr President, fruit and vegetable cultivation carry significant weight within agriculture.
However, the degree of organisation is very low in the ten new Member States, and forming producer organisations (hereafter PO’s) is a long and tedious process.
It is of crucial importance to coordinate market measures (first pillar) with rural development (second pillar).
The fruit and vegetable sector in the new Member States requires restructuring.
There are many old orchards, especially apple orchards, which have an impact on the EU market by driving the prices down as a result of poor quality produce, creating a crisis situation on the European fruit and vegetable market.
Just like the case of the school milk programme, subsidised by EU funds, a scheme promoting fruit consumption in schools should be introduced in order to stabilise the fruit and vegetable market.
In the case of berries, sour cherry and mushrooms, stronger crisis management measures are warranted.
I thank Commissioner Boel for her letter, and I hope a solution has been found. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, the EU’s most recent enlargement brought a number of changes to the fruit and vegetable market.
The EU studies of the candidate countries in its annual reports.
This means that we are faced with a bizarre situation whereby a special support mechanism exists for a variety of plum, whilst nothing of the sort exists for apples, despite the fact that the latter account for 32% of all fruit picked, which makes them the most popular type of fruit.
Support mechanisms are in place for nuts and bananas, but there is not a single one for any of the huge variety of soft fruits, which by their very nature have an extremely short shelf life, and are therefore subject to price fluctuations.
In a bid to win time, a special team of inspectors has been sent to Poland.
This is an unfortunate game to play in view of the urgent need to stabilise the fruit and vegetable market and to secure the existence of thousands of producers and their families, in particular in the new Member States.
There is, however, a very simple solution.
Supporting the former should therefore be made a matter of priority, by placing restrictions on imports, unless, of course, people wish to take an entirely different approach to European solidarity, and use the common agricultural policy to cover additional quotas. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Mrs&#160;Fischer Boel, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament resolution on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables addresses a serious situation in European agriculture, which calls for rapid and effective responses.
I congratulate the rapporteur on having confronted the difficulties in this sector and for having put forward some suitable solutions.
In 2004, a large proportion of the tomatoes in our fields were left unharvested: the huge amounts of processed tomatoes arriving from China at rock-bottom prices and without any health guarantees have thrown the sector into crisis.
Labelling will be an essential guarantee of quality and transparency.
Secondly, the Committee on Agriculture adopted the proposal on the need for immediate reform to address the recurrent market crises in the fresh fruit sector.
A surplus of 5 to 10% in supply brings a 30 to 50% slump in prices.
The quality of local produce is essential and it must be respected.
Finally, regarding the relationship between producers and the distribution sector, I propose that the European Union should encourage the joint trade organisations recognised in each Member State to devise codes of good conduct to avoid sudden collapses in prices paid to producers.
It is essential that the level of market opening should be controlled and regulated: Community preference must be maintained, fruit and vegetables must be included in the list of sensitive products and there must be reciprocity in the opening of agricultural trade, including plant health aspects; these, finally, must be the European Union’s demands at the Hong Kong ministerial meeting in December 2005 and in bilateral trade agreements. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the market in fruit and vegetables has been subject to wide fluctuations in price since time began; it is something to which producers have – more or less – grown accustomed.
We cannot work on the basis of a ‘return to old-style intervention’, still less to developing and extending it, or of a crisis management system existing to deal only with crises in the market.
I am persuaded that the common organisation of the market in processed fruit and vegetables is in need of fundamental reform.
The new Member States should receive more assistance to ensure producer groups that have been provisionally recognised remain in existence and are properly managed.
At this point, it should also be pointed out&#160;that a characteristic feature of the soft fruit market is its high price sensitivity, due to fluctuations in production and the growing volume of imports from non-EU third countries.
In other words, it is proposing to sit back and wait. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Today’s debate on measures to simplify the fruit and vegetable market has prompted me to voice more general considerations on the nature of changes to the common agricultural policy.
For the sake of coherence, the Commission decided to present a global proposal covering both fresh and processed fruits.
On crisis management, in the framework of the communication on risk and crisis management in agriculture, as well as the horizontal options identified in this context, the Commission considers that specific needs should be looked at on a case-by-case basis in the context of the CMO reviews, even for the fruit and vegetable sector.
With regard to soft fruit, the Council has also requested that the Commission carry out the appropriate analysis of the new situation in the European market resulting from enlargement and, if necessary, bring forward proposals specifically to address these issues.
The Commission has already started the analysis of the soft fruit sector in the new Member States.
As I have already said, one involves strengthening producers’ organisations, so that we prevent producers from competing against one another; and the second, the possibility of strengthening our promotional initiatives, which could be helpful.
As regards the introduction of special labelling of origin, I can assure you that I will be positive in my approach to that.
I can only stress the great importance of this specific sector to the Member States, both from an economic and a job-creation point of view. &#160;&#160; &#160;The debate is closed.
On 26 June 2003, the Council adopted a fundamental reform of the common agricultural policy which significantly changes the way that the European Union supports the agricultural sector.
After enlargement, six of the ten new Member States have been involved in the potato starch quota system for the first time in 2004-2005 marketing year.
Since the potato starch production quotas were introduced in 1995, we have been trying to define a strategy to secure, enhance and promote the development of this very important sector.
Firstly, to roll over the quotas for two years instead of the three years foreseen in Regulation (EC) No&#160;1868/94.
This time-frame should allow us to analyse the initial effects of the CAP reform and enlargement on the potato starch sector and enable us to act quickly should the need arise.
Secondly, to roll over the existing quotas which have provided a stable market in the eight old Member States taking part in this regime.
As usual, the development of the potato starch sector in all Member States will be closely monitored in the years to come.
The amendment concerning the transfer of quotas to new Member States certainly raises issues of great importance to the countries concerned.
In conclusion, the Commission cannot accept the amendments proposed in the report. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Agriculture was confronted with two problems whilst drafting this report.
The first was the question of how long, or in other words how much longer the present quota system should remain in force, and the second was the question of how much, or in other words whether the quota levels should be changed.
With regard to the first of these questions, the Committee on Agriculture decided that the quota system should remain in place for the next four marketing years, rather than for the two proposed by the Commission.
Whilst the quotas for the 15&#160;old Member States account for 89% of the total EU quota of 1&#160;947&#160;000&#160;tonnes, those for the 10&#160;new Member States amount to only 11% of this figure.
The situation has altered somewhat in the meantime, as a result of a sudden drop in the quantity of potatoes grown in the 10&#160;new Member States, but production levels remain very high.
Poland, the EU’s largest potato producer, was given as an example during the debate.
The other new Member States, in particular Lithuania, are facing similar problems.
Conversely, it was pointed out that although the 15&#160;old Member States have been allocated high starch production quotas, these quotas have not been filled for many years.
The Committee on Agriculture decided that both an increase in the overall quota and changes to the quotas allocated to individual countries would be out of the question.
In view of the problems faced by the new Member States, the Committee on Agriculture has proposed a solution that will allow any quotas that have not been filled, as has frequently been the case in recent years, to be transferred.
I would also reiterate that this is an extremely ingenious and much-needed compromise, and one that demonstrates the solidarity between the old and the new Member States that we must aspire to. &#160;&#160; , . – The issue of the production quotas of potato starch is very important for some of the new Member States of the EU, primarily for Lithuania and Poland.
The problem is that the Agreement on the Accession to the European Union has established a very small quota for Lithuania for the production of the potato starch – 1 211 tonnes per year, which constitutes only 0.06% of the quota of the European Union.
The quota for Lithuania, as you know, was established according to the reference period of the years 1998-2000, the period of the lowest production of potato starch in Lithuania, and it does not comply at all with the present requirements.
I would like to draw the attention of colleagues and members of the European Commission to the fact that this quota does not even ensure the minimal economically justified utilisation of the capacity of the factories of this industry in Lithuania.
The industry of the production of potato starch in Lithuania is composed of only two factories.
The total technological capacity of those two factories is 13 000 tonnes of potato starch per year.
The minimal, economically justified utilisation of the capacities of the factories would only be 4-5 thousand tonnes of potato starch per year; therefore, Lithuania requests increasing its quota to at least 4&#160;855 tonnes per year, and that would comprise 0.25% of the quota for the European Union.
However, the most important thing is that if the potato starch production quota for Lithuania is increased, that would secure social stability, workplaces and the infrastructure of two regions of the country that are closely related with the operation of those factories.
Hence, there is no doubt that the potato starch production quota for Lithuania should be increased. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, the reform of the market in starch is only a very small part of the reform of the common agricultural policy.
Even though they are concerned with such a minor aspect of this policy, however, the report and its explanatory statement serve as an excellent example of the way in which individual countries are treated differently and incorrectly.
This is due both to agricultural traditions and consumer habits that go back many generations, and to Poland’s poor and sandy soil, in which farmers can grow only rye and potatoes.
This figure also bears no relation to the number of people either living in rural areas or working in agriculture.
In my opinion, no&#160;one should be ashamed of admitting a mistake.
The changes proposed amounted to a quota increase of only 40&#160;000 for Lithuania and Poland together, even though 20% of the EU’s total quota, or in other words 200&#160;000&#160;tonnes, has not been filled in recent years.
Although the amendments originally tabled by the rapporteur for the Committee on Agriculture reiterated the changes that had previously been proposed by the Lithuanian and Polish governments, however, they caused quite a stir.
At times I felt as though I was at a football match in which Poland and Lithuania, who have made the proposal, were on one side, along with the other new Member States, and the rest of Europe on the other.
Today we are debating the final version of this new report, which is the result of an ingenious compromise.
This inequality is a result of the mistakes made by those who negotiated the accession treaties, but it is also due to the changing face of agriculture and rural areas in Europe following enlargement and CAP reform.
My comments were also motivated by a desire to emphasise that the&#160;Wojciechowski report is both well thought-out and a good compromise, and that the rapporteur has managed to reconcile all the parties in this unnecessary conflict.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament, which I am representing, also lent its support to this compromise, which involves extending quotas for a further two years, or in other words until 2009, and sharing out the four-year quotas between Member States on the basis of the 2004-2005 quotas.
Lithuania, the country where I have been elected, has a quota that is ten times less than the country is capable of producing.
As has been mentioned, there are two factories producing potato starch in Lithuania – both in rural areas.
I would emphasise – in rural areas.
The capacity of the factories amounts to 13&#160;000 tonnes per year.
The present situation, that is, the production quota, forces businessmen to close those factories in rural areas.
The people working and living there will lose their jobs.
The situation is even more irregular, since other Member States have much larger production quotas than they are capable of producing or consuming.
I understand that the issue of quotas is a very sensitive one; however, I am talking not about additional benefit, but only about the possibility to survive.
The Ministry of Agriculture of Lithuania presented its arguments in detail to the Commission, but the Commission did not see the necessity to take them into account.
But the European Parliament and the Members of the European Parliament must treat the peoples´ problems in a more sensitive and deep way, and not turn away from them, but take real decisions.
We talk a lot and seriously about rural development and support to rural areas.
Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this compromise proposal would demonstrate our readiness to at least partly eliminate the unjust redistribution of land for the production of potato starch between old and new Member States of the EU.
When the Committee on Agriculture discussed this issue, it also addressed a broader problem of the discrimination of farmers from new Member States of the EU.
After all, it has already been said in this meeting room that European Union farmers from an old Member State on the left bank of a river, farming under identical climatic and soil conditions, receive direct payments at the level of 400 euro, compared with only 50 euro received by farmers in a new Member State on the opposite bank of the same river.
In an open discussion about this topic, the Committee on Agriculture pointed to an urgent need to exchange opinions concerning the implementation of common agricultural policy and to speak about the problem without prejudice.
Poland needs a production quota of at least 180&#160;000&#160;tonnes, and this was the figure it proposed during negotiations.
Powerful producer organisations have been in existence in Western Europe for over 30&#160;years.
It should be added that the businesses concerned employ several thousand people, and they are mainly located in the areas of the country that have been particularly hard hit by structural unemployment.
I do not believe that the amendments tabled will solve all our problems, but they are a step in the right direction.
Firstly, debates on agriculture frequently leave one with the impression that by accident or by design, Commission representatives have large gaps in their knowledge of the new Member States’ production potential.
The justification for this is that if a country were to benefit from a change of this kind, the other countries would also want things to be changed to their advantage.
This state of affairs is also intolerable.
These reservations notwithstanding, I hope that the Commission, the Council and Parliament will succeed in reaching a compromise, if only on the issue of starch production quotas.
Mr&#160;Wojciechowski has proposed such a compromise, which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Agriculture, and he deserves every credit for having done so.
Admittedly, this solution does not provide the new Member States with any guarantee that their starch production quotas will be increased, but it does at least make it an option.
One of the points raised by several Members concerned the question as to why the new Member States did not get a higher quota from the very beginning.
The potato starch quotas for the new Member States were negotiated in Copenhagen in 2002 and agreed by the candidate countries and the EU-25.
Average production in Poland from 1999 until 2001 was 107 317 tonnes; nevertheless, a quota of 144 985 tonnes was granted to Poland.
The other issues concern the extension of the time frame to four years and the possibility of quota transfer to the new Member States.
In my opening statement I made it clear that I cannot accept the amendments proposed in the report. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
I am not detracting in any way from the presence of Commissioner Fischer Boel, however.
The last time that Parliament addressed this issue was last September, at the time of the visit by the delegation headed by Mrs&#160;Morgantini.
Much has happened in Sudan since then, however: above all, there has been a successful conclusion to the negotiations which led to the signing of the comprehensive peace agreement on 25&#160;January, putting an end to 21 years of civil war between the north and the south of the country, even though the set of protocols included in the agreement is very demanding and requires good will on both sides.
What in our opinion lies at the heart of the problem, and therefore needs to be examined by this House, is understanding whether the positive agreement between the north and the south of the country, between Ali Osman Taha and John Garang, can be a good omen and thus have a positive influence on the Darfur conflict, or whether in fact the international community is running the risk that the unresolved problem in Darfur may instead destabilise the north-south peace agreement.
The two issues are thus separate but closely connected, because they are occurring in the same country.
The European Union is deeply committed because, on the one hand, it has contributed about EUR&#160;400 million in humanitarian aid and, on the other, it is directly paying part of the costs of the AMIS mission, which is aimed at somehow maintaining relative stability in Darfur.
It is worth remembering that Darfur covers a vast area about the size of France: it is particularly difficult to imagine that a military mission can carry out the important tasks assigned to it with a little under 3&#160;000 men until recently, and now with 7&#160;000 to 8&#160;000 men.
Paradoxically, though, we are achieving the effect that the humanitarian machinery is working, the camps are working, but they are attracting new refugees, even from Chad, because they are oases of relative peace in a country which in contrast remains highly unstable and very violent.
Even though there was no room for my next point in the compromise resolution, I also want to ask whether the Commission considers it worthwhile to try to raise Europe’s level of political involvement by appointing a special representative for Darfur and Sudan – as we did for the Great Lakes and for Kosovo.
In conjunction with the Member States, it has promoted intensive diplomatic activity in Sudan and international fora with a view to fostering tangible progress in the North-South peace negotiations that led to the signing of the overall peace agreement on 9 January, and to finding a solution to the Darfur crisis.
The Commission and the Member States therefore provided political and financial support for the negotiations that led to the ceasefire agreement of April 2004 between the Sudanese Government and the rebel movements.
The EU has also been the main contributor, especially in financial terms, to the two African Union operations to monitor the ceasefire in Darfur.
That calls for increased cooperation between the African Union, the European Union and other organisations, in particular those of the United Nations.
The European Union has repeatedly shown its support for the African Union’s efforts to find a political solution in Darfur and is attending the Abudja negotiations as an observer.
The parties could also be offered technical support to facilitate the progress of the negotiations.
As for humanitarian aid, the European Union, through its Member States and the Commission, is one of Sudan’s biggest donors.
The European Union has earmarked more than EUR 370 million in humanitarian aid for 2005, more than EUR 120 million of it in the form of food aid.
Nevertheless, we are glad when things go in the right direction, and the conclusion of the peace treaty with the south in January is one example of this.
All the parties to it must implement it without delay, and the 10&#160;000 UNMIS soldiers deployed by the UN Security Council will help them do this.
I am glad that the Security Council has brought the situation in Darfur to the attention of the International Criminal Court.
The Commission has – as the Commissioner has just said – earmarked some EUR 400&#160;million in resources for Sudan, and I do hope that this will be paid out only when the peace treaty is implemented in the south and when there have been objective improvements in the situation in Darfur.
For example, we heard yesterday that a human rights activist had been arrested shortly before he was due to travel to Dublin in order to receive a human rights prize.
I therefore call for him, and the other persons arrested with him, to be released without delay.
As Mr Gahler said, Dr Mudawi, a brave defender of human rights in Sudan was once again arrested by the Sudanese Government, by its National Security and Intelligence Agency.
Two million people are homeless, and they are still being terrorised by the Janjaweed militias.
Those people have lost everything but are still prepared, in desperation, to leave their country to go to Chad.
The desperation of those people in Sudan puts into perspective some of the debates that we have in our countries in Europe about asylum and immigration.
The United Nations commission of inquiry was rigorous in detailing the crimes committed and the responsibility of the various actors in the conflict, who must be judged by the International Criminal Court.
I therefore believe that we must act as I have suggested and work for peace. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Government of Sudan and the Janjaweed leaders, like Musa Hilal, seem singularly immune to Western criticism.
We cannot wait for a cooperation that will not come.
The EU must not dole out money indiscriminately, without asking whether the authorities in Khartoum are ensuring that basic standards are met.
We are still waiting for a clear answer to the question of whether the rights of religious minorities in the country are observed.
Present and future relations between the European Union and the African Union must be built on the basis of respect for human rights standards.
I share the reservations voiced earlier in this Chamber by Mrs&#160;Kinnock. &#160;&#160; Mr President, no sooner had Sudan emerged from 21 years of bloody civil war between the Islamist Government of Sudan and the Christian/Animist south, finally ended by the comprehensive peace agreement signed in Nairobi this January, than another appalling humanitarian situation emerged in Darfur in February 2003, whose importance internationally must be reinforced now that attention may be drifting away following the tsunami in South-East Asia.
A recent estimate by the British House of Commons Select Committee put the casualty figures as high as 300&#160;000, with 10&#160;000 people dying each month from disease, starvation and atrocities, and two million people homeless and displaced, destabilising neighbouring Chad.
The African Union urgently needs to help stop the killing in Darfur, where whole villages have been bombed and torched, where mass executions and rape are common and where an Aids crisis is now looming.
China, a traditional ally of Sudan because it has oil investments there, and the United States, which opposes the ICC, have both acquiesced and abstained in the Security Council.
I welcome the release of the EUR&#160;450&#160;million of EU humanitarian aid, and do not accept the pleas of innocence and, to date, impunity of the brutal regime in Khartoum, which must be held to account for its brutal crimes. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the author of the oral questions, Mr Pistelli, has described the problems in Sudan very well: for a very long time, the problematic North versus South situation in Sudan led the international community to turn a blind eye to the problems in Darfur.
It is for this reason that I echo our motion for a resolution in saying that I welcome the UN Security Council’s decision to mandate the International Criminal Court to examine the situation in Darfur.
The conflict in Darfur has made refugees of over a million men, women and children.
Any movement on the part of persons displaced within their own country must be purely of their own free will.
This House must send out a clear message by demanding that Dr Mudawi be released without delay. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the UN is the international organisation best placed to bring about a lasting solution to the conflicts in Darfur.
I welcome the UN’s efforts in the Sudan conflict, such as the recent creation of the 10&#160;000-man strong UN mission, UMIS.
For my part, it has always been important that it should be the UN that, in the first place, acts in this conflict.
The UN should act in cooperation with the African Union.
Possible EU actions need to be focused upon humanitarian aid following consultation with the UN.
In that way, the world’s total efforts in Sudan will achieve their maximum effect. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I made my first statement on the situation in Darfur on 14 September 2004, since when – as you said – there have been some crucial changes.
After 21 years of civil war and raging ethnic conflicts between north and south, a peace treaty has been signed between the government and the Sudan People’s Liberation Army.
For this country – the largest in Africa – this is a great opportunity.
Although the European Union’s strategy, which involves supporting the Sudan to the tune of EUR 400&#160;million, is the right response, it is necessary, above all, that the release of these resources be made conditional upon the implementation of the peace treaty and, in particular, on the improvement of the situation in the south-western province of Darfur.
A number of things have been happening in this province since our debate last September.
The UN Security Council has handed over the grave violations of human rights in Darfur to the International Criminal Court.
The UN’s commission of inquiry into the war crimes in this province has unequivocally described them as no less serious in their cruelty than genocide.
The fly in the ointment, in terms of what is happening in Sudan, is that the situation in Darfur remains extremely precarious and is capable of dragging Sudan as a whole headlong into the abyss again.
A third element that is having a positive impact is the role played by the African Union, which has built up its forces to a significant degree, although the size of Darfur makes its 7&#160;700&#160;men no more than a drop in the ocean.
It should be stressed that nothing short of full compliance with the ceasefire agreement by all the warring parties will facilitate resumption of the political dialogue between the Sudanese Government and the rebels in Abuja.
It is important that these negotiations resume as soon as possible and that all the parties stop insisting on unrealistic preconditions that block the whole process.
The Commission also considers that the post-Naivasha political agenda is the right framework for reaching a lasting political solution for the whole region.
The Commission favours a balanced approach towards the Sudanese Government and the main political actors in Sudan.
The Commission is also ready to support the parties seeking a peaceful solution for Darfur and other regions of Sudan through the political framework of the Naivasha process.
At the same time, the Commission supports the recent UN resolutions, including the threat of sanctions and the referral of cases of perpetrators of crimes against humanity to the International Criminal Court as a necessary means of putting an end to impunity and to violence in Darfur.
An AU evaluation mission carried out from 10 to 22&#160;March, with the participation of the United Nations and the European Union, assessed the need for enhancing peace-support efforts in Darfur, including exploring ways of strengthening AMIS 2.
However, as I mentioned previously, it estimates that AMIS is currently operating at only about 50% of its operational capacity.
It is important to bring AMIS up to full operational capacity before deciding on its reinforcement.
The Commission is ready to contribute to meeting the challenges in Darfur, together with the AU and its partners.
The sustainable reinforcement of African capabilities could be fast-tracked if the lessons learned from this operation were applied to the security sector as well. &#160;&#160; &#160;I have received six motions for resolutions to wind up the debate, from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament (B6-0300/2005), the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance (B6-0301/2005), the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left (B6-302/2005), the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (B6-0303/2005), the Union for Europe of the Nations Group (B6-0304/2005) and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (B6-305/2005).
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday.
