Madam President, we are following developments in Turkey with close attention, and I would also like to remind the House of the Presidency's statement on 28 April of this year, in which we emphasised the need for the presidential elections to be conducted in line with the principles of democracy and the rule of law laid down in the constitution.
Further to this, the Council has already stressed, in its conclusions on the reinforcement of the southern sea frontier on 5 and 6 October 2006, that Frontex has to be built up by means of additional personnel and increased budgetary resources.
The Council has had fruitful discussions with your House on this proposal, and your House voted on the text of the proposal on 26 April this year, so that the Council can adopt it at first reading.
Finally, the Council wishes to stress that the Commission, in accordance with the Hague Programme, which the European Council adopted on 4 November 2004, will, before the end of this year, be submitting an evaluation report on the agency. (ES) The President mentioned my question of last April.
I said back in April, in response to a question, that the protection of the external border is in the first instance a task for the Member State in question, while assistance may be sought from Frontex in a particular situation, in which case immediate response teams can also be formed.
Yesterday 24 people were saved at sea and one person remained unaccounted for after a boat capsized.
I am sure that Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou is aware that we would all like to have the opportunity or the freedom to travel in ways other than we are, but, measures have been taken in the European Union in the form of the Regulation that the Commission adopted in October 2006, in order that a certain standard of safety should be guaranteed.
The fact is that so much information has been made available that the waste that has to be collected - ranging from lighters to bottles larger than 100 ml - would not be there in the first place, if people had given the matter a little thought before embarking on a flight.
Subject: Gay Pride marches As a reaction to the opposition to and attacks on some Gay Pride marches both inside and outside the EU in 2006, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on 16 June 2006 on the increase in racist and homophobic violence in Europe.
Madam President, Baroness Ludford, I am aware of the debates that have been held in your House, in one of which, held recently, we participated, but what I can say is that there was a pro-tolerance demonstration in Poland, a few months ago now, at the end of last year, and that there were opportunities for demonstrations until quite recently.
The Council regularly brings this concern to Russia's attention in the course of the EU/Russia dialogue, to which I have just made reference in another instance, and various levels have been established at which concerns may be raised with the Russians, not only in policy dialogue at summits and ministerial meetings, but also at the human rights consultations which were introduced in March 2005 under the presidency of Luxembourg and now take place twice a year.
While we are on this subject, I should also like to mention that the TACIS action programme for social and economic reconstruction in the Northern Caucasus, which is funded by the EU to the tune of EUR 20 million, has now become operational, and it offers the prospect of positive developments being brought about. (DE) Mr President-in-Office, just as the Federal Chancellor, at the weekend, demonstrated that it is possible to combine firmness of purpose and faithfulness to principle with diplomatic adroitness, you are doing the same here.
I can assure you that my answer to you was not diplomatic in character, but had to do with various things that have to be considered not by the Presidency alone, but by the Member States together, since various interests - the interests of what are now 27 Member States - are affected.
I do believe that it is right in principle that we have named October 2007 as the target date for reviewing whether the present protection, as it is laid down, is still appropriate in terms of time or whether there has to be a response on the part of the European Union.
