Tax treatment of losses in cross-border situations (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Kauppi, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the tax treatment of losses in cross-border situations.
The initiative on cross-border loss relief constitutes a targeted solution in the short to medium term and represents an intermediary step.
I highly appreciate the strong support expressed in Ms Kauppi's report for the Commission's initiative in the field of cross-border loss relief, for the coordination approach and of course also for our work on the CCTB.
on behalf of the PPE-DE group - (HU) Thank you, Mr President.
I would like to thank the Commissioner and Mrs Kauppi for this report.
Mrs Kauppi, in the new Member States, for example, this is of more interest from our point of view.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (SV) Thanks to Piia-Noora Kauppi for a good report.
She gives a balanced account of the problems and difficulties which arise on the internal market when we have 27 different tax systems.
Globalisation, which has been mentioned, has after all increased still further the need for a common approach to tax matters in the EU so that obstacles to competition can be avoided.
The tax base will be common, and transparency will be better.
As regards the rest, we are inclined to abstain in the vote on Donata Gottardi's amendment to recitals E and F in order to facilitate a broad consensus and broad support in the House for this excellent report.
They are very successful in doing this, as the statistics show: such virtual loss offsetting has in fact meant that over the last 20 years the amount of tax paid on the profits made by the multinationals has fallen continuously.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, the rapporteur claims that this initiative will encourage small and medium-sized enterprises to expand their cross-border business.
The quality of the report prepared by the rapporteur, Mrs Kauppi, has enabled a broad consensus to be reached among the main political groups on its fundamental elements.
In particular, in the Socialist Group's opinion, this process is not compatible with the open defence of tax competition practices.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament believes that, on a subject of such strategic importance, it would be highly advantageous to present to the Commission and Council a European Parliament position with a broad basis of support.
In such a scenario, how would the new Member States that are 20 or 30 years behind the more developed ones ever manage to catch up? (EL) Mr President, Commissioner, the issue of taxation and the possibility of transferring losses for cross-border business groups within the European Union cannot be tackled purely and simply on the basis of facilitating the cross-border operation of businesses.
The SME aspect is already an important part of the work of Vice-President Günter Verheugen.
The Commission shares the concerns about tax avoidance expressed in your report.
Member States need to be able to prevent their tax bases from being eroded because of abuse and aggressive tax planning.
Finally, as regards the proposed amendments to the report, the Commission would advise against amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, but it could support amendments 7 and 8, which are in line with the spirit of the communication.
My group has suggested abstaining with regard to Amendments 7 and 8.
I think that it is in line with the Commission's recommendations as well that 7 and 8 will probably be adopted and that means that we have a very large majority backing the report tomorrow.
But they are now there after serious discussion, and I still believe that we can have all the practical things, like anti-abusive measures, that we can improve the Parent-Subsidiary Directive and that we can improve the workings of the Transfer Pricing Forum, and such initiatives are very much needed.
Something must be done before the 2009 elections and we cannot afford to wait for Member States to come up with their ratifications and referendums.
The debate is closed.
