Burma The next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on Burma.
author. - (PL) Mr President, Burma has become almost a permanent subject of debate in this House.
We return to the situation in Burma at every session of the European Parliament in Strasbourg.
According to Amnesty International, there are currently some 2 100 political prisoners in Burma.
The European Union must reconsider its policy on sanctions against Burma.
author. - (ES) Mr President, tomorrow's Asia-Europe Meeting (ASEM) in Beijing affords an excellent opportunity for the attending Heads of State or Government of the European Union to once again raise the worrying situation of human rights in Burma.
As already requested in a letter from Amnesty International, it would be absolutely appropriate for the President-in-Office of the Council, Nicolas Sarkozy, as joint chair of the ASEM, to express Europe's very great concern about the more than 2 100 political prisoners and also to demand their immediate release.
I also deplore the fact that the number of political prisoners in Burma has increased from 1 300 to over 2 100 since the Saffron Revolution of September 2007.
The military junta has clearly failed to deliver on promises made to the international community in this regard.
author. - (FI) Mr President, Commissioner, Burma has no respect for human rights or civil freedoms.
The European Commission should be bolder and raise this question more openly in discussions with China, Russia and the ASEAN countries.
The military regime in power has not kept any of the promises it made to the international community following the uprising last year.
China and India should exert political and economic pressure on the Burmese regime by refusing to assist the Burmese army.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, Burma is a country which is steeped in corruption.
With 2 000 political prisoners under arrest, access to free media impeded by the authorities and widespread slavery in industry, the people of this country need serious help.
However, in spite of more than 37 visits by UN envoys in the past 20 years and six resolutions in this House, there has been not a single reform made by the military junta.
We need the world to see off the junta in Burma. - (PL) Mr President, if only a single individual voices opposition to the authorities, that voice will barely be audible.
Pressure must be increased not only on Burma, but on those other countries as well.
The Commission is co-hosting a conference on the role of civil society in Myanmar in Brussels, which will take place on 29 October.
At the ASEM Summit, which will take place in Beijing on 26 October, President Barroso is expected to take the floor.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) The European Parliament must adopt a united front in condemning Myanmar, where the situation has become tragic, for crimes against humanity.
Well-respected non-governmental organisations indicate that around 70 000 civilians have been forced to abandon their homes over the last six months, in an attempt to escape the systematic abuse meted out by the military junta.
As a member of the European Union, an institution which has the respect of human rights as its fundamental principle, I believe that it is necessary for the authorities in Myanmar to be made aware publicly that respect for human rights forms the basis for economic prosperity in a country.
Releasing all the political detainees in Myanmar, starting with Nobel Peace prize-winner, Aung San Suu Kyi, would be highly symbolic on the part of the authorities in this state, indicating that they are open to international dialogue and do not intend to become completely isolated from the rest of the world.
in writing. - (NL) At the forthcoming ASEM Summit on 24 October 2008 in Beijing, the Burmese opposition leader and Nobel Prize Winner Aung San Suu Kyi will have been held captive for a total of 13 years exactly.
UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon has announced his intention to visit Burma in December, but has indicated that he will only do so provided that serious progress can be made in the political and human rights situation in Burma; if not, he will be forced to postpone his visit.
