rapporteur. - Mr President, Bulgaria applied to join the European Union 11 years ago, in 1995, and negotiations were opened five years later.
Since the opening of negotiations, we have seen three changes of government, representing a wide range of the political spectrum: from the UDF Government of Ivan Kostov, to the return of former King Simeon to lead his National Movement Government from 2001 to 2005, to the present socialist-led coalition under Sergei Stanishev.
This progress has taken place in spite of a very difficult regional situation, with conflict on Bulgaria's borders.
The NATO-led operations against Serbia began in March 1999 with air strikes that destroyed the Danube bridges and severed navigation between the upper and lower Danube for two years.
The fact that we saw NATO accession in March 2004 and have now reached the point of EU accession is a tribute to the determination and hard work of so many at all levels and from all shades of government, and no less a tribute to the Bulgarian people.
Police and judicial reform has been a major concern throughout the accession process.
The mood has changed and there is wide recognition that nuclear energy must play a stronger role.
The current undertaking is for the two reactors, Units 3 and 4, to be closed this year and subsequently decommissioned.
Let me also take this opportunity to pay tribute to many charities that have worked hard in Bulgaria over the years, including Save the Children, ARK and Harvest for the Hungry, which is based in my own constituency in Chelmsford.
We very much welcome them to the club. (Applause) rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 26 September of this year, the European Commission presented its report on Romania's progress towards accession.
I should like, in particular, to take this opportunity to thank the Commission and, firstly, Commissioner Rehn who, throughout this process, has done some very painstaking and very rigorous work and with whom we have enjoyed smooth and excellent cooperation during the last two years.
In essence, this is a short report that focuses on two points in particular: the accession date and the support and verification measures envisaged by the Commission.
The report is structured around six main issues.
In September of this year, the Commission went on to recommend that Romania join the European Union on 1 January 2007.
These amendments do, however, reflect a statement signed by more than 400 Members, including myself.
On a personal basis, I shall, therefore, vote in favour of them, but my group's position will be expressed through a free vote.
I should like the message received by Romania tomorrow to be a positive one, delivered loudly and clearly and, if possible, by a substantial number of people, whereupon Romania should receive a warm and sincere welcome. (Applause) President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 October the Council welcomed the Commission's monitoring report on the state of preparedness of Bulgaria and Romania for EU membership.
According to the Commission, Bulgaria and Romania have shown through the progress they have made that they will be ready to accept the rights and obligations of membership on 1 January 2007.
The Council examined the monitoring report thoroughly and reached the same conclusion as the Commission.
We expect to be able to welcome Bulgaria and Romania as members of the Union on 1 January 2007.
Both our institutions support the accession date of 1 January 2007.
I am happy to inform you that the ratification procedures in all 27 Parliaments have now been successfully finalised - I should add the European Parliament to that list.
Final decisions on these issues will be made in December 2006 - very soon.
This mechanism will enable the Commission to keep a close eye on developments in these very important areas.
The Commission has identified benchmarks for both countries, which they need to fulfil in these critical areas.
It is my hope that 1 January will bring a change to the entire population of the country, including the Hungarian community, and that this inevitable change will bring about a change in mentality.
Allow me to give a clarification here: our report, on the relevant paragraph of which you set an internal vote, concerns 800 000 women a year.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality. - (PL) Mr President, the fifth enlargement of the European Union will take place in January 2007 when Bulgaria and Romania join.
It is important, however, to recognise the magnitude of the work already completed and its obvious effects, and to welcome almost 31 million new citizens of the European Union on 1 January 2007.
We must ensure that from the beginning, these people feel that they are much-wanted members of our common European family.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (ES) Mr President, on 1 January Romania will join the European Union.
This is a time for congratulations, a time to congratulate the Romanian people, their authorities and also the European Commission, which has played a crucial role in monitoring and stimulating the process.
When I began to follow the process on behalf of my group two and a half years ago, I remember that there were still doubts over whether Romania's accession could take place in 2007.
It is the country of Brancusi, of Ionesco, of Tristan Tzara, of Enescu, of intellectuals and artists who were leaders of European vanguards.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, this is a very important, historic debate in this House.
I should like to thank the rapporteurs for all the work they have done, and Commissioner Rehn for the clever and efficient way in which he has prepared the process that will now lead to the accession of Romania and Bulgaria to the EU on 1 January 2007.
It has been a long and arduous process, but it is all very rewarding in the end, especially for the two countries, which were not able to join in 2004.
Nevertheless, Parliament will remain involved on the basis of our reports, and on the basis of the progress report that the Commission will have to present in future on the homework still to be done by the two countries.
The same recommendation applies to the fight against corruption.
These are the only mechanisms we can use to guarantee effectiveness and transparency in such difficult areas before future candidates join the Union.
Of course, it is now important for Bulgaria to concentrate on the period after accession.
These amendments reflect the old days and not the reality. (Applause) on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, we are not entirely happy with these reports.
All I will say at the moment is that our group has tabled two amendments to the Van Orden report, one on compliance with the Copenhagen criteria in respect of the protection of minorities and another on the nuclear power station at Kosloduj.
It is not a matter of doubt that what is called flexibility on the closure of the nuclear power station goes against Article 30 of the accession treaty; even Commissioner Piebalgs, who is responsible for energy matters, is against the provisions of the treaty being nullified in this way.
The decommissioning of Blocks 3 and 4 by the end of this year was and is a condition for accession; the Bulgarian Government must, in this regard, adhere to the treaties and Europe must not give the impression that Parliament is expressing opposition to treaties currently in force.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, Bulgaria and Romania's accession to the Union on 1 January 2007 represents a success for all of us and hope for the future of our common Europe founded on Christian values.
In the same way as other former Communist countries were welcomed earlier, we will welcome these two countries among us despite the fact that their economies still lag behind the average for the rest of the Union.
In fact, you resemble Alec Guinness in the film The Bridge on the River Kwai, doing completely the wrong thing for what you think is the right reason.
I just hope that everybody that voted Conservative in eastern England - especially those that are about to lose their jobs - knows what you and your party have done in this place. (Applause from the IND/DEM Group) (DE) Mr President, it is a recurrent excitement to experience in person the different ways in which one can argue and thereby come to different conclusions.
I believe, Commissioner, that history will judge you - you and those with you who will make the wrong decision tomorrow. (DE) Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I would now, just a few weeks before Romania and Bulgaria join us, like to congratulate those two countries.
That is why it is important to remember that there are such things as transitional rules on such things as, inter alia, the free movement of labour, involving the same process as was used in the other enlargement treaties.
I am very grateful to the Commissioner for informing this House that these safeguard clauses will actually be applied in the areas stated, just as they already, in fact, are being applied in certain areas, such as milk and meat, and, should it become necessary in such areas as law and internal affairs or in the use to which funds are put, the safeguard clauses can - as the Commissioner said, be applied immediately.
I would like to take this opportunity to remind the House that, following the accession of these two countries, the debate on the European Union's capacity for further enlargement will be of crucial importance.
In conclusion, I should like to welcome the people of Bulgaria and Romania to a place in which they have always belonged.
I am therefore going to read you a letter chosen at random from among those we have received from children in Romanian orphanages who have not been able to find Romanian adoptive parents and who will therefore remain in these orphanages because of a lack of resources. 'Why', write Marianne, aged nine and a half, and Catalin, aged six and a half, 'do our father and mother not come to look for us?
In spite of the restrictions to which I referred and which are there because of the vigilance we are exercising and the aid we are offering - in a family, one helps brothers and sisters in difficulty - I am delighted to see these countries finally come back within the EU fold after 70 years of isolation, 70 years in which we have looked on and been sympathetic but in which we have done nothing.
At this moment there is a political party, OMO Ilinden Pirin, that has not been legalised by the Bulgarian state because several difficulties have hampered the process of legalisation.
I am convinced that Bulgaria will not rest on its laurels after 1 January and that it will redouble its efforts to pursue its internal transformation, taking full advantage of the historic opportunity presented by its membership of the European Union.
I would like to bid our Bulgarian brothers and sisters a warm welcome to the European Union. (HU) Mr President, I myself am a committed believer in and supporter of Romania's accession.
Many people have different views, however, partly because Romanian undertakings were not always in harmony with their fulfilment.
Moreover, I believe that Romania will honour the trust placed in it by our vote, and that its accession will open a new chapter in the history of both the European Union and Romania. (EL) Mr President, I too should like to take my turn in welcoming the huge efforts made by Bulgaria and Romania to be ready to accede to the European Union on 1 January 2007.
We welcome these two countries into the European Union.
I wish, however, to highlight a particularly important institutional and political problem for the European Parliament: in paragraph 20 of the report on Bulgaria, the Council is called upon to view with flexibility and to make provision for a delay of about eight months to Bulgaria's obligation to close units 3 and 4 at the Kozloduy nuclear power station.
The problem is in the European Parliament.
That is why I and my honourable friend Daniel Cohn-Bendit together tabled an amendment changing paragraph 20 of the report on Bulgaria. (DE) Mr President, I had the opportunity, as Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, to lead a delegation to Romania, the object of which was to find out more about the use to which European funds are put.
President-in-Office of the Council. (FI) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this multi-faceted debate on Bulgaria's and Romania's accession to the European Union.
It has been a long and demanding process for these countries, but, as has been said in many speeches here, and Commissioner Rehn also recognised Parliament's contribution in this matter, it is very important and significant that the institutions of the European Union have given these countries massive support during the accession process.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Parliament for adopting a selection procedure for Members of the Commission from the new Member States which makes it possible for them to be in their jobs from 1 January, as they ought to be under the Accession Treaty.
It is a very honourable way to welcome Bulgaria and Romania to the European Union in the spirit of evolving European democracy.
Some speakers raised the issue of the future of our enlargement policy.
I just wish to point out to you that in its report of 8 November 2006, the Commission called for a new consensus on the EU's enlargement policy that would combine both the historic mission of extending the area of peace, freedom and democracy on our continent and, at the same time, ensuring our capacity to gradually integrate new members.
The Commission's view is that a new institutional settlement should be reached before the next candidate country joins the European Union.
It is a simple fact of timing that the year 2008 comes before the end of the decade when the 28th Member State, which is likely to be Croatia, could be ready to join our Union, if it is able to reform its judiciary, economy and meet all the other conditions with full determination and concrete results.
I very warmly welcome the debate that is to take place in December on our enlargement strategy and integration capacity.
