&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 16 September (1). &#160;&#160; The next item is the speeches on matters of political importance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to thank you personally for your efforts and assistance in trying to secure the release of my constituent from Liverpool, Ken Bigley, who was taken hostage in Iraq.
I should be grateful, Mr President, if you would send our sympathy and condolences to his family on behalf of the Members of this Parliament.
This request is also being made on behalf of the other Members of the European Parliamentary Labour Party. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mrs McCarthy.
I thank you for suggesting we should do so. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise on the issue of human rights abuses in Colombia.
It is a situation which the European Union has addressed from time to time, but there is serious concern amongst human rights defenders, both in Colombia and in Europe, that the European Union is allowing this issue to slide off the agenda.
I shall forward to you the letter from the FrontLine organisation urging you to demand that the Colombian authorities release immediately the members of Fensuagro in the absence of any valid legal charges, and ensure that lawful trade union organisations can operate free from intimidation. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr De Rossa.
That will be done, in response to the issue you have raised. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the UK Environment Agency has revealed that in five months of this year 12 million cubic metres of raw sewage were discharged into the river Thames flowing through London.
This situation can only worsen with an increase in the violent storms caused by global warming.
I would ask colleagues on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety to pursue this breach of EU law by the British Government and request that the Commission investigate it. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I believe it is only right and proper that this Parliament should formally express its shock and outrage at the number of victims of the terrorist attack in Taba last week.
I believe we should send a message of solidarity and profound condolence to the families of the victims, amongst whom I should like to remember especially the two young Italian women, Jessica and Sabrina, whose only crime was to allow themselves a holiday that they had been really looking forward to after a year’s work. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to remind the House that next week, from 17 to 24 October, is One World Week.
This is an opportunity for us all to take action and to do something about poverty and injustice in the world.
I hope that you will support this initiative. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mrs McAvan, for your very pertinent reminder. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;I should like to mention a case in which the Treaties have been violated by several Member States.
The House must surely be aware that in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty on Accession, one of the signatories to which was the European Union, Polish entrepreneurs have the right to provide services freely in all Member States.
This is one of the EU’s fundamental freedoms, which was not waived due to accession negotiations and which all Polish citizens could enjoy from day one of membership of the European Union.
I therefore believe that the European Commission should be asked what measures it intends to take in order to examine these practices and to prevent actions such as these that violate the Treaties currently in force. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to bring an extremely serious event to Parliament’s attention.
On Thursday, 7 October, the FBI, acting on federal orders, asked Rack Space, a US service provider, to hand over to them the hardware of two servers hosting all of Indymedia’s material, in other words the material from dozens of locations in this international network, which works with non-profit-making groups and associations.
I believe the European Parliament should always stand up for anyone’s area of freedom of expression and debate.
The European Union is about to introduce a reform of the sugar regime, which will have serious implications for European farmers and sugar workers if it goes ahead as planned.
These five years have been marked by major political and institutional changes and momentous events in Europe and around the world.
Then there were the even greater threats of the Balkan situation looming over the whole continent, in the absence of a clear and convincing EU strategy in the region.
Lastly, the Commission itself was in crisis, shaken by the events of 1998 and 1999.
The unification of Europe – involving the inclusion of ten new countries, a clear timetable for the other candidate countries and real prospects for the full integration of all the Balkan countries – is the greatest contribution that the European Union could make to the stabilisation and the political, economic and cultural growth of the continent as a whole.
We have demonstrated that negotiation and dialogue, though at times difficult, complicated and painstaking, are the only democratic way to export democracy and stability.
At the same time, the ambitious enlargement of the Union to meet half the continent’s aspirations for freedom, security and democracy meant that we had to be equally ambitious in dealing with the overhaul of our institutional set-up.
Thanks to the joint efforts of Parliament and the Commission, the convention method has finally established itself, raising the levels of democracy and transparency in Europe.
Nonetheless, the scepticism surrounding this proposal, which I have supported ever since that night in Nice, was very deep.
Over these years, alliances between governments have very often been pragmatic, one-off affairs, linked to specific proposals or the current domestic or international political situation; there have been no groupings of countries consistently pressing for closer integration.
We, for our part, have always fought to make our Union stronger, more democratic and more effective.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken about enlargement, institutional reform and policies for growth and peace: none of that would have been possible if, while we were working on all those areas, we had not restored order, strength, prestige and pride to our own institution, the European Commission.
I am also sure that the Commission will become even stronger under the presidency of José Manuel Barroso, and I wish him every success.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the process of unifying our continent gives us a great opportunity to extend the stability and prosperity of the Union throughout the region surrounding it.
For years there was talk about the borders of Europe, but no working proposal was ever put forward.
We have now proposed a new vision for the Union’s borders through our neighbourhood policy, which aims at setting up a genuine special relationship with the whole arc of countries from Russia to Morocco.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, throughout these years we have always come out strongly and clearly in favour of multilateralism.
More world and regional governance, a closer partnership with the United Nations, and less disparity between North and South have been the goals inspiring our actions.
We have not merely ‘talked’ of multilateralism: we have put it into practice in order to achieve our goals and political options.
We have therefore worked hard and effectively with our US partners on practical issues of great importance, both in the area of security and the fight against terrorism, and in certain parts of the world such as the Balkans.
I have said this before and I say it again: in this difficult, often tragic world, Europe – and Europe alone – has been able to export democracy.
From the outset, the euro was to be the cornerstone of the new Europe.
The reform of the competition policy itself is one of our most significant contributions to improving our competitiveness.
In the social field, the Social Policy Agenda has been the frame of reference for a whole series of measures in the field of employment, social security, health and safety in the workplace, equal opportunities and social inclusion.
We have to be honest, however, and admit that many objectives in this field have not been met.
For example, there is the implementation of the Tampere agenda and the efforts made to respond to the new challenges of international terrorism after the attacks of 11 September 2001.
We have combined strategic decisions of enormous significance for the future of Europe – such as the European satellite navigation system Galileo, or the global strategy for the ‘single European sky’ – with prompt reactions in emergency situations, such as the shipwrecks of the in 1999 and the in 2002.
The reform of the common agricultural policy itself is designed to respond to the new challenges on the domestic and world fronts, aiming at a more sustainable strategy that is more mindful of rural development.
Finally, we have put forward our political project – our vision – for post-enlargement Europe, with our proposals for the new Financial Perspective.
This is a political project designed to bring a genuine European citizenship into being, a project for a Union now continental in extent which must take on new responsibilities towards its people and shoulder its own responsibilities on the international stage.
This, too, has been our ambition: to make Europe a leading player on the world stage, to enable Europe to make its voice heard and work towards creating a world of peace, security and balanced development.
The agreement has enhanced our shared initiatives, such as the practice of making it a priority to formally notify Parliament of the Commission’s major initiatives.
These agreements have strengthened the political role between the Commission and the basis of its democratic legitimacy, which to a great extent lies in the European Parliament.
Lastly, I should like to highlight the deep understanding between Parliament and the Commission on legislative matters.
We should be delighted at that: it is one of the great merits of the codecision procedure and shows how well the three institutions involved have applied it.
At the end of these five years, then, I am pleased with the way constructive relations have developed between the Commission and Parliament.
That is what we have done over these years, and I am truly grateful to you for the help and support that you have never failed to give us. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Prodi.
My predecessors have told me that you have always taken notice of the European Parliament, which has always found you to be a good listener.
This Commission, under Romano Prodi’s presidency, had – as is usual in human and political life – its light as well as its shadows.
We do, though, very much appreciate the work of the departing Commissioner who had responsibility for monetary matters – I do not want to name names, for if I did, I would be forced to do so in many other instances – and the way in which the former Commissioner defended the stability of Europe’s currency.
Without wanting to go into detail, I would say that it is important that we enable this Europe of ours to compete rather than pursuing a policy that will end up with a de-industrialised Europe and the loss of jobs.
So it was perhaps a failing on the part both of this House and also, and in particular, of the Commission, that the targets we set as part of the Lisbon strategy were insufficiently ambitious and too diffuse.
When completing the internal market, we had definite goals and fixed dates, and what we should all learn from that for the future is that we, if we want to make Europe more competitive, have to set strategic goals, and also firm dates, so that Europe is better able to compete.
I would have preferred you to have focussed all your efforts on European politics and on your work as President of the Commission.
Both the President of this House and Mr Poettering have already listed a number of milestones of your term of office.
You took office at a difficult time; relations between Parliament and the Commission were strained in the aftermath of the fall of the Commission headed by Jacques Santer.
Your successor will be measured by the standard you have set in your dealings with this House.
Here, in this House, President Prodi declared that the use of arms must always and only be the policy of last resort, that recourse may be had to arms only when all the alternatives and all the policy instruments have been exhausted, and that the United Nations is the only forum in which such decisions may legitimately be taken.
As far as the ‘wrong war’ against Iraq is concerned, you, as President of the European Commission, came to the right conclusions, and that I say with gratitude on behalf of our group as a whole.
Let me tell you, though, on behalf of the Socialist Group, that, whatever you decide – and I hope you will make the right decision – the Socialist Group in the European Parliament is alongside you in that decision, not only in mind and heart, but also with political will.
Many, many thanks for the cooperation over the past five years. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Prodi, five years and one month ago you addressed this house as President-designate of an untested Commission.
You told us that you wanted to put Europe at the service of the people of Europe.
Your Commission launched the Lisbon Agenda and inaugurated the euro.
Your Commission moved Europe into the world of common European security against terror.
Liberals and Democrats recognise and honour the exceptional personal stamp that Commissioner Bolkestein has placed on that work.
Liberals and Democrats believe that we have not gone far enough on the road to economic reform or achieved what we could have.
The Lisbon Agenda has too often been subordinated to the Paris Agenda or the Berlin Agenda or the London Agenda.
It is the conviction of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe that the Prodi Commission has honoured the commitments it made to this House five years ago.
But how can one review the achievements of this Commission and then insist that you had only one foot in Brussels.
We acknowledge the fact that during the reform of the European Union and the work of the Convention, you and your Commission have been able to steer a straight course towards the strengthening and democratisation of the European Union, even amidst attacks not only on you personally, but also on the very existence of an autonomous and truly European institution such as yours.
This, however, did not help to avoid the war because the European Union as a whole refused once again to speak with one voice and to organise itself in such a way as to be able to speak with one voice on issues of war and peace.
We agree and are fairly satisfied with the proposal which your Commission has put forward in this regard, but it has come too late, following a serious crisis within the European Union.
On at least three issues, however, we have found ourselves on opposing sides.
We regret this, and hope to convince not only you but also your successor.
The first issue on which there was serious conflict with our group was undoubtedly genetically modified organisms: it was an error to lift the moratorium and I believe that EU citizens are aware of this.
Then, in relation to the issue of energy and the environment, very little has been done with regard to stepping up the role of renewable energies, which over these last five years have remained a little like the Cinderella of the debate.
Let us hope that we no longer have to deal with a Commission that believes that Parliament should not have a say on such matters. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr President of the Commission, to evaluate in three minutes the work done over five years by the Commission is rather like trying to square the circle.
During the crisis, the liberal wave rolls on and grows larger.
The last example is transatlantic relations.
That did not prevent the Commission from declaring to President Bush at the transatlantic summit of June 2003 – in other words, after the start of the war in Iraq – that when Europe and the United States are united, no enemy can stand up to us.
It is time to breathe some spirit of criticism into our institutions, contradiction being an engine of progress. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, there is no getting away from the fact that the way in which the outgoing European Commission acted towards the EU’s new members was exceptionally unjust.
All of the previous EU enlargements were carried out in accordance with the principle that the same conditions which applied to the countries that were already part of the EU should apply to the new members.
This was the case not only for countries such as Greece, Portugal and Ireland, which had national incomes as low as that of Poland, but which had market economies and were thus in a position to take rapid advantage of EU mechanisms.
The conditions upon which Poland and the other Eastern Bloc countries were accepted were much worse, as well as being unjust.
The EU monitors democracy in various countries outside the EU which do not have the slightest chance of ever joining it, and yet it lacked the courage to examine whether the referendums on EU accession were carried out in a democratic manner, and whether equal media time was available to both supporters and opponents of accession.
The draft Constitution was presented during this time, and the Commission’s support for this draft means that the EU is fast heading towards becoming a single state.
The Commission is gradually becoming a European government, and yet there is no consensus that this should happen. &#160;&#160; Mr President, at the start of your mandate we voted in favour in the hope that certain crucial knotty issues would be resolved.
Furthermore, measures to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings have been tackled in, let us say, a marginal way; the fight against terrorism has not been a real priority, despite the signs which even before 11 September were making it obvious that there was a need for stronger political and organisational action.
This meeting took place during an official visit by Mr&#160;Buzek, who was Prime Minister of Poland at the time and is now a Member of the European Parliament.
I accompanied Mr&#160;Buzek as Minister for European Affairs.
Since enlargement the EU has become more European and more representative of our continent, and we hope that given time we will also be able to compete more effectively with America and Asia.
In conclusion, however, today we are sitting in a Parliament that represents 25&#160;countries and not 15, and the credit for this is yours, Mr&#160;Prodi. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr President of the Commission, it is almost an event to see you in this House, given the extent to which your repeated absences in 2004 have been noticed and have been felt as a sign of your lack of interest in our Parliament.
There have been many instances of progress in the field of security in all its forms.
Although you have successfully carried enlargement through, you have never clearly launched the debate on Europe’s borders and on migration flows.
If people are to believe in a strong Europe that is closer to the people, there is still everything to be done in this area. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, rather than being offended, you should be amazed – as I am – that there are those – like Mrs Grossetête, who spoke before me – who, being unable to muster courage and a capacity for objectivity at this time, are obliged to be politically partisan.
I speak on behalf of my group and of many Members of this House when I confirm that you have indeed worked very closely and very well with this House.
The same can be said of the Vice-Presidents, Mrs de Palacio and Mr&#160;Kinnock and of all the members of this Commission.
Secondly, and contrary to what some Members have said, enlargement and the Mediterranean policy prove you right, and in these areas too, we will have demands to make of Mr Barroso; we will be asking whether he can pursue these to the same extent and with the same care as did the Commission under Mr Prodi.
I would have liked more in the field of employment policy and also in many other areas, but here it was not the Commission, but the Council that was, regrettably, very cautious and hesitant, as President Prodi has already pointed out.
He it was who was the first to have the courage to say, in language that was perhaps rather provocative, that the Stability Pact as it had been applied was not very intelligent.
Proposals have now been made, and I am convinced that most of us will back them, as will most of the finance ministers.
I am sure that Professor Prodi was also the first to recognise that.
What we Social Democrats and the majority in this House are doing is seeking to uphold the standards that this Commission has set in fundamental rights and freedoms and in non-discrimination.
The question will be, in the days to come, whether the Barroso Commission is able, particularly where fundamental rights and freedoms are concerned – the catalogue of which you were very actively involved in drawing up – to uphold these standards.
Mr Barroso must demonstrate his ability to maintain them. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr President of the Commission, you are coming to the end of a term of office upon which you will have left the mark of your humane values and your high view of European integration, which we share.
You had to lead the difficult negotiations for enlargement of the EU, this great reunification of the European family.
Moreover, the positions you defended during the IGC have been taken into account in the draft European Constitution, which will, I hope, enable us in future to help this enlarged EU to thrive all the more.
Mr President of the Commission, the principal objectives you presented to Parliament on 15&#160;February 2000 have been achieved.
On behalf of the European people that we represent in this House, I wish quite simply to thank you. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, your Commission is rightly proud of its role in the enlargement of the European Union.
The European Free Alliance parties welcome our new neighbours and look forward to the day when our own countries – Scotland, Wales and Catalonia for example – can take their place at the top table as independent Member States.
Five years ago, Mr Prodi, you spoke at some length about the need for the European Union to reconnect with its citizens.
Until five years ago opinion polls showed there to be higher levels of public support for the EU in Scotland than in other parts of the UK.
You could have taken up proposals from this Parliament to establish meaningful, devolved, regional management of fisheries, but instead you promoted toothless advisory councils.
The Commission's end-of-term report, fisheries section, must therefore read 'failed'! &#160;&#160; Mr President, you know how over all these years we have kept up a constant and also radical criticism of the way in which this Europe of ours is being forged.
For this reason, rather than just reiterating our criticisms, which are harsh, of the way in which your Commission has acted – criticism of which you are already aware – I will put to you a question on which we can reflect together: where does the European project stand in relation to globalisation?
Finally, we must lament the fact that the reform of the Stability Pact, which has been considered an urgent matter since 2001, is still incomplete, particularly after the crisis following 11&#160;September.
As other Members have done, I would also like to remind you that in this Chamber, or rather in the Chamber of Strasbourg, it was Mr Prodi himself who correctly described the pact as stupid.
To conclude, it has truly saddened us, Mr Prodi, perhaps because in 1999 we too gave you our trust, to have seen you all too often playing a leading party role in Italian national politics.
The EU’s previous enlargement to include countries of former eastern Europe is open to criticism as regards its timescale or some of the modalities involved, but nobody challenges the principle that those eastern European countries belong to the common European civilisation.
At times this may have annoyed certain national governments, but there is no doubt that it has represented a great step forward for the Union, and it has been put on an official footing for the first time in the new principles of the Constitutional Treaty.
Of course, Europe still has difficult challenges ahead in creating peace and security, in combating terrorism in a truly effective way, and not with war, and in restoring impetus to our societies and economies along the Lisbon lines.
But these are challenges that can be met only if we have stronger institutions, as you said, and a more united Europe, and this is the approach that the Prodi Commission has adopted in its patient and resolute work.
In the face of these challenges, the Member States have not always responded with one voice.
But the Commission under your command has firmly held its course in the direction of an ever greater and more unified Europe.
The unification of Europe that has been achieved through the accession of ten new countries, the greatest enlargement ever seen in history, has healed the scars of fifty years of divisions and has been the political response to the end of the Cold War.
The neighbourhood policy has made it possible to stabilise the Balkans and Europe’s borders.
Finally, the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe is an historic step and for us represents a new starting point on the route towards the goal of political integration.
If I had to sum it all up in two words, I would know exactly which ones to choose: ‘mission accomplished’ &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, there is a consistent thread running through your work and that of the Commission: the desire for Europe’s political union.
One of your key aims was successful enlargement of the European Union.
In May this year the EU welcomed ten new Member States in the largest expansion since its creation.
This was a historic moment in the post-Cold War history of our continent and it is only right to acknowledge your role in attaining this political milestone.
The Lisbon Strategy was embarked upon under your watch but, sadly, too little progress has been made and Mr Wim Kok’s report to the Council in November will probably reveal this.
When you spoke to Parliament in 2000, setting out your priorities as President, you said: ‘Europe’s citizens are disenchanted and anxious.
This Parliament was then in a rather paradoxical situation.
You arrived filled with a spirit of distrust of our institution because, ever since we had ceased to be indulgent and had banged our fists on the table, the Commission saw us as a threat and seemed to tremble whenever our institution took the slightest initiative.
Since then, it seems to me that matters have righted themselves.
You have renewed the closeness that existed between our two institutions, and you have not become the government of Europe, with or without the Draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, which our nations are now asked to consider.
The first is the occasion on which you appointed a group of ‘wise men’ around Mr&#160;Dehaene who, intelligently enough, had proposed that our documents be divided into two parts and that our common policies be revised to reflect the majority opinion.
There were also the Sapir and Penelope reports. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate you for having presided over a Commission that has contributed so much to the political unification of Europe.
That was Roy Jenkins, who showed the British that Europe is so important to their national life that radical political change also had to take place inside his own country. &#160;&#160; Mr President, President of the Commission, over recent years Europe has taken many steps forward and some important goals have been achieved: reunification with the eastern countries, the birth of the euro, the signing of the first Constitution; these were achieved through the commitment of all the Union’s institutions: Commission, Council and Parliament.
Even we, your political opponents in Italy, had given you our vote of confidence for the sake of the greater interests of the European Union and of our country.
You, on the other hand, have preferred to use your prestigious post in order to carry out political activities in Italy directed against the government and to take on the leadership of the opposition.
We would have preferred to see you adopt an attitude like that of Jacques Delors, who forsook the leadership of the commune of Clichy before taking on the presidency of the Commission.
This is a huge legislative package which has raised our status once again, for example, as a legislator on the world stage, and in putting us in a position to compete once more with the United States.
The outlying areas welcomed the working method based on a permanent dialogue with the regions and local authorities, a method which was confirmed by the Commission in its communication of December 2003 and also evidenced by the call to local authority representatives, under the title ‘A thousand debates for Europe’ on the subject of the Constitution, which you launched, Mr Prodi, together with Mr Cox, Parliament’s former president, and the President of the Committee of the Regions.
Over these past years, with the White Paper on the new system of governance, the Commission has tackled the problem of the EU democratic deficit, relaunching the concept of grassroots democracy.
With EU policies it has helped the weakest European regions to create institutions to promote development and has introduced a culture of planning, assessment and assimilation of intervention. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the European Commission under Romano Prodi’s leadership is finishing its term.
It is true that during the term in office of this particular Commission the largest EU enlargement was carried out successfully and my homeland, Lithuania, became a fully-fledged member of the European Union.
It is most likely that in the near future the name of Romano Prodi will be in the textbooks of Lithuanian children.
This policy, which is of the greatest importance, seeks not just to extend the borders of the EU, but also to extend the area of peace and stability in Europe.
It is a fact that sometimes our neighbours are countries with a highly developed bureaucracy and controlled democracy.
If one looks at the figures on financial assistance for strengthening democracy in Belarus and guaranteeing civil and human rights, comparing the United States of America and the EU one might question whether Belarus is on the eastern border of the United States or the EU.
I wish the Members of the Commission well. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Prodi Commission’s term of office will go down in history as the time of the largest and most crucial enlargement in the history of the EU.
Yet although the enlargement itself was a success for the&#160;Prodi Commission, it is hard to view the conditions upon which it was carried out as such.
The Commission imposed tough and unfair negotiating conditions on the candidate countries, and the process of achieving full membership rights and levelling out development differences will be a long one.
The firmly established division into an old EU and a new EU will cause problems for us all, and it is a pity that this historic opportunity was not exploited fully.
There was a lack of political imagination, and of a vision of a Europe fully committed to solidarity.
As Polish members of the People’s Party, we want nothing to do with such reforms and such a policy.
The big threat to peace in the Middle East lies not with the small democracy there but with the big dictatorships.
I believe that the European Union must also develop a policy for the Middle East that dares to get to grips with the problems that Iran now presents. &#160;&#160; Mr President, during the period when Mr Delors led the Commission, Europe witnessed the fall of communism, the restoration of democracy in the East, the emergence of new states, and, concomitantly, the initiation of the political process leading to the unification of Europe.
The presidency of Mr Santer saw the evolution of the process of bringing the candidate states into the greatest enlargement of the European Union in its history.
Mr President, I am pleased that the Commission has followed the vision and the priorities that you set out from the very beginning of your presidency, and I am also pleased that your efforts have left a powerful impression on this unique period in the development of the European Union and on European history.
I have noted and digested what you have all said on industrial development, on the need for an economic upturn in Europe and on the fact that the rules which apply to industry ought not to act as a brake on this development.
Instead, I would like to conclude simply with a remark and with my thanks.
The priority that we give to multilateralism, our way of seeing the world as a single whole, for the first time ever in so many different realms – that of the environment, the economy, energy – and therefore trying to find working methods that are suited to this view: this is the extraordinary contribution that Europe is striving to give to the globalised world.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; – The policies promoted by the outgoing Commission had an adverse impact on the working classes and grass roots sections of society.
The grass-roots movement in Europe is growing stronger and is putting up resistance.
I would also like to wish all of you every success, and I hope that through the work of everybody, of all the institutions working together, we can realise the dream we all share: a better Europe at the service of the citizens and also a better Europe at the service of the world.
I regret, Mr President, that my first appearance before the honourable Members relates to an issue that has caused so much emotion, so much frustration and so much passion over recent years.
The issue of the Middle East has a place in the hearts of all the citizens of Europe and we feel the suffering of the peoples of that region that is so close to us as if it were our own.
The first point is our view of the recent events that have taken place in that region; the second is to analyse the political situation both in Palestine and in Israel; and thirdly, how the European Union sees the current situation and how, amongst all of us, we might find a way to speed up the peace process and thereby put an end to this spiral of violence we are caught up in.
With regard to the first point, that of recent events, I would like to go back, Mr President, to the last meeting of the Quartet in New York on 22 September.
Some of these points seemed perhaps to have been forgotten or to have been put to sleep, but fortunately, thanks to that meeting of the Quartet on 22 September, they seem to have recovered their place in people’s hearts.
But that resolution also talks of the need to stop the settlements, of the fact that the members of the Quartet should take note of the Decision of the International Criminal Court on the wall and that we members of the Quartet want the process of withdrawal from Gaza, which has been put into motion in Israel, to be part of broader political process and that it should genuinely lead to a resolution of the problem in its entirety.
Since then, 22 September, the situation on the ground in Gaza has unfortunately deteriorated.
What we have seen in recent days and weeks around Gaza has made us all suffer and, above all, has made us all reflect on what point there is to certain actions on the ground.
It has been a response which we believe goes beyond what could be described as proportional: 119 deaths, a third of them of under-18s, amongst Palestinians; five deaths amongst Israelis, including two children.
I would, therefore, like to express my total condemnation of this attack which made sense to the terrorists: to try to destabilise a country, Egypt, which is cooperating in the peace process in an admirable way.
I would, therefore, once again appeal to everybody who can hear us via this European Parliament for common sense, peace, an end to the violence, so that Israel’s process of withdrawal from Gaza can go ahead in peace and tranquillity, with no more victims on any side.
The second point I wanted to comment on is the situation in Palestine: you know it very well; you are well aware of the European Union’s position.
With regard to the economic element, Mr President, I believe that our good friend the Minister for Finance is doing an admirable job.
Israel keeps saying day after day that it cannot find an interlocutor with whom it can discuss the peace process.
The negative vote two days ago in the Knesset raises a political problem for Prime Minister Sharon with regard to the decisions to be taken on the plan to withdraw from Gaza: the essential vote on funding, on the process of disengagement from Gaza, I believe, is also creating difficulties within Israeli political society.
In any event, however, it is also very probable that the elections scheduled for 2006 may have to be brought forward to 2005 for the reasons I have just explained.
Ladies and gentlemen, the road map talked of a peace process that should lead to two States by the end of 2005.
And that is a great failure on all our parts and very specifically on the part of Israel and Palestine and on the part of the Quartet and the international community.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the European Union has a clear direction, set out in the road map, which is also the result of the efforts of the Europeans, the Americans, the United Nations and the Russian Federation.
The European Union is going to help the Palestinian Authority in every way it can to ensure that the process of reform which has begun is carried through to its conclusion.
The leaders of the Palestinian Authority have our absolute assurance that, if they want to progress towards reform, we will always stand by them.
Commissioner Patten will talk about this in more detail, but, in any event, you must be aware that we are prepared to continue helping to ensure that, from an economic point of view, this peace process does not have to suffer from a lack of resources from the European Union.
And I would like to point out that, if the process of disengagement from Gaza is aimed solely and exclusively at Gaza, the citizens and leaders of Israel must be in no doubt that they cannot count on the European Union's money.
The Gaza process must be part of a longer process, a process that truly leads to two States, which is the fundamental objective of the road map.
We must help to establish an electoral process in the Territories which the Palestinians can lead; to establish an electoral commission which is reliable and which has the trust of the people, so that the electoral process can create a leadership – the leadership the Palestinian citizens want – which can lead that country towards its ultimate dream, a dream many of us share, the dream of two States.
We have that will and, once the elections have taken place in the United States of America, we will try to continue working with them, with our Russian friends and with our friends in the United Nations, to see whether it is possible to speed up the road map, so that this slowness which leads to suffering and frustration – and nothing positive for the Palestinians, nor for the Israelis, nor for the region, nor for us or our societies – comes to an end and much quicker progress genuinely begins and leads us to what we all dream of, which is – as I have said before – the two States.
I would like to say once again that, from the European Union’s point of view, some of the elements of the final debate on these parameters are clear to us.
Having spoken, as we have in recent days, to the leaders of Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, I would like to point out that they all have the same feeling that, without knowing exactly where we are going, nor what the borders of the new Palestinian State are, nor when that leap forward is going to happen, the stability of their own countries is to a certain degree in jeopardy.
Mr President, the situation – as I have said – is sad and frustrating for those who have dedicated so many hours of their lives to trying to find a path to peace.
It is important that a solution is found, because the whole of the Middle East – not just the peace process, but the whole of the Middle East – has been plunged into a profound crisis and we all want to get out of it.
I have lost count of the number of debates on this subject there have been since I took office.
Just the other day, as the High Representative pointed out, we saw the dreadful massacre of Israeli tourists in Egypt.
We had Camp David, Taba and the understandings reached there, and excellent reports from Mitchell, Tennet and Zinni, all of which were to no avail.
The latest initiative is Prime Minister Sharon’s proposals for unilateral disengagement in Gaza.
However, there are, as the High Representative pointed out, many questions that need to be clarified, not least in the broader context of the roadmap.
During the course of my mandate, I have tried with the support of the majority of Parliament to build a reformed Palestinian Authority capable of governing Palestine in due course and of negotiating and reaching a settlement with Israel.
The deadly combination of too little action on the Palestinian side and what has perhaps been too much action on the Israeli side, has quite successfully destroyed most of the authority that the Palestinian Authority might otherwise have had.
The High Representative noted the general work that we have done to support economic development as well as institutional development and humanitarian relief in Palestine.
I expect that this Parliament will now start asking itself some searching questions about the continuation of assistance on the present scale.
Otherwise the money will simply be wasted, in the same way that too much of what we have done already has been wasted.
I repeat that, working on the basis of the report by the Council on Foreign Relations, working on the basis of the work initiated by Mr&#160;Rocard and his colleagues on that Council, we have done more than anyone else to put in place reformed institutions in Palestine.
It must be said, however, that without political progress, without an improvement in the security situation and without a more effective dialogue with Israel, it is going to be incredibly difficult to continue to justify that sort of help and that sort of expenditure.
If we do not succeed in that then to return to what is – I think – the last line of Euripedes’ Hecuba: ‘fate compels and none can resist’.
Bloodshed after bloodshed after bloodshed, revenge after revenge after revenge, unless people in Washington, in Europe and, above all, in Israel and Palestine, have the political courage to try to deliver what their people deserve and what the whole world requires. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr Solana, Commissioner, you have said that this was your last speech in this House, and I think that many of us feel – as I myself do despite our many differences of opinion – that you were one of the most important and outstanding personalities in this Commission, who gave foreign policy a quite special edge, for which I would like to thank you most warmly on behalf of our group.
Mr Sharon, the Prime Minister, spoke about this on Monday in the Knesset, and I believe that we Europeans should also insist on that; it is this position that unites the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
In recent years, we have gained the impression that the more the situation escalated, the more money Europe gave, in order to try and bring about social stability.
There is a causal connection between this regional conflict and worldwide radicalisation.
Commissioner Patten, you referred to Hecuba.
It is true to say that the reform of the security forces is tied together with this phenomenon.
We, then, as Europeans, need the courage to encourage and openly back those in the region who are prepared to commence dialogue with one another, without preconditions if at all possible.
This conflict has gone on for so many decades and has involved so much suffering, for the Palestinian people, of course, but also for the Israeli people, who live in constant fear of acts of terrorism and of suicide bombs.
We must consider having a practical international presence in the region that can supervise the withdrawal from Gaza and perhaps also remain there in the longer term.
The whole world stands to gain from peace in the Middle East, and it is also an important part of the fight against international terrorism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is the case that, as pointed out by the School of Culture and Peace of the Autonomous University of Barcelona, the situation in Israel and Palestine has far from improved over recent months, in fact quite the opposite.
The judgment of the International Court of Justice on the separation wall built by Israel, the refusal of that country to comply with it, the feeling in diplomatic circles that the Quartet’s road map is on the brink of failure and the protests from Palestinian groups at the corruption in Gaza are just some examples of these steps backwards.
I have two proposals: to pursue and support the proposal to provide all the resources necessary to create a normal and transparent election process in Palestine so that Sharon can no longer use the argument that there is no legitimate and valid interlocutor on the Palestinian side, but also, in view of the insulting disregard Sharon has shown not only for human rights but also for international law, rather than continuing to export arms to Israel – as no small number of European countries have been doing over recent years, of which I would mention Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom, amongst others – I believe the time has come for the European Union to take much more determined measures in order to put pressure on the current Israeli Government, and I would not rule out the possibility of cancelling the association agreement.
Finally, I should like, on behalf of my group, to express our undivided support for the Palestinian people, who continue to resist and fight for their independence, and for the forces for peace in Israel acting to put an end to the bloodshed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, terror and trauma go hand in hand in the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians; they are the dual results of one single craving for destruction shared by the terrorist organisations Hamas, Islamic Jihad and Hezbollah.
I would like to hear what the Council’s High Representative has to say in response to this insistent appeal.
It is not only for reasons of history that this should be of concern to us in Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Israeli defence forces are currently continuing with the largest incursion into Gaza since the beginning of the Intifada and death tolls are continuing to rise.
The actions of the Israeli army are simply disproportionate and this is a view that is shared by Kofi Annan, the EU foreign ministers and many more.
I cautiously welcome Prime Minister Sharon's announced intention of complete withdrawal from the Gaza Strip, but there are a number of conditions that must be met in the context of future Israeli withdrawal from Gaza.
This withdrawal must take place in the context of the Quartet's roadmap agreement.
Israel must also facilitate the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Gaza.
The members of the international Quartet, namely the European Union, Russia, the United States and the United Nations, are all committed to this roadmap plan.
I believe we should be asking both sides in this conflict to have this courage and show their leadership.
The subject under discussion is the situation in the Middle East, as it was a few months ago, and as it was a year ago and even 15 years ago, as Commissioner&#160;Patten pointed out earlier.
In conclusion, let us be generous, but let us examine what our money is being spent on. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, in his speech Mr&#160;Solana acknowledged Europe’s helplessness in the face of the Israel-Palestine conflict, yet it is not only Europe that is helpless.
The same applies to the United Nations and the United States.
The road map must be adhered to, as the road map also acts as a signpost for the European Union.
That is all well and good, but there can be no doubt that our position should be more open and flexible, and that more should be done to adapt our policies to the changing political situation.
Thought must also be given to the steps and measures that should be taken in order to support this project.
We have discussed this approach during previous debates on strengthening the peace and stabilisation process in Iraq, and this is also the right policy to pursue with regard to Iran and Libya.
We are experiencing success both in the fight against terrorism and in measures to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, as in the case of Libya.
A cynical forecast, instrumental in justifying a wrong and illegal war.
A forecast belied by the terrible picture before our eyes: despair in the Palestinian camp, growing terrorism and fundamentalism, crisis in the Palestinian Authority and fear in Israeli society, which gives Prime Minister Sharon the opportunity to unleash indiscriminate repression and to proceed undaunted with the construction of the wall.
The international community, and above all the Middle East Quartet, ought to draw some conclusions from all this and reflect on this fact.
As for the possibility of a solution to the conflict, the Geneva negotiators, in contrast to Camp David, have demonstrated that it is possible to find dignified solutions to which both sides can agree on all the points of conflict, even on the most sensitive and thorny issues, such as the status of Jerusalem and the right to return up until the final status.
The Middle East question ought, moreover, to have absolute priority in the relations between the European Union and the United States – in the hope that there will be a change in the administration there.
Today we can also rely on the positive role played by some Arab countries – Egypt and Jordan – and on the improvement of our relations with Syria and the normalisation of relations with Libya.
Tomorrow, this state of affairs could be very different.
I would very much recommend that, firstly, attention be given to the proposal from Mr&#160;Romeva&#160;i&#160;Rueda about cancelling the cooperation agreement so that there are at least some minimum consequences of continually breaching the agreements.
We shall have no viable states because Israel will die in the process, and it is therefore vital for both Israel and Palestine that we begin also to speak to the Israelis as if they could tolerate being talked to as grown-up people. &#160;&#160; Madam President, 3&#160;500 Palestinians dead, and over 1&#160;000 Israelis: my dear Mr Solana, you speak of an ‘appeal’ and talk of hoping that the Israeli forces will withdraw from Gaza.
What we see before us is an occupied country and international law being totally rejected.
You should believe Sharon when he tells Winston Churchill’s descendant that he will squeeze the Palestinians of Gaza and the West Bank like a pastrami sandwich.
Dove Weisglass is not lying when he clearly asserts that withdrawing from Gaza simply means mothballing the peace process.
Ayman, 13 years old, who was going to school with his schoolbag on and was shot dead, is the symbol of the barbarity to which an army of military occupation can stoop, just as, obviously, it is barbarous that Hamas should send Palestinian children to throw bombs at Israeli citizens.
It is these voices to which we should listen. &#160;&#160; Madam President, unlike the previous speaker I refuse to condemn so forcefully the government of Israel or the Israeli defence force in its operation on 29 September in Gaza to prevent Hamas – an organisation banned by both the US and the EU – from launching Qassam rockets which recently killed two Israeli children and wounded ten civilians in Sderot.
No government anywhere can tolerate civilian fatalities killed by a deadly and implacable enemy without reserving the right to retaliate with all the means at its disposal, and the Palestinian Authority has clearly not reined in its terrorists.
The BBC, not renowned as a friend of Israel, has reported that 15 out of 16 of the Palestinian men killed by the IDF were known terrorist militants.
Prime Minister Sharon, in spite of fierce Likud opposition, is pressing ahead with withdrawal of settlements from Gaza as a way of kick-starting the roadmap for peace in the Middle East again and bringing about a two-state solution.
Since the second intifada, there have been 4&#160;350 deaths, including the deaths of 3&#160;500 Palestinians; 33&#160;600 houses have been destroyed; and, since the ‘Day of Penitence’ operation orchestrated by the Sharon government, 120 Palestinians and three Israelis have been killed.
So what are we, the European Parliament, able to do?
Furthermore, as a result of the of the United States, the road map is practically dead and it will be very difficult to bring it back to life.
If the European Union cannot get Middle East peace back on track quickly, this issue will continue to poison peace and security in the Middle East and throughout the Mediterranean. &#160;&#160; Madam President, there is widespread frustration and bafflement in Europe at the failure of the Middle East peace process to make any headway, even though we all think we know what the result of that process should be: two states and the territorial disputes sorted out amicably.
No doubt, alas, the wall must remain in place until such time as the Palestinian Autonomous Authority itself becomes willing to use its own police and security forces to arrest those who carry out these attacks.
Gaza is another point at issue.
It is evident that certain Palestinian elements are almost afraid of the prospect of an Israeli withdrawal, for, in that event, Palestinians in Gaza would at last have to get themselves organised and get stuck into rebuilding the city and its surroundings.
Its withdrawal should also open up a way back to implementing the road map, which is what the quartet demanded on 22 September.
When I see though, the way in which, in this little piece of land in Gaza, Palestinian police and security forces in their thousands are evidently incapable of preventing these Kassam rockets from being launched, I really do start to suspect that Israel is being provoked into staying put in Gaza.
All parties have signed up to it and must do what they have undertaken to do. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, the Spanish Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that, in relation to the Middle East conflict, there have been too many statements and little action and that it is now time to act.
They have been waiting since the Union's Venice Declaration of 13 June 1980. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr Solana, Commissioner, I would like to start by apologising for the fact that another commitment will require me to leave shortly after I have finished speaking.
The same is true of elections, which are necessary, and I am absolutely in favour of them.
It follows that Israel really must play a full part in it and be willing to put these things into practice.
If it is the case that we can achieve the approval of a law to do the opposite within two weeks, it will be a success for Gaza and for the future of the West Bank.
I believe there will, because in this case the Labour Party is going to support Prime Minister Sharon so that this law can be implemented.
I believe we must take a more courageous step forward and begin to define the final parameters on which the two parties must agree.
Madam President, if you will allow me to change subject, I believe this is the last time I will be in this House, in the European Parliament, with a good friend, Commissioner Chris Patten.
Thank you, Chris, for your cooperation over the last five years.
The European Union cannot continue to maintain a weak position.
The Bush administration vetoed a draft resolution condemning Israel’s terrorist activities, whilst the people are fighting for their right to freedom and dignity.
Firstly, we have appointed a special representative, Mr Heikki Talvitie, who represents us in the region, and particularly in Georgia.
It is working very well.
It is an innovation, one of the many operations and actions the European Union can carry out among the whole panoply of capabilities we have for helping countries in transition.
The situation in Georgia is not good from an economic point of view.
Georgia has solved one problem through the autonomy of Ajaria, but there are still two big problems which will not be solved so easily: the problem of South Ossetia and the problem of Abkhazia.
But the solution of those problems will not be as simple and easy as the one I mentioned before, which was resolved quite smoothly through the autonomy process.
We are ready to play that role if necessary, but we have the impression that these two issues are going to take more time and will be more difficult.
Georgia cannot be isolated from its two other neighbours in the southern Caucasus: Azerbaijan and Armenia.
I therefore want to say that President Saakashvili has the support of the European Union.
We are going to help him with the reforms he has to make internally and in Georgia's relations with neighbouring countries, in particular its relations with Russia, which will be highly important.
President Saakashvili has said he will not accept forces from any other country in his territory and therefore he will give guarantees to the Russians that they can leave without the risk of any forces from any other country appearing in Georgia.
A good start has been made in addressing the structural problems facing Georgia, tackling for example endemic corruption, which has harmed every facet of life in Georgia.
As far as Georgia is concerned, the onus will be on that country to demonstrate genuine commitment to achieving political and economic reform, which is the only way of guaranteeing Georgia’s long-term stability.
Our position in the EU is clear: we support the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Georgia; we call on all parties to work for solutions to the conflicts through negotiation, confidence-building and exclusively peaceful means.
Our rehabilitation programmes in South Ossetia and Abkhazia can help to build confidence between the communities.
It is essential – if we are to solve conflicts and secure Georgia’s long-term stability – to see a serious improvement in the relations between Georgia and Russia.
We hope that the presidents and governments of those countries can work to find solutions to the bilateral differences in full respect of each country’s sovereignty.
From our perspective, the South Caucasus is an extremely important part of the common neighbourhood of the European Union and Russia.
Finally, I wish to express my gratitude to my friend, the High Representative, for what he said which – to borrow a remark – my father would have greatly enjoyed and my mother would have believed.
It has been a great pleasure working with Javier Solana over the last five years.
I wish my successors as European Commissioners responsible for the portfolio which I have enjoyed the best of good fortune as well.
Its people, who are our European neighbours, need this.
We must support Georgia as a country which has affirmed its Euroatlantic aspirations and has already begun to take concrete steps to move closer to the principles and standards of the European Union.
May those countries which accept our ideals, move closer to us in all respects.
Very quickly, separatist movements in South Ossetia and Abkhazia have managed, by dint of armed conflict, to wrest important parts of the country from central government control.
Despite almost unceasing attempts by both the UN in Abkhazia and the OSCE in South Ossetia to reach a peaceful political settlement of these conflicts, not a great deal of progress has been made to date.
The continued existence of these hotbeds of conflict constitutes a permanent threat to stability in Georgia.
After eight new Member States from Central Europe joined the European Union, the problems of the neighbouring countries, particularly the states that were once part of the Soviet Union, have drawn a lot closer to us.
The European Union is required to shoulder much greater responsibility to a far greater extent than before in order to reinforce democracy and stability in those countries.
It follows that a sudden outbreak of conflicts and a permanent suppression of human rights on our doorstep constitutes a threat to stability and democracy in the Member States of the EU itself.
The conclusion of partnership and cooperation agreements and the development by the Commission of the strategy for the new neighbours and the action plans ensuing from this were a first step in the direction of shouldering this greater responsibility.
On behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I would urge the Commission and Council to promptly translate these initiatives into concrete measures, both in the field of reinforcing democracy and in the field of a thorough reform of economic and social policy in the relevant countries.
It will also need to include greater involvement in looking for a peaceful solution to the conflicts in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, and not only there, but also in Transnistria and Nagorno-Karabakh.
For the European Union, this is not about wanting to elbow Russia out of that part of Europe and extending its own geostrategic interest in Eastern Europe.
The European Union – where possible in tandem with Russia – has an interest in establishing peace, stability, economic and social progress on or near its borders.
This new impetus must not weaken, and we all have a responsibility for supporting this peaceful movement.
The escalation in violence, together with the killings and woundings condemned last summer in South Ossetia show the extent to which Georgia, like the whole of this Southern Caucasus region, remains fragile and in danger of tipping over into armed conflict.
My first question is simple: what are the undertakings that the European Union intends to request of Russia in order to bring about a lasting resolution in this region of the conflicts that have died down but that have not been resolved?
The EU’s commitment in this region has certainly been stepped up, as you said, in the form of the EU’s Special Representative and the Rule of Law Mission to Georgia – a first, as you emphasised.
Let us not leave these countries alone in facing the issue of European borders.
The head of the Georgian state was elected on 4 January 2004, when President&#160;Saakashvili received a democratic mandate unprecedented in our part of the world.
President&#160;Saakashvili’s mandate is also a time of great hope for the entire Georgian people.
I was particularly interested in Mr&#160;Patten’s comments on placing the issue of support for Georgia and President&#160;Saakashvili’s ambitions on the agenda for bilateral talks with Russia.
I believe we should adopt a very determined approach during these talks, as Russia’s position is key to solving Georgia’s problems in the near future.
It is also crucial to resolving a situation which, as can be seen from our motion for a resolution, we all agree is at stalemate, despite all the efforts of the international community.
Beslan, the ‘rose revolution’ in November 2003 and the troubles in Georgia this past summer are only the tip of the iceberg.
It is therefore important for the European Union to take prompt action to promote the reform of the legal, prison and taxation systems in order to combat corruption and enable the territory to be controlled effectively; to increase the resources available to the EU’s special representative in the Caucasus; to help to redefine the relationship between the centre and the regions, through the transfer of public assets from the centre to those areas that are most economically depressed and at the same time ethnically diverse, so as to prevent new centrifugal forces; to strengthen the role of civil society, particularly in the secessionist regions; and, finally, to use every possible means to prevent renewed military activity, in coordination with the OECD. &#160;&#160; –Madam President, Mr&#160;Solana, we want complete demilitarisation of the region; we want Russia to withdraw from the area.
Special envoy Heikki Talvitie has done a good job there, but the Caucasus region shows all the symptoms of deepening and continuing conflicts: ethnic, economic, religious, military and political.
The continuing conflict in Georgia concerns us all, because it creates the conditions for the destabilisation of the Caucasus as a whole, with repercussions on the strategic security interests of the European Union and its Member States, the Balkans and the south-eastern Mediterranean and Middle East as a whole.
Bearing in mind the energy-related risks in the area, the European Union should immediately take specific initiatives to promote a peaceful resolution to the conflicts in Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
Within this framework, convening an international conference under the aegis of the UN might help in finding a peaceful and diplomatic solution.
At the same time, the European Union should work out specific initiatives within the framework of the European neighbourhood policy and make its strategic presence in the area more visible.
Strategic planning is required, together with strong economic aid in the form of assistance from the European Investment Bank and preferential trade relations with Georgia and the other countries in the Caucasus.
I should like to close by highlighting the crucial role played by Russia in the area.
The European Union needs to dynamically integrate relations with the Caucasus into political dialogue with Russia.
At the same time, we need to express our constant opposition to the stand of the Putin administration on preventive military intervention, just as we have consistently done on the US doctrine of the Bush administration.
This stand jeopardises peace because it feeds conflict, it feeds the vicious circle of terrorism and organised crime. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I shall be brief because I believe that we are all in agreement about what is to be done and said about Georgia and about the countries neighbouring our enlarged Europe.
I should like to emphasise three points that, in my opinion, are significant and important.
We also need to cooperate with these countries concerning economic reforms, particularly in Georgia.
I should like, however, to emphasise two other points in particular: first of all, relations with Russia, as several of you mentioned.
I can tell you that the issue of relations with the countries of the region is raised at all the meetings we have with our Russian friends, and at all levels; with President Putin, Minister Ivanov and everyone.
I can tell you that, at the meetings in New York, we talked in depth with our Russian friends and examined from all angles and in all ways the issue of the countries bordering upon Russia and the enlarged Europe.
I should also like to emphasise the role of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which no one has mentioned.
The OSCE is the organisation that is qualified to manage the issues between these regions and that also has responsibility for implementing the commitments of the Istanbul declaration concerning the withdrawal of Russian troops from Georgia in particular.
That being the case, I can tell you that we are all in agreement as to the need to cooperate with these countries and to provide them with all the political and economic aid they need.
For the time being, however, we must continue to operate within the framework of the neighbourhood policy and continue to make use of all the opportunities afforded to us by this mechanism. &#160;&#160; I thank the Council and all those who took part in this debate.
I should like to end by informing the House that the Bureau has received six motions for resolutions and that the vote will take place tomorrow. &#160;&#160; The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the future of the area of freedom, security and justice, which will also be put to the vote tomorrow in the report by Mr Bourlanges.
I would also like to thank you for the invitation to the presidency to exchange ideas with you about the multi-annual programme on Justice and Home Affairs.
As I have already told the Council, this preparation offers the opportunity of distancing ourselves somewhat from current concerns and of considering the medium term.
The Presidency believes that the core questions are: ‘What should we in the European Union be capable of in five years’ time?’ or ‘What should the area of freedom, security and justice look like at that time in order to meet the then requirements of our citizens?’ The latter is crucial.
I would, though, in this connection refer to such matters as the extension of the scope of the codecision procedure, civil rights, training police and judicial authorities, mutual recognition and, linked to this, common minimum standards, contingency plans, reinforcement of Europol and Eurojust and also the items concerning immigration, combating illegal immigration, asylum, repatriation and border control.
The presidency has deliberately not adopted this item, the reason being that with the already increased workload as a result of enlargement, it would be irresponsible to burden the Court now immediately with the jurisdiction across the board of Justice and Home Affairs.
It is therefore not a question of whether or not extending the Court’s jurisdiction is rejected but rather about making a different choice with regard to the priorities.
There are proposals that go in a direction that is certainly backed by the Netherlands and the Dutch Presidency, and I hope that it will be possible for the Justice and Home Affairs Council, and possibly the European Council at a later stage, to make an important step in that direction.
The intention is for the Council, composed of the Justice and Home Affairs ministers, to reach a political agreement on 26 October on the whole package, upon which it will be possible for the European Council to finalise matters on 5 November.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank Parliament, and in particular the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and its chairman, Mr&#160;Bourlanges, for its constant support in developing the Tampere Agenda over the past five years.
My participation today in this debate is extremely simple, because I could limit myself to saying that I welcome the resolution tabled by Mr Bourlanges, virtually in its entirety.
This decision will raise Parliament’s political profile, and will safeguard the principle of democratic legitimacy, which is crucial to introducing provisions in such sensitive areas as immigration policy, asylum policy and policies involving the citizens’ fundamental rights.
I welcome the initiatives taken by the Dutch Presidency in this regard and I hope that they will be successful at the European Council of 5&#160;November.
My second point concerns the question of priorities.
This programme needs a clear political profile, and that political profile must be the result of setting out a crucial number of priorities in such a way that people can understand them.
I believe that it is important, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for Parliament to send out a strong message to the Members of the European Council.
Indeed, the Commission, for its part, set out its priorities clearly in the communication that we sent out in June of this year.
In the dialogue with the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs, we were able to enter into greater detail on these matters.
What I should like to reiterate, therefore, in this final debate, is that what the Commission has found – based on the public consultation that we have carried out, and in the process of tabling our own proposals – is that the citizens have three fundamental concerns.
The first is that priority should be given, on the one hand, to civil and commercial justice, to cooperation in the field of criminal justice, and to the fight against terrorism, and, on the other, to joint criminal trials that ensure compliance with the values of the democratic rule of law and to pro-active action in protecting all victims of crime and, in particular, victims of terrorism.
The second concern is a strong desire to see the completion of the second stage of developing a European asylum system based on common procedure and on a common statute for recognising refugees and asylum seekers.
While the citizens have shown that they recognise Europe’s added value in the fight against terrorism, there is work still to do as regards demonstrating the importance of certain common instruments that have been created, such as Europol and Eurojust, and the need to ensure that, in the fight against organised crime and terrorism, the legislation that has been introduced guarantees that the general public’s fundamental rights and personal information will be protected.
I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that probably one of the areas in which the past five years have been less productive is that of regulating legal immigration.
I appreciate that, with regard to this question, we are still a long way from creating the conditions needed to approve joint legislation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to leave you with the message that I am sure that, with the acknowledged efficiency of the Dutch Presidency and with Parliament’s extremely substantial and welcome contribution, the multi-annual programme for the next five years will be taken forward successfully by my successor, whom I wish every success in building Europe as an area of freedom, security and justice.
Thank you very much. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for your brevity, Mr Vitorino, but please allow me to say that only time will tell whether this is to be your last speech in this House or whether it was simply the last one before the one you deliver on your return one day to this House.
Allow me firstly to thank Commissioner Vitorino for his valuable comments.
The Court of Justice does indeed have problems.
Let us acknowledge, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the report I am presenting to you is evidence of the considerable unity of the committee I chair, a unity that has not always been in evidence.
The central point of this report, and the one we are emphasising, is the extension of qualified majority voting and codecision to Title IV of the Treaty establishing the European Community.
We think that qualified majority voting is a guarantee of efficiency, and we think that codecision is a guarantee of democracy.
If, at institutional level, you have a great many things to do in support of the Constitutional Treaty, you therefore have something specific to do in this particular area, in order, as you have said, for this momentous change to take place in April.
There is also the issue of transparency in the Council.
This Parliament sets great store not only by the protection of fundamental rights, but also by their promotion.
This is a change of direction that also makes us want to see the human rights agency quickly put in place.
Regarding asylum and integration – highly sensitive subjects at the present time that, much more than other topics on the agenda, have certainly been at the root of a number of worries on the part of the members of my committee – let me state very clearly, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, that, if there are to be detention centres for asylum seekers, the central issue, on which everything depends, is that of being clear about what is the administrative and legal authority that has jurisdiction over these asylum seekers.
It is inconceivable, as far as our committee is concerned, that it can be any authority other than that of a Member State or of the European Union itself.
I shall conclude with a few words on terrorism and fundamental rights.
We are expecting the November Council to restore some logic to the matter and to ensure that people’s fundamental rights will be guaranteed where data protection is concerned. &#160;&#160; I cannot thank you for making a concise speech, but can certainly thank you for the passion with which you spoke. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the short time I have in which to speak, I will limit myself to one important demand in the area of freedom, security and justice, that being for discrimination of every kind to be combated.
We have arrived at a crucial moment for the area of freedom, security and justice.
There is a striking lack of political will on the part of the Member States, and the unanimity rule has, in many cases, reduced us to paralysis.
Finally, European immigration policy has been reduced by the Member States to its repressive apparatus.
Nor must the debate on the handling of asylum requests and on transit camps outside the EU ever lead to asylum being dealt with externally.
It is, finally, essential that the European Parliament be fully involved in the area of liberty, security and justice.
It is customary to say that no one is indispensable, but when someone is right for the job, they are missed when they are no longer there. &#160;&#160; Mr President, before I begin my planned remarks, I wish to correct the PPE attempt to rewrite history: the PPE and its right-wing allies voted on Monday to stop Mr Buttiglione being a Commissioner at all.
The record of implementation of EU decisions that are taken is poor.
The EU record on upholding fundamental rights, already fragile, is at risk and needs to improve radically.
The measures on asylum and immigration in the last five years are incomplete and unbalanced and have incorporated some of the worst aspects of national policies.
The EU should seek positively to raise standards of protection of citizens’ rights and a culture of respect for fundamental freedoms in order to create the mutual trust necessary for mutual recognition.
That being the case, I cannot believe, listening to you, Commissioners and members of the Council, that we are heading towards reinforcing our common asylum policy and promoting fundamental rights, when we allow to take place, under our very eyes and without any reaction on our part, what is nothing but a wholly illegal act of force, seriously damaging our desire and our efforts – laborious as they of course are – to progress towards a common asylum and immigration policy.
Any Member State could see such silence as an opportunity to put in place bilateral agreements that would totally undo our laborious efforts to devise a common policy.
I would therefore ask you, Presidents of the Commission and of the Council, to express your total disapproval of this type of agreement. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, this report invokes democracy and the rule of law.
Federalism in conjunction with supranational power means, however, a weakening of the legal systems that have their democratic basis in the Member States.
In short, the report fails to restore the balance between security imperatives and respect for human rights, in favour of the latter.
That is a quotation from one of, in all, eleven amendments by the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left which, together, serve to remedy the report’s striking deficiencies in one practical field, namely respect for immigrants and asylum seekers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the words spoken a little while ago on the situation in Lampedusa would have received a cold reception last Saturday and Sunday at the international colloquium in which important representatives of African countries of ECOWAS participated, who met with us from the European Parliament to discuss these very subjects.
I have the impression that the new African leadership has far clearer ideas on the subjects in question than someone who talks about such problems from a rather theoretical viewpoint.
We therefore do not agree with many aspects of this report, particularly where, as supporters of the sovereignty of individual Member States, we hear requests, even on such a sensitive issue, for a qualified majority vote and even for it to be brought in early before the Constitution enters into force.
We believe, in contrast, that Lampedusa actually demonstrates the importance of the role still played by the countries of origin.
These threats, may also be perceived as a challenge.
I would also like to draw particular attention to the threat to freedom posed by the intrusion of the state into areas of life to which it should not have access, namely areas of private life.
The challenge facing the European institutions and all Europeans is to strike a balance between the desire for a peaceful and safe life and the wish to live in freedom.
A very novel and original concept was thus concocted by way of a criterion for accession to our area of freedom, security and justice.
It follows that in the Commission’s opinion, there is no longer a fundamental human rights problem in Turkey.
According to the recommendation, Turkey respects priority being given to international law, the rights of the Kurdish minority are finally respected – albeit only verbally – and the Turks finally enjoy fundamental rights and freedoms.
On the very same day on which the Commission qualifies Turkey as a constitutional state, the Austrian newspaper reports that 14% of the asylum applications from Turkey are recognised, and as Reinhard Müller stated only two days ago in the , refugees are people who have fled their countries of origin out of reasonable fear of persecution.
I am going to restrict myself to two comments on what this new stage in the development of the European policing area of freedom and justice may mean.
The first is that, in the field of security of the Tampere Summit, I would stress two initiatives which I believe have been very significant in terms of creating this area.
The second consideration must provide us with a methodology on which to base this second phase in the development of the area.
Firstly, diagnosis: the Council must ask the governments what the main security problem facing those countries is and we need to identify the main problem affecting the security of the Europeans.
And, after the diagnosis and after the political project, we will then know exactly how to shape and define a European police and judicial area.
And if we are not capable of being efficient and if we do not relate the area to the resolution of the problem, there will be no common police and judicial area. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, on the eve of this most important, not to say crucial, Council concerning the construction of the European judicial area, I should like firstly to express a wish: that there finally be a genuine debate with the Council and that the Council finally listen to what the European Parliament is saying.
Firstly, I think it essential that a genuinely proactive policy on legal immigration finally be adopted.
On the subject of the priority given to the fight against terrorism, there is of course agreement concerning the basis and essential features of this fight, but there are two things we expect from the Council.
Secondly, we want the fight against terrorism to involve seeking a balance between people’s security and people’s freedom and for us not to imitate our American friends who, in their battle against the terrorist enemy, flout the most fundamental of essential rights.
The course of justice and security in Europe took a backward step when internal border controls were abolished.
The UK Independence Party will re-establish Britain’s border controls and take back the right to say who shall enter our country.
Countries are perfectly capable of establishing their own humane criteria for asylum seekers and of managing their own security systems.
The inescapable truth is that Sinn Féin, which masquerades as a democratic party and has two shameless Members in this House, is largely funded by organised criminal activity.
My call in this House is that across Europe, under the aegis of each nation-state, organised crime should be relentlessly pursued. &#160;&#160; I shall now give the floor to Mr Donner, President-in-Office of the Council, given that pursuant to the Council Rules of Procedure he has the right to the floor whenever he requests it.
Before I give him the floor, however, I should like to point out to the Dutch Presidency that, in the sittings in which the Council speaks and makes statements, the Presidency’s agenda must be set in such a way that it can attend all debates.
This is because debates with Parliament are not mere formalities, but are a crucial element in the relationship between the Council and Parliament.
In response to your last remark, let me say that I did my level best to do this and ascertained beforehand how much time was needed, and was given that amount of time, as a result of which I was able to plan my other engagements accordingly.
Although this is not my last meeting with Mr Vitorino, I think it is appropriate to take this opportunity of thanking him warmly, also on behalf of the Council, for the cooperation between the Council and Commission in this whole issue.
I myself come from a country where democracy was invented some time in the Middle Ages and took an awfully long time to prevail.
After all, cooperation among the countries of Europe implies that an alternative is found to guarantee that our citizens can exercise their rights in freedom and can live in safety.
This freedom and safety are under threat, not primarily by governments, but mainly by those who are our fellow citizens.
In a well-organised society, governments are the first guarantee for citizens’ freedoms and rights.
As already stated, the most important freedoms that are liable to be pushed aside are the freedoms that are sacrificed in the face of crimes against the life of our fellow human beings.
I have already stated in this respect that this is an important item at present, but that we should not make the mistake of using fear of terrorism as a basis on which to cooperate in this area within Europe.
In addition, there is cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs on the one hand and wider cooperation within the Union, on the other.
Those two should not be kept separate in a schizophrenic fashion which would mean that in the area of justice and home affairs, everything should be duplicated in respect of what has already been achieved in the European Union.
I would now like to address a number of remarks that have been made here about the development and future of asylum and immigration policy.
Taking that as a basis will, in fact, enable us to make progress at a later date by going into the detail of the matter.
This can only be done, though, if the initial basis has been laid by unanimity and that we can continue to build on that basis.
Let me point out that our first responsibility and first priority are dictated by the fact that even now, people are still drowning in the Mediterranean on a daily basis in their attempts to reach Europe.
The concern to find an effective and suitable solution to the issue in the Mediterranean was evident in these three speakers.
At the same time, it became clear that existing initiatives can be used as a basis for many things.
Statements have been made here about the Italian State, and the presidency has in any case asked Italy about its approach to the issue and what action is taken in the case of people submitting asylum applications.
The presidency has received the guarantee from the Italian Government that those people are admitted to the national asylum procedure and that the High Commissioner is involved in dealing with this.
It is then our responsibility to ensure that reception is possible in those countries of transit, which can also be done under the remit of the High Commissioner for refugees.
I would like to make a few separate observations, particularly with regard to Mr Bourlanges’ initial remarks further to my comment about the Court of Justice.
It is then the Union’s prime responsibility to ensure that the interpretation of those provisions in the procedures in which the freedom of people is at stake, is done promptly.
The Council was scheduled to speak for five minutes at the end of the debate.
I give the floor to Mrs Kudrycka. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;I should like to thank you, Mr&#160;President, for protecting Members’ rights.
Mr&#160;President, the Member States that joined the European Union in 2004 were the first to have to meet demanding requirements with regard to the protection of external borders, and in the course of accession negotiations the European Commission gave a very positive assessment of their efforts.
Since 1&#160;May&#160;2004, these ten countries have participated in cooperation measures under the Schengen Agreement, yet a fundamental obstacle to their equal participation in such joint measures is lack of access to the Schengen Information System.
This hampers reciprocal implementation of the commitments entered into under the Treaty with regard to legal assistance in criminal matters, such as the European arrest warrant, police cooperation and a common immigration policy.
Consequently, for example, the new Member States are prevented from issuing uniform Schengen lists, and, most importantly, the time period during which checks must be carried out at the EU’s internal borders has been greatly prolonged.
This problem is viewed in a negative light by the majority of citizens of Poland and of the other new Member States.
It is difficult for them to understand why the pre-accession strategy, which the EU and the candidate countries took nearly ten years to implement, could not have ensured that the information system was ready to accept additional users on 1&#160;January&#160;2004.
In 2003, the European Commission and the Member States set a date of late 2006 for completion of the second-generation Schengen Information System.
I believe the Commission and the Council should keep to the original deadline of 31&#160;December&#160;2006 as the date when the second-generation Schengen Information System must be ready for operation.
Integration of the new Member States’ IT systems and transfer of data from the old system to the new system must also be completed by that date.
The European Commission should make available to the Council the report containing positive evaluations and assessments by EU experts based on objective indicators of the situation at the eastern external border.
I believe dissemination of appropriate information by the Commission would not only encourage recognition of the efforts made by the new Member States, but also help to ensure their positive impact was appreciated.
During a hearing before our committee, Professor&#160;Buttiglione gave a very positive assessment of the state of preparedness for implementation of the second-generation Schengen Information System at the European Union’s eastern border.
At the same time he committed himself to accelerating operational measures in this field.
I hope that, in planning the future of the area of freedom, the Commission and the Council will rise to the challenge of ensuring that freedom of movement for European citizens, one of the EU’s fundamental freedoms, is implemented as rapidly as possible without discrimination.
This would be the fastest way of achieving the highest possible level of security.
It is already late, there is a long list of speakers and we still have another item to consider. &#160;&#160; Mr President, any future development of the area of freedom, security and justice must take account, amongst other considerations, of the eruption of Islamic fundamentalist terrorism in Europe, which struck the Union in the heart of Madrid.
Recent history has shown us that we are capable of acting together after an attack, but on the other hand we are incapable of mobilising all the instruments of the Rule of Law in order to prevent them.
I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, whether the time has come, if such a case arises, for a State to be penalised for endangering the security of its neighbours by not applying common rules in the fight against terrorism.
This situation can change.
Ladies and gentlemen, it would be very useful if the new Commission could produce and present to Parliament an assessment report on the way framework decisions have been transposed into national legislations and on the added value they have provided.
Mr President, I am coming to an end, but please allow me to address Mr Vitorino very briefly: I know that, from our desks, we sometimes forget that the ultimate beneficiaries of political action are real citizens.
I know you are not guilty of this, and I would like to say that, as a result of your tenacity, your work and your intelligence, many European citizens, many of my neighbours, have felt freer. &#160;&#160; Mr President, many among us have read, even studied this document, the 9/11 Commission report.
Then, if we turn to Europe, we find these documents, one of which was produced yesterday by the Council.
These documents are almost clandestine, because big political decisions are made in public, yet this one is not.
But the Netherlands Presidency is not alone in this: only 13 countries out of 25 have done their homework.
Yet at the same time I have sat through worrying debates, even within my committee, which is actually called the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
So I wonder, Mr&#160;President, whether this whole edifice is not set to come tumbling down.
That is more difficult than obtaining popular support for the treaty.
If no such popular support is successfully obtained within the scheduled time, enlargement will be delayed, legal cooperation weakened or the rule of law even tampered with.
Finally, a sincere thank you, Mr&#160;Vitorino, for having helped bring us closer to that dream, and a sincere thank you, Mr&#160;Bourlanges, for showing that you intend trying to speed up this process. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, how, in future, are we to fashion the area of freedom, security and justice so that it meets the needs of Europeans in the twenty-first century?
We are agreed that we must act decisively against international terrorism and organised crime, but the measures we take to deal with them have to be appropriate.
I should also like to say a few words to Mr&#160;Vitorino.
The basis of our approach must be mutual recognition, showing respect for our differing legal traditions and cultures.
I would ask that we make it more visible in years to come. &#160;&#160; Mr President, as we debate an area of freedom, security and justice it is somewhat derisory that this proposed area extends all over Europe but does not appear to be available here in the European Parliament.
For Members to attack the purely personal views – and the right to express those views – of Commission candidates because they do not comply with their own is an example of intolerance which demeans our Assembly and the parties concerned.
If those are the principles of socialism and liberalism, they are deeply undesirable in this place.
It benefits us sometimes, in our area of freedom, security and justice, to have more bilateral and multilateral agreements, such as the agreement on joint investigation teams, an initiative I was proud to be involved in at the time.
It is arguable that if we concentrated on more cooperation between Member States and organisations, instead of creating complex and over-reaching structures, we would achieve more practical results for our citizens and we would thereby encourage greater acceptance of the sort of Europe that they can really accept and benefit from.
In conclusion, I do not think I voted for Mr Vitorino.
In that way we will enhance the credibility and trust in our democratic institutions amongst our citizens.
Mr President, we cannot promote or enhance our freedoms or rights unless we are able to defend them.
And those rights and freedoms are our greatest heritage.
We need common management of our external borders and, finally, it is essential to make great progress on judicial and criminal cooperation, particularly in the criminal field.
I would like to believe that the European Council of 5&#160;November will be what Parliament was asking for in Mr Ribeiro e Castro’s resolution.
What we proposed was a Tampere II to evaluate the area of freedom, security and justice and to set fresh targets and timetables, with urgency and determination.
The main priority must be to fight international terrorism by means of an across-the-board anti-terrorist strategy, at both EU Member State level and on a worldwide scale.
At the same time, there must be a policy of protecting and promoting fundamental rights and freedoms.
Lastly, I should like to say to the absent Council that if setting up this area of freedom, security and justice is really one of the EU’s main political priorities, this must be clearly reflected in the allocation of sufficient funding in the coming Financial Perspectives.
Thank you very much. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to start by registering my strong protest at the lack of interpretation facilities in Maltese.
I wanted to take the floor to draw attention to the very serious situation that my country is facing on the issue of illegal immigration.
During the first nine months of this year alone, 1&#160;200 boat people landed in Malta.
The European Union should therefore put its money where its mouth is and help the affected countries equip themselves better to cope with the situation.
This is of course no justification, and I hope that the situation will be rectified soon. &#160;&#160; –Mr President, in my statement I would like to concentrate on the freedom of movement of citizens of the European Union.
This area of freedom and justice must justify its name in the coming years, not just on paper, but also in practice.
I believe that existing divisions also need to be addressed more clearly in the European Council’s Tampere II programme.
We should avoid situations where citizens of third countries, for whom special regimes and regulations apply, are in a more favourable position compared to citizens of the New Member States.
We need to concentrate our political will, so that this opportunity can be created by 2007, not in theory but in practice.
The Council and the Commission need to allocate funds for this, in order to set up the necessary visa information system and ensure the availability of experts to carry out missions to the New Member States.
This process also involves targeted policies on the part of the European Union, which aim to bring to a conclusion the process of border agreement negotiation between the New Member States and their neighbours, for which the new members have done everything in their power.
In this area, too, our enlarged Union is facing new challenges, simply because our external borders have been moved, and we have to be able to guarantee that these will be well secured.
Our future objective must be the creation of common asylum law and clear rules on migration, with the fixing of quotas being reserved to the Member States.
In conclusion, and speaking on behalf of my own country, let me emphatically thank Commissioner Vitorino for his commitment and for his very positive efforts for the Europe in which we share. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;I should like to turn to the issue of asylum policy in the context of the new Member States.
The European Union’s enlargement in 2004 was accompanied by a significant rise in applications for asylum in the new Member States.
The Agency should commence its activities as soon as possible in order to establish common standards for protection of the European Union’s external borders.
The most suitable place for the Agency to be located is Poland, as Poland has the longest land border in the European Union. &#160;&#160; &#160;That concludes the debate on the report.
My second remark is about the Lampedusa situation.
Therefore, their requests for asylum have been analysed by the authorities in the field.
I share the views of several Members of the House who have emphasised the need to guarantee that in the next financial perspectives there are sufficient financial tools to improve solidarity in the management of internal borders and in the management of migratory and asylum flows.
I hope that we can count on the support of the House on the Commission's proposal on this matter.
Finally, I would like very much to thank several Members of the House for the very kind words that they addressed to me.
In February this year the Commission presented preliminary draft amending budget No 2, providing the appropriations for the budget lines in Section VIII (B) of the 2004 budget.
The proposal was endorsed at the time by the Council and Parliament, and the new Data Protection Supervisor Mr&#160;Hustinx and the Assistant Supervisor Mr Delgado have started working and are based in the premises of the European Parliament.
So, this amending budget No 9 will modify the appropriations of the EDPS by topping up the amount granted in amending budget No 2, which was passed earlier this year.
They were predicted in 2001 and the fact is that the Data Protection Supervisor came into being in 2004.
As a result of this delay of two years, this particular amending budget is necessary because we need to increase the appropriations in commitments by over EUR 670&#160;000 and in revenue by EUR 170&#160;000.
As I said earlier, these problems came about because the European Parliament and the Council adopted the regulation in 2001.
The main purpose of this regulation is the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the Community institutions and bodies.
This Supervisor is responsible for monitoring the processing of personal data by Community institutions and will work with each institution and its data protection officer.
The Supervisor will deal with sensitive personal data, relating for example to health methods and evaluation of staff.
I am pleased to inform the House that the Council has adopted this draft amending budget.
Given that this is a newly established institution, we are prepared to accept this particular budget as it is.
Yet I do want to make it clear that in the future we want to see greater budgetary rigour as well as better planning and forecasting on the part both of the Commission and these new institutions that we are establishing.
Looking at the number of amending budgets and so forth, we must also remember that we are at a critical point and that Parliament will be establishing a new temporary committee on the financial perspectives.
It is therefore important that whilst we fight for our main political objectives – which will be enshrined in the new financial perspectives – we also examine some of the internal structures, as well as inter–institutional arrangements.
This new institution will protect our citizens in relation to data processing, which is ever–increasing.
The role of European Data Protection Supervisor was established as long ago as 1997 by the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The European Data Protection Supervisor has the task of ensuring the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data through the Community institutions and bodies established by this Treaty or on the basis of it.
On 9 May, your House adopted the Second Amending Budget, which allocated the Data Protection Supervisor the sum of EUR&#160;1.272 million and 15 posts in the 2004 Budget.
Mrs Gill’s report proposes that the draft Ninth Amending Budget be adopted without amendment.
The amending estimates for 2004 are based on assumed expenditure of EUR&#160;670&#160;279 and assumed income of EUR&#160;172&#160;443.
Section VIII, Part B for the 2004 Budget year amounts to EUR&#160;1.9 million in total and provides for the conversion of three permanent posts into temporary ones, with no change in the number of staff employed, as approved in this year’s Second Amending Budget.
To the rapporteur, I extend my very warm thanks for the support given to this draft, for the report itself, and for Parliament’s support in this area. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I speak on behalf of Mr Ferber, who is unable to be with us this evening, and also in my capacity as PPE-DE Group shadow rapporteur to Mrs Gill.
I was delighted when an institutional administrative cooperation agreement was signed in June between the Commission, Parliament and the Council.
This will be a matter for another rapporteur, I know, but given that the EUR 1.2&#160;million initially required rose to 1.9&#160;million, as the Commissioner has just said, and 2.8&#160;million is being requested for next year, I would urge the greatest of caution, because we expect better financial management than this.
In connection with this, I would like to remind the Commission that it ought to take more drastic action in getting the work of the European Chemicals Agency underway as soon as the legislation on chemicals has been passed.
The decision to set up a Chemicals Agency has been made by the European Council.
There has been an astonishing amount of time wasted with regard to this project.
The number of offices and agencies has already grown from seven to 23 since the start of the millennium, and in just the same way as we are now about to open the Office of the Data Protection Supervisor in Greece, we must also, in a credible manner, set about the task of fulfilling the promise made to Finland.
We simply do not need this post of European Data–Protection Supervisor and I strongly urge Members to vote against this amending budget and, just for once, to say 'no' to the EU empire builders. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, the good thing about the tail end of a debate is always that one can listen attentively, and I, personally, would say that every one of the speeches made had something plausible about it.
I see the Data Protection Supervisor as another example of how one could manage efficiently with much less. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I&#160;would like to support the proposed draft for the amended budget of the European Union for 2004 regarding the European Data Protection Supervisor item.
At the same time, however, in connection with the budgetary management of the European Union in the first seven months of 2004, I&#160;would like to express my concern at the obvious discrepancy between the handover of contributions, 74% of which have been paid, and the handover of payments, only 54% of which have been paid and which are lagging behind quite noticeably.
This situation means that instead of receiving post-entry aid, Slovakia and the other new Member States have become net contributors to the European Union budget.
This state of affairs should be subjected to urgent scrutiny, both at the level of the European Commission and at the level of the Council of Europe and the national governments.
