Structural policies and EU cohesion (debate) The next item is the report by Francisca Pleguezuelos Aguilar, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Development, on the impact and effects of structural policies on EU cohesion.
rapporteur. - (ES) Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the European Commission on the timeliness of this initiative report.
Mr President, it is a pleasure for me to come before Parliament to exchange views on the report by Mrs Pleguezuelos Aguilar, launched by the Committee on Regional Development.
Therefore, the fourth cohesion report will carry out a thorough analysis of economic, social and territorial cohesion in the European Union with the help of a wide range of indicators.
In fact, around EUR 200 billion will be invested in Lisbon priorities between 2007 and 2013.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets. - (FR) Mr President, I should like to thank you for giving me the floor as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I should like first of all to pay tribute to the very high quality of the report by our fellow Member, Mrs Pleguezuelos Aguilar.
Territorial cooperation is something else that needs to be put much more at the heart of our policy-making now that the European Union has 27 Member States, for urban centres, and the issue of how they relate to rural areas, constitute a challenge that we will, over the coming years, have to face with greater determination.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (SL) The coordination of efforts in the area of structural policies will be a challenging administrative test for those countries that joined the European Union in 2004 and later.
Today, we are to debate the document drawn up by Mrs Pleguezuelos Aguilar.
Similarly, funds for cohesion must be increased, and cohesion should take precedence over any other objectives such as those enshrined in the Lisbon Strategy.
Multi-level management is a sine qua non of effective cohesion policy.
We must ensure that our labour force is adaptable to new challenges so that economic restructuring can take place as a continuous and low-intensity process, with no negative effects accumulated in space and time.
On 7 June 2007 Commissioner Hübner will present the fourth cohesion report in Parliament's Regional Development Committee.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 22 May.
Written statements (Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - (FR) Cohesion policy, which is going to become the main item in the EU budget, must better combine the Structural Fund measures with the other Community policies, in order to increase the synergies aimed at promoting competitiveness, research and innovation in our regions.
