Revision of Council Directive 94/45/EC of 22 September 1994 on the establishment of a European Works Council (debate) The next item is the Commission Statement on the revision of Council Directive 94/45/EC of 22 September 1994 on the establishment of a European Works Council.
As you know, on 20 February the Commission launched a second consultation with the social partners regarding the revision of the Directive.
That is why, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bushill-Matthews, as rapporteur for the European Parliament with others in 2001, and having helped to get the request for an ambitious revision of this directive adopted by a large majority in Parliament, as was the case again in 2007, I cannot accept this criticism of the European Trade Union Confederation.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (ET) Ladies and gentlemen, it is a very positive thing that the Commission has raised awareness of problems concerning the European Works Council, concerning the need to consult and inform workers in a situation where global conditions make a degree of genuine economic restructuring inevitable.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say how glad I am, Commissioner, that you are finally bringing European social policy out of its holding pattern.
It has been clear for a long time that the minimum number of 1 000 employees is far too high to be able to represent employees sufficiently in the ever-changing company management situation throughout Europe.
According to employers' organisations, any revision of the directive is pointless, while the trade unions believe that it is vital.
I should add that the Commission itself acknowledged that in 2006, only one third of companies had set up such a Council, that 20% of the European Works Councils that did exist were only consulted after the public announcement of management decisions and that 30% were not consulted at all.
Firstly, the European Works Councils must have access to strategic information about the group so that consultation is not merely a formality, and above all they must have the right to suspend any restructuring plan: not just to push back the deadline, but so they can carry out a counter-assessment, present counter-proposals and participate in real negotiations.
There are currently a good 800 to 820 European works councils representing approximately 145 million workers.
There is a clear risk that that will happen in this case.
That being so, we in Parliament promise, as we have already discussed at the coordinators' meeting on the Labour Market Committee, that we will do our best to bring about a directive which can be ready during this parliamentary term.
The Commission must act. (PT) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I should like to congratulate the Commission on the work it has carried out with the social partners for the revision of the European Works Council Directive.
That is why we need to review and modernise the legal mechanisms relating to worker consultation and participation in order to obtain a legal framework which promotes the articulation of social dialogue.
There cannot be restructuring without social dialogue.
You are establishing completely new rules of play, as Article 138 of the Treaty does not provide for a third phase in the consultation process.
Mr President, I want to thank Mr Špidla for his declaration and the fact that he intends to reform the European Works Council Directive.
The ETUC, the trade unions and workers are the ones who would benefit from a serious revision of the European Works Council Directive.
I am sure that earlier information on such unpopular measures will enable labour market stresses to be defused and will unify the European union movement. (PT) Mr President, these processes of restructuring, mergers and partial or total relocations by multinationals are happening in various EU countries, including my country, Portugal, with no respect for workers' rights and with absolutely no talks with the unions - as has already been mentioned many times - and even without any direct information.
The revision needs to incorporate not merely guarantees in respect of information, but also guarantees concerning the participation of workers, workers' representatives and the unions throughout the process as well as guarantees ensuring that workers also have the right to demonstrate and oppose where appropriate, including the right to veto restructurings or relocations that do not respect workers' rights, regional rights and countries' rights.
The first issue is the position of the social partners.
It was mentioned during the debate that the proposal seemingly reprimands some of the social partners.
Employees should have full access to information on restructuring processes and the opportunity to intervene decisively throughout such a process.
in writing. - (PT) The debate on the European Works Council has brought to the negotiating table various proposals which take the best line: strengthening the idea of participation, cooperation and partnership between the various parties involved.
