The ratification and implementation of the updated ILO conventions (debate) The next item is the oral question to the Commission on the ratification and implementation of the updated ILO conventions by Alejandro Cercas, on behalf of the S&amp;D Group, Marian Harkin, on behalf of the ALDE Group, Jean Lambert, on behalf of the VERTS/ALE Group, and Gabriele Zimmer and Ilda Figueiredo, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group - B7-0228/2009).
It is clear that Europe needs the ILO in order to maintain that social model - we could not do so in an unjust world - and that the ILO gives us the opportunity to be a global player in international relations.
It is certainly worth saying that, when the ILO was created in 1919 after the Treaty of Versailles, which ended the First World War, it was to reflect the belief that universal and lasting peace can only be accomplished if it is based on social justice.
However, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, we call on the Member States to ratify the ILO conventions and we urge the European Commission to consider our proposals.
Finally, the 2008 Decent Work Report provides for the monitoring of the policy developments with regard to the ratification process.
It was founded in 1919 with the fundamental aim of creating work regulations governing the development of working conditions and difficult working environments to counter exploitation.
For example, the convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers has been ratified by only three out of the 27 Member States.
We must not forget this, particularly at this time of crisis.
I would therefore like to call on the Commission and the Swedish Presidency to act in a progressive way and to do their utmost to ensure that all of the ILO conventions that are up to date be adopted by all Member States.
Personally, I think it is a little disheartening that my own Member State, Sweden, has not ratified basic conventions such as Convention No 94 on public contracts.
So if we are looking to the ILO to do good work, as it does, in the developing world, I think the very least that Member States of the European Union could do is to fully ratify the conventions, to lead by example. (PL) Mr President, over the many years of its activity, the International Labour Organisation has adopted and presented for ratification by EU Member States a series of international conventions and directives on matters of employment, trade union freedoms, social policy and social insurance, and also collective employment relations and conditions of work.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 26 November 2009.
