Fighting trafficking in human beings (debate) The next item is the report by Mrs Bauer on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs on fighting trafficking in human beings an integrated approach and proposals for an action plan.
The most recent findings by Unicef indicate that two thirds of Member States are among the countries of origin and destination.
The report aims to offer an overview of the problem of human trafficking as a whole.
In the absence of early identification, the victims themselves may well end up being accused of immigration offences or of involvement in illegal activities and they may be extradited from the country before being given a chance to assist in exposing well organised criminal networks, with a high probability of again falling victim to the same networks.
In this context it is necessary to emphasise the importance of the European Union's plan as well as the tried and tested approaches, standards and procedures for combating human trafficking which are generally viewed as a major advance in this area.
Enforcement is also problematic in cases where Member States have all of the means available, for instance through labour law and the existence of labour inspectorates, despite which human trafficking still occurs.
Fourthly, it is obvious that an effective struggle against trafficking calls for enhanced cooperation between the Member States and Europol, Eurojust, Frontex, Unicef and other international organisations, including NGOs.
I would also like to express my agreement with an observation made some time ago by Helga Konrad, formerly OCSE special representative on trafficking in human beings.
Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on this very important report.
The European policy against trafficking in human beings is a priority not only for this Parliament but also for the European Commission and myself.
As you know, the transposition deadline expired on 6 August 2006 and I have therefore decided to start infringement procedures against all Member States that have not yet transposed this very important EU directive.
The Commission is supporting the designation of an anti-trafficking day, possibly on 11 June.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - Mr President, I should begin by congratulating the Commissioner on his very positive speech, and on everything he is doing in this area.
I also want to congratulate Mrs Bauer on her report.
I was responsible for the Committee on Foreign Affairs' opinion on human trafficking, which concentrated specifically on the external relations aspects of this problem.
This anti-trafficking convention and protocol have been ratified by 121 States across the world, including most European countries, but seven EU Member States are still to ratify, which is unacceptable.
We are talking about girls who are sold at the age of 17 and at the age of 20 are worthless and thrown aside.
I have met them and listened to unbelievable horrors of being raped 14 times a day.
If you agree with me that we need to really do something about trafficking, please join me in voting against Amendments 23, 24 and 25 tomorrow.
It manifests itself in the form of sexual exploitation, as previous speakers have mentioned, as well as abusive working conditions, forced domestic labour, illegal adoption, forced begging and the sale of organs.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wishes to commend Mrs Bauer on her excellent report.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (SV) Mr President, Commissioner Frattini, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin by thanking Mrs Bauer for her sterling report and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs for its constructive cooperation and for its enhanced cooperation with the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality.
I also want to thank Commissioner Frattini.
During the two and a half years that I have sat in the European Parliament, the issue of trafficking in human beings has assumed a prominent place on the political agenda, not only in the European Parliament but also in the Member States and among Europeans.
I welcome the fact that we are now also including other aspects of people trafficking and that we are agreed that what we are talking about in this case is a modern slave trade, at least 80% of whose victims are women and children.
The fact that 50% of those sold into prostitution are children is scandalous.
The PSE Group also supports Amendments 1 to 22 and recital P.
It is essential that the trafficking of people be dealt with as a human rights issue, rather than being seen mainly as an issue of border control.
The report contains important measures for protecting victims and shows the extent of the protection measures that are needed.
That too has to be an essential part of tackling trafficking in human beings. (SK) I welcome this important report and I would also like to express my thanks to Mrs Edit Bauer for her work.
However, many states have not even ratified these instruments and those that have ratified them fail to enforce them, which results in these documents becoming irrelevant.
Although at international conferences attended by various states we all agree that we really must implement these documents to which we all subscribe, such efforts frequently cease on the last day of the conference and the status quo remains unchanged.
It is sad to see that the European Parliament has to debate this issue, here among these empty benches, for in my view, this question somehow affects all of us, since it is our children who are at stake. (PT) Trafficking in human beings is a heinous crime that, in a particularly insidious fashion, debases the very nature of what it is to be a human being.
The fight against this scourge ought to be an immediate priority.
The EU, too, must strengthen its commitment to promoting initiatives aimed at combating the causes of this most disgraceful trade, and must support the weakest countries in which most of this trafficking originates.
There is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, no more urgent fight than this. (PL) Mr President, the fight against human trafficking is a great challenge for the twenty-first century.
In the struggle for human dignity, and in order to limit this phenomenon, international and national organisations have signed a series of declarations, conventions and directives, and are implementing a series of action plans.
That is why we should gladly adopt the report before us, which proposes an integrated approach, and the proposed action plan. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner, it is women and children who are most vulnerable to human trafficking, and it is unfortunate that the world of sport deserves some of the blame in this respect.
In our draft report on the future of professional football in Europe, we demand that the Commission should deal with this in the context of the Council's framework decision on the fight against human trafficking.
The European Council then recommended that a European plan be drawn up in order to develop common standards, best practices and suchlike to prevent and fight human trafficking.
Written Statement (Rule 142) (IT) I worked as draftsman for the Committee on Development on the Financial Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights, together with the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
