I should like to protest because there would have been five members in the coach and the assistants would have been late for work.
Thank you very much, Mr Varela.
the regulation on control measures in the area covered by the Convention on future multilateral cooperation in the north-east Atlantic fisheries stipulates that the provisions governing the application of these control measures only apply for the year 2000.
However, the international measures mentioned will remain in force because this is an international agreement.
Moreover, as I said before, I hope that we will be able to vote on this proposal during the January part-session.
In any case, it is regrettable that they are asking us for an urgent procedure now, at the last minute, because we have had all of 2000 to process this proposal for a regulation.
We have not set budgetary objectives in advance and then tried to tailor our policy to them.
We wanted a proper, economical, logical budget which would allow us to honour our political commitments and really help those who need our help.
So we agreed with the Council during the night of 23 to 24 November on the main points of what is a perfectly reasonable, although by no means brilliant budget.
The European budget will include EUR 450 million to promote employment over the next five years by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises.
We have stated time and again that we support the reform of the Commission and that we agree to the 400 new posts, combined with a new early retirement scheme, but only subject to certain conditions.
Some of these conditions have now been met.
The Commission has submitted its analysis of outstanding commitments and its strategy for eliminating abnormal outstanding commitments.
We put the final touches to a joint declaration by the Council and Parliament in a trilogue last Tuesday.
We all agreed that the Commission should draft a report by the middle of next year on progress made in phasing out commitment backlogs, implementing programmes and simplifying project cycles, a report on how comitology is working, on progress made in implementing the reform package and on the performance targets of the main programmes under Category IV, to mention just a few aspects of the joint declaration.
The Commission's Letter of Amendment no. 2 which, following renewed calculation, has deducted around EUR 900 million from the sum needed for Category I, was also extremely helpful here.
Our financial perspective for Category IV was clearly way off target since the war in the Balkans.
The Commission therefore suggested revising the figures by EUR 300 million.
We were therefore forced to do a deal with it on the EUR 200 million flexibility instrument, as if this did not represent a change to the financial perspective.
But we can at least fund what we think is the most important task, i.e.
We can finance cooperation with the Baltic region and our crisis reaction forces and we have given MEDA EUR 40 million more than the Council provided.
So, as you can see, we have cobbled together a solution for the 2001 budget.
However, this solution is weak on political and budgetary planning, because it takes no account of the fact that money is needed over a period of several years.
I know from my own experience just how difficult it is to keep all the groups in Parliament together.
However, I also know from the discussions that it is far more difficult to formulate a negotiable Council position, obtain a mandate and accommodate pure national chauvinism in a fairly reasonable and tenable overall European decision.
They may treat us shabbily in Nice but to reverse everything Parliament has done, as in the case of the European Court of Justice, knowing full well that we shall correct it all again this week, is just a waste of resources and we could have helped protect the environment by using less paper.
I think that we are on the right path and, as part of the budgetary authority - in this case as the budgetary authority because the Council does not play the most decisive role here - we shall help to ensure that this continues in the future.
We here in Parliament must also check to see that our budget still meets the criteria of honesty and clarity.
Mr President, when a delegation from this Parliament was visiting the People' s Republic of China some time ago, we were in Xiamen, in the south-east of China, and there was an island visible on the horizon.
But I challenge my esteemed colleague, the President-in-Office of the Council, to explain to me what the difference is between the revision of the financial perspective and the use of the flexibility instrument: the majorities are the same, and the amounts can be the same.
What is more, of the thirty-eight revisions that the Community has had since 1988, which is when this system was set up, twenty-odd have been annual revisions.
Perhaps another reason why we should discuss this on our knees is the attitude of some Members of this House, as all they seem to want to do is blindly obey the instructions of the Council.
We have really fought a great battle in order to achieve a 0.02% increase in the Council draft budget.
It can even be seen in the Structural Funds, where the Commission told us that 8 000 million additional payment appropriations were needed, and the result is that we have cut them by 340 million, which is, of course, the request of the Council, not of Parliament.
I wanted to briefly point out that, when we adopted the financial perspective in force, in 1999, we were still - I say 'we were' due to the involvement of the Union - bombing the Balkans, particularly Serbia.
And we left it that when the conflict ended we would revise the financial perspective.
We agreed this between the Council and Parliament.
The Council refuses to carry out this revision - it seems that now we should have the information - and I want to warn you: using the flexibility instrument two years in a row, two consecutive years, in fact, in less than fifteen months, and the first time less than six months after the adoption of the perspective, is financially draining the flexibility instrument because it prevents it from being replaced and from possible accumulation, which is planned for up to 600 million.
The needs of the Balkans have not come to an end, they are multiannual.
It is the first victim of not having a revision.
To be honest, I think that I have to recommend to this House that it approve the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument because, in short, it enables us to solve the Serbia issue and because it is a revision that no one is daring to call by its name.
The Council' s second reading was preceded on 23 November by a conciliation meeting between the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
Indeed, the representatives of the three institutions spared no effort to conclude an overall agreement on the 2001 budget and I wish to take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of the Council, both the members of the parliamentary delegation and Mrs Schreyer.
This budget will also enable us to implement the reform of the common agricultural policy and to carry out the programming of structural actions as defined in 1999, as well as all of the major programmes decided on jointly by Parliament and the Council.
I am thinking specifically here of research, the Trans-European Networks and culture or audiovisual creation, with the MEDIA Plus programme, on which an agreement was concluded on 23 November.
The first point of agreement between the Council and Parliament concerns external action, that is, heading 4 of the budget, on which our institutions shared a common goal, which was to release substantial funding for the Balkans region in 2001, given recent developments in Serbia' s political situation, and to do so without passing the costs of this on to the other geographical priorities of the Union' s external action.
The agreement reached on 23 November therefore defines an overall allocation for the Balkans of EUR 839 million, of which EUR 240 million are earmarked for Serbia.
The second important aspect of the Council' s second reading concerns Letter of Amendment No 2, which enables the Commission' s new provisions in the field of agriculture to be implemented.
The Council has accepted this Letter of Amendment in its entirety and, out of the same concern to act in accordance with the most recent data available, the Council has also accepted the European Parliament' s amendments on rural development expenditure, which demonstrate the progress that has been made in the adoption and implementation of national programmes.
Finally, the Council voted, as had been arranged at the conciliation meeting of 23 November, in favour of additional credits to the value of EUR 60 million, for the funding of screening tests for BSE.
This sum of EUR 60 million is a preliminary, rapid budgetary response to the Council' s decision to extend tests carried out on cattle.
It must therefore be seen as a provisional sum.
The BSE crisis will indeed require other measures, for which a budgetary assessment has not yet been completed and when a system has been more precisely defined, we will, of course, have to take account of its potential impact on the budget and to release the necessary appropriations whilst, as a matter of priority, studying the possibilities of redeploying funds within heading I.
I am delighted that our institutions have been able to reach agreement on adopting, at only one reading, all aspects of this Letter of Amendment No 2, which concerns not only agricultural expenditure but also the fisheries agreements and the inclusion of an estimated balance for the 2000 financial year in the preliminary draft budget for 2001.
The third important aspect of this Council second reading concerns the agreement reached on the allocation for the "Spirit of Enterprise" programme, which continues and complements the "Employment initiative" for the years 2001 to 2005.
The Council and the President have agreed on a very substantial allocation of EUR 450 million for this period and on an allocation of EUR 100 million for 2001.
The credit for this result, which is proof of the priority given by the European Union to the development of small and medium-sized businesses and to employment must be given to your rapporteur, Jutta Haug, who is in the Chamber today.
Lastly, agreement was reached on 23 November on an increase in payment appropriations for the 2001 budget, which is an increase of 3.5% over the 2000 budget.
This agreement on the increase in payments has been made possible by the Commission' s proposal to rebudget an amount of EUR 1600 million in commitment appropriations for Community initiative programmes for 2002 and for subsequent years.
It therefore means that payment appropriations requirements for the preliminary draft budget will be reduced by EUR 700 million.
When the Council voted at second reading for a budget increase of 2.5%, it took due account of this new factor.
For its second reading, Parliament therefore has the considerable margin for manoeuvre of around EUR 1 billion to fund its budgetary priorities, whilst remaining within an overall increase of 3.5%.
The Council did not, of course, limit its second reading to the four points that I have just mentioned.
It also accepted several European Parliament amendments in heading 3 on internal policy, particularly in order to take account of developments in legislation.
Finally, the list of points of agreement between the Council and Parliament would not be complete if I did not mention two important texts that have been adopted this year.
These two declarations improve the transparency of the budgetary procedure and of the reforms currently taking place in the Commission.
More generally, I wish to emphasise that the budgetary procedure that will be completed in a few days has clearly demonstrated the interest in the Interinstitutional Agreement of 6 May 1999.
It is as a result of the consultation between the three institutions, which is provided for and regulated by this agreement, that we have been able to work together on this draft 2001 budget.
These additional appropriations will enable us to speed up the European Union' s aid programme for the Western Balkans in 2001.
By the same token, within this Interinstitutional Agreement, the Council has left substantial margins within the ceilings of the financial perspective established in 1999, largely for heading 3 - internal policy - and for heading 4 - external action.
These margins will give the European Parliament the opportunity, at second reading, to set its own priorities within the various Community policies and actions.
Lastly, before you proceed to the final adoption of this budget, I wish to stress the importance the Council attaches to some of the fundamental budgetary rules, in the field of entering appropriations in the reserve, the legal basis and the classification of expenditure.
First of all, the entering of appropriations in the reserve can only be carried out by the budgetary authority if the corresponding legal basis has not yet been adopted, in accordance with the provisions of the financial regulation.
The Council therefore, at second reading, re-established all the appropriations entered into the reserve by Parliament for reasons other than the absence of a legal basis.
In this respect, I welcome the agreement that has been reached at first reading by our two institutions to abolish the conditional entering of appropriations in the reserve, which had been carried out by Parliament, for heading 4, the performance reserve, and for heading 5, with regard to appropriations relating to the reform of the Commission, under Letter of Amendment No 1.
I wish to draw the European Parliament' s attention to the fact that, under the terms of the Interinstitutional Agreement, these budget lines constitute compulsory expenditure, which was, moreover, acknowledged by Parliament at first reading.
Consequently, appropriations included in these lines must be considered to have been definitively adopted following second reading in Council, in accordance with Article 272 of the Treaty and cannot therefore be further modified.
To conclude this overview, I wish to join those who have highlighted the excellent climate in which this budgetary procedure has taken place.
I wish to personally thank Terence Wynn, chairman of the Committee on Budgets, and the three rapporteurs, Jutta Haug, Markus Ferber and Joan Colom i Naval as well as all the members of the Committee on Budgets that I have had the pleasure of meeting during the six months of the French Presidency.
I can assure you that the Council' s objective, throughout this budgetary procedure, has been to produce a budget for 2001 that will enable the European Union to respond to the crises that affect it within Europe itself but also those occurring beyond its borders.
I think that, together, going beyond the priorities of each of our institutions, we have created, step by step, a budget for the 2001 financial year, which reflects the ambition that we all advocate, of a Europe at the service of its citizens.
Unlike Nice, all three institutions - the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission - are, I think, well pleased with the final result.
The 2001 budget which we now have before us gives us funds of EUR 96.2 billion for new commitments next year and EUR 92.6 billion for payments.
That translates into a rate of increase in the budget, as you pointed out, of 3.1 and 3.5% in comparison with the previous year, roughly in line with the rate of increase in the national budgets.
It is the outcome of Community policy and it is therefore excellent that we have again managed to include EUR 839 million in the 2001 budget for the Balkans.
It was no easy task, but we managed thanks to the agreed use of the flexibility reserve, which was used to provide funds over and above the sum provided for or decided in Nice as a basis for the Balkan policy - namely a total of EUR 4.65 billion over the period up to 2006.
In providing the EUR 200 million emergency package, the Union has also proven that it is perfectly able to act quickly and take full account of its foreign policy responsibilities.
What is important is that no country in the Balkans will now be offered less aid than originally planned before developments in Serbia due to the democratisation of Serbia.
The process of reforming the Commission is also extremely important, particularly with a view to good financial management.
Allow me at this point, on behalf of the Commission, to thank the budgetary authority for its support and for approving 400 new posts.
Nearly a third of the budget is set aside for structural policy, in order to help regions in economic difficulty overcome their problems and make up economic ground, especially through the Cohesion Fund.
The budget being voted on today includes EUR 6 billion to subsidise beef production, in addition to the EUR 60 million budgeted in order to cofinance BSE tests.
I was therefore most annoyed when the agricultural ministers, whilst fully aware of the BSE situation, rushed and served themselves from Christmas tables piled high with fruit and vegetables, bananas and nuts which required a total of 85 million in increased subsidies.
I think that when a new emergency arises - and with the BSE crisis new priorities obviously need to be set in the agricultural budget - then certain consequences also apply and clear resolutions need to be taken and the core issues defined for the agricultural budget, which does, after all, total EUR 44 billion.
Mr President, I should like to answer Mr Colom i Naval on the issue of the use of the flexibility instrument in revising the financial perspective.
In fact, the repeated use, two years in a row, of the flexibility instrument could be considered, wrongly in my opinion, to be a form of revision of the financial perspective.
Personally, I think that this is not true in terms of procedure and certainly not in terms of substance.
The procedure for the flexibility instrument was laid down in the Interinstitutional Agreement for the purpose, in exceptional cases, of funding specific expenditure over and above the ceilings agreed in Berlin, without calling the financial perspective into question.
With regard to the specific cases that we have experienced for the last two years, in other words, Kosovo and Serbia, mobilising the flexibility instrument has enabled us to fund exceptional expenditure through an exceptional effort.
From the Council' s point of view, therefore, mobilising the flexibility instrument does not represent a challenge to the viability of the financial perspective laid down in Berlin.
Furthermore, the Council has defined a multiannual sum, admittedly indicative in nature, which is compatible with this financial perspective, for the framework programme for aid for reconstruction in the Western Balkans.
After this illustration, which I am sure will be very useful to all Members, we are going to do the round of the opinions of the various parliamentary committees.
We praised Commissioner Busquin, who has exceeded our expectations in that area.
We have heard the Council say on many occasions that it wants to ensure that Europe becomes pre-eminent in research.
I congratulate our rapporteur.
However, our committee is somewhat disappointed by the approach of the Council.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development told us to use the financial leeway between the financial perspective and the final budget, which amounted to upwards of generous EUR 900 million at the time, EUR 600 million of which was to be used for BSE.
This means that in actual fact we already need a supplementary budget of EUR 900 million.
Mrs Haug and the Committee on Budgets have taken account of the proposals by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
Our committee' s main objective was to see that there were sufficient payment appropriations in next year' s budget.
The quantities budgeted are very far below what we had requested, but we accept that this has been a general practice and we therefore accept the result as it stands.
This does not mean that in next year' s budget we will not once again be determined to obtain what we think is fairest and most appropriate, and what will enable us to achieve the objectives of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities.
We have no more important obligation than to live within our means.
It constitutes less than one cent per inhabitant of the European Union.
Finally, information is an important concern for this Parliament.
We must see that we keep our information programmes.
Mr President, I would also like to thank Mrs Haug for her excellent work.
I fully agree with the comments made by our colleague Joan Colom on the revision of the financial perspective.
The amount for the common fisheries policy is scarcely 1% of the Community budget.
They will therefore think that this 1% of the European Union budget is being very well used.
It is important that the Union should serve the needs of its citizens well.
But in thinking about the question of the backlog on commitments and how we limit the duration of new commitments - obviously this comes into the domain of the financial regulation which we will have to negotiate.
We believe it is absolutely fundamental that this progress report should be seen to restore the confidence of our citizens in the way in which the European Union institutions operate.
A word on the reserve, Madam President-in-Office of the Council.
The information policy in the institutions at the moment is a scandal and therefore, rather than putting money on the line for information policy when we know it is not being used effectively, we are going to be keeping much of that money in reserve waiting for the Commission to come up with the right proposals.
Our confidence as one of three institutions, will only be maintained - and therefore the institutional agreement and the financial perspective maintained - if we manage to create mutual confidence and if we are consulted at every stage on our fundamental interests.
Mr President, my thanks first and foremost to Florence Parly, who is just leaving but who, I think, is still within earshot.
I should also like to thank Mrs Schreyer, who has continued to help us with her highly constructive approach and, of course, my friend Jutta Haug, who has done an excellent job, not forgetting Joan Colom i Naval and Markus Ferber.
We are now at the point at which we must decide whether or not we can vote in favour of this budget next Thursday.
With unemployment still at over 8% throughout Europe, the European Union needs to use the budget at its disposal to send out a clear message and to set about fighting this scourge in the economy to our citizens, which is why it is important that we have this 450 million at our disposal next year, starting with 100 million this year.
But we also say in no uncertain terms that this implies a responsibility and a commitment on your part, because we shall be watching over you throughout this process.
It is also a commitment vis-à-vis the Council.
By refusing to discuss the specific long-term aspects of this challenge with us, you have brought the whole spirit of the Interinstitutional Agreement into question.
The Balkans and other regions need planning security.
Repeated use of the flexibility instrument also contradicts the Interinstitutional Agreement, because it was an instrument which this European Parliament secured in order to pay for contingencies and so that it could let it run up to EUR 600 million.
Although agricultural expenditure, which accounts for almost half the entire budget, will increase by more than 5%, when the Letter of Amendment has been taken into account, the overall increase in the budget is just 3.5%.
This means a saving of more than EUR 2 billion.
It shows that both budgetary authorities are taking responsibility for the administration of the EU in an appropriate manner.
This shows that in future there must be better use of personnel resources.
With these observations, my group is prepared to adopt the draft budget.
Mr President, I too wish to thank the rapporteur and, of course, the Commissioner and the President-in-Office for their excellent work.
Our group will also vote in favour of this budget because it shows that, once again, we have reached an exemplary compromise, despite being under increasing pressure.
The main sources of this pressure are unemployment, the BSE crisis and the Balkan stability pact.
It already looks likely that the huge risk of a clash between MEDA, Mediterranean rim projects and the Balkans will increase over the next few years, despite the fact that we all know that this is where money is urgently needed.
In all events, Parliament will be a much tougher negotiating partner next year.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are suspending the debate at this point in order to hear the President of the Republic of France and of the European Council.
I am also aware that this outcome certainly owes a great deal to the contribution made by the European Parliament.
I have just returned from Nice after four days of intense negotiations, led by my Prime Minister and the members of his government.
We feel satisfied that we overcame the difficulties blocking the path towards the much sought-after aim of fulfilling the commitments that were given at Helsinki to the candidate countries without destroying the Union, of enabling tomorrow' s Europe to continue to function effectively.
I think I can say that we met these conditions.
We were able to achieve this at Nice, as a result of the efforts made by all the Member States.
We must also pay tribute to the European spirit, which finally enabled us to leave Nice having resolved those issues left over from Amsterdam and having paved the way for the future.
The presidency regretted the fact that the same consensus could not be achieved in the fields of taxation and social affairs.
The agreement reached on the issue of the number of Member States' votes within the Council is a balanced one.
This concerns the procedure for enhanced cooperation, which has, to a large extent, been made possible under the first and third pillars.
The opening up of enhanced cooperation under the second pillar is also a step forward.
The new mechanism provided for in Article 7 on the warning procedure in the field of fundamental rights gives a major role to your institution.
A new legal basis has been laid down for the status of European political parties and Parliament has been given the status of institutional plaintiff laid down under Article 230 of the Treaty.
Finally, in addition to the IGC, the need was felt to engage in a rigorous debate on a few issues that are crucial to the future of the European Union.
The further ahead Europe moves, the greater duty we have to strengthen its democratic legitimacy, the clarity and transparency of its institutions and to clarify the distribution of competences between the Union and the Member States.
The European Parliament will, of course, be closely involved in this.
This study should be concluded in 2004.
This process will by no means constitute a precondition for enlargement and will therefore not delay this project.
These are, in short, the results of the institutional work carried out in Nice.
It is both a huge challenge and an historic milestone on the path towards the reunification of our continent.
The French Presidency has lent all its support to the progress of the negotiations.
This is proof that the Union intends to forge ahead.
In the last six months, Europe has also made progress in the field of growth and employment.
In the last three weeks, progress has been made in three major areas.
The Union has thereby given itself a working programme that sets objectives and meetings for the next five years in the fields of employment law, social protection, mobility, lifelong training and the fight against discrimination and exclusion.
Next, the Union has begun to implement the Feira decisions on the new economy and growth.
The Union decided to divide up access to the local loop.
As a result of this Charter, our Union will be stronger and have greater guarantees of the values of dignity, freedom and solidarity that are its cornerstones.
Under this presidency, the Union has also given a new boost to cultural and student life in Europe.
Two months ago, our Education Ministers adopted an action plan for mobility - a forty-two point action plan - and we agreed on a substantial allocation of EUR 400 million for the Media-Plus programme, which is so important for European cinema and audiovisual services and which - as you will be aware - the whole profession was hoping for.
The presidency has one ambition, which is to be more protective, in the best sense of the word.
Your Parliament gave a firm commitment, on 30 November, to a preliminary package of measures which, next week, will be submitted once again to our Transport Ministers.
The Union has also made progress in the fight against organised crime: we now have a directive on the fight against money-laundering, concerted action has been taken against non-cooperating countries and territories identified by the Financial Action Task Force, Europol' s competences have been extended to the fight against dirty money and a European Police College has been created.
These are the main aspects of a coherent and broad range of measures.
This is the backdrop against which the provisional judicial cooperation unit "Eurojust" was created, foreshadowing the body for judicial cooperation in criminal matters whose creation, due to take place next year, is already included in the Treaty.
Finally, the French Presidency fostered an international ambition for Europe, a long-term ambition, which was to give the Union the means to assert itself in major world affairs, to have its voice heard and to be able to act.
This is the draft common foreign and defence policy.
The French Presidency also fostered a more immediate ambition, which was to show straightaway the political determination of the Fifteen to assert their own interests when European issues are at stake, and I am thinking here of south-eastern Europe in particular.
With regard to these two aims, we have indeed made progress.
A year ago, we defined the military capabilities that the European Union should have by 2003 in order to be able to prevent and manage the type of crises envisaged by the Treaty.
The Union intends to use this military wing in complete harmony with NATO facilities and, if necessary, with their support.
Furthermore, at Nice, the European Union established the permanent bodies necessary to define and conduct a common foreign and security policy, which are: a political and security committee, a military committee and a European defence staff.
The decision was taken to include the creation of the political and social committee in the Treaty, as this is the real mainstay of the system.
The revision of the Treaty on this point confirms the importance and the irreversible nature of the decisions taken in Nice.
I think that this message was fully understood at the Zagreb Summit, which, for the first time, brought together the countries of the Western Balkans and the Fifteen.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, I think that today I can say that in the last six months, our Union has gained strength from the process of preparing to welcome new members, to reunite the family now that we are all assured of being able to work together, to gain a firmer place in the hearts of our citizens in the fields of values, growth and employment, of solidarity, security and the preservation of the European social model and finally, to grow stronger and gain support on the international stage.
I wish to pay tribute here to the quality of working relations between Member States within the Council.
Here, however, in this Chamber, on my own behalf, on behalf of the French Prime Minister and Government, I wish first and foremost to thank this House for its contribution.
It was crucial that the European Parliament, which is the mouthpiece for the European public and its ambitions, played a full role in taking the decisions that will affect the future of all of us.
Mr President, I give you the floor. . (IT) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the December 2000 European Council will be remembered as particularly lengthy and particularly complex.
I personally have no doubt that this is a seminal text and I would like to remind those who feel that it does not go far enough - and I know that many in this House are of this opinion - that it was drafted and conceived with care precisely with a view to giving it legal status.
Parliament and the Commission have already made it clear that, for their part, they intend to apply the Charter in full.
These are some of the issues which were put before the Heads of State and Government.
Moreover, in your own address at the beginning of the Summit, you said that Parliament would judge the success of Nice in terms of quality as well as quantity.
Little or no progress was made on the sensitive issues of cohesion, tax regulation and social legislation. (Applause) In fact, in these areas, the Conference came up against the intransigence of some Member States.
Lastly, I would like to take this opportunity to thank President Chirac and the French Prime Minister, Mr Jospin, for making it possible to put paid to the main ambiguities of our commercial policy.
A good balance was struck between the legitimate concerns surrounding issues such as cultural diversity, in particular, and the effectiveness of our powers of negotiating with our trading partners.
Another source of satisfaction lies in the result in the field of closer cooperation.
The Commission defended - unfortunately with no success although the matter has not yet been closed - our shared concerns regarding the protection of the Union's financial interests by proposing that a Prosecutor should be established.
Much greater attention will need to be devoted in the future to this and other related problems, and we must move from a defensive role to a more strongly proactive one.
This was inevitable given the approach taken, but the outcome was regrettable for two reasons: firstly because it made a qualified majority more difficult and a blocking minority accordingly easier, whereas logically, in an expanding Union, the exact opposite is required; (Applause) and secondly because it has made the decision-making process even more complex, which runs counter to the legibility and transparency for which the citizens are calling. (Applause) To respond to our citizens' demands, we had advocated a double majority as the only solution which is objective, comprehensible and widely supported by smaller and larger countries alike. (Applause) At this juncture, we must pay particular tribute to the Belgian Prime Minister, Guy Verhofstadt, who fought to the very end for a more equitable presence for the candidate countries and to set the qualified majority threshold at a less unreasonable level - although one that is still too high.
He thus confirmed Belgium's great historic role in the European Union. (Applause) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we must recognise that the hard-won conclusion of the Nice Summit was an achievement in itself.
A conclusion had to be reached and, thanks to the efforts of the Presidency, we got there in the end.
Ladies and gentlemen, I feel - as President Chirac remarked - that the Nice Summit was characterised by the efforts of many to defend their own immediate interests, to the detriment of a long-term vision.
Nice does, however, include a declaration on the future of the Union which gives me cause for some optimism.
The Commission will come up with proposals for improving this process, and I am counting upon your participation and support.
The new Millennium has given us an unprecedented opportunity to bind together the countries of our continent in a wide area of peace, stability and economic growth.
I therefore ask you to lend us your support. (Loud, sustained applause) Mr President, Mr Chirac, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Chirac, our Group of the European People's Party and European Democrats has always received you here in the European Parliament with the greatest respect, open-mindedness and esteem.
We appreciate the fact that you were here in July and have returned here today, but the esteem in which we hold both you as a person and your office does not absolve us from honesty and we have a duty to express our convictions loudly and clearly today in your presence.
because we are firmly convinced that only a Europe of communities with strong European institutions can safeguard law, democracy, solidarity and peace for us on our continent.
For the European Parliament, which was the winner in Amsterdam, there has been no increase in codecision by the European Parliament and this is one of the great failings of the Nice Summit. (Applause) I do not intend to comment further on the complexities of the decision-making process because Elmar Brok from our group will certainly do so directly.
We expect all the Member States of the European Union and their governments to configure a conference in which the European Parliament is involved and helps to set the agenda and the procedure.
On this depends our final answer, whether we say yes or no to Nice.
These will be our yardsticks and, like you, we hope to be able to do our job so that we, the European Union, with our values, are truly open to the people of central Europe, who suffered a long time under Communism and who now wish to join our Community.
We must open the door, but decisions must be made so that the European Union is also in a position to enlarge. (Applause) Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the European Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, finally the Summit concluded with a result.
Now we need to look at the text carefully in Parliament.
In any case, the fact that an agreement has been reached is an achievement in itself.
It should be pointed out that, in principle, the aim of the Intergovernmental Conference was to improve the functioning of the Union in order to achieve enlargement.
I am afraid that we have before us a compromise between national interests that has been hammered out all in one go, at night, which will make it even more difficult to make Community decisions in the future.
The percentage is so high that it amounts to re-establishing a veto, especially for the largest countries.
If we want the Union to reflect the interests of all of its Member States and all of its peoples as a community of values, according to the Community method, the institutions that can guarantee this are the Commission and Parliament, acting within the framework of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
If those institutions are weakened and the Charter remains outside of the Treaty, how are we going to bring Europe closer to its citizens?
At the same time, the declaration on enlargement - which is a positive one - says that the applicant countries will be able to join the Union at the end of 2002, and the Heads of Government of the countries that are in negotiations have welcomed Nice.
Now we have to take something into account: this is like when a child invites his friends to a birthday party and it is not sure whether there is enough room in the house or whether there is enough money for the food.
It is too easy to blame the President-in-Office of the Council, especially as the majority of the political families represented here are also represented in the Council.
I would like to make an appeal to you: no more Intergovernmental Conferences behind closed doors. (Applause) In the declaration on the future of the Union - which I welcome on behalf of my Group - for the first time there is a mention of the need to renew its working methods: the need for a wider debate in which all the parties involved can take part.
And I really think that we should use the convention method to determine the future of the Union.
With regard to the content of the Treaty of Nice, as others have said here today, we must reflect, we must see the texts, we must form a considered judgment.
When we look at the progress which has been made on the reweighting of votes, clearly it is complex and difficult to explain, but the emphasis that was coming out of Nice in reports to the media from the various national delegations was how things could be blocked rather than how things could be promoted.
I want to salute the European spirit of Mr Verhofstadt, the Belgian Prime Minister which held up to the very end at four or half past four in the morning.
I want to say for my group that when it comes to dealing with the European Commission, when it comes to the model that has made Europe achieve what we want to see, when we look at the dual legitimacy of the European process based on a Monnet method with a strong intergovernmental input, we do not see the European Commission and their advisers as petits fonctionnaires.
But the Schuman-Monnet method has helped us not only to create but to deliver the European dream.
I would say to those who trample on that: do so with great caution because you trample on our dreams when you break up a method which has worked so well.
Finally, to contemplate the next phase 2004.
He said we must be ambitious but temper our ambition with reality.
It is an important message and it is understood.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I should like to give you a little history lesson, concerning a famous French doctor, whose name was Coué and who invented a method - the Coué method - based on the principle of autosuggestion and self-hypnosis.
I consider it to be a failure not only in terms of the European Union' s stated ambition to change the institutions so that they are capable of properly receiving the new Member States by improving the European Union' s efficiency, but I also consider it to be a failure in terms of another important aim, which has perhaps not been sufficiently highlighted, which is the rapprochement of the European Union and its citizens.
Granted, the number of Members of the European Parliament has increased in relation to what had been envisaged, which goes a little way to allaying some of our fears, but the result will be more Members with fewer powers.
I should like to give an example with regard to transparency: Article 133 on commercial policy.
I have not seen the definitive texts - no one here has - but I have seen three pages, annexes 5 and 6, on commercial policy.
In an area as sensitive, as politically sensitive, as this, for which there is popular support, I consider this to be a serious political mistake.
I therefore believe that, on this point, as Members of the European Parliament and as representatives of the public, we have a genuine obligation to show our annoyance and, politically, to translate our annoyance into positive action.
Governments are responsible for their image in international national public opinion and must look after this image.
I take genuine pleasure in the consensus that I feel exists in this House.
Madam President, Mr President of the Republic, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, my group takes a very dim view of the Fifteen following the rather unappetising spectacle they put on for the European people, who were probably amazed to see on that occasion, and at first hand, the real common vision, sense of solidarity and mutual trust that exists between the major European leaders.
We would then have sent the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe a signal of incalculable political consequences.
The problem facing the Fifteen lies, I believe, less in their difficulty in providing sound responses, than in their refusal to address the right questions.
Symptomatically, it is in the few areas in which the demand for concrete measures had been clearly demonstrated in our societies that a few positive agreements have finally been reached between the Fifteen.
With regard to the Social Agenda, although we would be hard pushed to find the specific objectives that we hoped for, at least it offers elements that will provide support for action in the next five years.
To conclude, I share my group' s view that the Nice European Council will ultimately have been the turning point for a kind of institutional and political construction that has shown its limitations and has reached the end of its useful life.
You said that the Nice Summit was a success because it finally led to an agreement.
The obstacles between the Fifteen that multiplied during the Summit are symptomatic.
Any clear-thinking person can see that they herald the very serious consequences to which the project of a Federal Europe of 27 or 28 Member States is leading us.
Speaking mainly on behalf of the French members of my group, I will say that there is a permanent contradiction between the virtues attributed to this Europe and the aberrations seen in the daily workings of the Union.
The technique is now tried and tested: always put off for another time the burden of proof; take decisions that are void of content or which will not be implemented for a long time and finally present the whole business as a magnificent success.
The Nice summit is to some extent the apotheosis of this sleight-of-hand strategy.
It simply sets a handful of objectives for the next five years, which the Member States are free to decide whether to pursue or not, depending on the policies they choose.
To crown it all, the European leaders who met at Nice decided to open a new institutional project in 2004.
From evasions to pretences and from hypocritical agreements to sermons on the future, this Federal Europe is beginning to look like a house of cards whose roofs are growing higher and higher but whose foundations are quaking, because the real lesson of the Nice Summit is the enormity of the historical misunderstanding in which our continent has been mired since the Treaty of Maastricht.
The Member States do not have the support of the people because there is no such thing as a European people and they are therefore forced by public opinion to advocate their national interests with increasing fervour, even if this means changing the maximum number of Members of the European Parliament set by the Treaty of Amsterdam, which is already out of date, and even if this means increasing the number of European Commissioners to 27, even though the current Commission of Fifteen does not work.
Because you are paralysed with the fear of having fewer seats than Germany in the Council of Ministers, you have definitively capitulated on everything else: on the number of French Members in this Chamber, which is reduced from 87 to 74 - oh, I agree, this would not be a big loss - whereas Germany will keep its 99 Members without losing a single one: at least for the sake of those who believe that this House serves some purpose, the number ought to have been maintained; on the so-called "demographic slice" principle, which gives a considerable advantage to Germany; on one of the two Commissioners in Brussels and on our right of veto in the very many areas concerning our vital interests.
The final result is preposterous.
This is why, as far as we are concerned, we will ask the President of France to consult the French people at the appropriate time by means of a referendum on this Treaty. (Applause) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the masochism with which French political leaders have, once again, allowed themselves to be ensnared in the trap of a Europe obsessed with complex, intricate manoeuvres is incredible.
Having wallowed in cohabitation, these professional politicians have lain down in resignation over a treaty that they just had to sign in Nice as if Germany' s fate depended on it.
We are told of parity between the larger States but the division is confirmed with 27 additional seats being allocated to just one country.
The right of each Member State to be heard within the Council should have been recognised in Nice.
For this to happen, one vote is enough and would enable us to avoid the countless calculations of weighting imposed by qualified majority voting.
Taking into account these interests and differences within the Council would have avoided the debates on the number of Commissioners to which each State is clinging.
When I hear a Commissioner calling for an end to the cultural exception and for the extension of qualified majority voting to Article 133 in international negotiations, I must state that, personally, the loss of one Commissioner would not be particularly serious.
The common interest appears to diminish the signing of a treaty that is designed to provide solutions by transferring ever more sovereignty against the wishes expressed by the public.
My group is disappointed by this Treaty and is worried about the future that it holds for us and we will therefore use all our power to oppose it.
Many have complained about the lack of progress on qualified majority voting.
For many citizens, things are simply moving too fast.
This sort of approach would not only contradict the ultima ratio clause; it would, in my view, also represent a serious threat to the development of the Union.
I shall not mention any names of course, but certain Heads of State or Government say, with regard to sensitive issues, and rightly so because they are in the best position to understand them as the democratically appointed representatives of their people, what is acceptable or not to public opinion in their countries.
I am sorry that not everyone was able to adopt the same attitude.
Let us not forget that, with regard to referendums, some countries have voted against whilst others voted in favour - I am referring here to Maastricht - and rightly so.
There are, therefore, also constraints that must be appreciated.
Mr Barón Crespo mentioned the Charter.
Like a number of other speakers, Mr Barón Crespo also mentioned the defects in the method.
And I know the Commission - President Prodi mentioned this just now - should be making some proposals on this.
It was not wasted because it meant a whole series of issues that had been dealt with earlier did not have to be raised at Nice.
But in the end, on the essential points - and this is in the nature of things - the Heads of State and Government reserve the right to wait till the last minute to take decisions or accept compromises, and they will never allow staff to deal with those issues at an earlier stage.
He also mentioned something President Prodi said, which I particularly endorse and which brings me back to my first remark: we must be ambitious, President Prodi said, but we must temper our ambition with realism.
Anyway, all the countries concerned were unanimous in approving what was done in Nice.
He also mentioned reversal for the European Parliament.
Perhaps we did not make as much progress as you were hoping for, but you know, there again, some countries had reservations.
Still, there has been no reversal and the European Parliament can never have been - I think this can be said, I am speaking under the eye of the President and those responsible - can never have been as much involved and consulted as it has been during the French Presidency.
Indeed, we should try to ensure better conditions for a more general debate, which is more inclusive of civil society, if only to give our thoughts some oxygen.
That is often difficult to do, precisely because people do not necessarily always have the same ulterior motives.
But when it comes to globalisation, which calls for very broad public debate, we need to find ways to allow everyone to express their views somehow, in a calm atmosphere.
Globalisation is inevitable; it means considerable progress in terms of standards of living, social advances and economic development, which determines everything else.
He is telling us that within these walls and at Nice we have taken empty decisions or decisions which will not be implemented for a long time.
And he adds that we have decided on a handful of targets which the Member States are free to apply if they want to.
Mr Saint-Josse said there is a lack of public debate.
I have already responded on that score and I fully endorse what he said about the need to improve public debate considerably.
I will not repeat what I said, but it is true that citizens too often feel alienated from decisions taken in forums they do not know.
It can also accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 16, 19, 21, 23 and 24.
Mr President, could we please check before the vote that enough members are present in the Chamber to give us the 314 votes needed or if the other two reports should perhaps go first, because there has been some confusion as to how long this break is supposed to last.
They are compromise amendments designed to bring about agreement with the Council.
The Council has asked us to accept the spirit of the report but to change the wording here and there.
Hence these proposed amendments, these so-called compromise amendments from three groups.
I therefore call on the House to accept these compromise amendments and to reject the new proposals which have now been tabled by other groups so as to avoid jeopardising the compromise with the Council.
Not because I am opposed to the proposals in principle but because I want to safeguard the compromise with the Council and avoid risking a complicated and tricky conciliation procedure for the sake of an amendment.
In order to make full use of this compromise, I should like to ask the presidency to vote on proposed Amendment No 22, which is scheduled right at the beginning of the vote, after Amendment No 43, because Amendment No 43 reflects the compromise with the Council, while Amendment No 22 reflects the committee's original position and should only be adopted if the compromise does not win a majority here in the House.
That will keep us in line with the compromise with the Council.
Furthermore, the legitimate determination to protect patients who take part in trials at Union level is inseparable from respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
So the conditions for consent must be very strict.
While it is appropriate to establish a set of rules to be taken into account, the Member States must retain the power to adopt stricter legislation, as France has done in this respect.
I welcome the agreement to continue to begin summer time on the last Sunday in March and to end it on the last Sunday in October.
Instead of the one proposed by the Commission, the best solution would undoubtedly be to give up the summer time arrangement and keep GMT + 1 hour for the whole year, at least as far as France is concerned.
From this angle, I am glad two amendments were adopted by Parliament, one rejecting the Commission' s plan to apply the summer time arrangement for an indefinite period, and the other allowing the Member States, like the European institutions, to retain the option of reviewing this arrangement.
Therefore, roll on the advent of this directive which will simplify the procedures!" The status of the victims in criminal proceedings is not always properly protected.
This matter has been taken up in several Council of Europe instruments since the early 80s, but within the European Union it was not debated in the Council until 1998.
Since then, there have appeared first the Commission proposal, in the run-up to the 1999 Tampere European Council, which put forward a number of measures in the fields of the prevention of victimisation and victim aid and support and upheld the need to draw up minimum standards especially for victim protection and for the access of victims to justice and their right to compensation for damages, including legal costs, and secondly the Portuguese Presidency' s draft framework decision on the status of the victim in criminal proceedings.
Appropriate measures should be taken to provide crime victims with the following rights: to provide and receive information; communications facilities; participation in the procedure and access to free legal aid; a suitable level of protection and privacy; the possibility to seek compensation under criminal procedure and to dispute settlement through mediation.
I believe we have adequate protection for such victims under Article 6 of the Council of Europe's Convention on Human Rights, and this report is yet another example of unnecessary proposed European interference into an area which is already covered by agreements between Member States, as well as 25 other non-EU members of the Council of Europe.
The British Conservative Party does not support EU prescriptive measures to harmonise criminal law in the EU which must remain the competence of the Member State.
Madam President, I wholeheartedly support this report on better protection for victims of crime which demonstrates yet again in the EU's commitment to combating crime and protecting our citizens.
We are trying to ensure that the rights and interests of victims of crime are better respected in all EU Member States, even when the crime itself has been committed outside the victim's usual country of residence.
Combating crime is crucial for my constituents in the North West.
With Labour, crime is already down 10% since 1997.
Their record on law and order speaks for itself: during their time in office, the chance of being a victim of burglary increased from one in 32 to one in 13; the chance of being a victim of violent crime trebled.
Mr Gusinsky is presently in an aircraft on his way to Madrid where he faces deportation to Russia for criticising the Russian Government in his media activities.
This morning we heard every group speak of failure.
But that would mean recognising that the common project is more important than selfish interests.
That explains why many of us found Nice heartbreaking.
It was heartbreaking to see the debates concentrating on who would get one vote more or one vote less, and who would gain - Germany or France, the Netherlands or Belgium, Portugal or Spain.
The only question that was never asked was whether or not Europe would gain.
Finally and above all, heartbreaking results for the citizens, who find themselves excluded once and for all from these carpet salesmen' s debates about a Europe where they are condemned never to understand anything.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, one image strikes us as we leave Nice behind.
Europe is now ready, thirteen years after the fall of the Berlin Wall, to welcome the Central and Eastern European countries knocking at our door.
We all know there is a collective responsibility for this sad balance sheet, be it that of the 'small countries' or the 'big countries' , be it that of the founding countries or those joining later.
Nice will make enlargement possible, but without a plan, without a soul, without ambition, without vision.
There is no longer even any mention of its possible incorporation and, in the final analysis, the only institution to emerge from this exercise strengthened is the Court of Justice, which will be able to incorporate this Charter into Community legislation, even before the Heads of State and Government.
The scope of qualified majority is narrower than expected.
On the essential issues of tax and social affairs, there is no progress.
For us, that is essential.
On method, I think the Nice perspectives, from that point of view, are very interesting.
The Heads of State and Government have just recognised at Nice what we were saying after Amsterdam: the Intergovernmental Conference method is no longer successful for Europe.
So we welcome the prospect of a new method and we trust that, with the hope offered by the possibility of enhanced cooperation, Europe will continue to advance and will be capable of drafting a constitution for tomorrow which restores our fellow citizens' confidence in this tremendous project that is the European adventure.
However, my greatest fear is that Britain, France and Germany will now be able to subvert the delicate balance developed between states of various sizes and between the institutions over several decades.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as far as we are concerned, the outcome of the Nice Summit has not prepared the EU sufficiently for enlargement.
Mr President, there is a quotation from George Orwell' s book, Animal Farm which, in a way, describes what happened in Nice.
On the basis of the Treaty of Nice, an enlarged EU will become a Union which is more centralised and in which the small countries pay the whole price of enlargement.
Sweden is therefore to be given fewer votes than comparable Member States.
The decision-making process in the Council is to become more complicated, at the same time as it is to become more difficult to take decisions.
I can also inform this Assembly that the results of a Swedish opinion poll were published today, showing that only 38 per cent of the population want to remain in the European Union.
Some are happier than others about this, but the main message is clear: Europe can now be unified in an enlarged democratic EU which is also close to the people, thanks to the Treaty of Nice.
The Treaty of Nice contains a series of quite decisive steps towards an EU of élites, together with corresponding steps away from a Europe of democracies and of the people.
The decision-making mechanism in the Council of Ministers has become far more complicated and the hurdles have been raised.
In the decisive areas in which we require qualified majority voting if the European Union is to be capable of action with 27 Member States, we failed dismally.
There are four fundamental areas, including structural policy, Article 133 and two other instances in which the European Parliament has been excluded from policy-making.
Plus, the number of seats in the European Parliament has been laid down against our own wishes and without consulting us.
For the rest, when it comes to law-making, the future Council of Ministers must be an open, parliamentary organisation in which transparency and scrutiny have their place, because we cannot carry on as we are.
The second fundamental issue is political rather than institutional.
The atmosphere of the Nice Council, the lack of openness, as President Prodi said, the blinkered vision characterising the attitudes of the different governments - the narrow-minded defence of national interests or policies - explain, it is sad to say, the root of the problem: a serious loss of the sense of shared European interest, of a common European vision.
The people must be involved in future. 4.
The EU must acquire a common constitution. 5.
Our new colleagues must be allowed to participate in the discussions as new Members on equal conditions.
Yet even the pro-Europe- States did little to fight for its cause and, in the end, bowed before a disappointing compromise.
We have long known that the great Europe could not be introduced through the institutions of the little Europe.
Certainly, the Nice agreement opens the way to membership for the candidate countries, but we are advancing down that road in the fog, foot on the brake, certain the European vehicle will not reach its destination in good shape.
So let us forget about Nice now, and think about post-Nice -and you will forgive me if I pin my hopes on the plan for a grand convention advanced by Belgium for its Presidency, because the evidence is there, we must do something new, we must change the method, we must accelerate history: 2004 is too late, it is too far off, it is too dangerous.
The outcome of the compromises brokered in Nice is not more transparency, it is more cover-up.
But the historic failing of Nice is that your resolutions are not based on any identifiable vision for a Union of 27 Member States.
It is this spirit, the spirit of Monnet, Schuman and others, which was missing in Nice and which was sorely needed.
What is heart-breaking about Europe is that so few of its many leaders are prepared to risk their political career by standing or falling by the unification of Europe.
Mr President, I am one of those who had for some time been placing their hopes in the miracle of Nice: an Intergovernmental Conference, a Summit, a Treaty which would both reorganise the European institutions and further the process of enlargement.
The clearest gauges of its limited success are the announcement of another Intergovernmental Conference in 2004 and the quality and import of the subjects at the centre of the post-Nice debate, which range from the distribution of competences within the Union to the value of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The miracle did not come to pass in terms of the organisation of the shared legacy of the Charter of Fundamental Rights either.
Only those who have always believed in the strategic value of enlargement have a genuine right to rejoice with them.
Mr President, the main aspects of European integration remained unresolved in Nice and will remain so for many years.
According to Article 1 of the Treaty on European Union, they were supposed to be creating an ever closer political union.
But no, the heads of state and government blocked the idea of European unification.
There was no answer to the question as to how the institutions of the European Union could function more effectively in an enlarged Union.
Old deficits have not been made good and now new ones have come along.
Nice will go down in history as the Summit of lost opportunity, the Summit of lack of leadership in Europe, the Summit of opposition and the Summit in whose wake the people felt even more isolated from the European Union.
I think the European Parliament is right to base its evaluation on two criteria, namely efficiency and democratisation.
Unfortunately, however, for the European Parliament, the shortcomings in the Treaty have been exacerbated.
The European Parliament has too little say in the reinforced cooperation procedure.
The decision-making system in the Council may well incorporate the principle of a double majority, but it has become somewhat complicated and has upset the balance between large and small Member States.
Without this clause on post-Nice developments, the European Parliament would, I think, have been unable to accept the Treaty.
I think all of us, from our own positions, worked as well as possible with Commissioner Barnier to contribute to this Treaty of Nice.
Europe is our common heritage, but all of us here belong to different nations and different parties, and the criticism of the Treaty of Nice - criticism of the European Union in general - is unfortunately, or perhaps fortunately, utterly contradictory.
Some people want more of this, some people want more of that: some people want more Europe, some people want more social Europe, some people want more liberal Europe, some people want less Europe full stop, and we have had some very fine samples of all that this morning.
Like the President of the Republic this morning, I too try to imagine what would happen if we had arrived here without a Treaty of Nice.
The consequences of that for Europe would have been totally incalculable.
I think confidence in Europe would have been shaken in economic terms, and operationally we would have lost several years of ground.
The French Presidency takes some satisfaction in having carried out its task, which consisted quite simply of achieving closure three and a half years after Amsterdam and five years after we began to think about institutional reform.
First on the reweighting grid which has shocked François Bayrou, for instance, and bothered Pervenche Berès.
We had a system which was actually simple, but from our point of view - which was not necessarily the Commission' s, and it will perhaps set that out for you - it produced excessive distortions, that is, the principle of the double majority.
For example, in the early days of the European Union, as you know, two so-called 'big' countries could achieve a blocking minority, and today it takes three.
A safety net of Member States: any qualified majority must include a majority of the Member States.
There was a strong demand for that from those calling themselves 'small countries' .
Several people have mentioned it here and besides, you will have noticed that the conclusions on the post-Nice process include wide consultation of all sorts of players in society, including Parliament, and concluding with what we hope will be a short IGC.
It is a thankless task.
This reform has been in construction for five years.
The French Presidency has carried it out without self-satisfaction, but with satisfaction in the work done.
The milestones are in place, enlargement is possible, the European Parliament will have its place in the debate and in going deeper into the routes and ideas.
I also want to say to Giorgio Napolitano - who has done a lot of work on this issue - that in the end the atmosphere at Nice, the spirit of the Heads of State and Government, and the spirit of the Commission was not defensive of national interests, but seeking a common direction within those national interests.
But I say this sincerely to the European Parliament - we cannot build Europe on the backs of the citizens or behind their backs.
When you criticise the Nice European Council and the future Treaty of Nice - the criticism, though varied, is unanimous - be aware that you are also addressing all your governments and all the peoples of Europe they legitimately represent, who have also elected you.
I believe deeply in the Community method, and when we say Community method we mean balance between three institutions which need to coexist and get on well together.
The work has been difficult.
I am sure it will be useful for the future of Europe.
I am sure Parliament will go on to consider the relationship between the institutions.
Mr President, Mr Prodi, Mr Barnier, I would like to speak on two points.
And not only is the issue of the Commission a leftover, but the lack of extension of qualified majority voting and codecision strengthens competition between the Member States, between the Fifteen and a fortiori between the Twenty-seven, and undermines the future of the European social model.
I think there are two matters in which the European Parliament plays an important role.
The first is the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The Charter has been proclaimed and that is a good thing.
But it has neither been incorporated into the Treaties, nor has a reference to the Charter been put in Paragraph 2 of Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
I would therefore like to thank our President, Mrs Fontaine, and President Prodi for what they have said: for the European Parliament and the Commission, the Charter is law from now onwards, and it is going to have an effect from now onwards.
I remember that when Dimitris Tsatsos and I drew up the report on the Treaty of Amsterdam, we talked about Ortega y Gasset, who said, quoting old Cervantes, that often you have to choose between staying at an inn or continuing with the journey.
Perhaps, for this Parliament the European Council of Nice has not been positive, as it was in Amsterdam.
But perhaps, for the European Union, the European Council of Nice is opening up the way for hope and for the future.
Mr President, after the Single European Act, after Maastricht, after the Treaty of Amsterdam, this Parliament had to judge the results.
In all those cases we reached the conclusion that those treaties were not entirely satisfactory, did not respond to all of our aspirations, but nonetheless represented a step forward and were at least better than the status quo.
Now that we have a population criterion in there anyway, it should have been possible to lower the threshold in terms of the number of votes.
For the rest the Treaty is a mixture of unsatisfactory and positive things - unsatisfactory but nonetheless better than the status quo, I suppose, at least as regards the extension of qualified majority voting, the extension of the codecision procedure for the European Parliament, and the provisions for enhanced cooperation.
Many of us regard the Treaty of Nice as unacceptable but for many different reasons.
The great difficulty concerning the Treaty of Nice - as many people have already commented - is that the lack of any text at this time makes it impossible to make a considered judgment.
We do not know whether the carpentry shop in Nice has produced a Pandora's box for Commission activism or a coffin for democracy, but - whatever has emerged - it is being French-polished and we hope the final result helps the European Union.
I believe that two failures are the lack of democracy, because the opportunity to open the Council up to public scrutiny has been ignored although many of us feel that this was the time to do it, and the illogicality of the re-weighting of votes, with one approach for the Council and another for the European Parliament.
Many people looking at the Treaty of Nice will wonder why it was done in that way.
I personally believe that the re-weighting of votes must take account of population, as is done in the European Parliament and should have been done in the Council also.
Then there is the incorporation as a mandatory mechanism of the Charter of Fundamental Rights: in itself as in the United States today, a recipe for confusion between the courts in the European Union.
Mr President, we have already made a thorough assessment of what happened in Nice, but we should remember that Nice began with a very restricted agenda.
The images coming out of Nice showed a Europe in which every country was trying to look after itself, suggesting that the Europe of the future will be a battle between the large and small countries.
I wonder whether this image we have been given of Nice might not be an appeal to the conscience of convinced Europeans, those who do not just want a single market, those who do not just want a single currency, in the face of what I regard as this "non-time" for Europe.
In my view, Nice was the second part of Amsterdam and we are now in a phase, an interval, between Amsterdam and an IGC to be held in 2004 but with an unknown end-date.
The case for the European project is that it is not the sum of national interests but a joint project, as President Romano Prodi has said, and the institutions must now look to the future and join hands so that enlargement can take place, so that the citizens can look on Europe as we would like them to and so that politics can go back to building the European project rather than just upholding power, particularly the power of the larger countries.
Mr President, it has been said, and I think rightly so, that Europe is born out of necessity and that only when necessity knocks at the door does Europe decide to take a step forward.
And necessity gave an urgent knock at the door of Europe in Nice, in the form of sclerosis as a result of the prospect of an enlarged Europe.
There can be many evaluations of what happened in Nice, and we have had ample proof of that this morning and this afternoon in the continuation of the debate.
But the European Council in Nice, like many other summits in the history of the European Union, represents a triumph for reality, a triumph of pragmatism over utopianism.
Although we would all have liked to increase our powers in codecision - and despite the disputes between large countries, between large and small countries and between small and medium-sized countries - it is obvious that the following, although not spectacular, are all steps in the right direction, as President Prodi said this morning: a Commission whose president has his powers increased; a decision-making process in which more decisions - not all those that we would have wished - are taken by qualified majority; a clarification of the role of enhanced cooperation; and also - why not come out with it? - a reweighting, imperfect though it may be, of the votes in the Council of Ministers.
The ratio between large and small was, in the end, regulated in a perfectly reasonable manner, following a number of totally obtuse and unacceptable suggestions, and the Commission has been strengthened, even if the link with the number of members is not necessarily an overly reasonable or clever decision.
It is true that the people are probably more critical of integration more often than we here in the Chamber.
This Parliament must play a leading role in this process, just as it did at the convention.
We want to prove to the heads of government that we know best.
I therefore take the view that we should only apply ourselves in detail to what has come out of Nice once it is clear that the European Parliament will have an important and decisive role in the future process.
We want to prove to the heads of government that we know best.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, all my colleagues have stressed the expectations that surrounded the Nice Summit, which was intended to allow the European Union to continue operating effectively, democratically and transparently after the historic enlargement we are awaiting.
Certainly, the Nice Summit has made it possible to achieve significant progress on all the issues that directly affect the lives of our citizens, whether it be the preservation of health, the protection of the environment, social policy or indeed the adoption of a European Company Statute.
Another positive point is that the Charter of Fundamental Rights has been officially proclaimed, even if it is not intended to be binding at this stage.
Finally, the decisions taken in the area of the common foreign and security policy represent undeniable progress.
In fact, while we seem to have succeeded in avoiding total paralysis of the future enlarged European Union, it has not been possible to convert the ambitions of the French Presidency into a new draft of the Treaty.
Beyond the technical aspects of that reform, what concerns us most of all is the growing difficulty the Member States of the European Union have in making joint decisions, in accordance with the common interests of their citizens.
During the Summit it seemed as if the Netherlands was only out to win a kind of football match against Belgium.
The result of this outpouring of energy was 12-13 instead of 10-10 in terms of points in the vote weighting.
So the Netherlands got one more vote than Belgium in the Council.
But if we look at the number of seats in the European Parliament then the Netherlands drops from 31 to 25 and Belgium from 24 to 22.
So the Netherlands paid a price for gaining a toehold in the Council.
It worked well for the Charter and it will also work better than a traditional IGC.
And it is more democratic to boot.
We must surely agree with him, although we know that this desire will only be able to be realised after many years have passed, if, as I believe will happen, national parliaments ratify the Treaty of Nice.
Hopefully, however, Nice showed Finland and other small countries that emphasising the intergovernmental European nature of the Council' s role will mean a continuous cycle of defeats for small countries in decision making.
Almost every country brought its own internal political problems to the meeting.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I am not one of those clever members who can already weigh up everything decided in Nice in detail, because I have yet to see the texts.
The model of the Intergovernmental Conference has had its day.
In practice, however, compromises have been found on the basis of the lowest common denominator.
Mr President, it is not easy to criticise the French presidency during this debate as it is not present.
It is deplorable that he has not found it possible to find a deputy to wait for the end of our deliberations.
It is deplorable and the only hopeful sign is that the European Commission has clearly recovered its sense of self-confidence.
Mr President, the Nice Summit has shown that Intergovernmental Conferences have reached the end of their useful life.
The list of problems tackled in Nice is long but, as President Prodi made quite clear, there was insufficient focus on the institutional reforms and the role of Parliament.
We have also been completely clear, ladies and gentlemen, about the need for Parliament and the Commission to work together to build the new Europe, for this arduous task is our responsibility, but ours is also this great mission and this great potential.
Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission.
I have received six motions for resolutions from the Members, tabled in accordance with Paragraph 2 of Rule 37 of the Rules of Procedure.
The debate is closed.
We decided - and we make no bones about it - that we did not want the Council putting us in a position tomorrow where we have to choose between two priorities that are equally legitimate in our eyes: the Balkans and the Mediterranean.
Under the terms of the compromise concluded between Parliament' s delegation and the Council, Euro-Mediterranean cooperation suffers a cut of EUR 200 million compared with the budget for 2000.
A fine signal to send our close partners in the South.
In addition, and above all, the problem of financing for the Balkans will still be there in its entirety for the years ahead.
Heading 3, internal actions, also warrants a comment, since the 'employment initiative' , re-baptised the 'Spirit of Enterprise programme' has been amputated to the tune of EUR 87 million, the Trans-European Networks by EUR 23 million, and environmental protection by EUR 42 million.
In total, with about 1.09% of European gross domestic product, or even less, the 2001 budget will be one of the lowest of the last ten years, in relative terms, since it is well below the already very restrictive ceiling established under Agenda 2000 in Berlin in March 1999.
This must not become a precedent in our institutions.
Finally, I urge the committee to adopt increasingly a budgetary strategy aimed particularly at strengthening and protecting our currency, the euro.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, and I would have said Madam President of the Council, but I do not see her among us.
I, in my turn, would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, the Council and the Presidency on the work that has been accomplished, and the conclusion of this agreement which will allow us to vote for the budget for the year 2001.
An agreement has just been concluded in Nice to make enlargement possible.
When I see that our budget is down by comparison with the year 2000, both in real terms and in terms of percent of GNP, and that we are so very far adrift from the objectives set in Edinburgh, I recognise that as the real problem.
Mr President, in the course of the budgetary procedure for the 2001 budget, the debates in this Parliament focussed on a limited number of issues.
The Council is right to reject this revision because there is no point in putting a ceiling on the expenditure in Berlin for a period of six years if these ceilings are going to be called into question every year.
These maximum levels force the Commission to set priorities within the confines of a budget, in the way that every government has to.
An instrument of EUR 200 million that has now been earmarked, in agreement with the Council, for aid to the Balkans.
As Mr Colom i Naval rightly commented, using the flexibility instrument in this way misses the whole point, i.e.
The Union as an association of nation States, born of the need for peace in Europe, has a duty of honour to finance the process of peace and reconciliation in the Balkans.
Mr President, we probably ought to reserve the flexibility instrument for the 2002 budget now for the candidate states.
We are also aware of the assumption behind the Commission's Letter of Amendment No. 2, i.e.
However, this assumption no longer holds true.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to begin by congratulating our colleague, the general rapporteur Jutta Haug, on the way in which she has done her job, which has contributed immensely to the constructive atmosphere in which our work has been carried out in committee and in Parliament in general.
The vote that is to follow this debate will mark the end of the long, complex process of approving the European Union budget for 2001.
The budget represents, in payment appropriations, just 1.056% of the Community GDP.
Whereas there is no solution as yet for the first aspect mentioned, the GDP, and I am sure that Parliament will soon demonstrate its persistence with regard to the second, I must say that with regard to the third aspect that I have highlighted, I believe that the great novelty in the budget process in coming years is the agreement reached between Parliament and the Council for the Commission to draw up a report by 30 June 2001 to be submitted to the first two institutions regarding the progress achieved in a number of basic fields, such as the reduction in the amount outstanding, the simplification of the project round, improved programme implementation, a commitology review, the reform of the Commission, the definition and execution of implementation objectives, particularly in external cooperation, and the provision of more thorough information for Parliament in several fields.
If the submission of such a report is not seen as just one more formality, the hopes that many of us have placed in this new step will be justified.
Mr President, at times we have sounded like a mutual admiration society in the way in which we have congratulated one another on this.
I may just deviate from that trend slightly in relation to the Council - not necessarily the French Presidency - but the Council in general.
That is what we have done: we have avoided a budgetary crisis by going to Article 272; the financial perspective has been maintained, even though we have used the flexibility instrument.
It must be said, and I put it on record, that the French presidency has been a good partner in trying to find solutions.
In other words, the remarks which concern non-compulsory expenditure.
There are times when I foolishly assumed this year that once the Commission had made its proposals for a revision we could reach an agreement with the Council.
Then when I discovered that there would be no discussions on that revision regarding Article 25 of the IIA, I was, to say the least, somewhat disappointed.
The Council's attitude in this game of football seems to be not to worry about the ball but to get on with the game.
Let me just say to the Council that, as far as this game is concerned, we have not run out of balls and this side intends playing until we get the right result.
Finally, I thank all those who have been involved in this - not just the rapporteurs - but also the secretariat of the Commission, Parliament services and the political group staff.
I am particularly satisfied because we stayed within the financial perspective again.
We are all familiar with the content of the letter of amendment in October and if all goes well, if the dollar stays at 91 cents, then we could end up with a surplus of approximately EUR 1.3 billion in category 1A.
Last year, with the Bourlanges report, the flexibility instrument was mobilised for the first time, and an institutional declaration was also obtained recognising the possible financial insufficiency of category 4.
This year, the Haug report has taken advantage of this institutional declaration last year to discuss the need to revise the financial perspective.
It has been demonstrated that it was not the right time for a revision, that there was enough margin to fulfil the commitments to the Balkans and to the MEDA programme without altering the forecasts of Berlin 1999, and it has been shown that the compulsion to have a revision is only in the intentions of those who voted against Agenda 2000 in its day.
However, the European Parliament cannot carry on forever reducing its external commitments.
We do not want there to be a proposal for revision for next year in the Colom Resolution, because we want to wait for the World Bank evaluation, but we share his criticism that this method of resolving the financial insufficiency in category 4 distorts the multiannual nature of the major external objectives of the Union and the very definition of the financial perspective.
This time, more than ever, the secret of success will be in correctly implementing the budget.
The final outcome of the negotiations is positive, which shows that in order to achieve some objectives, what matters is not getting there alone and early, but getting there altogether and on time.
We wanted a budget that would combine our efforts with those of the Member States to contribute to economic growth and increasing employment, and therefore the agreement that has been reached on the multiannual amount for the small businesses programme is a good thing.
However, sustaining this and Parliament' s other political priorities needs to be compatible with budgetary stability in spending.
It is true that the Union is in its most favourable economic situation for 10 years, as is proved by the fact that the net balances have improved a great deal.
But, precisely for this reason, I think that the agreement reached on payment appropriations is reasonable, because it combines efforts in the right direction for sustained growth.
Parliament' s budgetary strategy marks a before and an after at this start of the millennium.
And I am going a little further, because it is not enough to have strict and transparent rules for implementing the budget, such as the cancellation of commitments if they have not been implemented after two years.
This should go hand in hand with a commitment from the College of Commissioners to a fair and efficient distribution of human and material resources for the management of the various policies, that is, they must remember the political priority of Parliament and the management priority of the Commission.
When we make use of 1.06 per cent of the Member States' GDP, this gives us a margin greater than ever before and greater than that predicted in Berlin less than two years ago.
This means that, if the solution to the problem requires still more money, this must be provided by means of other savings in Category 1 or through the Member States' accepting a larger portion of the cost.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I intend to focus on one fundamental point in my comments on the budget lines for environmental, public health and consumer protection policy.
This is particularly annoying in that environmental policy is a horizontal policy because environmental policy - or at least successful environmental policy - must be applied as a cross-border policy.
We all know that.
But this also means that we need to be given proper funding once and for all.
Allow me to make a comment: I am not the only one who constantly has the impression in these circumstances that my only purpose in sitting on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is to prevent the worst in the frenzy and rush of regulation which is thrust upon us.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have three comments to make on what has been said during this debate.
During the conflict in Bosnia, Europe was still not in a position to speak with one voice: one country was purported to be on the side of the Serbs, another to be on the side of the Croats.
We have overcome this to a considerable degree in foreign policy and I hope in the forthcoming budget debates that we shall take more decisions of substance and spend more time on the problems and less time haggling over national interests in this budget.
First, the structure of the budget in 2001: one speaker said that the agricultural budget would not rise sufficiently.
However, I must stress that the agricultural budget has a very high rate of growth, namely 5.7%.
I would draw your attention here to the rules of the Interinstitutional Agreement, which state that a "currency risk" of up to EUR 200 million must be financed from the agricultural policy and that only then can recourse be taken to the currency reserve.
In addition, agricultural policy also includes something in this area which is not standard practice in environmental policy and which fundamentalists may occasionally take a dim view of: namely that compensation is paid for refraining from taking environmentally damaging action.
I think it is a good thing that we have succeeded in activating the flexibility instruments and giving Serbia the help it needs on this occasion, although I fully agree with you that our strategy must be such that we prevent the phenomenon from arising whereby a European flexibility instrument wanders from one region or country of Europe to another, depending on where it is needed.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The vote will take place on Thursday from 10.00 a.m.
The attitude of the European Union and its Member States is now more one of a feeling of joint responsibility for the restoration of Russian society.
It can be regarded as a kind of moral duty but also as being in the interests of the European Union, which, of course, has nothing to gain from lawlessness and poverty in a very large neighbouring country.
Yet for many of us, the development of the Russian Federation is still a dubious matter and that is why I can imagine that people sometimes have their doubts about it, even in this Parliament.
I am expecting a more extensive discussion to take place next month via the topical and urgent debate, and would suggest that we only give a limited preview of this debate in these resolutions.
In retrospect, the interruption of this cooperation was not a success, particularly as there appears to be little coordination in actions of this kind, between the European Union on the one hand and other major players, such as Japan and the United States, on the other.
The Northern Dimension is a clear example of cooperation that is to be put into concrete form.
We would argue in favour of having a separate budgetary line for developing this Northern Dimension in a coherent manner, along the lines of the one that we already have for cooperation with the three Baltic States.
I could live with it though, if recital G on this aspect were to lapse, and in so doing if it were to be possible, with the support of the Social Democrats, to achieve a broader majority for this resolution, because this would send out a clearer signal to Russia.
We will follow the developments in Russian society and internal politics with great interest.
We hope that a truly civil society will soon flourish there and form the permanent basis for a real political democracy.
But let me say a couple of words about our strategic relationship.
Now I am in favour of encouraging Russia and the Ukraine to move in our direction and cooperate with other alliance countries in crisis-management tasks, but I would not be in favour of us moving in their direction or adjusting our policies in order to accommodate them.
We must work in the closest possible harmony with the United States in our dealings with Russia and certainly must not give Russia the impression that there are divisions to be exploited.
Secondly, we must take great care to ensure diversity of production and supply in terms of energy.
Already some 40% of natural gas supply for the EU comes from Russia, and an increasing proportion of oil imports now come from the CIS countries, where known reserves are larger than those in the United States and North Sea combined.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the common strategy towards the Russian Federation was the first common strategy in the history of the European Union.
The agreement contains a human rights clause and provisions governing the establishment of democratic rule of law.
Our economic relations with the Russian Federation have fluctuated enormously over past years, depending on various crisis situations.
Unless the Russian Federation rectifies this situation by creating, post haste, the necessary legal and security framework and hence a more friendly investment climate, there would appear to be no way out of the economic crisis, high oil prices notwithstanding.
And programmes such as TACIS can only be of limited help here - more to the point, they barely scratch the surface.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we often underestimate the fact that a balance struck with the Russian Federation is a guarantee of peace in Europe.
This highlights the importance of the strategy towards the Russian Federation and, at the same time, the importance of your report, Mr Oostlander.
Even if President Putin guarantees the democratic development of his country, that does not automatically guarantee a stable and democratic Russian Federation.
This means that the twin-track strategy posited in the report is very, very important.
I think the Prodi plan may bring a new dimension to cooperation with the Russian Federation and provides an important basis.
That means that we have a joint responsibility for peace in the Caucasus, for environmental protection in the Russian Federation and for the rights of its indigenous people.
Mr President, we must establish cooperation with Russia, a country wounded in its statehood, so that she can become a European state that aspires to education and culture.
The country is in sharp moral decline: it is almost like Sodom and Gomorra.
There are still 300 tons of anthrax bacteria manufactured for purposes of biological warfare in existence there, and just a small dose is lethal.
I have put forward a number of amendments intended to place rather more emphasis on these issues.
I think that the solution cannot be military, as the situation clearly demonstrates, and that it can only be political.
Yet we do not dare say as much in our report.
They want to have a friend in the Kremlin.
Mr President, may I, on behalf of the European Liberal Democrats, thank and congratulate Mr Oostlander.
Failings in the implementation of human rights and democracy have also been clearly brought to light.
A separate budgetary heading is being proposed for the Northern Dimension and increased aid to Russia, in general, is being recommended.
Current discussions on the Russian state symbol show that there are several takes on reality in the Russian Federation.
Mr President, in recent years the European Union has finalised various documents relating to the Russian Federation which form a good basis for close relations with it.
Despite all its contradictions, Europeans clearly see Russia as part of Europe and have a huge interest in a stable, democratically-organised Russian Federation with good economic prospects which plays a confident part in and helps to shape international policy.
In the political sector, the common strategy towards the Russian Federation proposes entering into a standing dialogue on policy and security and creating a permanent mechanism for such dialogue.
It would be interesting to expound on this, but time is too short.
The EU sets great store in its Russian policy by environmental protection and nuclear safety.
The substance and methods of the internal consolidation being pursued by the Putin regime will have a significant influence on the nature of our relations.
Mr President, given the economic and geopolitical importance of Russia, the European Union believes it must seek a common strategy on the subject.
The report contains many empty phrases and, in particular, pious hopes.
It is not just because each of the major European powers is primarily concerned with safeguarding the interests of its own capitalist groups, but in the final analysis, what does capitalist Europe have to offer Russia?
And indeed, what does freedom mean for the Chechen people?
In voting against this report I wish to stress the inability of the capitalist economy and the western world to bring progress and prosperity to the peoples of the Russian Federation or indeed to the majority of peoples on this earth.
With reference to the report we presented in Minsk, we first of all emphasised that the Belarus Parliament is at present lacking in powers, cannot legislate, does not have the right of veto against Presidential decrees and cannot adopt budgets.
Thirdly, we discussed access to the media, which is unfairly organised in a State-controlled system.
Belarus is therefore in political union with Russia.
The war in Chechnya is a case in point, and, for example, this labour legislation now under discussion will reduce employees' rights quite drastically.
The result will finally be more human rights, which we all desire.
Mr President, a few days ago, the Duma decided that the Soviet anthem would be Russia's national anthem.
What is significant is that the majority of Russian citizens supported this move.
What I am trying to say is that we need to change our stand: we must not feel and we must not sow the seeds of fear; we must look for a partner which needs our help and support.
But it is an excellent report which, like the common strategy itself, underlines the importance that we attach to the relationship - the strategic partnership - between the European Union and Russia.
The common strategy identified initiatives in foreign policy, security and the fight against crime.
In this context, as Parliament will know, at the last summit between the European Union and Russia, Romano Prodi launched a far-reaching dialogue on energy.
Our technical assistance programme - in particular Tacis - already responds to many of the priorities identified by this report.
The core Tacis Programme, worth EUR 34 million, focuses on education, the rule of law, democracy and civil society development, including regional media freedom, protection of individual rights and support to self-government.
The subsequent action programme - to a value of EUR 58 million - focuses on institution-building, on the rule of law in the economic field and on improvements to the business and investment climate.
The honourable Member's report rightly stresses the need for our Moscow delegation to play a bigger part in the management of our financial assistance, and I am determined to see significant progress in this direction as part of our wider reform of European Union external aid programmes.
The report comments on the Northern Dimension.
We too see this as an important mechanism for regional cooperation for the development of the north-west Russian regions as well as Kaliningrad.
The Commission has taken a leading role in the negotiation of an international agreement establishing the multilateral nuclear environment programme for Russia.
Those negotiations are now at a key stage and we hope for significant progress by March 2001.
At the same time the development of the region has already benefited from Tacis projects amounting to about EUR 30 million since 1991.
I very much hope to visit Kaliningrad myself in the early part of next year, and not just because Immanuel Kant spent the whole of his life there.
At the last European Union Russian Summit in October, President Putin acknowledged the urgent need for a political solution to the conflict.
I have to say to honourable Members - and I will abbreviate what I might have said at much greater length - we are profoundly concerned about the humanitarian situation in Chechnya.
We are concerned about the continuing reports of human rights abuses, for example from NGOs like Médecins sans Frontières and Human Rights Watch.
We have to return to them again and again, but we must also continue, as the honourable gentleman's report wisely recognises, to engage with Russia.
We have already expressed serious concern over the way in which Russia unilaterally introduced visa requirements for Georgian citizens on 5 December.
The entire international community, not excluding Russia, is committed to supporting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the independent states.
Actions by any country in the region which could have the effect of undermining that sovereignty carry significant implications.
The honourable gentleman has given us a very important and useful political and intellectual infrastructure for our future discussions.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Question No 1 by (H-0864/00): Subject: Genetically modified organisms and crops Since the Spring of this year there have been many cases of the release into the environment in various EU countries of genetically modified organisms and crops, namely cotton, oil seed rape and maize.
The new text provides for much stricter conditions on the use and marketing of genetically modified organisms.
The Commission considers that once this new directive has come into force, it will make it possible to improve the current situation.
The Council, meanwhile, wishes to see this directive adopted rapidly in order to provide a stricter framework for the introduction of new GMOs onto European Union territory.
In transposing the directive into their national legislation, Member States will have to ensure that the directive in question is properly implemented and will have to send the Commission a brief factual report at each year end on the monitoring of the use of all products placed on the market, in compliance with Article 18 of the directive.
Finally, at the Internal Market, Consumers and Tourism Council on 30 November 2000, the Commission presented an information report on the labelling and traceability of GMOs.
The Council will examine the Commission proposals at the Environment Council on 18 and 19 December.
You are placing me in a very difficult position.
The entire procedure should be concluded by 4 January 2001 at the latest.
I feel that it would be irresponsible of me to give impromptu answers regarding GMOs in only a minute, and that would not be in keeping with the policy of this presidency.
The Council has expressed its concern at many meetings with Russia at all levels, particularly seeking to induce Russia to avoid the excessive use of force and to avoid any extension of the conflict, to carry out independent and efficient inquiries into human rights violations, to support the OSCE Assistance Group in fulfilling its mission and, finally, to ensure that humanitarian aid is distributed properly.
In particular, the Council has pointed out that only a political solution could bring this crisis to an end.
For the first time, Russia accepted wording to this effect in the joint declaration issued following the summit.
As you know, we are studying ways of reorganising our work.
The President-in-Office must know if he met Mr Maskhadov or not.
I feel that the procedure must be reformed in a quite simple way to enable Members of Parliament to receive more specific answers on subjects which must be better organised.
The procedure must therefore be amended or reformed.
It also approved the summary of the report from the high-level group on fraud in the alcohol and tobacco sector.
Finally, it stressed the importance, subject to the results of a feasibility study proposed by the Commission, of a computer-based monitoring system as a long-term objective.
Mr President, I think the question was quite specific.
This directive dates from 1992.
This report shows, as you quite rightly state, that tax fraud within the Community has reached worrying levels.
All the Member States have confirmed their determination to intensify the fight against fraud both internally and in their relations with others.
The Council has asked the Commission to present at the earliest possible opportunity proposals based on all the recommendations which met with unanimous agreement in the course of the work of the ad hoc group.
This text, which was presented to the European Parliament for consultation on 6 September 2000, is currently being examined by the competent Council bodies.
Moreover the proposed directive introduces a minimum instrument common to all Member States regarding carrier liability, setting requirements for checks to be carried out by carriers and harmonising the penalties currently laid down by Member States.
I should like to draw the honourable Member' s attention to the fact that recital 3 of the draft directive does indeed stipulate that application thereof shall not be prejudicial to the commitments arising under the Geneva Convention of 28 July 1951 relating to the Status of Refugees, as amended by the New York Protocol of 31 January 1967.
The European Union has, on many occasions, stated its absolute respect for the right of asylum.
I nonetheless believe that the proposal tabled by the French Presidency is completely unacceptable and that it really has only one aim, namely to keep asylum seekers out of the EU, something which may in practice lead to an increase in illegal immigration.
Thank you for your answer.
In view of the ongoing reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar, rice and bananas, the Commission proposal stipulates that market access for such countries will be gradually liberalised over a period of three years from January 2001.
The proposal provides for granting products from LDCs duty free access, amending the generalised tariff preference scheme currently implemented by the Community.
Insofar as this proposal relates to common trade policy, it is covered by Article 133 of the Treaty, which does not call for the European Parliament to be consulted.
Do you think that it will be possible for you, me or anybody in Europe to advocate greater transparency and accountability in the WTO in-trade policy as long as this place has no formal and serious role in scrutinising and vetting trade policy decisions taken by the Council of Ministers and the European Commission?
and Question No 7 by (H-0932/00): Subject: Immediate danger from bovine spongiform encephalopathy The continuing cases of 'mad cow' disease have made consumers, as well as livestock producers, extremely worried.
As a precautionary measure and in order to eliminate risks of cross-contamination, the Council has decided to suspend, as of 1 January 2001, the use of meat meals in feedingstuffs for production animals.
The Council' s objective in all these decisions is to restore consumer confidence within the European Union.
However, in consideration of the need to uphold the principles governing the internal market, it aims to favour Community-wide measures over measures concerning specific Member States.
Secondly, and with regard to my specific question, I thank the President-in-Office of the Council very much for his answer.
The Council knows that in 1989, both the production of feed with animal proteins for feeding ruminants in the United Kingdom and for the production of meat meals were banned.
As you yourself stated, these are bold decisions of recent date, the latest of these being from 4 December, that is a week ago.
The French Presidency has, from the very outset, been concerned to bring about a European response to this crisis, which is a crisis in terms of foodstuffs, society and health.
I believe, moreover, that we should improve our knowledge, and that is also the point of establishing a European food safety authority, on which the Nice European Council took a decision in principle at last week' s meeting.
Mrs Maes, I am told - for none of us knows the Rules of Procedures off by heart - that you were not entitled to ask this second question because the Members are only entitled to ask one supplementary question during Question Time.
The Presidency Conclusions adopted at the end of the fourth Euro-Mediterranean Conference in Marseilles on 15 and 16 November 2000 explicitly mention the need to boost political dialogue among the 27 members, including at ministerial level, particularly on the following subjects: the process of consolidating the rule of law and respect for human rights and democratic principles.
The bilateral political dialogue which the European Union is conducting with Algeria does indeed focus on the objectives you stressed in your question, i.e.
In fact, three years ago, the European Union initiated this kind of political dialogue at ministerial level on the basis of specific guidelines: firstly, condemnation of violence and terrorism, solidarity with the Algerian people, the need for the Algerian authorities to undertake political and economic reforms, the need for dialogue between the government and the opposition, the European Union' s goodwill with regard to developing relations and cooperation with Algeria, and, finally, the wish to see an open comprehensive political process implemented in Algeria.
I can assure you that the European Union intends to continue and step up its political dialogue with the Algerian authorities, especially involving the ministerial troika.
Consequently, on 20 November 2000 last, on the anniversary of the adoption of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the ministers of the Members States with responsibility for matters relating to children and a Commission representative met in Paris and adopted shared commitments which will contribute to enhancing European Union action in making preparations for this special session.
As regards your second question, the Council is in complete agreement with the point of view of the General Secretary of the United Nations that all the institutions concerned and also experts, research bodies or academic institutions which have a special interest in children' s issues should be involved in this exercise.
The involvement of non-governmental organisations in the preparatory process and in the special session would seem to us to be a basic condition to making this meeting a real success.
We welcome the arrangements proposed in this respect by the Preparatory Committee and adopted by the General Assembly regarding procedures for the registration of non-governmental organisations for involvement in the preparatory process and the Special Session in September 2001.
We can congratulate the French presidency on taking this initiative to prepare for the UN special session.
Question No 11 by (H-0894/00): Subject: Turkey's obligations under EU-Turkey partnership arrangements In its proposal regarding partnership arrangements between the EU and Turkey, the Commission indicates that the European Council is to re-examine the situation regarding unresolved differences, particularly with regard to their impact on accession procedures, so as to help ensure that they can be resolved within the International Court of Justice before the end of 2004 at the latest.
The Presidency is very pleased with this result, which marks a significant stage in the implementation of the pre-accession strategy for Turkey defined last year in Helsinki.
The Council has not radically changed the initial Commission proposal as adopted by the Commission on 8 November 2000.
There have just been some amendments to the priorities relating to political criteria and to reinforced political dialogue.
The partnership agreement contains a number of references to the European Convention on Human Rights.
Regarding the peaceful settlement of disputes, the text of the accession partnership agreement points out, in accordance with the conclusions of the Helsinki European Council, that this issue is an important matter, to be dealt with in the context of the political dialogue between the European Union and Turkey.
This question was submitted while the issue of the partnership was still pending.
I refer to guarantees such as the right to defend oneself in person or through legal assistance of one' s own choosing or, if one has not sufficient means to pay for legal assistance, to be given it free when the interests of justice so require; to have the free assistance of an interpreter if one cannot understand or speak the language used in court; right to trial within a reasonable time, or to release pending trial.
The mutual recognition of judgements will in fact make it possible to better guarantee personal security as it will facilitate the fight against crime on European Union territory by improving judicial cooperation.
Next, mutual recognition affords improved legal safety within the European Union in that as it ensures that a judgement pronounced in one State will not be called into question in another Member State.
This is a very important aspect of the protection of individuals.
So, as the Council stated in its previous answer, the programme for mutual recognition can only bring improvements in terms of fundamental rights.
In accordance with Article 23 of the Treaty on European Union, the Council shall adopt this decision unanimously, as is the case, moreover, for any other decision with implications in the area of defence.
It is, furthermore, up to each Member State to take a sovereign decision at national level whether or not to commit their national forces to the operation.
The Nice European Council recorded the conditions which might lead the Council to take a decision in a crisis situation.
The decision to launch an operation would, in principle, take the form of a joint action.
The COPS, as the kingpin of European security and defence policy and the CFSP, has a central role in defining the European Union' s response to a crisis.
In particular, it provides the political scrutiny and strategic administration of a military crisis management operation.
The option of deploying a rapid reaction force exists for the whole range of crisis management missions, the Petersberg missions as defined in Article 17(2) of the Treaty on European Union, humanitarian and evacuation missions, peacekeeping missions and combat troop missions for crisis management, including peacemaking missions.
Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask if any decisions of principle have been taken regarding whether there should be a mandate from the UN or any other international organisation in discharging such tasks as these, as, under international law, a mandate from an international organisation is needed before any country' s territory can legally be attacked in this way.
It is a rather long document, but all the information is laid out there in precise detail.
The honourable Member' s question concerns the unofficial opinions expressed by the Commission President.
I should just like to point out that the Treaty system differentiates between taxes and indirect taxes which must be harmonised in order to ensure the proper establishment and smooth running of the internal market - according to Article 93 - and the approximation, laid down in Article 94, of legislation which has a direct bearing on the establishment or running of the common market, including legislation on direct taxation.
The decisions taken by the Council on the basis of Articles 93 and 94 were taken according to the rule of unanimity.
Allow me briefly to summarise these three main sectors.
The Stability, or rather Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which provides for financial aid and general financial assistance through the relevant Community programmes, will strengthen this progress in the economic sector and speed up preparations for Croatia's accession to the European Union at a later date.
The progress made by Croatia is evident not only in the economic sector but also in the political sector.
The new coalition voted in during recent elections in Croatia has decided to put its money on democracy and the rule of law.
Also worth mentioning here are the attempt by certain representatives of the Croat community in Bosnia to destabilise the government in order to recreate the wartime statelet of Herzeg-Bosna and the government's compliance with the terms of the Dayton agreement and collaboration with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia has come along at just the right time.
The following is an extract from the chapter describing the Western Balkans: "The Zagreb Summit of 24 November, which brought together for the first time countries in the region which had returned to democracy, welcomed the historic changes which have occurred in the Western Balkans, initially in Croatia and then in the FRY. ...
It confirms that the process of stabilisation and association is at the heart of the Union' s policy vis-à-vis the five countries concerned, which each receive individual treatment." Mr President, the report on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement takes account of the new democratic developments in Croatia and highlights the European prospects for this country, which has managed in the course of the past year to achieve its aim of joining the international community of states.
The European Union emphasised this again by the summit held in Zagreb on 24 November.
It is important for the European Union, as also the European Parliament, to do their utmost to provide economic protection and support for the democratic process in these countries.
Another point in Croatia's favour is the changed attitude of the newly elected Croatian authorities to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
Some were very useful, but the whole thing always had to be seen in the context of extreme nationalism, of very sluggish cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal and a very hesitant approach to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The new Croatian government has not only recognised but actually supports Europe's Balkan policy.
In the end we also need cooperation with Yugoslavia, meaning cooperation on both sides.
But of course we also need cooperation with Yugoslavia not just for this process but also in order to stabilise the region.
That makes the decision, or non-decision, of Nice rather disappointing: the complexity of the majority-voting system makes things difficult enough for the current round of enlargement, but they will become much more difficult when it comes to enlargement towards south-eastern Europe.
It is particularly important to show Croatia that we regard it as quite crucial what role it takes on with regard to stabilisation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Federation there.
I think it would be a disaster for the EU to tie economic support to an agreement on the return of the refugees in the Association and Stabilisation Agreement.
That issue must be based on other conditions, namely whether access to asylum in Croatia is compatible with international standards and whether it is a humane access to asylum.
We think that it is timely because, although at the time, we, as the European left, criticised some countries of Western Europe for their role in the break up of the former Yugoslavia, through encouraging, facilitating or instigating hatred and aggression, both ethnic and of other kinds, which resulted in the emergence of Croatia, at this time, when its recent past has also changed, I think it is a very good sign that the European Union is taking a step forward to help recover the mood of tolerance, democracy, respect for human rights and living in harmony with other republics and areas in the region, because it is of vital importance for the European Union.
Unlike its neighbour Slovenia, immediately after independence in 1991 Croatia was not able to develop in a way as to allow it to become a candidate for accession at this point.
Unfortunately, during this recapture Serbs who had the right to live there were expelled in return, not just by the Croats but sadly also by their Serb ringleaders, who, of course, did the same in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Sarajevo.
It has stopped supporting separatist movements in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Mr President, during the years when I was President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I had the opportunity to support many Croatians in their efforts towards the freedom and prosperity that they, like other peoples on our continent, identified with their integration into the European institutions.
And they have clearly identified that choice with their full participation in the project for European construction.
We will therefore vote in favour of the proposals put forward by our friend Mr Baltas and we commit ourselves to continuing to support Croatia in its efforts to become one more member of the European Union.
Certainly that is what Croatia has done during the course of the last months: setting an example to its neighbours, demonstrating how rapidly it is possible to turn a country's political fortunes around, given sufficient vision and political courage.
The new government has made radical changes to Croatia's relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, clearly distancing itself from extremists in Herzegovina and instituting a more open financial relationship with the Croat components of the federation army.
It played an extremely helpful role in supporting the democratically elected government of Montenegro in withstanding pressure from the Milosevic regime.
We also naturally want to see countries participating in the stabilisation and association process taking the lead not just in establishing closer relations with the European Union but with each other too.
With the start of these negotiations, Croatia has embarked on a new era in its relations with the European Union.
Croatia has won many friends in Europe for the role it has played in the last year and for the progress it has achieved.
Of course, in many respects the hard part is only just beginning, but I have every confidence that the people of Croatia are equal to the challenge, equal to the difficult path of reform, the path to Europe that now lies ahead.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
It is unusual for this Parliament.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the Commission issued its communication on relations between Indonesia and the European Union a year ago, Indonesia seemed to be on the way to a true democracy under the Wahid government, which had newly taken office.
The road to democracy, to respect for human rights, to a sound administrative and legal system, to the eradication of corruption, seems to be a long road beset with obstacles.
The President is also still under fire over the Bulog and Brunei affair.
The problem the government is struggling with is seen most clearly in the regions that were used as migration destinations owing to over-population, and that were also misused as conquered land.
We have received reports to the effect that the Laskar Jihad is preparing to launch a new offensive, in West-Irian among other places, but also in small countries such as Gorom and Lusalaut.
We must attach conditions to our aid and support.
The EU embassy in Jakarta could assume a coordinating role.
Lastly, with all due respect for the sovereignty of Indonesia, if violence erupts again in the Moluccas and on Irian Jaya around Christmas, then international action should not be ruled out in our view.
I have in mind sending UN observers to the crisis areas, where action is urgently needed, but also humanitarian relief action if necessary.
Otherwise, what is the difference between the Wahid government and the old Suharto regime?
They are also pre-requisite to closer cooperation between the European Union and Indonesia.
Finally, economic relations with Indonesia are now based on the ASEAN agreement.
My committee has therefore asked to conclude a bilateral cooperation agreement between the European Union and Indonesia.
There is no doubt that cooperation with Indonesia should be strengthened, and it should be directed into support for the authorities of this country in fields such as improvements in administration, the fight against fraud and corruption, the judicial system, environmental protection and improvements, or humanitarian aid for the displaced and refugees.
But the level of this cooperation must take into account the effective progress the country may make in solving regional problems and the methods used for solving them, its respect for human rights, and also the country' s collaboration in the positive development of the Timor Lorosae independence process, particularly in solving the problems faced by the West Timor refugees and in prosecuting and sentencing militia members who have behaved criminally and only recently murdered three United Nations workers.
I believe the report by our colleague, Mrs Maij-Weggen, who in fact knows the situation well, satisfactorily addresses these aspects and therefore deserves our full approval.
The democratisation process in Indonesia deserves due recognition and therefore support.
There are still contradictions like this in Indonesia, whether in the Moluccas, Aceh or Irian Jaya, and they are still manifest in East Timor too.
The prosecution of those who committed crimes in East Timor and are now in Indonesian territory has yet to take place.
It is unacceptable that they should escape justice because of a recently enacted law.
More than one hundred thousand refugees remain in West Timor, virtual human shields for the originators and perpetrators of crimes in East Timor.
I was in these refugee camps earlier this year.
Only this week, top UNTAET officials were at serious risk when they left the Indonesian parliament building in Jakarta after meeting the country' s president.
We can support the democratisation process, as we have been doing; what we cannot do is take the place of the protagonists in this process.
Mr President, Indonesia is struggling but is emerging victorious.
The revolution in the country and the way in which it took place, remain the basis for cautious optimism.
After all, these problems are characteristic of a country that is having to undergo a multifaceted transition.
Relations between Indonesia and the EU can only improve further if we know that our allies really hold sway there, and that the constitutional state is functioning properly.
President Wahid and Vice-President Sukarnoputri have been unable to demonstrate a great deal of governmental power so far.
The violation of human rights must stop, the proceeds from corruption must be traced, and above all, wealth must be far better distributed.
The origin of the conflict on the Moluccas mainly lies in Suharto' s ill-considered migration policy, which disturbed the population balance.
The situation on these islands is still alarming.
Irian Jaya is also suffering the effects of migration policy.
As Mrs Maij-Weggen pointed out here in her introductory statement - which I emphatically support, together with the force of her report - the situation in Indonesia is deteriorating.
To this end, we must learn to choose priorities: we cannot mix environmental issues, social policy issues or economic policy issues all at the same level as the key problem of respect for democracy and human rights, which clearly has to be a political priority in our relationship with Indonesia.
We must learn from this year' s experience, which has been a beneficial experience, and give a very powerful signal indicating the change that we want for Indonesia.
She rightly refers to them in her report as still being very powerful.
However, following the latest reports from the Indonesian archipelago, we are compelled to ask whether the situation does not in fact look more serious, more precarious still for President Wahid and his brothers-in-arms, than the report would suggest.
I know she has great experience of Indonesia and, in particular, the Indonesian Moluccan community living in Holland.
That resolution categorically affirms that Irian Jaya is part of Indonesia.
It was a recognition by the global community of the legality of the vote in Irian Jaya to become a permanent part of Indonesia and reaffirm United Nations Declaration 1514 of 1960 which prohibits any act aimed at the partial or total disruption of the national unity and territorial integrity of a country.
The situation in Irian Jaya is totally different, legally and constitutionally, from the situation that pertained to East Timor.
Yes, of course we must ensure that Indonesia maintains its progress in the prosecution of those members of the security forces accused of human rights violations.
The other activity we can undertake immediately is to give massive support to good governance projects in Indonesia: support in terms of manpower, money, NGO activity, setting standards and criteria so that the devolved administrative arrangement now agreed by President Wahid can be underpinned by creating lasting democratic and civil society institutions.
It is important that we should not confine ourselves to approving the report but that we should follow it up.
Mr President, I welcome this report but I feel it is a little up-beat.
I am pleased that the UN issued indictments today because of crimes against humanity in East Timor, and Indonesia should be aware, with or without cooperation, that those trials will go ahead.
It is a very comprehensive report and particularly useful in updating us on developments since the adoption of the Commission's communication last February.
I sometimes reflect on what a great American friend of mine, who was once ambassador in Indonesia, said: he thought that of all the most important countries in the world Indonesia was one about which we knew all too little.
I think the report is extremely valuable in shedding light on what has been happening.
In particular I am pleased that the points made generally seem to be supportive of the action of the European Union and in particular of the action of the European Commission.
The communication was written in a positive spirit, reflecting the new dawn in our relationship.
Only this weekend, as a number of honourable Members have reminded us, three local employees of a Danish non-governmental organisation were murdered in Aceh.
The Commission and the Council have reconfirmed their support for the territorial integrity of Indonesia.
The government of Indonesia has undertaken some steps, but much more needs to be done and much faster.
The massive economic collapse in the wake of the 1997 Asian financial crisis has aggravated social tensions and ethnic conflict.
So what does the future hold for our relations with Indonesia?
The main mechanisms for doing so have been outlined in the communication: more and more open dialogue both political and economic.
The support we are currently giving to the office of the attorney-general in Jakarta is intended to help him in his attempts to combat corruption.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
But the need to guarantee equal, effective and deterrent protection throughout the European Union particularly affects the chief contributor, namely the European taxpayer.
A constantly growing budget has, unfortunately, also led to more irregularities and fraud.
It is true that the regulations for the protection of the Communities' financial interests and on-the-spot checks were adopted, UCLAF was set up and then, one and a half years ago, OLAF was created, and articles on fighting fraud were enshrined in the Maastricht Treaty and then in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The enlargement of the Community and the introduction of the euro could bring further risks with them.
Here we must apply Article 280 of the Treaty of Amsterdam as the legal basis and develop it further, in order to bring the different national legislations under a common denominator and accordingly standardise penalties and procedures.
So far it has not been the case that they have joined forces, because otherwise they would all have ratified and therefore enforced the 1995 convention long since.
This Public Prosecutor, assisted by Deputy Public Prosecutors in each Member State and supplemented by a judge in investigative procedures, in accordance with the 'Corpus Juris' expert report, would satisfy the principle of legal certainty and subsidiarity by acting as a kind of investigative and coordination office, without encroaching on the powers of the competent national courts.
The same applies to the European Union.
Indeed we know this trust may be failing somewhat in view of the sum the Commission itself named in its 1999 report on fighting fraud, namely a loss of some EUR 850 million as a result of fraud and irregularities.
Mr President, this is the Commission's big moment that is what I would like to call out to you.
The Nice Summit brought no progress in the protection of the Union's financial interests either.
It is now crucial for the Commission very rapidly to put forward resolute and imaginative proposals so that we can move ahead within the existing legal framework.
Mrs Theato's excellent report points to a number of options.
As early as May, this Parliament called on the Commission to present proposals for a first stage, during which the European Public Prosecutor would be responsible only for offences and crimes committed by members and officials of the EU institutions against the financial interests of the Union.
And the Commission has this chance to take a first step, especially after Nice.
Mrs Schreyer, you have our full support if you take this first step.
The previous speakers have already had quite a lot to say on the question of OLAF.
Mrs Schreyer, you have repeatedly emphasised to this House that as the Commissioner responsible for fighting fraud you see it as your special task to guarantee OLAF's independence.
Mr President, I can be very brief because this is not the first discussion we have held on the issue.
In this context I would therefore also like to thank the rapporteur for her persistence in entering this item on the agenda again and again, for her persistence in repeatedly calling for a European financial Public Prosecutor.
I believe that is an opportunity for us in this situation, because Parliament and the Commission can achieve something jointly.
We also have to convince the members of the national parliaments, because that is the only way we can go on working and make progress.
We do not believe that more solutions at Community level can improve the fight against crime because the efforts will be characterised by just as much indifference, slovenliness and secrecy as the EU' s administration in general.
We welcome negotiations between the Member States concerning uniform legislation in the area of crime, but we shall not submit our countries to a federal EU prosecution authority.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against the Theato report in committee and also in my group, the Radical Group, and I will vote against it tomorrow because of the Manicheism and inward-looking attitude characterising both this report and the activities of the Committee on Budgetary Control in general or, at any rate, some of its members.
As we said three months ago, you would think that the whole world were under the rule of the Committee on Budgetary Control alone.
Mr President, we will vote against the report for two reasons: firstly because there used to be UCLAF, and you would have thought that UCLAF were an avenging angel come down to earth.
I would very much like to congratulate the rapporteur - someone I like and admire as a person and politician - on this report, but unfortunately I cannot.
My personal view is that the European Public Prosecutor is just the first step along the road to corpus juris, a body of common law across the continent.
I should also like to know why the Commission's paper on this subject had its release delayed until the day after the Danish referendum on the euro.
This is fraud against the Community because the EU takes a small percentage of all VAT transactions.
There are so many other questions - the relationship with OLAF, who appoints the European public prosecutor, who they report to and how it affects the Member States - that I am afraid I am urging the British Conservatives and others to vote against this report.
It is always the area where we see hugely inflamed headlines in the papers and we need to tackle these issues seriously otherwise we are going to continue with a largely Eurosceptic public like the people represented by Mr Heaton-Harris.
It is interesting that several countries, however much they protest about fraud, still have not signed up to the Convention on the Protection of the Communities' Financial Interests.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against fraud detrimental to the European Union is a high priority of the Commission's activities and is an important aim for the reform of the Commission's overall financial management.
The Commission presented its report in June this year and I welcome the fact that we can debate the reports as early as today.
The Commission takes an overall approach in its strategy for protecting the Communities' financial interests and fighting fraud; overall means that it involves all levels of activity and also all the players, all the players in the European Union institutions as also in the Member States as also in the candidate states or third countries that are responsible for dealing with European money.
The strategy is built around four main lines of action: an anti-fraud legislative policy, operational cooperation between the relevant authorities, an interinstitutional approach to combat fraud in office and enhancement of the penal judicial dimension.
The next step will be to organise OLAF's working methods in such a way as to turn it into a real platform of services for the Member States and for the authorities involved in the fight against fraud.
I can only assure you once again, in regard also to the issue of the recruitment authority: the director of OLAF is entirely independent in the appointment of staff, and that applies not only to the lower level but also to the more senior and top levels.
Finally, the fourth line of action concerns the penal judicial dimension, and along with it, the penal judicial consequences of established, detected or presumed fraud.
Here the overall situation remains as unsatisfactory as ever, especially as regards cooperation with the Member States, not because of any unwillingness but because of the structural inadequacies and difficulties that exist in this field.
The next target date is 2004, the next Intergovernmental Conference.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
It should be seen as an opportunity for Parliament to reassess its work in relation not only to budget control but specifically to the discharge procedure.
We must not forget that it was the reluctance of Parliament to give the green light to the way Euro-taxpayers' money was spent in 1996 that precipitated the fall of the Commission in 1999.
The discharge procedure gives Parliament an opportunity to assess the financial management and financial resources of the European Union, to propose measures for its improvement and to express an overall political judgement on its quality.
However, we must not forget that 85% of the money is spent and misspent within the Member States of the European Union.
We have heard that, because spot checks are involved, it would be unfair to name the Member States.
Another key recommendation in this report is to try to expand the responsibility of the discharge beyond the exclusive domain of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
We are trying to watch the Commission and the Member States and this report is an attempt at doing that.
It is shameful.
Mrs Theato has come to this night sitting despite being ill and I have left a dinner with the representatives of "¡Basta Ya!", winners of this year' s Sajarov Prize.
Next I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report, which is so important and, contrary to what has been said, so necessary.
Moreover, I think that her report is part of our new way of understanding what should be politically correct in the institutions, and that is transparency.
In this morning' s debate on the European Council in Nice we criticised the fact that the meetings were held at night and behind closed doors.
For example, I would like to criticise the fact that, when the report of the Court of Auditors was presented, the Council was absent, as if it is not interested in this Parliament.
I also think that it is worthy of criticism that the Council is not present at the meetings of the Committee on Budgetary Control, which is precisely where the faults that arise in 80% of the budget, which the Council spends, are discussed.
It is time for the politically correct thing to be to say which Member State it is and to give its full name.
I would like the Member States, at least the Presidency and the representatives of the Member States being discussed, to be present for debates in Plenary, and also in committee.
Mr President, I would like to start by commending the timeliness of this initiative and the diligence with which our rapporteur, Eluned Morgan, has carried it out.
The aim of the discharge procedure is to analyse processes and procedures in force and to detect any inadequacies in them so that the institutions can then proceed to reform them.
First of all, balance in considering all the budget headings: it is unacceptable that the analysis of own resources performed by the Court of Auditors should explicitly exclude all revenue from undeclared economic activities, in contrast to the zeal with which it treats many administrative elements, sometimes with no substantive content, of various forms of expenditure.
Thirdly, thoroughness of analysis: it is incomprehensible that a large number of high quality special reports by the Court of Auditors are omitted from the Annual Report in favour of other matters treated without any prior analysis and on the basis of debatable criteria of political timeliness.
Using statistics to compare irregularities detected by different institutions as a result of strict or not so strict controls may be more liable to hide what is happening than to expose it.
Mr President, even though the rapporteur has stated modestly that the report could have been better, I would still like to offer her my compliments.
Also, a number of people have already said that we want concrete, succinct reports so that we know where we stand, and reports which are easy to read.
We must name countries, specific cases and institutions; all these things would make it easier to understand.
My group also thinks it is extremely important for there not just to be an SOA for the entire budget, but also one per sector.
I also think the idea mentioned in the report that members of the Court of Auditors should appear in the specialised committees of this Parliament, is an excellent one, because we cannot follow everything ourselves, instead, we must combine forces.
Indeed that is why it says in the report that if it should come to that, Parliament must immediately hold a debate on the political consequences thereof.
Mr President, this excellently crafted report shows that the Committee on Budgetary Control can take a coherent and convincing position on such a controversial issue as the importance of budgetary control procedures and bodies.
Point 21 of the report contains a very courageous decision in announcing that the discharge will be postponed if the Commission withholds information.
This declaration of belief in the rights of individual Members is particularly important because these are precisely the rights the Commission is calling in question.
I would also like to echo the words of Mr Mulder when he spoke of the importance of the procedure for granting discharge and stressed that it must be taken extremely seriously.
We must pursue this task with firmness but also with moderation and understanding and we must understand that over the years - perhaps because public spending at European level was such a small percentage of the entire public spending of the European Union, 1% as against 40% on average by the Member States - it was seen as a detail.
I think it is true to say that it was very hard to get the Member States to understand that they had to apply the same concern and the same care to guarding the resources of the Union that they did to guarding their own resources.
So let us understand that fraud is not a problem peculiar to the European Union.
I would also like to commend to the House the way in which from its conception this report was drawn up using other reports already passed by our committee.
Some here will know of my interest in the budget in general, and as budget rapporteur for the Budgetary Control Committee, I wrote a report in which a number of conclusions that are included here were conceived, mainly in paragraph 16 of this report.
I am sure that the rapporteur would be pleased to hear that there are few differences between the main groups to breach in these circumstances.
After the events of the past year, your aim is to create a budgetary control and discharge procedure which is more transparent and above all more efficient and effective.
You took a very useful and I believe also a very self-assured step in involving the Commission as also the Court of Auditors in your deliberations before drafting the report.
Regarding access to documents for the discharge report, which is indeed an important issue, let me point out that the Commission's point of departure in its activities is the Interinstitutional Agreement reached in July this year, especially Annex 3 on access to confidential information.
Mrs Morgan's report devotes much space to the question of whether in future the Court of Auditors should appraise the activities of each directorate-general and each department individually.
In this context let me remind you that Article 276 of the EC Treaty refers to the discharge of the budget in general and not to individual parts or areas of the budget.
EUR 443 billion, while the budget of the Directorate-General for the budget is almost non-existent, so that, of course, there is hardly any risk at all there.
After all, that is also what you seek to do in relation to the Member States.
Commissioner, the point of departure for forwarding information to the European Parliament is the EC Treaty and not the Interinstitutional Agreement.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
In my view, the common position before us, which we have to decide on today, has a number of crucial weaknesses, which for the rest nobody has disputed so far during the debate in terms of principle.
For that simple reason the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market I am presenting today includes a whole raft of amendments containing concrete proposals on how these issues could be resolved.
To inscribe in a directive that shareholders must be paid an equitable price is about as useful as saying that an apple will fall from the tree when it is ripe.
The second major problem in this directive is Article 9.
The purpose of the directive is supposed to be to create a level playing field in Europe.
But unless the directive is amended, the end result of this common position would be that not only do we not have a level playing field with North America, we do not even have one within Europe.
In a number of countries, the United Kingdom being the classical example with its London Stock Exchange, which has been much described, company law provides for the possibility of in effect excluding takeovers by restrictions to the right to vote in the company statute.
So the end result of Article 9 as it now stands would be that some companies in some countries in Europe could be taken over much more easily, while other companies in other countries in Europe could virtually never be taken over if they have provisions of that kind in their statute.
The next problem is the issue of the competent supervisory authority.
The common position devotes three pages to regulating this issue.
The only way to remedy these weaknesses is by deciding to opt for conciliation here by a majority of 314 votes.
The result will be another compromise.
So I can only ask this House to endorse the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market's compromise amendments.
Since the conciliation procedure was first introduced between Parliament and the Council, which is now more than six years, only a single directive, the one on the bio-patent, came to nothing in the conciliation procedure.
The European single market is a pan-European market place but within which the market in shares must be treated like other markets so that national boundaries, even if they delineate different jurisdictions, do not interfere with the essential equivalence of the rules across the market place.
Mr President, it seems that we are finally at the end of the road on the proposal for a directive which will regulate takeover bids.
It is a proposal that has gone down a long and, I fear, stormy road in order to overcome some of the existing problems.
By this I do not mean that, once that agreement has been obtained in the Council, Parliament should decide to blow it out of the water.
These thoughts are fully applicable to this report.
The amendments that our Committee is tabling can be grouped into three blocks.
The third block contains those amendments that have been most controversial during the procedure.
Mr President, I fear that we are in danger of losing the plot or losing sight of what this directive is about.
It is part of the financial services action plan; in our Commissioner's own words, "a key element in the creation of a fully integrated market in financial services, giving investors and consumers more choice".
The proposals introduce three key elements at a time when there is a change in control of a company: protection of minority shareholders, transparency in relation to bid information and regulatory supervision of the process.
But what are we in danger of doing as a Parliament, by virtue of the amendments tabled?
The common position suggested some form of split arrangement.
Indeed I would ask the Commissioner to consider whether he can accept my amendment on this crucial point.
The Financial Times editorial today talked about bid politics: that it has taken no less than 10 years to get this draft and that we, Parliament, could destroy that in 10 minutes tomorrow by voting through misguided amendments.
Similarly we will reject the critical part of Amendment No 17, which would exclude shareholders from deciding on the merits of a bid for a company that they own.
But we must approach this with the governing principle of shareholder protection in our minds.
Personally speaking, I have no interest in the legal problems these large shareholders may have, and I will vote against this report.
Mr President, after 18 years working in financial services, I do not believe this directive is needed.
It should not escape our attention that the takeover market is primarily British.
Activity in London exceeds the whole of the combined volume in the rest of Europe, therefore this measure will damage the United Kingdom.
Greater flexibility is also required when it comes to the complete duty of neutrality recommended by the Council.
Companies may be quoted on different markets, and companies with head offices in Sweden are not always quoted in Sweden.
Mr Bolkestein, I share your concerns: we cannot afford to risk losing this directive, because the EU economy would pay the opportunity cost for years of not being able to restructure European companies.
Yet the amendments tabled by our rapporteur will take us in that direction.
My delegation of Labour MEPs cannot accept, therefore, the changes in Article 9 to allow company boards the right to defensive measures to frustrate takeovers without getting shareholder approval.
Foreign investment within the EU doubled between 1997 and 1998 and cross-border mergers and take-overs have reached record levels.
I am in the fortunate position of being able to say that since 1 January 1999 Austria has had its own take-over legislation.
Austrian take-over legislation, and in particular its implementation by the take-over commission, has more or less proved its worth since it entered into force.
In concrete terms we know that 70% of mergers go wrong.
The European economy is doing very well.
But the answer is that the Lehne report is at least a small step towards empowering the people of Europe.
This attention is certainly justified, in view of the importance of the text, which the Heads of State and Government made a priority during the European Council of Lisbon in March 2000.
After all, were it to be approved, it would bring about a considerable improvement in the operation and stability of the European financial markets.
I am particularly delighted that I can at last discuss this common position, which we had a long wait for, but which was finally adopted by the Member States last June by unanimous vote.
Hence the Commission approves Amendments Nos 7, 14 and 18.
It prizes Amendment No 18 particularly highly, the aim of which is to reduce the deadline for transposition, in accordance with a wish already expressed by the Commission on numerous occasions.
The Commission has also taken note of the statements brought to the fore by Amendments Nos 5 and 13.
The current text guarantees employees appropriate information on the conditions and repercussions of the bid.
Stipulations that go further in this area are not in keeping with the objectives of the directive, which relates to the protection of the share holders.
The Commission would also like to demonstrate its interest in Amendment No 12.
However, this procedure, which already exists in certain Member States, does not just affect the field of public takeover bids but extends much further and could, if necessary, be studied more closely as part of the general review of company law undertaken by the Commission.
Amendments Nos 4 and 15 are unacceptable because they do not belong in the intended stipulations.
Amendments Nos 8 and 9 are without foundation.
Finally, the Commission studied the content of the amendments in depth but it cannot accept a single one of them.
For example, Amendments Nos 6, 11 and 16 appear to pass over the existing national provisions that the text of the common position is in fact trying to bring closer together.
The Commission has no objection to extending the neutrality obligation to after the official deadline of the bid, as proposed in the first paragraph.
However, the Commission cannot go along with Parliament' s proposal to allow the board of a particular company to determine the future of the company without taking account of the shareholders' position, by simply submitting its decisions to the judgement of the competent authorities or the judge.
Lastly, the Commission would point out that should this House approve the proposed amendments, it could prove very difficult for an agreement to be reached between the Council and Parliament.
Finally, a further two new amendments have been tabled about which I have the following comments to make.
Amendment No 19 is unacceptable, for the same reason that Amendment No 6 is unacceptable.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament is considering at second reading the harmonisation of artists' right of resale, thus taking up again a directive for the benefit of artists as also galleries and auction houses in Europe that has been under discussion since 1996.
In the end we did manage to do so thanks to the goodwill of all the groups in this House, as shown in particular by the decision in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
The new minimum sale price of EUR 1 000 repeats a proposal the European Parliament made at first reading.
In regard to the time limits for implementing this directive, on my proposal the committee decided to set a deadline of two years for each Member State to transpose it into its national law and during which the rights of the successor in title must be enforced in countries that have not hitherto recognised the right of resale.
This is based on the quite mistaken assumption that it is compulsory to involve collective management firms, as has hitherto been the case in Austria.
Accordingly, this matter should be put before the Austrian legislator instead of attacking the European legislator who is only creating positive framework conditions for artists and auction houses.
So I hope our UK colleagues will not show the same national tendency to block progress that we saw in Nice but that this Parliament will adopt a forward-looking European directive on the art market.
The Socialist Group, as well as the greater part of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was astonished at the attitude of the Council of Ministers, whose position is unacceptable in several respects.
The Socialist Group did not therefore want Parliament to discredit itself by accepting proposals which make a mockery of the votes cast at the first reading.
We are moreover delighted that almost all the democratic groups share the same constructive point of view.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is difficult to understand why those who are against harmonising income tax should be in favour of this directive.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this dispute between all sorts of lobby groups I have always listened to what the European artists say.
In my country, which does not have the right of resale, the artists are opposed to this directive.
I will have a hard job persuading the people in my country, but I am firmly convinced that the harmonisation of the right of resale, on the basis of the EP's proposals, will bring benefits to all concerned.
I also hope for the Commission's support, at least on one of the three major points of dispute.
In the very near future we will have to make more effort to seek a dialogue with the collective management firms, we must jointly seek simpler and more transparent structures and ensure that the administrative costs of this directive do not become absurd.
The opinions expressed on the right of resale reflect the views not of the political groups but of the Member States.
I have understanding for the different cultural traditions, but at the same time I beg this House to show the same European spirit that prevailed this morning.
Mr President, Commissioner, although as I am sure you know I am a friend of European regulations when they are necessary, and against a European bazaar for national special interests, I have promised to put the concerns felt by the platform against the introduction of the right of resale and by the art world before this House, which represents the citizens of Europe.
In my own country, the artists themselves say that they feel they are being forced into this against their will and point to Germany, where fewer than 1% of the 42 000 artists have gained from the right of resale.
In Germany, for example, in 1998, of 7 000 artists who transferred their rights, only 274 actually got any money from it and 40% of the droit de suite was taken up in costs in levying the sum.
I want to use this opportunity to register my dismay that the Commission has failed to provide any analysis or evaluation of the economic impact of droit de suite.
If it did so, it would be a great injustice, especially to those whose livelihoods depend upon the art market and, in particular, the art market in London.
I can assure the House that, if my party leader William Hague wins the general election, he will match the present Prime Minister's commitment to oppose this proposal in the essential interests of our country.
The second important issue is that of the total amount, which is removed in Amendment No 7.
Furthermore, the Commission cannot accept Amendment No 10 for the reason that to draw up and maintain a list of third countries where the right of resale is in force would create practical problems and would not enhance legal security.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. (The sitting was closed at 12.15 a.m.)
