Election of Vice-Presidents of the European Parliament I should like to take this opportunity to give you the results of our vote yesterday for the Vice-Presidents.
The number of Members voting was 554, the number of blank or void votes 9, the votes cast 545.
Approval of the Minutes of the previous sitting The next item of business is the approval of the Minutes of the sittings of Monday, 17 December 2001, Monday, 14 January 2002 and Tuesday, 15 January 2002.
Thank you, Mr Rovsing, for looking after my interests so soon.
On 19 December, just before Christmas, I was the victim of a robbery in the immediate vicinity of our Parliament in Brussels.
In light of the amendment tabled by Mr Davies and myself at the end of last year to the common foreign and security policy report and adopted by Parliament, calling on the EU to act as an honest broker between India and Pakistan over the dispute in Kashmir, could we have a Council declaration or an oral question on this matter at the next part-session?
This dispute dates back more than 50 years; UN resolutions have not been acted upon and, as both countries are now nuclear powers, it is very important that we resolve this dispute.
I ask the EU to be proactive and to offer its services as a mediator, as no other body seems to be doing so.
It offends my national sentiment and feeling for history.
Thank you, Mr Thors.
I think that Parliament must urgently adopt a position and the Council must issue a statement on this matter this week.
I also think that this situation is absolutely intolerable.
Parliament' s watchword should be 'Carthago delenda est' or 'Carthage must be destroyed' , as we can no longer tolerate this regime.
Thank you, Mr Dupuis.
Decision on urgent procedure The next item is the request for urgent procedure on the proposal, on behalf of the Committee of Economic and Monetary Affairs, for a Council Directive amending Directive 92/79/EEC, Directive 92/80/EEC and Directive 95/59/EC as regards the structure and rates of excise duty applied on manufactured tobacco (COM(2001) 133 - C5-0139/2001 - 2001/0063(CNS)).
We hope that the Commission is also of the opinion that there should be a compromise with the position taken by Parliament, whose Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is well known to have voted the first proposal down, but which is now prepared to draw up a new proposal in the Katiforis report, one which we are keen to present to the whole House in February.
Mr President, I get the impression that there will be speakers only against the urgent procedure, something I consider a very important step.
I have received notification of the following candidacies: Balfe, Banotti, Maes, Marinho, Poos, Quisthoudt-Rowohl, Smet.
In view of all the voting we had yesterday and as the election of Quaestors runs parallel to our normal business today, I propose under Rule 135 that we vote using the electronic voting system.
Mr President, I do not believe that the procedure you are proposing will fully guarantee the secrecy of the ballot.
We have had the OECD's PISA survey, we have had appraisals, we have a new President, we have paid a lot of money for this system, for which we have had criticism for a long time, and now we want to vote as if this were the Stone Age! (Loud applause) Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European Socialist Party, I formally request that the vote take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which states that we should vote by means of secret ballot papers.
It goes without saying that I am always ready to accept the convictions of others when it comes to procedural issues.
Under Rule 135, "The President may at any time decide that the voting operations indicated in Rules 133, 134 and 136 shall be carried out by means of an electronic voting system." So the procedure to vote electronically is perfectly consistent with the Rules.
Therefore I put to the vote whether we should proceed with an electronic vote. (Parliament agreed to vote electronically) President.
There are five Quaestors so each Member has a maximum of five votes.
Mr President, you are quite right; the Rules of Procedure do say that you can use electronic voting.
Why can we not vote electronically, but without the asterisk?
This was precisely the point that was raised in the question of how we should vote.
There was one blank ballot and 533 valid votes.
I know how all of my neighbouring colleagues have voted.
However, I would suggest that the technicians and those responsible for this wonderful piece of equipment should modify it in such a way that would allow us to vote on all the candidates, plus and minus, which means that every single one of them will have a neutral symbol beside it.
Mr President, my request does not concern the electronic voting system.
I appreciate that there are political choices to be made and, while in terms of efficiency we could now complete the matter electronically, it is equally clear that there are political considerations.
We will take the vote at the earliest moment but not before 12.30 p.m.
After the launch of the euro, in a difficult economic climate, there is still the need to complete the economic and social reforms and sustainable development as targeted at Lisbon and Stockholm; the need to use the time this year to create the basis for an enlarged Union; the need to launch the Convention to make a Europe fit for the future.
So I am sure this is a very full and ambitious programme.
Mr President, honourable Members, distinguished members of the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to appear here for the first time as Spanish Prime Minister and President-in-Office of the European Council to explain to you the priorities of the Spanish Presidency.
The Spanish Presidency coincides with the change of President of this Parliament.
The European Parliament has made a considerable contribution to today' s European Union through its work and its proposals, which represent a constant and innovative quest for greater efficiency in the functioning of the European Union.
This House has also been able to adapt its diverse European parliamentary traditions, and try out new formulas in relations between civil society and its political representatives, increasing democratic control and the legitimacy of the European project.
For my part, I am committed to informing the House following the Barcelona European Council, and carrying out a final assessment of this Presidency after the Seville European Council.
Ladies and gentlemen, the current political landscape obliges the Union to be ambitious in three areas.
The first consists of producing a response to terrorism, from the point of view of creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
And the third is to make a success of the historic opportunity of enlargement and laying the foundations for the future enlarged Union.
In order to successfully reach these goals, we need to work for a greater deepening of Europe.
Days before the tragic events of 11 September, Parliament adopted a resolution which urged the European Commission to present various initiatives aimed at greater effectiveness in the fight against terrorism in the European Union.
In December 2001 we achieved great progress in this area.
Spain wants the Union to play a more active role in the international sphere in the fight against terrorism.
The fight against terrorism needs to be waged within the context of the area of freedom, security and justice.
The Presidency therefore attaches priority to pressing ahead to formulate a common policy on asylum and immigration, improve the management of the Union' s external frontiers, intensify our action against drugs trafficking and establish mutual recognition of court rulings both in civil matters, through the European enforcement order, and in the criminal field.
These initiatives will require close institutional cooperation if we are to meet the deadlines set for creating the area of freedom, security and justice.
Accordingly, another focus of the Presidency' s work will be the creation of an area of greater economic and social prosperity.
It is Spain' s intention that the Barcelona European Council should examine five specific areas with a view to achieving 'More Europe' .
The Presidency will concentrate on the review of the trans-European transport networks, on making the Single European Sky a reality and on pressing ahead with the liberalisation of rail transport.
The second area of work in Barcelona will be to design a European energy market based on opening-up, liberalisation, competition, transparency and interconnection.
With these criteria in mind, the Presidency will examine the opening-up of the gas and electricity markets for companies and for consumers, the rules on third-party access to networks and the creation of infrastructure and interconnections between national energy markets.
The integration of the financial markets is an absolute precondition for the proper functioning of the single currency and a basic prerequisite for European growth.
As a fourth focus therefore, and on the basis of the Luxembourg Process in its current framework, the Barcelona European Council will seek a greater emphasis on the Employment Strategy in the analysis of the structural inflexibilities of our labour markets, in our tax and social protection systems and in the institutions of the labour market.
Accordingly, the fifth point at Barcelona will be the Work Programme on education systems for the year 2010.
Ladies and gentlemen, in Barcelona, the candidate countries will take part in a working session of the European Council for the first time.
The Spanish Presidency' s political will is to help ensure that all those countries that are ready can conclude their negotiations by the end of this year, 2002.
Spain will also be seeking the closure of all those chapters that have not yet been concluded.
For the negotiations to be rounded off definitively, all the Members of the Union will need to demonstrate their ability to compromise, the Commission will need to present its proposals on time and, above all, an effort will be required from each of the candidate countries.
Progress will be assessed at the Seville European Council in June.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we also know, and it is our wish, that the European Union is destined to fulfil an important and growing political function on the international stage.
The current international context requires us to step up the Union' s presence in areas where peace and security are directly threatened.
The Spanish Presidency therefore hopes to help develop an ambitious comprehensive regional strategy in Central Asia and Afghanistan to prevent the emergence of new areas of conflict.
But there will be no point in providing a European presence if we lack the capacity for effective crisis management and, specifically, military forces for limited operations requiring a rapid response.
The credibility of the Union' s foreign policy will rest not only on its international presence, but also on effective instruments for implementing that policy and, above all, on a high degree of mutual consultation.
With Russia, Spain believes the European Union needs to support the strategy that country is currently implementing.
At this point, I am bound to refer to our interest in and concern regarding the developing situation in Argentina.
Spain will also push for the conclusion of the outstanding Association Agreements between the European Union and the countries bordering the Mediterranean, and will work for the creation of a Euro-Mediterranean internal market and the development of the regional strategies on infrastructure.
To help achieve this objective, the Laeken European Council, acting on a Spanish initiative, took up the idea of creating a bank specialising in operations in the Mediterranean countries, an idea we will be working on over the next few months in collaboration with the European Investment Bank and the monetary authorities.
Aware of the enormous importance of this phenomenon, Spain, with the backing of China and Vietnam, has been working for some time to ensure the success of the ministerial meeting on immigration to be held between the European Union and the Asian members of ASEM.
Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is safe to say that few people could have imagined that 45 years after the signing of the Treaties of Rome, 300 million Europeans would be using the same currency.
The Laeken European Council decided to set up a Convention on the future of Europe.
That Convention will be holding its first session on 28 February in the European Parliament in Brussels.
What place could better reflect both the importance of the new phase the European Union is going through and the recognition the Presidency wishes to give to the European Parliament' s work on the future of Europe.
The Spanish Presidency is firmly set on contributing to the success of the Convention.
I hope that the President of the Convention will be able, as agreed, to present an initial report on the Convention' s work to the Seville European Council in June.
Those priorities should translate into greater de facto solidarity, a solidarity which will enable us, on the basis of balance and of mutual respect for diverse interests, to continue consolidating the greatest period of peace, prosperity and freedom Europe has ever known.
But it is only by virtue of that ambition, and on the basis of close collaboration between the institutions, that we will be able, as I am sure we will, to make this project a reality, a project whose ultimate purpose is to improve the lives of all the people of Europe.
Barely two weeks have gone by since then, but those two weeks have been enough to see us complete almost the entire transition to the new notes and coins.
For millions of European citizens, the euro notes and coins in their pockets are a tangible sign of the great political project of building a united Europe.
The euro is thus becoming a key element in people' s sense of a shared European identity and a common destiny, just as it is tangible evidence that European integration is now irreversible.
We need the economic growth that will generate jobs and a better quality of life.
Almost two years have passed since the European Council in Lisbon set the goal of making the Union the world' s most dynamic and competitive knowledge-based economic area by the end of this decade, an area which would also enjoy full employment and increased economic and social cohesion.
Since that time, the Spring Councils have provided the opportunity to discuss economic, social and environmental issues as part of a wide-ranging strategy for sustainable development.
The Barcelona Council will, therefore, be called upon to assess the progress we have made so far and to set priorities for the coming years.
Indeed, we are reforming a society that already has its own shared values, values that distinguish Europe from the rest of the world and on which the European Union is founded.
It is precisely these values that we have in mind when we speak of the 'European social model' .
On this basis, we have to continue to update the kind of model of society we want and can achieve in Europe: the kind of free, fair, democratic society that our fellow-citizens hold so dear.
The Commission' s report looks at the progress made so far in implementing the Lisbon strategy and concludes that all the prerequisites for success are there.
Encouraging progress has also been made in implementing the strategy adopted at Lisbon.
I am pleased to see, Mr President, that you have made these areas a priority for your action in the coming months.
The Commission report sets three priorities for 2002: employment, reform and knowledge.
Europe needs an active employment policy.
Employment rates can also be maintained by improving skills, education and individuals' mobility within Europe and between production sectors.
We need to connect Europe and its markets.
Education, training and research really are the keys to economic renewal, sustainable growth and job creation.
Finally, our report states the need, after Barcelona, to introduce measures to strengthen coordination of our overall economic strategy.
Only a more coherent approach will enable us to make full, effective use of the various instruments at our disposal.
However, I remain confident that you will support me at Barcelona when I urge the Member States to push ahead resolutely with the agenda of reforms agreed at Lisbon, in line with the report' s recommendations.
If the process grinds to a halt, the cost of 'non-reform' would become unbearable both in economic terms and in terms of the Union' s political credibility.
Ladies and gentlemen, 2002 will be a crucial year for the enlargement process, and we know that - as we have heard - the Spanish Presidency will be making every effort to keep up the momentum, so that we can conclude negotiations this year with those countries that have shown that they meet the criteria for accession.
Relations with the countries of the Mediterranean are, of necessity, a priority for the Union in its external activities.
In addition, it is vital to promote mutual understanding and knowledge between peoples and cultures, through specific actions on various fronts.
Confidence in political institutions, confidence in the stability of the rule of law and confidence in a credible, coherent economic programme.
Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to finish by saying a few words on the Convention that will be beginning its work under the Spanish Presidency.
I have already assured its Chairman, Mr Giscard d' Estaing, that he will have the full support of the Commission and the Commission' s representatives to the Convention.
The Convention and the subsequent Intergovernmental Conference must complete the construction of an open, accountable, democratic and fair Europe.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have arrived in Parliament at a time when we are engaged in organising our work for the second half of this term.
We emphatically welcome the fact that you will be here in Parliament on three occasions as President-in-Office of the Council and as Prime Minister of Spain to give an account of the decisions reached under your Presidency.
We also, though, expect greater transparency in the Council of Ministers and ask of you that the report the Council is now drafting should also lead to real results, making an important step forward towards greater transparency in the Council of Ministers possible under your Presidency.
As Christian and European democrats, we declare that the life of a peaceful Muslim in Chechnya or anywhere else in the world is of the same value as the life of a Christian or a non-Christian in the West.
I would like also to invoke the name of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, the chairman of the Convention, who, with Helmut Schmidt and others in the Seventies, prepared the way for the European Monetary System.
I recall how friends in my party looked at Italy before the introduction of the euro, doubted whether Italy should join the common currency and wondered whether policies of stability were really pursued there.
It is with great joy that we have heard that our colleague, the former Prime Minister of Luxembourg and one-time President of the European Commission, Jacques Santer, has been appointed by the government of Luxembourg, that is, by Luxembourg's Prime Minister, Jean-Claude Juncker, as Luxembourg's representative to the Convention. (Applause) We ask you most sincerely to exert your influence as President-in-Office of the Council so that all governments send personalities to this Convention whose words carry weight in the national capitals and governments, so that what is decided in the Convention may also have something of a cohesive effect on the national governments in the countries of the European Union.
Let me turn to a final aspect, namely enlargement and the Mediterranean dialogue.
We must help them in this, and I very much welcome the initiatives of the Spanish Presidency.
It did so before 11 September.
We worked very hard on the Commission' s proposals and would have this policy by now were it not for the inefficiency of the Council, which sent us the consultations in December.
My political family is entirely in favour of this objective.
We owe the success of the euro above all to our fellow citizens.
The euro is also a success for the European Central Bank, for the financial institutions, for the hundreds of thousands of anonymous citizens who went to work on 1 January, and we must recognise that it has also been a success for Pierre Werner, for Valéry Giscard d' Estaing, for Helmut Schmidt, for François Mitterrand, for Helmut Kohl, for Ruud Lubbers, for Giulio Andreotti, for John Major, for Felipe González and also for Jacques Santer, as President of the Commission.
With regard to the European Union' s international action, I believe that, as well as the need to persevere in the Middle East and relaunch the Euro-Mediterranean process, Latin America, and Argentina in particular, should currently be the focus of attention.
We believe that we should respond in a decisive fashion, led by the Commission.
The European Council has accepted the idea of doubling the European and national parliamentary presence.
Your presence has been increased more, with the troika and the presidential triumvirate, but we have gained in a relative sense.
In any event, Mr President, I believe that the great majority of this House is in favour of constitutionalising the process, of creating a Federation of States and Citizens.
Just as this House insisted on Iberian enlargement some 15 years ago, despite doubts in certain national capitals, so we will militate for an early and successful eastward enlargement in which 2002 will be crucial.
As one who saw in the New Year in France, I am particularly grateful for Spain's role in lending Chirac and Jospin a little small change.
Your vision of the future speaks of new transnational challenges.
Relations between India and Pakistan are deeply worrying but Afghanistan must be uppermost in our minds.
We hope that Europe can offset this collateral damage by adding to our armoury emotional intelligence, recognising that political problems often require political solutions.
You kindly referred to my report on terrorism, adopted on 6 September last year.
I would draw your attention, too, to our resolution on cooperation between the United States and the European Union in the fight against terrorism.
Liberal Democrats view with deep unease the divergence between the US approach of emergency laws and military tribunals and the rights-based approach that we want for the Union.
A list of priorities soon becomes a universal catalogue.
Each Member State brings something different to the party.
The reform of the Council that you talk about is most welcome.
We hope that you will ensure that the Council abides by its undertaking to allow public access to documents and that it seeks better relations with this House, which, sadly, does not get a mention in your programme until page 20.
This House is the true democratic forum of our continent and we want to see its rights respected.
If for my Group something is missing in this document it is a recognition of Europe's different regions and cultures.
In wishing you every success, Prime Minister, I look forward to a vigorous debate with the Spanish Presidency. (Applause) Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all, I would like to welcome you to this House.
We hope that you enjoy these six months and also that cooperation with the European Parliament continues to be as positive and open as it was during the Belgian Presidency.
Setting the objective of 'more Europe' does not necessarily mean wanting a better Europe in the sense of creating a Europe of more democracy, openness and solidarity.
However, it would appear important to emphasise that it is neither acceptable nor effective to imagine that terrorist violence can be curbed by reducing the significance of some of the most important victories of the European democracies and the Union such as respect for individual freedoms, citizens' equality before the law and parliamentary control at European as well as national level of all decisions on this matter.
Similarly, talking about an international anti-terrorism alliance but remaining silent on the way the Russian government is continuing to terrorise and destroy Chechnya does nothing for the European Union' s credibility. (Applause) Secondly, Mr President-in-Office, your government' s programme includes a list of themes, but it does not clearly define the political vision for European integration.
Yet, as you are quite aware, this Convention is the product of the failure of Nice, and its success will be measured in terms of its ability to constitute a break with the intergovernmental method of reforming the Union and to involve representatives of the people and civil society in the process of European integration.
Thirdly, we are greatly concerned at the cursory treatment in your programme of the issue of sustainable development and the urgent need to respond with practical, incisive action to the environmental challenges facing us.
The first is the national hydrological plan, against which there is strong opposition in your country, Mr Aznar: 400 000 people protesting in Madrid and 10 000 in Brussels, as well as 25 000 individual complaints to the Commission cannot be ignored, and we will make this matter a priority in our work.
In order to deal with these issues, as you said, Mr Aznar, we will need 'more Europe' .
The introduction of the euro has created a new reality.
You have expressed your intention to carry out what you call new economic reforms.
In the language of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, this means promoting the social aspects of European integration in a decisive manner and strengthening economic and social cohesion.
Furthermore, Mr Aznar, the international economic situation demands imagination and flexibility.
The fact that the world economy is now close to recession is beyond question, Mr Aznar.
The European Union needs political impetus and democratisation of its economic decision-making.
We need budgets geared towards employment and economic and social cohesion.
Many fashionable reforms in our countries put an end to public monopolies in strategic sectors, only to convert them in many cases into private oligopolies, which makes them difficult to control publicly and which does not lead to any real increase in efficiency.
Therefore, Mr Aznar, in summary, we believe that the Barcelona Summit should reflect this type of concern and adopt a much more dynamic and stronger view of European social integration.
You will recognise, as I do, that, on this issue, I am obviously expressing the existing differences, as you know, between our different political forces.
We therefore believe that for the first time, unlike what happened with the so-called Delors packages, where in successive enlargements of the area of the internal market there were firm commitments in relation to decisive increases in economic and social cohesion, we are now in a situation in which economic and social cohesion - as was expressed in the Delors packages - must be thoroughly strengthened and increased.
The problem will be what to do next.
Others believe that the common policies should not be dismantled, but rather strengthened in certain areas, such as food safety and environmental concerns, which should be incorporated into all our Community policies.
A larger European Union will require greater efforts to increase economic and social cohesion between the regions.
Mr Aznar, we must construct an area of freedom, justice and security for the citizens, while fully respecting the democratic traditions of our countries and the fundamental human rights embodied in our Charter.
The construction of this area of freedom must also be an opportunity to achieve a very high degree of harmonisation of legal guarantees.
In the field of foreign, security and defence policy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am going to make a few very specific comments in order to be brief.
The Spanish Presidency has the responsibility to ensure that the European Union and the European Parliament, in cooperation with the Spanish Presidency, take a decisive step in terms of seeking a just solution in the Middle East.
We believe that we should make it very clear that the decisions of the United Nations and of international law should be respected and that Israel' s illegal and military occupation of the Palestinian State should cease.
We should welcome the intention to continue improving the Barcelona process, which is currently in stalemate.
A genuine regional integration of the countries on the Southern shores of the Mediterranean is necessary.
The European Parliament unanimously supported the negotiated solution to the long conflict suffered by Colombia, disassociating itself from the militarisation of the United States' proposal, the Colombia Plan.
In these tragic times, the authoritative voice of the European Union may be decisive in terms of consolidating talks between the government and the guerrilla movement.
We hope, Mr Aznar, that you will act accordingly.
The Belgian Presidency has taken significant steps in normalising relations with Cuba, by beginning to overcome the so-called common position, which is more suited to the Cold War than to present times.
Mr Aznar, my political group has strongly supported the Convention.
We would have liked the participation in it to be more pluralist, but in any event, we are convinced of its importance.
The Spanish Presidency has said that the issues dealt with by the Convention must be very open and that its agreements and conclusions should inform the future decisions of the Intergovernmental Conference and the Treaty of 2004.
Mr Aznar, you will note that I have described a landscape of positive and negative positions.
Mr President, in setting out the presidency's programme with regard to key policy issues, which will be addressed over the next six months by the European Union, the Spanish Prime Minister has stated that his priority of priorities during Spain's six-months' presidency of the EU will be the global fight against terrorism.
The European Union has certainly adopted a series of measures to combat international terrorism in recent months as an immediate response to the horrific terrorist attacks in the United States last September.
The prevention of the use of the European financial system as a money-laundering route for terrorism must continue to be a priority for our Union.
This is very important because intelligence agencies within the Union, together with Europol, have to work much more closely together in terms of exchanging and sharing information if the terror networks operating in Europe are to be broken.
The enlargement negotiations with the applicant countries will be entering a new phase during the Spanish Presidency.
This presidency is being entrusted with two very difficult chapters in the negotiations on enlargement, namely agricultural policy and regional aid.
The Union and the applicant countries must sit down and hammer out an agreement on the difficult chapters of the discussions because otherwise enlargement of the Union cannot take place quickly and will not be a success.
If the economies of Eastern and Central Europe are not competitive, then they will not be able to participate within the internal market in any real, effective sense.
Equally, promoting market economies in Eastern and Central Europe is good news for businesses within the Union, which can also expand their goods and services into new markets.
The Spanish Government is also going to set up the Convention in March this year to look at the development of the future of EU policies within the Union in the context of the next Intergovernmental Conference in 2004.
I also welcome the commitment of the Spanish Government to promote the implementation of EU regulations and directives, which should expand the use of new information technologies into all parts of the Union.
Finally, one of the great disappointments of Laeken was the failure to reach agreement on the siting of up to 12 new important EU agencies.
I hope that the Spanish Government can reach agreement quickly on the location of these important agencies, in particular the European Food Authority and the European Maritime Safety Agency.
I would call upon you to ensure that these 14 members also include representatives of the 49% who voted 'no' in the referendum on Maastricht in France and of the near enough 50% who voted 'no' in a couple of referendums in Denmark.
Thank you Mr President. (The speaker continued in the Basque language) Urte berri on danori eta zuri zorionak Lehendakari Jauna.
Mr President, Happy New Year to everybody and congratulations to our President.
Prime Minister, can you give this Parliament a glimmer of hope by saying that you will be committed to working towards a political settlement of the ongoing conflict in the Basque country?
The truth is that the decisiveness, or even enthusiasm, with which 300 million European citizens have taken on board the euro, suggests that we can look to the future with optimism.
The European Parliament, as an expression of popular will, must now demonstrate its ability to play its role of providing the debate with impetus, a role which has particularly been recognised over the last six months of the Belgian Presidency and as the Spanish Prime Minister has stressed this morning.
We have provided the Commission and the Council with inspiration, for example, in order to provide the justice systems of the Member States with Community instruments which make the defence of freedoms in the face of terrorism more effective.
Therefore, the fact that the Presidency-in-Office of the Council has said that it is necessary to improve the codecision procedure in the next reform of the Union Treaty is an acknowledgement that we should be grateful for.
We are going to deal with this reform by means of the method which was used to draw up the Charter of Fundamental Rights - which my Group hopes will be incorporated into the new Treaty - that is to say, by means of a Convention which will be inaugurated in March in the headquarters of Parliament, as has been revealed to us this morning.
We trust that that positive attitude from the Council will be maintained throughout the work of the Convention, so that we can respond to two needs: firstly, to bring the Community institutions closer to the citizens by making them more democratic, more efficient and more transparent; and secondly, by undertaking a profound reform of an institutional framework designed for the six founding States, adapting it to a reality in which there are 25 or more Member States, which we hope to see in 2004.
On the contrary, in the current Member States, government and opposition should leave aside party-political confrontation in the face of this great Union objective.
Mr Barón, we must bear in mind that the success of a Presidency is not measured in national terms, or much less party-political terms.
I trust that you will show the same loyalty that the European Popular Party showed to the two previous Presidencies. (Protests from the PSE Group) Mr President, we must use these six months to make the European Union stronger in the world, participating in international debates by means of the common position.
To this end, it is not just necessary to move ahead with the institutional reforms of the CFSP in order to make it more efficient and visible inside and outside our borders, but we must also improve the instruments which the European Union already has, such as the Community external service.
There is no doubt that numerous challenges await us over the next six months, which will demand effort and cooperation from all of us: citizens, European institutions, governments and political parties.
We fully trust that this Presidency will represent a step towards a larger and more united Europe, which is more open to the world and closer to the citizens.
Mr President, holding a Presidency is always an opportunity for a country to demonstrate its commitment to a common cause which is no less than moving European integration forward in a way that benefits the citizens.
Mr Aznar, I know that you have a difficult job, that the international context, in political and economic terms, is complicated and furthermore, as has been said, that the Belgian Presidency has set a very high standard.
But have no doubt, Mr President, that the Spanish Socialists will cooperate unreservedly in making the Presidency a success for Spain and for Europe.
Enlargement, the Lisbon process, the international coalition for freedoms and against terrorism, the single area of security and justice, the external policy, relations with the Mediterranean countries, the role of Europe in Latin America: that is your agenda, Mr President.
But we Socialists would have liked to hear you make some specific commitment, an ambitious initiative relating to some of these issues.
For example, we would have liked it if, when talking about the Lisbon process, you had stressed the social aspects.
Because the Lisbon process agreed a strategic objective which, together with the construction of a more prosperous and competitive economic area, included the objectives of full employment and greater cohesion.
Please commit yourself, Mr President, to making all the coordination methods relating to these social agenda strategies increasingly Community methods.
I will give another example: the Mediterranean and Latin America are European priorities, but a good Spanish Presidency, given its special closeness and relations with these two regions, should be able to put the emphasis on them.
Nevertheless, we do not notice in your programme concrete initiatives to revitalise dialogue and cooperation beyond the creation of the Euro-Mediterranean Development Bank, which by the way was foreseen in 1995 in Barcelona and later in Laeken.
You do not tell us how or when you are going to conclude the negotiations with Mercosur and with Chile.
More Europe also means a Europe that is more active in the defence of human rights.
More Europe, in summary, also means less nationalism, of either the old type or the new type.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to stress the support of the Liberal Group and of my party, Convergència Democràtica de Catalunya, in order to ensure that this Presidency ends with a positive assessment, with distinction, which will include it in the category of the two previous Spanish Presidencies.
That the meeting of the Barcelona European Council, in March, provides concrete commitments and results which can be confirmed, in order to ensure the effective implementation of the structural reforms and liberalisation processes necessary for complying with the objectives set in the process initiated at the Lisbon Council.
That the Euro-Mediterranean Council serves to promote a new stage in the process begun, also under a Spanish Presidency, in Barcelona in 1995, in order to ensure greater and better cooperation between the European Union and the third countries of the Mediterranean.
We are in favour of the creation of a financial institution which allows the full and effective application of the funds agreed for the Mediterranean programmes.
In your key role as a member of the Praesidium of the Convention, we ask that you ensure the incorporation and participation of the constitutional regions in the institutions of the European Union in the constituent text to be agreed at the Intergovernmental Conference of 2004.
As the chairman of the Liberal Group stressed in his speech, the European Union cannot be considered complete unless it includes the full participation and integration of the Europe of the Regions.
It is an issue to which, under the Spanish Presidency, which will begin with the Convention, we attach the greatest importance, as has been stressed.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Spain will endow the Presidency of the European Union with a proposed set of priorities which shows ambition and will.
European integration today means strengthening freedoms, isolating intolerance and making that integration compatible with the necessary fight against terrorism.
The presence of the autonomous communities in the Council when issues relating to our interests and competences are dealt with will always be positive and enriching.
A plural Spain in a plural Europe, creating more Union.
Mr Aznar, you have not explicitly mentioned Morocco in your speech.
Mr Aznar, please do not let the neutrality of the Presidency paralyse our legitimate Europeanist objective of cohesion.
Mr President, it is a shame that, yet again, some of the left-wing Members have adopted a presumptuous, party-political position of opposition to Italy, to a people, that is, who elected their government freely and democratically, with regard to the development of the future and present European Union.
Mr Aznar, the Spanish Presidency' s programme is full of issues to be addressed and objectives, and underlying all the initiatives we can see the commitment to restoring politics to its central place in the debate.
Firstly, the common economic policy that you have tackled, which the President-designate of the Commission has pinpointed as key for the future and which confirms the view we expressed in voting for the euro in Brussels: there can be no monetary policy without a strong common economic policy.
You are not breaking new ground, in particular, in the area that you have made your priority as a head of government, Mr Aznar; in other words, the fight against terrorism.
There is something risible about combating terrorism when you appear to be doing everything possible to encourage its growth, both at a superficial and deeper level, in Europe and everywhere else in the world.
In our view, we can only combat Basque terrorism by asserting a broad Spanish policy on the international stage, a policy which, fortunately, Spain also has the resources to conduct in Europe, in the Mediterranean and in Latin America.
Mr Aznar, this could be your main worry in the coming six months.
The programme you have presented for your Presidency is extremely dense.
I belong to a political family which, unlike many others, has always believed that the only things of any importance are ideas and a vision for the future.
Well then, under your Presidency, an old idea we extremists have had for many years regarding law and international law can come to fruition.
It is possible, if you want it, and we will all help you - Parliament is going to discuss the issue in February - for the Spanish Presidency to obtain the necessary 60 ratifications in the name and on behalf of 200 million European citizens.
I hope that you will embrace this as a historic opportunity for change.
Think how different it would be, even where the fight against terrorism is concerned if - as in the case with Slobodan Milosevic, who is a mere war criminal awaiting trial - today, we had the chance to send the Osama Bin Ladens or the Mullah Omars of this world for trial before a permanent international court.
You see, I feel that we are sitting next to a minefield and that a new vision of our relations with the Mediterranean must be the priority for our present and certainly for our immediate future.
Mr President, firstly I would like to wish the Spanish Presidency luck for the ambitious programme they have presented here this morning.
Mr President, I would like to say that the Spanish Presidency has a series of objectives which are being presented straight away, both in terms of the internal dimension of the project and of its external dimension.
It requires a method, and at Laeken the Convention method was chosen, which is an innovative method: Europe cannot be built on the basis of concentric circles.
Mr President, when freedom was savagely attacked by the barbarity of 11 September, it immediately became clear that notions of security, defence, cooperation, external policy and development aid are interrelated and must be based on a common awareness that the threats and dangers of terrorism affect all of us alike and that we must therefore respond to them as one.
Mr President, I would like to say a couple of things about Latin America.
Therefore, as the Presidency-in-Office has stated, we hope that the Madrid Summit will be able to send a clear and well-defined message of the Europe' s new commitment to Latin America.
I am absolutely convinced that the storey which this Presidency has to add to this Community building will be a match for the ambitious priorities they have presented to us this morning.
It is a prerequisite for peace and progress.
The US' s withdrawal from the ABM Treaty is in conflict with this.
We can drive this message home and make this appeal to the US with all the more force now that we, as Europe - in the coalition - are prepared vigorously to continue the fight against terrorism, both inside and outside Europe.
Do not forget, Mr Aznar, to deal with the outstanding issues facing us in this six-month period to come, during which enlargement and the euro are presenting the European Community with a very special kind of landscape, in which the whole world is more or less affected for various reasons which oblige us to make constant, permanent and joint efforts to achieve peace and prosperity.
I must remind you that, in our European sphere, in all the pillars of the Community edifice, we have maintenance problems.
To this end, we must review the Union' s external relations - such as the Council' s common position on Cuba and the future of the Sahara, by means of a self-determination referendum - without forgetting the dialogue with our Mediterranean neighbours - from Morocco to the Middle East - or with more distant regions, such as Latin America, with the problem of Argentina, or the United States and China.
Of course you can count on our support, as always, in the joint European political fight against terrorism.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, your priorities for the Presidency do not deal with, or at least place very much in second place, certain policies which, since they are fundamental to the Union and also for Spain and my nation, must be dealt with in 2002: the CAP, the common fisheries policy and the future of the Structural Funds.
I represent my nation and I am also a citizen of the Spanish State and of the Union, and there is no contradiction here.
You are mixed up in an authoritarian manner in something which is resolved in the Treaties and in practice, while ignoring the fact that in the future, if we do not deal with the problem of sovereignty, not to mention separatism, we will ask ourselves not only why Slovakia can chair a Fisheries Council while Galicia, Andalusia or the Canaries cannot attend it, but also why the historic national status of the Malta or Luxembourg is rightly recognised, while that of Galicia, the Basque country, Catalonia, Scotland, Wales or Flanders is not.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, negotiations with the candidates for accession are entering their most difficult stage yet under the Spanish Presidency.
If we are not to be reproached for stepping up mass production to excessive levels, we must concentrate more on integrated rural policy in the accession countries rather than carrying over the system of direct payments.
It is indeed a matter of crucial importance that the negotiations should make capacity and sustainability possible for the future, by which I mean beyond 2004 and over and above Agenda 2000.
The presidency has promised to resolutely promote solidarity with the United States at this time of crisis, and it is right to do so, but other foreign problems will crowd in.
The presidency faces similar challenges on the economic front.
If Europe is serious about making itself the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010, then Barcelona promises to be a moment of truth.
Since Stockholm things have in fact moved backwards.
The liberalising agenda has become bogged down by new social and environmental targets.
In financial services - telecoms for instance - liberalisation is proceeding too slowly.
If Europe really wants to emerge as the global economic leader by the end of this decade, it must show real commitment.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Parliament is engaged in strenuous discussions with the Commission concerning new ways of governing - 'European governance' .
Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, we are of the opinion that we should in any case be treated equally with the Council, including on the issue of secondary legislation.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have just referred to 'more Europe' and the fight against terrorism as two of your great objectives, and I share them and wish you every success.
In order to eradicate violence, I would cite the example of the British and Irish Governments, which sponsored the Good Friday agreements and the peace process in Ulster, and I would ask you and the Popular Party not to continue to insist on maintaining your alliance with Herri Batasuna - protectors of ETA - with the sole objective of imposing a state of political siege on the Basque Government, and instead to promote democratic dialogue with the majority of the Basque people, aimed at resolving the historic political conflict, who wish to live in peace, and to respect their right to decide their future freely.
Mr President, "More Europe" is a watchword we support, but it must be accompanied by 'More freedom' and 'More identity' .
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, from the point of view of foreign policy, the Spanish Presidency comes at a time when there is war between two atomic powers to be prevented, peace to be established in the Middle East, and the Barcelona process to be brought to a successful conclusion, because, if we are not successful in these areas, they may have a merciless effect on our immediate interests.
I believe this results from the recognition that we can achieve the objectives of combating international and national terrorism and securing peace only by a joint effort and not on the basis of everyone for himself, and that it is for this reason that we must bring about a common foreign and security policy.
Your presidency will, though, also see the preparatory decisions on enlargement of the European Union taken, that is to say, on the outward configuration of the European Union in the future.
We hope for very close cooperation with you on these issues over the next six months.
Mr President, in Laeken, two decisions were taken which are very important to the creation of a European judicial area in the fight against terrorism: a common definition and sanctions in relation to terrorism and the European arrest warrant.
This Parliament had insisted on these two measures in the Watson report - and I would like to congratulate him on his election and also on his words - and I believe we have done a positive job with the Council and the Commission in implementing it.
Article 4 of the common position stating the need for the police and judicial cooperation laid down in the Treaty and in the international agreements in this field will be applied to them.
We hope that the measures for combating the funding of terrorism in Europe can also be applied soon.
And I also hope, Mr President, that the Council will maintain the excellent cooperation that it has enjoyed with this Parliament, with the exception of recent times.
Your agenda mentions immigration for humanitarian reasons and the fight against illegal immigration.
Senyor President Aznar, the theme you have given your presidency is 'Más Europa' [More Europe]. 'Más Europa' also implies that Catalan, a language spoken by almost 10 million Europeans, can be established in this House.
President Aznar, my party, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, the Republican Left of Catalonia, and I know that we cannot count on you to make all these democratic advances.
And we have come here to discuss a programme that combines ambition with vision.
But I also believe that, in compensation for the many things that have been demanded today, this Parliament must make a commitment to doing something which seems to me extraordinarily important: the Barcelona process is going to be a key element of the Presidency.
The Barcelona process is necessary in order to complete the process started in Lisbon and you have said, Mr President, that there is no better means of achieving social integration than creating employment.
Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your presentation of the Spanish Presidency's priorities.
I will comment on just one of them, namely your determination to complete the single market in the gas and electricity sectors.
The greatest contribution to security of supply is intelligent use of energy, one of the regulatory requirements of wise liberalisation.
Mr President, the Spanish Presidency, which has our full support, will play a crucial role in the integration of a Europe which is not just the Europe of the single currency but the Europe of the common foreign and security policy as well.
The Union' s joint action will be judged initially on the success of the fight against terrorism, which is not an internal Spanish affair but a fundamental issue in which we must all be involved, just as we are with regard to the European presence in Afghanistan.
Indeed, it is a political effort, above all, as well as military endeavours that can bring Europe success against the instigators of the attack of 11 September.
The return to the rule of law in the world will contribute to economic growth and thus help to improve the conditions of the European citizens, whom we also have to provide with a system of social and other protection which abolishes longstanding privileges.
The Convention will also have to decide upon the way to follow to develop the new Charter, and we hope that the Intergovernmental Conference will be able to take place during the second half of 2003 to avoid Europe' s future being debated right in the middle of the electoral campaign.
Mr President, I speak for the Socialists from the point of view of Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
The Lisbon policy mix of mutually supportive economic reform, full employment, social cohesion and sustainable development needs to be reinforced through concrete measures that increase the potential for growth and job creation.
In concrete terms, we want a number of priorities developed at Barcelona, some of which are reflected in the Commission's synthesis report adopted this week.
We want a strengthening of resolve to achieve the goal of a 70% employment rate by 2010, recognising the good progress we have seen and increasing the participation of unemployed people in active labour measures to at least 20% in nearly all Member States; we want to go further and set a new target of 44%, the level in the three best-performing Member States, to be achieved within a five-year timeframe.
On the contrary, 'More Europe' must mean more of a political Europe where it is necessary to improve our standing on the international stage and to enable our economies to become stronger and to create further jobs.
It is now easy for us to understand, particularly after the events of 11 September, that the primary concern of the Spanish Presidency is, quite clearly, the fight against terrorism within an area of freedom, security and justice.
Mr Aznar, you know how to do this in Spain; we are sure that you will provide the necessary impetus so that the objective set in Lisbon to achieve full employment by 2010 is consolidated and attained within the framework of a timetable defined at Barcelona in March.
Mr President, the Spanish Presidency has rightly named the fight against terrorism as its first priority.
Because the true driving force of terrorism, at least in Europe, is not ideology, but money.
We are concerned about whether it will be possible for the Council to overcome the obstacle standing in the way of fighting terrorism resulting from certain governments blocking the Community proposals on the fight against money laundering.
Secondly, Mr President, the Spanish Presidency insists on the problem of immigration and the need to control it.
I wanted to link these two problems by pointing out that the outermost regions, although they are far from the Community' s continental territory, are in fact part of our territory and that it is currently necessary to control illegal immigration into these regions.
But if we do not adopt measures on a Community level, it is possible that other local authorities will feel obliged to do the same.
Finally, Mr President, over recent years it seems that both the Council and the Commission have forgotten where Latin America is.
I believe it is very important that the Spanish Presidency takes the helm once again, places Latin America on the continent' s navigation charts and, like in the Fifteenth Century, supports, in this new era, the link between the European Union and Latin America.
Mr President, first of all, I should like to extend a warm welcome to the Spanish Presidency.
In my view, an important task is to ensure that the Convention, which is to develop proposals on Europe' s future, gets off to a flying start.
If you could do something about this, you would be helping both the countries with labour shortages and those with labour surpluses.
Mr President, Prime Minister, you have, amongst the six priorities of the Spanish Presidency of the Council, managed to say not one word on the protection of the environment.
Groucho Marx represents the grotesque, and I find it more than grotesque that the Spanish Presidency of the Council, ten years after the Rio Summit and in the year of the Johannesburg World Summit, has nothing to say about the protection of the environment.
Let me remind you that the last summit, the Summit in Gothenburg, called upon you, the European Council, to use your meeting in Barcelona in the first half of the year to check on what was still needed.
You must, then, say something about emissions trading.
The fact is that you as a head of government, Mr Aznar, have made a much more dynamic Spain possible, thanks to modernisation of the administration and of economic life.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Secretary of State, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has, since the Cologne Extraordinary Summit in June 1999, possessed a European security and defence identity which, for the first time, is truly worthy of the designation 'common' .
Mr President-in-Office, I would like to add a brief observation to your statements and make a major request of the Spanish Presidency.
Taking the observation first, you have described the Rapid Reaction Force as being also an instrument against terrorism in the European Union.
Should military actions also become necessary, as they did after 11 September, what we call the principle of the rule of law nevertheless remains untouched.
So I ask that the Spanish Presidency should see to it that we get an agreement with NATO, so that our security and defence policy may be secured.
Mr President, Spain is assuming the Presidency of the European Union at an historic moment for European integration.
The second major event was 11 September, which reminded us, as if this were necessary, of the nature of the new threats hanging over the world.
The Spanish Presidency is facing these two challenges.
By placing the fight against terrorism at the forefront of its programme, the Spanish Presidency is thus meeting the expectations of a Europe that must become an area of security and a constitutional State for all European citizens.
The programme that was proposed to us today meets the challenges facing us.
Mr President, tomorrow this Parliament will approve the resolution on the Commission' s Green Paper on the future of the common fisheries policy, which draws up its future.
Its reform cannot ignore this reality.
Mr President-in-Office, you have come here today to give your commitment - which is very warmly welcomed - to deeper democratic control and also agreed to come before this House another couple of times before the end of your presidency.
Since the mid-1980s we have made great strides with Treaty revision for greater parliamentary involvement in the democratic process.
The trouble is that very few people in this House or in the outside world know about the changes which have been made in the Commission.
Finally, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have indicated in your programme that: 'Thus, the Spanish Presidency...will, in line with the conclusions of the Laeken European Council, set in motion a discussion on proposals to be submitted by the Secretary-General before the Barcelona meeting, with a view to drawing relevant operational conclusions from those proposals at the Seville European Council.' Is it possible, in the interests of genuine democratic process, that we in Parliament could be consulted on the documents you will be putting forward to the Councils in Barcelona and Seville?
I hope that on all of these issues you will consult the European Parliament and, also, civil society and the NGOs.
I wish you a Presidency, Mr Aznar, that will be fruitful for Europe.
The first issue is the Convention, which will have to supplement the Charter of Fundamental Rights, promoting the Community method and the federalist approach as a guarantee of political democracy, economic integration and social cohesion.
The single currency consolidates the single market and represents a decisive step towards political Europe and a common economic policy.
The single currency strengthens Europe' s position in the face of globalisation but means that it is no longer possible for national systems to restore competitiveness by devaluing.
This strategy must be consistent with the overall goals of integration, cohesion and harmonisation of the series of policies upholding the European social model.
The third issue is the 'political' contribution that Europe can make to the fight against terrorism which has been occupying all the major democracies since 11 September.
Lastly, I support the pledge made by Mr Aznar regarding Argentina, a country afflicted by a crisis which is threatening democracy itself and which could exacerbate the difficult situations of other Latin American countries.
In this speech, which will be brief, I should also like, first of all, to express my personal satisfaction at the presence in the Chamber today of the President of the Spanish government, José María Aznar, who, long before the events of 11 September had already made the defence of freedom and the fight against those who seek to curb it, such as terrorist murderers, one of the leitmotivs of his political approach.
The results of this political action at European level could not be more heartening.
I should like, first of all, to emphasise the importance of institutional dialogue and, within institutional dialogue, once again emphasise my commitment.
We will have the opportunity to speak about this European impetus and also about the work of the Spanish Presidency, both in March, following the Barcelona European Council, and in June, following the Seville European Council.
I must tell you that, as holder of the Presidency, I see no problem in establishing what some of you have requested: the creation of a working group for interinstitutional dialogue that encompasses the Council, Parliament and the Commission and which will enable us to see clearly how best our work can be carried out.
Therefore, from this point of view, I am aware of, and agree with some of your concerns, such as the processing of documents concerning the second and third pillars, which must be resolved with all the guarantees required by the circumstances, the facts themselves and by the sensitivity of the matter, as is done in many national parliaments, with guarantees of security and of confidentiality.
This opportunity is evident in various situations.
The entire world situation has changed following 11 September and in a tragic fashion.
The change that has taken place since 11 September is causing fundamental strategic changes in the world that will define the world of tomorrow, on which the European institutions must reflect, maintain dialogue and on which they must adopt a position for the future.
The European Union as such, through its various institutions, cannot remain on the sidelines of the important debate and participation in the profound strategic changes that the world will be seeing.
Firstly, because for the first time we have the euro, our single currency, which is a guarantee of stability and which has been a great success.
Thirdly, because we are going through a period of economic slowdown and unless we can take advantage of the introduction of the euro, providing impetus for economic reforms, we will be wasting an opportunity to help our economies to recover, which is, of course, extremely important.
First of all, with regard to the fight against terrorism, this is no longer a problem affecting only some people, but one that affects all of us, a problem to which some could show greater commitment, but it is quite clearly the responsibility of everyone.
Of course, we have to consider the fight against terrorism not only in itself but also in relation to the creation of the area of freedom, security and justice, and to the Tampere commitments that are part of this more integrated Europe that we wish to build for the future.
We must ask ourselves if in general terms, the European Union is capable at this historic juncture of dealing with the task in hand.
There cannot be - and indeed there are none - half-way houses in the fight against terrorism, because there are no half-way houses between life and death, between legality and lawlessness, between respect for the law and complicity with terrorism.
What there must be is a clear defence, when necessary, from an international point of view, by means of an international coalition, and, when necessary, with the domestic commitment or with the international cooperation of all, to ensure that our freedoms and our Rule of law triumph.
And in order to achieve this, we have to work, from an operational perspective, on issues of security, intelligence, cooperation between police forces, joint investigation teams and also on the common judicial issues that are a crucial part of the process of European integration.
Furthermore, if we are coherent and consider terrorism to be one of the greatest threats currently facing our civilisation, we will have to include terrorism as an objective in the definition of the European Union' s security and defence policy.
We also have to discuss matters in order to reach conclusions on some of your concerns about the importance of cooperation with Russia in the fight against terrorism.
Mr President, I wish to tell you that, in this context, we can move ahead with the creation of the International Criminal Court, with improving the instruments of international legal security.
But in this chapter in the fight against terrorism I would like to conclude by making one thing quite clear: let us never forget - I know that the vast majority of this House has not forgotten - the moral lesson which these victims have taught us and let us never lose sight of our fundamental responsibilities.
Failing to condemn terrorism and yet talking about 'dialogue' , supporting terrorism and yet talking about 'dialogue' , murdering and yet talking about 'dialogue' , apart from being a mistake, is an insult to common sense and to the memory of those individuals who have given their lives or who risk their lives precisely to protect human rights, freedom, the Rule of Law and democracy, especially in certain countries.
I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that the euro is not a point of arrival, but a point of departure, so that having cleaned up our economies in Europe - a process which we must maintain and continue - we must preserve the ambition of the Lisbon strategy, which is a Europe of full employment, a Europe that is more competitive and better equipped, in terms of people' s well-being, to face our future options in the world.
As I said, the capacity for technological renewal in the United States and for European investment in North America, which has been better received there than in the countries of Europe, has caused a deep-seated crisis in Europe' s economies.
I think that we would be making a mistake if we did not realise that there are structural factors, in addition to those resulting from the current economic crisis, that warrant our attention.
The challenge to realise the objective of full employment.
Unless we do so - and I am here giving you my personal opinion - we will see an economic recovery in the United States which will provide that country with many advantages over Europe in terms of competition and in terms of employment and the economy.
Enlargement can, and should, take place and we must work to ensure that this objective is achieved on 31 December of this year.
If these three pillars are respected, the negotiating chapters and the common positions will lead to the historical process of enlargement.
Furthermore, each national State will be responsible for democratically arranging its distribution of competences between the national State, between communities or regions and between local authorities.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer briefly to issues concerning external and common security policy.
I wish to say that once European defence policy has been declared viable, the development of the second pillar is absolutely fundamental.
It is absolutely crucial that these agreements are concluded in a Europe of security and defence that does not, in reality, exist and whose absence we complain about on a daily basis.
I hope that the Member States which have greater responsibility for facilitating these agreements are sensible enough to do so in the near future.
We must and we can assume more responsibilities in the field of security and, naturally, this is also one of the most significant challenges we face for the future.
If the countries of the southern shores of the Mediterranean wish to maintain their current levels of unemployment and resources, they will have to have created 40 million jobs within ten years.
Ladies and gentlemen, these were the observations I wished to make at the first appearance of the Spanish Presidency in this House. (Applause) Thank you, President-in-Office of the Council.
I tried to tell the House that, as some colleagues know, almost all my livestock contracted foot-and-mouth disease and were slaughtered.
Voting: 570, valid votes: 567.
I congratulate all the individuals who have been elected.
Introduction of the euro The next item is the debate on the introduction of the euro, which we have now had in our pockets for some weeks and which is the fulfilment of a long-cherished dream in the European Community.
It has been a wonderful tribute to the capacity of the European Central Bank and the European System of Central Banks; it has been a wonderful tribute to the banking and financial and commercial system and the retailing system; and, most of all, a wonderful tribute to European citizens, who have taken to it with such alacrity, that now it has virtually displaced the currencies in the relevant Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, almost ten years after the signing of the Treaty of Maastricht, the euro has now found its way into our pockets and, I think, into the hearts of our fellow citizens.
The operations to introduce the euro that have taken place in these first two weeks have gone extraordinarily well.
The entry into circulation of the euro on 1 January 2002 is the culmination of a project on which we have been working for many years.
The Member States took ten centuries to achieve monetary unification in their territories and the Community has done the same in little more than 40 years.
It would be unfair, however, if I did not mention two other Members of this Parliament: Karl von Wogau, who, in his capacity as chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, also played a critical role, and the previous President of the European Commission, Jacques Santer.
I should also like to mention my predecessor, Yves-Thibault de Silguy, who played a crucial role in the previous legislature.
The physical reality of the euro affords us the opportunity to make further progress in the process of integration.
The amount of business taking place at bank counters was so great during the first week of January that, in some countries, the volume of withdrawals or exchanges in banks was greater than the volume of operations at ATMs.
Another indicator of the success of the single currency amongst the public has been the rapid progress of payments in euros.
These had already reached 20% on 2 January, the first working day.
My second comment on the adaptation of automatic cash machines is that this has also been swift and has taken place throughout the euro zone.
For the last two years, the Commission and the European Central Bank have asked banks to change their plans and adapt ATMs with almost immediate effect.
By 4 January, almost all ATMs were only issuing euros.
Saturday 5 January was the key day for this issue.
The test was conclusive and in all participating States, queues were of normal length.
This situation did not change on the following Monday, when sales began in many European countries.
Furthermore, in some cases there have been downward adjustments, although, it is also fair to say, in other cases and on an individual basis, the opposite may have occurred.
In conclusion, the balance sheet for these two first weeks is, in the opinion of the Commission, very positive.
The greatest exchange operation in history has taken place practically without mishap.
The success of the introduction of the euro is the end of a chapter - as I said before - but not the end of the work.
We must now harvest the fruits of this success by increasing and deepening the coordination of our economic policies and by undertaking the structural reforms necessary to increase growth and employment in the Union.
The clear improvement in budget revenues has created some leeway, which will help to cushion the impact of the slight increase in budget deficits that have appeared as a result of the global slowdown.
In 2002 we hope to regain a satisfactory level of growth, which will contribute to global economic recovery.
For this year, the Commission proposes three priority areas: first of all employment policies and, in particular, active labour market policies; secondly, economic reforms to increase competitiveness, integration and investment in key industries; and thirdly, investing in knowledge to increase competitiveness and employment.
Greater interdependence of the economies of the Member States, and in particular within the euro zone, calls for closer and more effective coordination of these economic policies.
Moving ahead means meeting our commitments: those in the Treaty and those in the Stability and Growth Pact.
This is what we, as the Commission, will be focussing our efforts and our work on and we hope we will be able to count on the cooperation of Parliament that we have always enjoyed, and with which we hope to continue working in the same efficient and consensual way that we have in the past.
Of course we should thank you and your staff and the College of Commissioners now for all the work you have done in the past several years to bring this to a reality.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this speech is the last I shall deliver in this Chamber as a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
I am convinced that the next step on the road to the realisation of the European Union must be political union.
Looking back over these years, I would like to start by recalling our colleague Basil de Ferranti, now sadly deceased, who at that time drafted the first reports on the creation of the internal market and thereby initiated this whole development.
These were the first initiatives towards creating the internal market.
Jacques Delors was at that time the chairman of Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, in other words, Mrs Randzio-Plath, our predecessor; he then, as French Finance Minister and later as President of the European Commission, laid the foundations on which these ideas were to become realities.
I wish also to recall Jacques Moreau who, together with me back then in 1984, presented the first report of the European Parliament on proposals for the creation of the internal market.
Seeing the enthusiasm that greeted the euro on 1 January, welcoming this new currency for 300 million people in the European Union, we have to recall, on the one hand, how difficult was the road to this.
It is indeed almost ironic that we see today that it was Germany, my homeland, that campaigned most vigorously then for this Stability and Growth Pact with its strict criteria, and that one can, or must, almost take it for granted in the present situation that Germany will be the first country to be affected by this treaty's sanctions.
The second condition is that, in the Member States and in the EU, we make economic policy in accordance with principles held in common.
We said before Maastricht that we wanted monetary union and political union at the same time.
I would like, finally, to pick up on something Jacques Delors said.
I would also say that the same applies to a currency, although there are some of us who have a very emotional, almost erotic, relationship with the currency.
We took our stand for a market and a currency and played our part in creating them.
I think that thanks are owed to all the Members of this House, and to you too, Mr von Wogau. (Applause) 'Euro' will in my view become the affirmative word of 2002.
The euro will become a success because it is accepted not only by the markets but also by people.
The completion of economic and monetary union, of the internal reform of the European Union and of a European constitution and the successful eastward enlargement of the EU are the great challenges that Europe must face up to.
The euro urgently needs to be accompanied by some sort of economic government.
Our commitment as a Parliament to monetary dialogue with the European Central Bank was particularly important.
Could I ask whether Mr Pronk could read out my two-minute speech in my place when my name appears on screen?
Mrs Peijs, I have no objection to that if it is acceptable to the House, which I think it is.
I could not agree more that the changeover has been a runaway success.
However, in my opinion, the introduction of the euro notes and coins is merely a first step, and Commissioner Solbes Mira has already made reference to this.
The markets, which always have the choice, appear to be much less enthusiastic.
Mr von Wogau said that the next stage would be political union.
The euro will be a strong currency if Europe' s economy is strong.
Commissioner, you mentioned the need to coordinate economic policies several times in your speech.
It is important for there to be sound economic policies in Europe: the strength of the euro will depend on it.
All this is often the result of too little rather than too much economic policy and, in this respect, I feel that the tension between policies, the competition between the many different solutions adopted by the countries is of benefit and, through a form of bona fide benchmarking, can foster positive processes of emulation.
Although it does need some fine-tuning, the framework of the single market, together with the Stability Pact - an economic Constitution which many countries like Italy did indeed lack - is broad enough to be able to embrace, without conflict or contradiction, a transparent range of options between which it is left to the individual countries to decide.
The 'euro introduction' project has been a success.
More than 90% of all payments are already conducted in euros.
The euro must remain a stable and strong currency.
For that purpose, the President of the Central Bank must first and foremost remain where he is and must closely monitor the bank' s objectives, namely low inflation.
In order to sustain the confidence of the markets, it is very important for the large Member States in particular - and perhaps notably Germany - at long last to take the necessary measures to open up their markets completely, to make their labour markets more flexible, to make their pension systems sustainable and to modernise their social benefits.
Any weakness in the currency is down to the Member States and so far not to the Central Bank, which is operating exceptionally well, except in the field of payment balance systems, such as TARGET, and the consumer system.
Mr President, Commissioner, there are two aspects of the introduction of the euro which have been mentioned by Commissioner Solbes and other speakers: the undeniable success and future prospects of the euro.
A Parliamentary resolution has already pointed out that the central guideline for the exchange policy should not be a strong or weak euro but a stable euro, varying, of course, within a range in a way that is not destabilising.
Mr President, President Prodi told us this morning that the introduction of euro notes and coins was a huge success.
And several Members have gone even further by speaking of the enthusiasm of consumers, who appear to have embraced the new currency.
We should strengthen the economic pillar or move towards a political Europe, as other Members are saying.
As for us, it is clear what we prefer, Mr President, out of an affection for our homelands and because of our belief in the fundamental need for a national framework for democracy and solidarity.
Is there not a third option, however, that of a single currency without a State?
Furthermore, the markets themselves do not believe in it, as proven by the persistent weakness of the euro in recent days.
The "one size fits all" monetary policy, as the Commission's pessimistic 2001 economic report admits, cannot be right for all of the countries all of the time and, coupled with the fiscal restraints of the Stability and Growth Pact, imposes severe destabilising problems and a lack of flexibility on certain economies, as we have already seen in the artificial boom scenario of Ireland.
I would also like confirmation from Commissioner Solbes that, in his opinion, for the UK to join the euro it will have to spend at least two years locked into the ERM II phase first before proceeding.
Finally, I should like to congratulate you, Mr President, on your election.
Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank all the speakers for their comments.
I wish to begin by giving special thanks to Karl von Wogau for his involvement in this process over the last 22 years.
Karl von Wogau said, in a reference to Jacques Delors, that it is impossible to fall in love with the euro, and yet Christa Randzio-Plath said that Europe' s citizens are happy.
It is true, however, and I am in agreement on this with some of the speakers, that the fundamental elements will emerge as a result of our potential capacity for growth or, to put it another way, as a result of implementing the Lisbon process in a more ambitious way than we have done so far.
Nevertheless, experience and the year 2001 have shown us that being relatively independent in terms of trade does not protect us from the effects of a crisis in the United States as a consequence of the course which takes place due to the economic effects arising from the relationships between companies and between financial markets.
Our objective for monetary policy is to maintain low inflation and we are convinced that a currency with low inflation is, in the long term, a stable currency, a popular currency, a currency that will provide refuge and is a currency that will have an important role to play in the economic world.
I would say that the model we put together in Maastricht was based on a single monetary policy and on coordinated national economic policies.
And we have to work on ensuring that the euro is a success on this basis.
I am not going to prejudge whether we should make more or less progress in the processes of political integration.
It could be done according to the wishes of those that favour greater political integration, but I also realise that this is a decision to be taken by the fifteen Member States in other bodies, in other forums and following a different debate.
Nevertheless, I am convinced that we can move ahead with the process of greater coordination between economic policies, which certainly does not mean the unification of our economic policies, because our situations are different and, consequently, policies must be applied consistently.
I repeat what I have always said: the Stability Pact is nothing more and nothing less than a necessary factor which allows us to maintain a policy mix between budgetary policy and monetary policy, which facilitates a monetary policy with low rates of interest.
Structural changes to our economies and the move towards growth, coherence between our national economic policies and Union policy as a whole with monetary policy must be managed by means of these broad economic policy guidelines.
We have the necessary instruments; we have to perfect and improve them, but I think that the system is a good one.
The policy mix will be one of the key elements of the Spanish Presidency, as the chairman of Ecofin stressed and I am sure we will have the opportunity in this House to debate this fundamental point.
I wish to make a comment on enlargement of the euro zone.
We have noted greater interest in the 'pre-in' countries in what is happening in our experience in the euro zone.
Admittedly, there are still some who criticise the euro and what some people in the Eurosceptic world are afraid of, since the short term problems have not occurred, is what will happen in ten or fifteen years' time.
The euro has an extremely high security factor, unlike some of the world' s other national high circulation currencies, and this should guarantee that this type of situation is not going to occur.
Nor do I feel that there are major pricing problems or that prices in the sales will influence prices in January, as they have not done in the past, since they have never been taken into account.
But since I am sure that this situation will not arise, I would say that we have no need to worry about this problem either.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the time has come to vote on the directive on public supply contracts, public service contracts and public works contracts and the directive on specific sectors - entities operating in the water, energy and transport sectors - in plenary.
It is estimated that only 20% of that sum is actually covered by the provisions of the current directives in that the threshold above which it is mandatory to apply them is relatively high and, in any case, more or less equal to that laid down in the agreements for the participation of third countries.
However, the most significant past and present problems which have emerged and which are the subject of debate within the different political groupings, and between the groupings and between national representatives need to be highlighted.
A further consideration is the possibility that each Member State and each regional government could apply local rules where the threshold is not reached.
It has been proposed that the directive should incorporate specific rules governing these areas.
The Commission' s proposal contains sufficient provisions as it is to ensure that all the principles in force on the environment and workers' rights are respected in the drawing up of calls for tender.
Were these amendments also to be adopted in plenary, I feel that it would be better to keep the current texts unaltered rather than to have texts which, although more up-to-date, could well mean a step backwards in basic areas.
The history of Europe as a whole, give or take a century, is full of different kinds of works which have survived the passage of time because of their artistic value.
Lastly, Mr President, two directives are before Parliament which are essentially similar in that certain specific sectors have been liberalised or will be in the not-too-distant future.
The award of contracts across frontiers is still the exception.
Those, at any rate, are the challenges Parliament itself enumerated in its debates on the Green Paper and the communication from the Commission in 1996 and 1998.
Our aim is also to help bring the Internal Market to fruition in this area.
I would ask Members to bear that in mind in the light of what the rapporteur said in his introductory remarks.
The second way in which we want social criteria to be taken into account is by enabling contracting authorities to pursue certain social and employment objectives, such as equal opportunities and social inclusion in connection with procurement.
But this is always - again I would stress this in the light of what the rapporteur has said - subject to the strict requirement that it does not distort competition.
This is made plain repeatedly in the amendments by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, that were in turn inspired by the opinion of the Committee on Employment.
I would draw Members' attention to Amendment No 129 by Mrs Berger.
Article 46 is particularly important in that respect and I would draw Members' attention to Amendments Nos 82, 86, 87 and 89.
I sincerely hope we can reach agreement on one of those amendments in our vote tomorrow.
Finally, there needs to be an adequate review procedure to ensure that these criteria are applied in the execution of the contract.
Amendment No 108, among others, is important in that respect.
I presume this is an oversight, but I want in any case to draw attention to this and call upon everyone to vote in favour of Amendment No 140 to the report on the award of public supply contracts, public service contracts and public works contracts.
These changes are significant.
I am also extremely pleased about the changes made by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs because sustainable development involves having to take account of economic, social and environmental criteria.
I also welcome the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market' s acceptance of our demand that enterprises be liable to exclusion from the tendering procedure if they fail to comply with the provisions of the law on tariffs and other social security and labour law in the State of establishment or another affected country.
I would like to inform the House that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs unanimously adopted the opinion for which I am rapporteur on 12 June 2001.
This unanimous vote is important, in that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs fully acknowledged that the procedures on public contracts were instruments falling under the sustainable development strategy and that the environment should be integrated across all the European Union' s policies, as advocated by the Treaty.
Within this framework, the relevant authorities, which have political responsibility, must be permitted to draw up environmental as well as social criteria that they intend to use in awarding public contracts, whilst, of course, respecting the principle of non-discrimination.
To avoid repeating what other speakers have already said, I would like to draw attention to two points.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs proposed simplifying the award procedures, firstly by doubling the thresholds above which the directive applies for public contracts and, secondly, it is also proposing to give special protection to small and medium-sized companies by stipulating that the contracting authorities have the power to decide that 15% of the total number of contracts that they award can be granted to small and medium-sized firms.
Not, of course, being unacquainted with the ways of the world, we are aware that we cannot carry on this debate on these new proposals by the Commission for a directive on the award of public contracts without taking their social and environmental aspects into account to some degree.
Such a 'level playing field' is of course guaranteed only when the criteria we are trying to add on alongside the economic criteria are already a component part of the tendering conditions and are not introduced or implemented only later, when the tendering process has been completed and discussion has moved on to the award.
If I may say just one thing more, we are also opposed to incorporating conditions in the Directive that will in fact end up bringing the internal market to a standstill and causing it to fail, just as we are opposed to leaving those who will later transpose the Directive into national legislation free to include such conditions.
In particular, I ask the Commission to reconsider their attitude towards Amendment No 147 and to inform Parliament tomorrow of whether they might give this Amendment their approval, because I think this could be a genuine compromise on the issue of threshold values.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on behalf of my group and thanking him and all the draftsmen of the consulting committees' opinions for the enormous work involved in this report.
I think the intensive discussions and the highly laborious vote in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market make it high time that we complete the first reading with the plenary vote tomorrow - which I hope will actually take place.
This not only undermines the objectives of the Treaty, for example the integration of environmental protection into all spheres of policy, and also a policy of sustainable development, it also restricts the autonomy and democracy of cities, municipalities, regions and federal territories.
We have brought in differing split votes on my Amendments Nos 134 and 110.
The basic conditions we have when it comes to environmental issues are relatively uniform, but we have extremely different directives where social issues are concerned.
Mr Vice-President, I would also like to congratulate you on your election.
However, in March 2000, the European Trade Union Confederation pointed out how much importance the Community regime for public contracts placed upon the concept of price, to the detriment of social and territorial cohesion, equality and employment.
As I said, the Zappalà report improves on the Commission' s directive, particularly by raising the thresholds on opening up public procurement contracts by 50% and also by taking into greater consideration the social and environmental criteria.
In a communication of 15 October 2001, the Commission was forced to put forward the option of integrating social and environmental aspects into procedures for the award of public contracts.
However, this communication is not legally binding in character.
We must therefore go further and approach it in a different way; this is the sense of the amendments tabled by my group.
Of course, my group' s vote will depend on the outcome of the vote on the committee' s amendments and also on the amendments that will be proposed tomorrow.
Mr President, I too join my colleagues in congratulating you on your re-election as Vice-President.
I also wish to congratulate the rapporteur and all the draftsmen on their work on what may appear to be a very simple topic but, when you get into the detail and analysis of it, proves extremely difficult.
This is because the contract limit is too small and the economic reality underlying this is that to move your operation into another Member State requires extra money and a more valuable contract to make such a move profitable.
However, that should not be used as an obstacle or a block to development.
However, I have one concern with regard to the question of a judgment that is not yet final: we are acting as judge and jury in denying somebody a right to be an applicant for a tender without having a final decision or analysis made as to whether that person is guilty of a crime or not.
But, most importantly of all, it must be seen as a move towards guaranteeing better public services for all people.
This question seems to be at the heart of the long-term discussion on this topic.
Via Amendment No 98, this report wishes to add both social and environmental criteria to the assessment of the most favourable tenderer.
In my country, there are currently various criminal cases pending against building contractors, and it seems as if fraud is becoming a widespread phenomenon.
Mr President, these two directives are important when it comes to creating an internal market that operates well.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of laws are like our favourite clothes.
So it is only a good thing that the Commission has taken in hand the law on the award of public contracts, which dates back to the Seventies, and that we are now engaged in doing justice to the requirements of modern times and of the Internal Market with two directives.
That is why there are amendments tabled by my group, and, in my view, if they are not adopted, it will be impossible to vote for the Directive on the award of public contracts.
This also includes adherence to the wage agreements in force where the principal is located.
Competition in the internal market must not be allowed to be like that.
You have brought credit on our constituency in the dignified and splendid way you have conducted yourself over recent weeks and we are very pleased with that.
If that is to be ruled out by European law, Europe will not grow in popularity among its citizens.
The amendments I have tabled seek to strengthen the role of awarding authorities in monitoring the quality of the tenderers and I would stress the importance of assessing the environmental impact of public and private projects.
I would also stress the need to exclude from award procedures people condemned for crimes such as money laundering, fraud and racketeering.
In this debate we have not heard from the people who are now supplying public authorities across the European Union as a result of the tremendous progress that has been made in opening up public contracting all over the European Union.
That company in the Black Country in the United Kingdom employs 80 people, that is 80 much-needed jobs, and it complies with every single social requirement in United Kingdom law.
If the Helsinki authorities had said that they wanted 100 buses powered by natural gas and that is the contract, then fine, if that is what they want to do.
We want local authorities to put in contracts on a consistent open basis that will give our citizens value for money.
But I want to direct some very pertinent questions to the Commissioner and I hope he will answer those questions in his response.
Commissioner, we need some clarification regarding thresholds, as Mr Harbour has indicated.
Members have already stressed the compatibility of incorporating strong social progress criteria in award procedures while respecting the principles of competition law and of equal treatment and non-discrimination.
It ought to be possible to combine economic reform and competition policy with strong and sound social justice and social progress principles.
Mr President, my warmest congratulations on your election.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report has far more impact than would appear at first sight.
Annually, thousands of contracts are awarded by public, often regional or local, governments.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my heartfelt thanks and respect are owed to the rapporteur, who has drafted this material with much energy, discipline and intelligence.
That is the situation we want to avoid, for it would run counter to the internal market.
The battle for social and environmental criteria, which was won mainly thanks to the proposal of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, proves that the European Parliament still basically supports the European social model and sustainable development, which is the only way to make Europe competitive in a global environment.
Finally, I call on the Commission to include other means in procurement by electronic means, not just the electronic auctions which are held on the market.
By which I mean certain models of public procurement, such as electronic catalogues, electronic government purchasing methods and a series of corresponding electronic means used by companies.
The public sector must be able to make environmental demands of the products it purchases, and it is particularly important to emphasise in this connection that it must be able to impose requirements upon such products throughout their whole life cycles.
In May 2000, the Commission adopted two proposed directives designed to simplify and modernise Community public procurement rules.
I note that Parliament has taken advantage of this recasting of the four directives to question the Community acquis in areas where the Commission has not proposed any changes.
The Commission can also accept the substance of a number of amendments, subject to some drafting changes, namely Amendments Nos 2, 10, 42 in part, 45, 46, 47, 123, 52 in part, 93 and 95 in part, 109, 110 and 154 concerning the extent to which environmental considerations can be taken into account at different stages of an award procedure.
Similarly, Amendments Nos 11, 15, 48 in part, 51, 129, 52, 86, 87, 124, 89, 100 in part, 110 and 164 concerning the need to ensure that tenderers comply with employment law, can be included in the directive in an appropriate form.
That is also partially the case for Amendment No 163 concerning information on sub-contracting.
Various amendments designed to address the increasing centralisation of procurement are also acceptable, subject to some redrafting, namely Amendments Nos 5, 6, 20 in part, 126, 21, 41, 168, 172 in part and 175.
In a similar vein, Amendment No 38 concerning consortia formed by contracting authorities and Amendments Nos 39 and 40 are also acceptable.
A number of amendments add to the broad range of electronic means available to contracting authorities, namely Amendments Nos 23, 54 and 65 concerning reverse electronic auctions, as well as Amendments Nos 74 and 104, which deal with the integrity and confidentiality of data supplied by operators.
Various amendments concerning the competitive dialogue, in particular as regards payment of participants, can be taken into account, more specifically Amendments Nos 9, 56, 57 in part, 58 in part, 137 in part, and 138.
Various amendments which I would describe as explanatory and which deal with a range of subjects are also acceptable, namely Amendments Nos 7, 125 in part, 18, 142, 26, 30, 35, 46 in part, 70, 113, 114, 121, 132, 153, 169, 170 and 171.
Subject to drafting changes, the substance of Amendment No 147 concerning the applicability of the Treaty below the thresholds is also acceptable, if placed in a recital.
Accordingly, the Commission cannot accept the following amendments: Amendments to raise the directives' thresholds - as I said earlier - by 50%, the effect of which would be to remove from the scope of the directives a large number of contracts currently covered, namely Amendments Nos 32, 33, 67, 130, 101, 105 and 106.
The unfortunate consequences of these amendments are not alleviated by Amendment No 147, however good its intentions.
Amendments introducing new exceptions to the scope of the directives without appropriate justification, the effect of which would be to remove a number of public contracts from Community competition, namely Amendments Nos 37, 38 in part, 122, 136, 150 and 157.
Amendments which undermine the very objective of public procurement rules, which is to ensure that public purchasers do not allow their decision to be influenced by non-economic considerations, namely Amendments Nos 12, 14, 98, 134, 140 and 166 concerning award criteria which allow for the possibility of using non-economic - and in particular social and environmental - criteria.
Amendments which weaken attempts to modernise the directives by reducing the scope for using electronic procurement, namely Amendments Nos 70 in part, 73, 75, 102, 103, 115, 117 and 131.
Amendments imposing disproportionate requirements on SMEs through the regulation of subcontracting and other requirements, namely Amendments 42, 48 in part, 49, 76, 100 in part, 116, 133, 152 and 159.
Amendments which reduce transparency in calls for competition, in particular Amendments Nos 62, 68 and 78, and which extend the scope to negotiate, namely Amendments Nos 57, part of 61, 66 and 151.
Amendments which restrict the use of framework agreements with no apparent justification, namely Amendments Nos 25, 27, 135, 139, 63, 64 and 158.
Amendments introducing environmental considerations into award procedures in a manner incompatible with the directives, namely the part of Amendment No 45 concerning eco-labels, No 92 concerning the selection stage and No 109 regarding the definition of technical specifications and their compatibility with the environment.
Amendments which are not compatible with the flexible nature of the competitive dialogue, in particular Amendments Nos 55, 58 in part, 59, 60 and 160.
Amendments containing additional cases where persons convicted of certain offences would face mandatory exclusion; in the proposed mechanism, only those cases subject to criminal sanctions in all Member States should be included.
It is not, therefore, possible to take account of some of these cases, namely Amendments Nos 81, 82 and 83.
On the other hand, some of these cases are already covered by the optional exclusions contained in Article 46(2).
Amendments Nos 84 and 90 should also be rejected, since they could lead to a situation where it is not possible to contract with a company which is trying to re-establish itself financially.
Amendments which are superfluous or likely significantly to change the effect of other provisions in the directives without good reason, namely Amendments Nos 8, 19, 20 in part, 22, 29, 30 in part, 43, 127, 44, 45 in part, 55, 59, 60, 69, 70 in part, 71, 72, 94, 96, 108, 111, 143, 156, 162, 172 in part and 173.
Amendments which, without justification, detract from the powers delegated by the legislator to the Commission under existing law, namely Amendment No 107.
The last category of amendments not acceptable to the Commission as regards the first proposal are those amendments which remove clarificatory changes designed to create greater legal security, namely Amendment No 99 on the weighting of award criteria, Amendment No 100 on abnormally low tenders as a result of State aid, Amendments Nos 144, 145, 146, 148 and 149 modifying the definition of works contracts, and Amendment No 161 on the principles governing time limits.
Besides the objectives of simplification and modernisation, which I just mentioned, this second proposal is particularly aimed at reviewing the scope of the directive in the light of ongoing or future liberalisation of the sectors concerned.
The Commission supports the amendments consistent with the line it has taken, such as Amendments Nos 2, 7, 21, 37, 43, 47, 95, 111 and 116.
The Commission can also - although somewhat reluctantly - accept Amendment No 29, given the large consensus on this amendment in both Parliament and Council.
Amendments Nos 4, 9, 44 in part, 56, 90 in part, 93, 97 in part, and 108 in part concerning observance of other legislation, in particular social legislation, clauses relating to the execution of contracts and provisions concerning sub-contracting.
Amendments Nos 57, 59, 60 and 109 concerning exclusion criteria are acceptable in part to the extent that obligatory exclusions are limited to contracting entities which are public authorities and that the list of grounds for obligatory exclusion corresponds to that provided for under the Public Sector Directive.
Amendments Nos 66 in part, 67, 68, and 69 regarding simplification of the provisions on mentioning the relative weighting of award criteria.
Amendments Nos 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 85, and 86 concerning increased transparency on remedies.
The objective of allowing economic exploitation of coal-generated heat at the heart of Amendment No 15 will be taken into account through the acceptance of Amendment No 29.
Concerning the issue of contracts awarded between related entities, Amendment No 27 is acceptable in part, as far as the possibilities of awarding service contracts to newly created, affiliated undertakings and of awards of certain service contracts to a joint venture are concerned.
Amendments Nos 51 and 75 concerning preservation of confidentiality in respect of information forwarded by electronic means are acceptable.
Various amendments which I would describe as clarificatory and which deal with a range of subjects are also acceptable, namely Amendments Nos 22, 30, 53, 113 in part, and 117.
Accordingly, the Commission cannot accept the following: Amendments to raise the directive's thresholds by approximately 50%, the effect of which would be to remove from the scope of the directive a large number of contracts currently covered or otherwise greatly reduce transparency; namely Amendments Nos 20, 46, 72, 102, 105 and 107.
Amendments introducing new exceptions to the scope of the directives without appropriate justification, the effect of which would be to remove a number of contracts from Community competition; namely Amendments Nos 6, 19, 24, 25, 26, parts of 27, 28, 45 and 84.
Those amendments which undermine the very objective of public procurement rules, which is to ensure that public purchasers do not allow their decision to be influenced by non-economic considerations; namely Amendments Nos 8, 17, 65, 94, 104, 110 and 122 concerning award criteria which allow for the possibility of using non-economic criteria, in particular social or environmental criteria.
Amendments which weaken attempts to modernise the directives by reducing the scope for using electronic procurement; namely Amendments Nos 49, 50, 73, 74 and 103.
Amendments imposing disproportionate requirements on SMEs through regulation of subcontracting, in Amendments Nos 32, 41, 42, and amendments introducing social considerations into award procedures in a manner incompatible with the directive, namely Amendments Nos 33, 55, 62, 63, 71 and 88.
Amendments on technical specifications either introducing environmental considerations in a manner incompatible with the directives or introducing improper requirements concerning equivalence of technical solutions; namely Amendment No 34 for the part concerning eco-labels, 36 for the part concerning costs, 39, 91, 98 and 100.
Amendments which are not compatible with the flexible nature of this directive, which is applicable to both public and private commercial entities, and amendments transferring provisions from the public sector directive without good reasons, namely Amendments Nos 10, 11, 52, 54, parts of 59, parts of 60 and Amendment No 61.
Amendments which are superfluous, would create significant legal uncertainty or are likely significantly to change the effect of other provisions in the directives without good reason; namely Amendments Nos 1, 5, 12, 14, 23, 48, parts of Amendment No 66 on the weighting of award criteria, 106, 112, 114, 115, 120, 121, 123 and 124.
In my reply to Parliament and in view of the fact that Parliament deserves to have the opinion of the Commission on all the amendments which have been tabled, I see that I have been speaking for 24 minutes.
In reply to Mr Zappalà, I should like to say that the current definition of works contracts explicitly provides that such contracts may be for the sole construction or cover of both design and construction.
That criterion allows a public purchaser to evaluate the intrinsic qualities of the product or service and to award contracts to the most economically advantageous tender.
The proposed amendments go further, in allowing more general environmental considerations such as the long-term effects on the environment of the products or services purchased to be taken into account at the award stage.
However, the Commission is willing to state in the recitals of the directives that tenderers must comply with applicable social rules, including collective agreements of general application in performing public procurement contracts.
In reply to Mrs Hautala, I should like to say that regarding the preliminary reference currently before the Court of Justice, the Commission has taken note of the conclusions of the Advocate-General.
However, those conclusions cannot prejudge the judgment itself.
In addition, having regard to the content of the communication on the environment and public contracts, the Commission - as it explained at the time of the Court hearing - does not see an obstacle to the emissions criterion being taken into account where this involves - as the case of the city of Helsinki has shown - an external cost to the purchaser itself.
Therefore, I would support his view that Article 53 on award criteria should not be modified.
Such considerations may be taken into account at the appropriate stage, either in the tender documents or in the contractual clauses.
May I end my reply to Parliament here and conclude by saying that there is now a real need to ensure that our public procurement rules remain relevant to increasingly sophisticated procurement requirements.
The Commission awaits the vote tomorrow.
In any case, I would like to thank him for all his comments, which were certainly important from my point of view, although I do maintain - and I will do so tomorrow - that Parliament should have the autonomy to decide on a political basis rather than on the basis of other factors.
However, his response regarding Amendment No 147 does not make sense at all: while the Commission is against raising the thresholds - which, as was said during the hearings, meetings and debates within the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I believe is because it wants the directives on works contracts to be applied as widely as possible - according to what the Commissioner has just said, raising the thresholds would actually reduce the number of works contracts.
Now then, Amendment No 147 seeks specifically to open up works contracts to competition, and I cannot understand why the Commission is opposed to this.
It is important, Mr President, for this is no trivial matter.
However, experience has shown that the genuine opening up of markets and the creation of a real and efficient internal market required that those rules and principles be clarified through detailed provisions coordinating national procedures.
To revert to the legal situation of the 1970s - and this would be the result of the proposal just made and enshrined in Amendment No 147 - is not acceptable, especially in a proposal aimed at modernising the legislation.
Moreover, to do so would also deprive economic operators of one of the most important advances in the field of public procurement, namely the possibility of enforcing their rights through efficient legal remedies guaranteed through the two specific directives which govern remedies in respect of contracts falling within the scope of the public procurement directives.
Therefore, the introduction of Amendment No 147 simply does not make the amendments aimed at raising thresholds throughout the directive acceptable.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 12 noon.
It is a sign of environmental progress and achievement that air quality now is better than it has been for centuries.
And so we have this draft directive to address the problem.
It started out as a remarkably weak proposal, the key element of which was to set targets for 2010 for the maximum number of exceedances above WHO guidelines, but these targets would not have been binding on Member States.
During the course of the past two years, Parliament has been able to use its codecision powers to give this legislation some teeth.
In other words, we have used our codecision powers to transform a statement of good intent into a legally binding commitment.
I think that "palpable brown air" gave a lot of character to the story of Scrooge.
However, with the assistance of the Commission and the last Belgian Presidency, Parliament has been able in the meantime to use its negotiating powers to turn a simple wish list into a requirement for our various governments to take action which will significantly improve air quality across Europe.
We have secured greater changes and a more ambitious directive than we could reasonably have expected when the draft was first proposed.
Mr President, the directive on ozone in ambient air is intended to provide a response to the problem of tropospheric ozone produced and trapped in the air around the earth' s surface which, as we all know, has damaging effects on both human health and on the planet' s vegetation, ecosystems and on the environment as a whole.
The concentration of ozone, as we know, is due to the accumulation in the atmosphere of precursor agents, but there is no easy solution, of course, to eradicating them, because these precursor agents sometimes act to reduce ozone in the atmosphere.
Lastly, in October, a joint text was produced, which was then approved by the Conciliation Committee.
I should like to emphasise a very positive aspect of the proposal that has been adopted, which is the combination of long-term objectives with a short-term approach to these high-risk situations, and all the measures designed to ensure rigorous control and monitoring of ozone levels in the atmosphere in all Member States.
I also think it is important to apply the principle of transparency where information is concerned, since the population must be more and better informed about the incidences of ozone levels in the atmosphere.
Another important aspect is the consideration of meteorological conditions and comparisons between the various Member States, which must lead to information being provided so that we can monitor developments in this issue in the various Member States.
This directive represents a major step in the right direction, providing a balanced approach to the problem of contamination and, together with the directive on national emission ceilings, we feel that these will genuinely prove to be very important tools with which we can address environmental problems and especially the problem of contamination in a cross-functional way.
However, it is naturally cause for concern that, for many years, we shall be obliged to accept that the WHO' s thresholds are being exceeded to a certain extent on a certain number of days per year.
I therefore think it good that we also obtained agreement to there having to be some more long-term objectives, in terms of which the WHO' s target values must be complied with.
Many of us should have liked to have seen 2020 become a more definite deadline for meeting the WHO' s recommendations.
I hope that, by means of this directive, we can prevent and reduce the harmful effects of the unduly high concentrations of ozone upon people' s health and upon vegetation and that today might prove to have been a good day for future air quality in Europe.
Mr President, I believe that the Directive, which is now in its third and final reading, will improve air quality in Europe.
It amends the 1996 Directive so as to meet the national emission ceilings for atmospheric pollutants and the recommendations of the World Health Organisation.
In Finland for example the greater part of the ozone present in the lower atmosphere originates from transboundary pollution, in other words from emissions which our country could, in reality, hardly influence at all without the European Union.
Mr President, as you have personally remarked, we have arrived at the half-way point in Parliament's fifth term of elected office.
I therefore warmly welcome the Conciliation Committee' s joint draft from 11 November 2001.
As has already been pointed out, the directive has been improved on essential points in the process from common position to final directive.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In this respect this forms a continuation to the Fifth Environmental Action Programme, but in the course of this integration we must attain concrete objectives and actual results, and then we will also need structural amendments, for example to the Commission's own actions.
The Commission proposes thematic strategies, which will subsequently guide the environmental policy of the future.
All policies should be integrated into environmental policy - as stated in some of the amendments - and public participation and information is necessary - also as stated in some of the amendments.
I am not hiding the fact that, as a citizen of a small mining region in Asturias - and I am speaking here in a personal capacity and not on behalf of my group - that I have some problems with the amendment on imposing a time limit on subsidies for projects that could damage the environment.
We also agree with some of our fellow Members - and I am sure that my colleague Jonas Sjöstedt would support me here - that this latest proposal is not the one put forward by the European Parliament.
The proposal is highly important, Mr President.
And although the Council and the Commission have made an effort to accept the many amendments from our first reading, I think that we can now say that it is Parliament that has made the effort to try to find, and reach agreement on, common positions.
This is an appropriate framework for combining the development of European communities in a pivotal policy of sustainable development and I think that it is up to the task.
If carried out in this way, it should be clear in conciliation that certain areas are subject to the principle of subsidiarity.
The desire to see all methods used everywhere and to implement a uniform policy in all States runs counter to the principle of sustainability and belongs to the globalist mindset.
Social principles, technological viability and the context in which methods are applied are all of great importance to sustainability; the first principle of sustainability is to know how to combine general principles with the imposed rules to suit the needs of each community, each location, each climate and each context.
Furthermore, we support a scientific policy and feel that the function of the Popular Party and of Parliament, in this case, is to support the Council and the Commission because codecision is not only Parliament' s right, but also a responsibility that should be used to help governments.
For this reason, for example, we respect the dates of all these agreements that the Commission and the Council are to conclude with other European countries.
For this very reason we are not in favour of simply revising subsidies, that is to say, of a target date being fixed whatever the subsidy may be, and this is particularly the case for specific sectors that have had to close due to measures dictated by the Commission, which has imposed laws upon them - such as in the coal sector, for example - that are now facing the problem of some criteria being applied more strictly than others.
Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Myller who, for a long time now, has had the task of working on this action programme and has fought resolutely to enable us to get it into order.
In our view, the programme was far too broad and showed a serious lack of priorities.
At the same time, we wondered whether a ten-year plan was really, in fact, outdated.
The current plan has more in common with an empty box than a Christmas tree.
The form is just about presentable, but is very much lacking in content.
However, it is the Council that has frustrated every substantial improvement to the proposal.
In our view, the Council is best summed up as an emperor without clothes.
An environment action programme must naturally establish environmental objectives if there is to be any point at all in having a programme.
Where chemicals and pesticides are concerned, I think that all the amendments tabled on this issue are sound.
It is inconceivable that the British Government should set out to justify not only the continuity of Sellafield in its present dangerous condition, but also wish to add further to its operations by commissioning the MOX processing facility.
Records in this House will show that on a previous occasion I called on the Commission to exercise its powers under Article 35 of the Euratom Treaty in relation to verification of nuclear installations at Sellafield.
In reply to queries from my political group, the Commission recently confirmed that the last time it undertook such an audit was in 1993, nearly a decade ago.
Bearing in mind the number of times that this matter has been raised in the House by all political groups, how can the Commission possibly justify its silence and inactivity on a matter of such serious public concern?
Let us go back to the main aims of the Sixth Environmental Action Programme, namely to ensure a high level of protection, taking into account the subsidiarity principle and diversity in the various regions of the Community.
Mr President, I hope we can get agreement on the Sixth Environmental Action Programme, preferably without going into conciliation.
The amendments tabled by the committee and the rapporteur do not really add up to anything of substance and, where they do, the results would probably be to damage the chances of success of the Environmental Action Programme.
I draw your attention to Amendment No 11, which is already out of date.
The chemical industry is focused on as the villain of the piece and the substitution principle makes a well-earned reappearance in the amendments that the committee has asked the House to consider.
The assumption of at least Amendment No 1 - and to some extent Amendment No 30 - is that the substitution principle exists as a fully worked-out concept.
I do not share the cynicism and despair of some in the ELDR Group.
The poor Commissioner wanted a slim programme and has ended up with a fatty!
At the moment it is like taking a sledgehammer to crack a whole series of very different nuts, with what I would guess would be very limited success.
We must now as a Parliament unite and tomorrow morning take the next step into conciliation, where we are going to have to work together with a view to achieving a common viewpoint to the way in which we are going to protect the environment of our common European home and preserve it for future generations.
My criticism is also levelled at the four Green Ministers who may have promised progress, but who failed to deliver.
The amendments, which include a legal framework for voluntary agreements between industry and the European Commission, are all sound, but I have very little hope that they will obtain the required 314 votes.
What will matter most are the implementation of, and compliance with, current environmental legislation, especially in the light of enlargement.
Indeed, although the Council has incorporated most of the amendments adopted by the European Parliament at first reading, the Sixth Framework Programme lacks specific working time frames and its strategic objectives need to be defined in more practical terms.
The strategy for the next ten years is in actual fact based upon the Fifth Environment Action Programme, which has been developed by means of a description of how environmental policy and its challenges have altered.
The problem is that the proposal that the strategies should be ready to implement within three years is in conflict with the requirement for best scientific findings and for broadly based consultation and participation.
Give us an opportunity to develop the strategies and to put forward a package of measures that is best suited to the current problems.
No repetition of the debate is required because her amendments have been carefully selected, something which bodes well for the next step in the procedure.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The Green Paper on an integrated product policy should, in my opinion, be the framework for the formulation of a series of guidelines and proposals that will enable both producers and consumers to make full use of the instruments and opportunities offered by the market to be able to make it function in a way that is better adapted to the practice of sustainable development.
We have to admit, with regard to these voluntary methods, which have been implemented since the early nineties, such as the co-determination regulation, European eco-audits and the ecolabel, that these have not been as successful as had been hoped and, above all, have not been implemented in a similar fashion in all Member States.
The Commission, aware of this problem, has presented this Green Paper on integrated product policy, with varying degrees of wisdom and balance.
Various mechanisms have been proposed with the aim of stimulating the necessary environmental improvement of products and their consumption.
The proposal contains a series of suggestions that would facilitate the implementation of different policies and market instruments that go further than those that focus exclusively on the environment and that, I think, will make it easier for a future White Paper to be more detailed and better developed.
We are faced with the need to adopt a decisive approach to stimulate environmental improvement in the EU market, which will allow products to be given prices that are fairer from an environmental point of view, to stimulate demand that is more appropriate and to make the use of instruments for clean production more widespread.
Furthermore, I believe that this approach will give greater impetus to the integration of environmental policy in other areas, such as the economic or social areas, and with this we will be better able to fulfil the mandates of Cardiff and Gothenburg.
Similarly, the Parliament text highlights the importance of an improved and enhanced eco-label, the need to improve European standardisation processes, the need to set parameters and indicators that are simple to apply and similar in all Member States for the lifecycle of products, not forgetting the need not to endanger free competition in the market or in European companies.
To summarise a number of the other concerns raised by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, we believe that the strategy tends to rely too heavily on voluntary agreements.
Similarly, with respect to public procurement, greening public procurement is vitally important but there are currently obstacles in achieving that which should have been acknowledged more explicitly in the Paper, along with strategies to address the problem.
Mr President, this report walks a tightrope between the need to increase production of consumer goods and services and environmental protection requirements.
It is at this point that the most critical environmental implications come into play, for not all products can be disposed of using the same technology, nor are they all hazardous to the same degree or all biodegradable to the same degree.
The text states in quite practical terms that, in addition to encouraging the provision of aid to producers who will face greater costs if they supply these biodegradable goods, a pricing policy also needs to be established allowing manufacturers to set different prices on the market and, moreover, why not, allowing variable taxation to be introduced as well.
Mr President, Commissioner, we manufacture products, but what do we do with a product when its life cycle comes to an end?
The Green Paper is about answering this question from an ecological point of view.
For these reasons, too, we need a strategy for the development of more environmentally friendly products and services.
The report before us, completed by the amendments adopted in Committee, provides a good framework for a product policy on ecological lines.
The Commission must see to it that the statements made in its forthcoming texts are of greater clarity.
Another option for the creation of a market for environmentally friendly products would be, for example, the use of economic guidance instruments.
For this reason IPP is a key measure within the Sixth Environment Action Programme and the Sustainable Development Strategy also underlines its importance.
In 1999 the informal Environment Council asked the Commission to come forward with a Green Paper on the issue.
I therefore delivered this paper to start the debate on what form the European IPP should take.
The Green Paper suggested a strategy and tools for making a European IPP a reality.
The Green Paper sought to canvas the views of stakeholders on the way forward.
If we take environmental problems rather than instruments as our point of departure, we can better convey the idea that IPP is more than just a collection of tools, something that we perhaps did not do sufficiently in the Green Paper.
We have to link it to concrete environmental problems to describe how to use these instruments.
However, I too am coming to the conclusion that we need to focus our actions on particular products and sectors.
You rightly make this suggestion in paragraphs 24 and 25 of your resolution.
We will also need to set out the strategy for implementing IPP and its advantages and the Commission will need to consider carefully the measures within IPP's scope as well as how it relates to other policies.
It is my intention to ask the Commission to adopt this paper during the second quarter of this year.
Thank you, Commissioner Wallström.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this European Commission proposal is about developing a space policy not at the level of individual Member States but at the level of the European Union.
The report by the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy welcomes these lines of approach and acknowledges the overall benefit of developing space activities.
May I also point out that, in my personal opinion, certain aspects of the proposed GMES programme involve strategic activities.
The application of space policy is also the subject of this debate.
The European Space Agency has operated on a transnational basis on our continent for several years now and has played a pivotal role in developing the space activities of European countries.
It is therefore only natural that there should be close collaboration between the European Union and the European Space Agency and we have already reaped rewards from this collaboration.
The committee report notes the role of the European Space Agency and proposes that it be integrated into the European Union in the long term, but without losing its independence.
International collaboration is a sine qua non in the space sector and the committee report refers favourably to it, stressing the need for international collaboration to be developed not just with the Russian Federation, the United States, China and Japan, but also with less developed countries for which the European Union could provide access to space.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is important to the future of the European Union's space policy.
In this sense, I suppose that this proposal will mature at the next stage, as far as foreign policy and defence systems are concerned.
In this sense, quite apart from the fact that this initiative is of interest from a development point of view, it will also be of political interest and must therefore be considered crucial to the common foreign defence and security policy of Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to start by thanking Mr Alyssandrakis for the good work he has done with us.
Europe must - as the past demonstrates - concentrate its strengths in these areas.
Airbus and Ariane, based in Toulouse, are showpiece projects, demonstrating that Europe, if it concentrates its strengths, is capable of competing on a global scale.
Any European research policy should of course be of the sort that is also likely to attract the rising generation in this sphere.
We want a European foreign and security policy, we want a Rapid Reaction Force, we send soldiers to other countries, and these troops must receive the information they need.
So we should indeed be thinking at a European level about becoming independent in this area and capable of using our own infrastructure in the future, so that we can do what our responsibility for our own soldiers and our political responsibility in this area require of us.
I hope that in the vote tomorrow we achieve what we intend, as I have set it out this evening.
It seems to me that this report is something of an appetiser - or hors d'oeuvre - for the Galileo report, which we will be considering next month in our Strasbourg part-session.
Paragraph 12 in particular refers to Galileo as being part of the European strategy and to its importance for transport.
I particularly welcome also the reference in the report to the need for international cooperation drawing in other powers and partners.
To be realistic, we need funding from defence budgets for space projects in a number of fields.
We should rather be demonstrating our own capabilities in this field, which is the only way that we will have reliable operational freedom and that European industry will have a chance of a healthy future.
I speak from my own experience, having on several occasions been Parliament's rapporteur on the European satellite navigation system.
Europe must accord space travel more importance in future.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Alyssandrakis on this excellent and authoritative report, which urges us to put in place a Community space policy.
The Americans said that they do not want Galileo because it is incompatible on a strategic and military level with GPS.
This is something that I regret, but we must move in this direction if we eventually want the European Union to be the space power that it should be and that it must be if Europe wants to maintain a high level of technology.
As a final point, I would like to say that I think if we want to move forward in this area, we must strengthen our cooperation with those who want to move in this direction and leave behind those who do not want to.
And this is not simply for the sake of Galileo, it is also for the future of a European space policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for this report, which indicates the way forward that will enable us to open up a new phase in European space policy.
I wanted to speak about space today because this is a subject close to my heart and because I am lucky enough to live in Toulouse, where, as Mr Radwan said, everything is connected to aeronautics and space.
We all know that satellites are used for the protection and observation of our environment, for risk prevention and for the defence of our territory and are playing an increasingly important role in our daily lives.
However, the fact that no decisions have been taken on the future of the Galileo European satellite navigation project is a regrettable example of what we must avoid.
But, I know, as all of us in this House know, that you, Commissioner, are making every effort to bring this project to fruition.
At the Laeken European Council, the representatives of the Member States pledged to make the common security and defence policy more operational.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must draw up a realistic and consistent framework for our space policy.
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating you on staying in office.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the Council, the European Commission has produced a communication on the need to undertake the rapid development of a consistent space strategy in conjunction with the European Space Agency.
In my report, I also proposed measures to train researchers and engineers, both in the field of space and in other areas, in order to resolve problems relating to their mobility, which are exacerbated by the physical distance between sites.
The report you are debating today is an important milestone in the history of European space policy, whose development has recently been taken on board by the Community institutions.
It is the political support for the work carried out by the Commission and the European Space Agency within the framework of their joint working group, work which is fully described in the recommendations of the motion for a resolution.
My speech will focus on three points.
The first is the spirit of the European Space Policy, which is part of the framework of a vision of a Europe that takes full advantage of the potential of the knowledge-based economy, especially through the creation of a true European research area, in line with the spirit of the Lisbon conclusions, which should also be the spirit in Barcelona.
A Europe that is willing to involve its citizens more in the decision-making process, thereby giving a practical example of governance.
At this juncture, I would like to point out - in response to some concerns expressed by the rapporteur - the resolute nature of the instrument for peace that is the GMES (Global Monitoring for Environment and Security) initiative in the area of environmental monitoring and safety.
The second aspect is the recent progress made in this field, given that over the last year considerable progress has been made in the area of space policy by means of the communication that you are examining today and also the associated Council resolution.
The first was the creation of a joint Commission and Space Agency task force, which resulted in a second communication.
I deeply regret that these delays have occurred and I would like to once again state very clearly that, in my opinion, there is no economic justification for calling the viability of the project into question, although what remains, ultimately, are doubts with regard to the political will to go ahead with a project as ambitious as the Galileo project.
I hope that these doubts can be allayed in the next few weeks and that by March the Union will have made a positive decision, once and for all.
However, in the longer term and specifically within the framework of the debate that is due to start shortly on the future of the Union, the European Space Agency, and space policy in particular, must also be reflected in the Treaty itself.
Before drawing my conclusions I would like to make some comments on a number of recommendations outlined in the Alyssandrakis report.
Another issue is that of full convergence between the report by the think tank' s task force and Parliament' s point of view, with regard to the need to carefully study the situation of competition on a world scale and to adopt appropriate measures, especially with regard to launch pads.
Finally, generally speaking, the Sixth Framework Programme should make progress in the direction proposed in various recommendations, because for the first time, the subject of space is one of the priorities of this framework programme, but also because the European Space Agency will, for the first time, be able to participate in the programme as a partner with full rights.
The success of such an undertaking requires the mobilisation of all of those involved and strong support from all of you here today.
We must have a firm will to be in space with the criteria of the European Union in mind: to see space used for peaceful purposes for the benefit of mankind as a whole.
Thank you, Commissioner de Palacio.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
In the first amendment, it proposed extending the date until which Member States may authorise buses with dimensions not complying with the requirements of the new directive to circulate on their territory from December 2009, as proposed by the Commission, to 2015, in order to allow a normal economic life for those buses.
The Council proposed stretching this date even further until December 2020, a modification the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism agreed with fully.
The common position also accepted this amendment so of course we have no problem there.
Buses between 13.5 and 15 metres long must have three axles, in order to avoid exceeding the maximum weight per axle.
Similarly, Member States are allowed to impose local restrictions on the use of extra long buses for safety or other reasons.
This should largely meet the concerns expressed in some amendments rejected at second reading in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
Consequently, it is clear from all this that there is nothing left for me to do but to propose, as the Committee has done, that Plenary adopt this common position without amendment, since it strikes a reasonable balance between internal market, regulatory, safety, technical and commercial considerations.
Mr President, the proposed regulation introducing a driver attestation requires all drivers in the employ of transport companies within the European Union to carry a standardised document.
Parliament has backed this initiative at first reading.
After all, there are also bilateral, international and ECMT licences, by means of which drivers from outside the European Union can legally work in a certain way in the European Union.
Of Parliament' s amendments, the Council has only directly adopted the amendment on the inclusion of the driver' s licence number and social security number.
The amendments on a phased introduction for non-EU and EU drivers have not been directly adopted by the Council.
The Council does accept a phased introduction but does not yet wish to establish the ultimate date on which, based on data currently available, the proposal becomes effective for drivers from the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the liberalisation of road transport has brought us in Europe greater choice and better prices.
The directive now before us on the training of professional drivers for the carriage of goods or passengers by road is intended to be, in essence, a protective measure and to improve the situation of these drivers.
For one thing, we created a sort of bridge to the driving licence, being aware that, in many Member States, training leading to the award of a driving licence already imposes certain conditions equivalent to the training requirements we are proposing.
So it seems important to us that the training should be gone through without being duplicated, once for the driving licence and again in professional training.
If this certificate is to be valid right across Europe, it should also be possible to train anywhere in Europe.
Mr van Dam has just mentioned the bilateral authorisations, which are still valid in Europe, leaving room for misuse in this area.
For there are excesses in these areas within the Fifteen Member States too.
The level of knowledge of the members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism never ceases to amaze me, in regard to technical details such as the number of axles on buses, turning circles of buses, and so on and so forth.
Working conditions for drivers have direct economic but also safety implications.
I know many Member States include driver education in their basic education system, but for those that do not, this directive will make it possible for all drivers to receive proper training.
My group will therefore be voting against most amendments that advocate this principle and in support of the rapporteur's position.
We will also vote in favour of Amendment No 43, which proposes an assessment of the effectiveness of this directive and vote against other amendments that try to be too prescriptive.
I thank all the rapporteurs for their work and congratulate them all on producing three well-balanced reports.
In the final analysis, what matters is safety and fair competition on the roads and, in this light, it is of the utmost importance for each driver to have had adequate training before they use the public roads, and for them to be able to specialise and receive continuous training, and for the requirements to be equivalent in all Member States and accession countries.
This is precisely what is announced in the Transport White Paper; merci, madame Palacio Vallelersundi.
It should be remembered that road transport is far and away the most important mode of transportation in Europe, which in addition to everything else offers door-to-door service.
Participation in training must be as flexible as possible.
The quality standard for road transport in the EU can and must be increased - there is no doubt about that.
What I would really like is for this directive to abrogate all other directives on European buses, thus enabling countries and nations to have buses of a design appropriate to their needs, as, of course, a village bus in Sicily's hot climate has to look different from a bus in London's rush hour or a bus that has to cover great distances in northern Finland.
Mr President, these proposals for the training of heavy goods vehicle drivers are, like much of the legislation adopted by this House, totally unnecessary.
The proposals for training on a healthy diet have already attracted widespread ridicule in the British press.
In the UK alone these proposals are estimated by the industry to cost over EUR 200m a year in a business already under great stress.
These proposals form part of a concerted attack by the Commission on the road haulage industry.
I should declare an interest: my stepson is a truck driver and he and his colleagues are aghast at these proposals.
I would like to express my satisfaction, because the report' s conclusion manages to find a reasonable balance between the internal market, regulation and safety, without forgetting technical and commercial considerations.
I hope that, with this, Parliament will be able to vote on the basis of the Council common position and bring the matter to a conclusion, which will allow us to embark upon a more focused battle for employment and to regulate the situation of third country nationals employed as drivers by EU transport companies.
The objectives are to raise the quality of professional drivers and standards in road transport in general and to guarantee positive results in terms of road safety.
Even if the Commission is able to accept the principle of parallel training with the aim of obtaining both a driving licence and a certificate of professional competence, we would prefer to avoid any kind of duplication, and this why we cannot accept Amendments Nos 6, 16, 17 and 18.
However, in the spirit of compromise we could accept Amendment No 27.
With regard to Amendment No 10, which relates to the inclusion of training within working hours, the Commission considers that this is an issue that both sides of industry should agree upon, and, therefore, cannot be accepted.
We feel that there could be a certain degree of flexibility in continuous short-term training, and that it should be able to take place both in the Member State in which a driver is normallyresident and in the country in which he or she is contracted to work, but not in other areas, given that there are similar accepted requirements with regard to driving licences and the driver card.
Finally, we believe that Amendments Nos 42, 44 and 45, which lay down the duration of training in the body of the text rather than in the Annex, cannot be accepted either.
I would also like to thank Parliament, and there are no surprises here, for two of their proposals, specifically the proposal on maximum authorised dimensions in national and international traffic and maximum authorised weights in international traffic, and the proposal establishing a driver attestation and I hope that these will be approved so that we can move ahead as soon as possible with their implementation.
Thank you, Commissioner de Palacio.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Although the ACP countries had always shown they were willing to continue their cooperation with the European Union, Europe was becoming involved in other matters.
The structural causes which have undermined the success of the Lomé Conventions are still present: the burden of debt which is strangling the budgets of the ACP countries and their potential to invest in sustainable development, the continued deterioration of trade terms to the detriment of the ACP countries, in the absence of an international system for trade regulation of primary products, a structural adjustments policy which imposes budgetary restrictions on ACP countries and, lastly, an inconsistent European policy which, like its development policy, not only subsidises agricultural production and exports its surplus to developing countries, thus destabilising the local markets, but also authorises industrial fishing vessels to fish the territorial waters of the ACP countries, which adversely affects the local people' s means of subsistence and compromises the protection of biodiversity.
Privatisation of this economic sector is a very dangerous process in the ACP countries where the basic public services such as education, health and justice are already fragile, even non-existent.
Acknowledging civil society as an actor in the partnership is a major step forward.
Its representatives must take part in the dialogue on development strategies and policies at an early stage, be involved in the implementation of programmes and directly benefit from the funds.
The civil society in each ACP country must therefore be organised at national as well as at regional level, in order to actively participate in its country' s development.
The European Union must support this process, as it did under the Belgian Presidency.
The 'Everything but Arms' initiative was undertaken without consulting the ACP countries and penalties are still random.
As far as we, the Members of the European Parliament, are concerned - and this will be my final point, Mr President - after tomorrow' s vote, our task is finished in theory.
Mr President, it is now one and a half years since we were able to congratulate the Commission on the Cotonou Agreement, and it is really somewhat disgraceful that there are still only three EU countries that have ratified the agreement.
I think it can be said that the fact that foreign policy is bound up with development policy has, since then, been heavily underlined, and I am also pleased that I am today speaking on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, for this shows the connection between foreign policy and development policy.
In a speech in December 2001 in Berlin with the title, 'From Afghanistan to Zimbabwe' , Commissioner Nielson made these words his own.
In connection with Zimbabwe too, the link between foreign policy and development policy is clear, as too is the fact that, in spite of everything, the EU has succeeded in obtaining an agreement, which means that we can operate in Zimbabwe in the hope of achieving good results.
Of course I support some of his criticisms: too much paperwork, a lack of decision-making, slow delivery times and a lack of capacity in developing countries.
This has given rise to frustration, but Commissioner Nielson is tackling these problems with some vigour.
Lomé had its faults.
The problem has been the under-capacity of countries to continue projects once they were completed by the European Union.
I believe it is the new factors in the Cotonou Accord that will have the most influence: the political dimension, the emphasis on good governance, conflict prevention and resolution, the interaction with civil society, the regional approach to strengthen trade and the Parliamentary element of the Joint Assembly.
I certainly have played a more political role in the past year, discussing, for instance, conflict resolution and good governance with President Taylor in Liberia, or having discussions on the Zimbabwe situation with the Presidents of Botswana, Malawi and Mozambique, and hearing and seeing the effects on their countries.
If we really wish to see an end to economic migration and terrorism in the world, we must provide a standard of living in developing countries which persuades people to stay and work there.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if I might anticipate the result, the Group of the Party of European Socialists can support the Cotonou Agreement with conviction, even though nothing is so good that it cannot be improved still further.
The parties to Lomé I were just 46 ACP countries and nine Member States of the then European Community.
The Cotonou Agreement now joins together 77 ACP States and 15 countries of the EU.
The political dialogue established by the Cotonou Agreement and the obligation, equally embedded in the Agreement, to work for the consolidation of peace and the prevention and settlement of conflict, along with the declared aim of combating poverty, are important instruments of ACP cooperation, although unfortunately not a guarantee of its success.
The new cooperation agreement with the ACP countries has drawn on the experience gathered to date, and bears witness to new insights in the field of trade, good governance, aid and the role of civil organisations.
However, the agreement does stress with good reason the importance of the participation of players other than the local government, such as NGOs and the private sector.
It is therefore to be welcomed that Cotonou reminds the ACP countries of their own responsibilities.
These difficulties and obstacles began with the recommendation to end our partnerships with the ACP countries and culminated in the untimely and rather inconvenient problem of migration, already in the final stage of negotiations.
It should be pointed out, however, that there are also aspects of this new Convention that make us rather apprehensive.
It is nearly two years ago that the negotiations about the Cotonou Agreement were completed.
I can only partly subscribe to the shift towards integration in the world trade system instead of a change of that system to benefit the poorest.
Let me, in response to the rapporteur's analysis, list three points in favour.
This principle must not only be incorporated into the new rules of procedure of our Joint Assembly, but also put into practice.
Our cooperative effort must in future be focused on regional free trade and cooperation agreements.
We hope that this will bring about genuine parliamentary partnership with our fellow parliamentarians in Africa and elsewhere in the ACP countries.
We must also have instruments of political cooperation.
The role of the European Parliament in this agreement cannot be limited to controlling the European Development Fund.
At the moment, we can publicise its positive aspects and attempt to have it ratified by our national parliaments.
Another important action that we can encourage is the consolidation and effective operation of the national parliaments in ACP countries.
Indeed, over 18 months after the signing at Cotonou, we can now begin to assess the agreement by looking at the actual progress made in bringing it to life.
First, despite its strengths, in one particular aspect at least the previous Lomé agreement fell short, that is in the fight against poverty.
It is right to stress this point again tonight.
There are many deficiencies in it and much of the criticism comes from the fact that it is still very ambitious and it is difficult to implement.
In our view, the Cotonou Agreement provides a comprehensive framework, integrating trade as one instrument among others to promote sustainable development.
The core element of future trade relations will be the Economic Partnership Agreements which aim to create favourable conditions to enhance both the volume and the benefits of trade.
It is true, negotiations of regional economic partnership agreements will aim at the progressive and flexible liberalisation of trade flows and at the integration of ACP countries into the world economy.
REPAs will be based on regional integration, strengthening and deepening the existing regional integration initiatives.
We clearly have the expectation that this regional cooperation will be part of conflict prevention and strengthen it.
REPAs will also be linked to comprehensive economic and social measures which can be financed through the EDF.
This is not sufficiently reflected in the report.
Some statements in the report could, in our view, be more precise.
However, this argument is based on EU exports from 1981 to 1991.
We are now in 2002 and the Community' s export policy to developing countries has changed in recent years.
Most of these cases are historical cases and they have all been solved.
But there are other very real, meaningful important problems to discuss within the framework of the debate on coherence, so I would strongly advise everybody in this debate to put the finger on the real problems instead of providing only archaeological material.
There is also a certain confusion in the report when it comes to trade relations with LDCs.
It is true that the objectives of the Cotonou trade agenda are ambitious but doing nothing and continuing with our past approach would incur major risks and would probably not reverse the economic marginalisation of ACP countries.
When we look at what has happened so far on the basis of the instruments of the past, this is quite obvious.
The Cotonou Agreement provides the instruments to help ACP countries to integrate in the world economy and to reduce poverty.
It would be a misunderstanding to think that our agreement here and our instruments can do the trick.
The report is written as if it were a realistic assumption that as part of the engineering and the negotiations underlying the Cotonou Agreement we could easily have confronted and changed many of the underlying global issues.
It never was an option to offer the ACP countries a framework of economic development that was not based on the fact that the market economy is here to stay.
In fact the whole endeavour of our ACP-EU cooperation, as well as the rest of our global development cooperation effort, is proof of the fact that we are trying to do something that could never have been done if development was left to the market as such.
Let me end on a more conciliatory note by quoting from the conclusion of the report, which I strongly support. "In effect the existence of a new ACP-EU cooperation agreement is a victory in itself.
Furthermore, it contains innovative aspects that will have to be interpreted and used constructively.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 11.30 p.m.)
