Electronic communication networks and services (debate) The next item is Mrs Trautmann's report on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directives 2002/21/EC on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services, 2002/19/EC on access to, and interconnection of, electronic communications networks and associated facilities, and 2002/20/EC on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services (03677/2009 - -.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, here we are once again - this time for the last time - to discuss the telecom package and, more specifically, my report on the 'framework', 'access' and 'authorisation' directives, which represents the final cornerstone.
This is an opportunity for me to thank my colleagues, particularly my co-rapporteurs Pilar del Castillo and Malcolm Harbour; the chair of the Conciliation Committee, Mr Vidal-Quadras; the chair of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, Herbert Reul, and all the services of the European Parliament that were involved.
Let us take a moment to remember Ulrika Barklund Larsson.
This is a very important internet freedom provision.
At institutional level, the body of European regulators, the famous BEREC, offers the opportunity for the 27 national regulators to contribute to the functioning of the single market in a more transparent and effective manner.
Let us not forget the important agreement reached on Article 19 of the framework directive, which gives the Commission enhanced harmonisation powers covering general regulatory approaches, including in relation to remedies.
We finally have - or we are soon going to have - a regulatory framework that lays some very good foundations for putting the development of the internet, the digital society and the digital economy at the forefront of our objectives.
We did not quite manage that but, thanks to the work of our rapporteur, it would seem that we have obtained as good a solution as we could.
Unfortunately, we did not reach a compromise on this point.
This means that we will have to return to the subjects of freedom of internet access, net neutrality and the way in which, in an open society such as ours today, there should be a certain level of free access to knowledge and information.
It is also true that we should pay particular attention to the rights of authors and creators, so that the dissemination of their work on the internet is an encouragement for them.
The wide-ranging nature of the final text and the safeguards it provides for consumers' rights are a tribute to her negotiating skills.
The Council had already accepted, on 26 October, my own report on universal service and users' rights, a number of points in which Mrs Reding highlighted.
Commissioner, we very much welcome the statement that you have already made on data breach, but I have to say I was somewhat surprised to receive a statement from 13 Member States that seemed to me to rather reinterpret the agreement that they had already signed off on 26 October.
Mr President, the telecoms package will be decided on tomorrow.
I would like to thank Mrs Trautmann and all of my fellow Members who have fought for a free internet.
Above all, I would like to thank all of those citizens who have demonstrated their commitment to this issue.
This, in fact, opens the way for a network where it is not a foregone conclusion that all users will have access to the whole network and where not all sites have the same possibility of being viewed.
The third reason is that the telecoms package falls within the regulatory framework for the internal market.
A conciliation procedure therefore ran up until 29 September, attempting to harmonise the views of the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament so as to ensure that the requirements contained in Article 138 could be transposed correctly into current European legislation.
The telecommunications sector is a vital sector in terms of economic development, as it provides an important stimulus for employment.
It is now up to activists in France and in the UK to make sure that their governments respect this.
We need, as several speakers have said, a proper bill of rights for the internet that makes it absolutely clear that the internet is an important part of society, where our fundamental civil liberties must be respected.
I call upon all Members to determine that, if this House cannot provide the safeguards which should rightly accompany this measure, then it should not adopt this measure at all. (SV) Mr President, protection for internet users has been the focus of a large part of the telecoms debate.
We also support this compromise because it will ensure that Europe's consumers and internet users will always be able to choose between different suppliers and different operators.
However, the main issue - for which I would also like to congratulate Mrs Trautmann and the Commissioner - is that we are now also getting to grips with the question of the spectrum and ensuring that we in Europe can lead the way when it comes to utilising the digital dividend.
We must engage in this power struggle with respect to the protection of the rights of the citizens and we must win.
No Member State should now be allowed to worm their way out of these obligations. (NL) The European Parliament has rightly placed emphasis on a number of issues: guaranteeing access, net neutrality and better supervision.
It turned out that everyone in the world was looking to us to see how we are regulating this field.
As the sole directly elected European institution, in order to protect citizens' interests, Parliament now has the moral and political duty to take up this issue and define the rights and duties of internet users so as to guarantee their digital freedom and access to knowledge.
We will vote in favour of this text, but we will make sure that we take the matter further tomorrow. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by offering the Commissioner my sincere thanks.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I think that I can join all those who have said that this is a nice piece of collaboration in order to get a nice piece of legislation.
Two concrete answers to two concrete questions: first, the declaration on Article 19 relating to harmonisation procedures.
Congratulations to all those who have contributed to make this possible.
I would like to say what a pleasure it has been to work with my colleagues and how delighted I am that this compromise respects the vote that we so strongly expressed together.
Nonetheless, this European law guarantees free access to the internet and confirms de facto that the internet is a service of general interest, which no consumer can have cut off for no valid reason (just as no consumer can be denied access to gas, water or electricity).
As such it will supplement, and take shape in proportion to, and in accordance with, other fundamental freedoms that already exist and which are guaranteed by the treaty: gender equality, respect for sexual orientation and religious belief, protection of the rights of the child, and freedom of expression that is consistent with the protection of human dignity.
I am pleased that, as a result of the discussions held by the conciliation committee, a better way has been found to secure legal correctness in the text, and also to provide protection for all users and show respect for the jurisdictions of the Member States.
I am delighted to see this lengthy, highly controversial work reach its conclusion; it shows the importance of the telecommunications sector not only as an economic player but also as a vital element in today's society.
I want to congratulate Mrs Trautmann and the negotiating team for the compromise they have achieved, making any sanctions taken against users subject to a prior contradictory procedure.
