author. - (PL) Mr President, Tibet has been under Chinese occupation for over 50 years.
The Chinese authorities have been pursuing a policy of discrimination and persecution, aimed at marginalising Tibetans in their own homeland.
China denies that shots were fired at Tibetan refugees attempting to enter Nepal, but the entire incident was caught on film.
The policy of force and repression imposed on the people of Tibet by the Chinese authorities can no longer be tolerated.
author. - (DE) Mr President, there has been another incident with fatal consequences at the border between China and Nepal.
When, on 30 September, a group of Tibetans - all of them unarmed civilians - attempted to flee over the Nangpa Pass to Nepal, Chinese border guards opened fire on them.
We condemn this brutal action on the part of the Chinese security forces and call on the authorities to treat their captives in a humane manner and in compliance with international agreements, for China is a signatory to the UN Charter on the Rights of the Child, which protects minors from arrest and from arbitrary treatment on the part of the state.
In the latest incident, China's occupation forces opened fire on a group of unarmed, defenceless civilians who were attempting in desperation to flee their country through the glacial pass at Nangpa, situated at a height of almost 19 000 feet.
Finally, as indicated in the joint resolution on Tibet, we must continue to encourage high-level talks between the Dalai Lama and the Government of China.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (PL) Mr President, despite the fact that official relations between the Chinese Government and the Dalai Lama were restored in 2002, human rights continue to be infringed in Tibet on a regular basis.
These acts include the shots fired at refugees by Chinese border guards in the Nangpa La pass in September of this year.
This particularly horrendous shooting incident on 30 September is in violation of the basic UN principles on the use of force and firearms by law-enforcement officials.
I would like to take this opportunity to draw Parliament's attention to the report by Human Rights Watch published on 9 October 2006.
The debate is closed.
