In 1990, the Iraqi regime chose, however, to invade the small defenceless neighbouring country of Kuwait.
A broad coalition of countries from all around the world stood shoulder to shoulder in repelling this aggression.
After the international community, headed by the United States, had liberated Kuwait, Iraq agreed to a ceasefire involving a list of conditions aimed at ending the war over Kuwait.
Unfortunately, the Iraqi regime has chosen over the last 12 years not to cooperate fully in phasing out the country's weapons of mass destruction and long-range missiles.
Through Resolution 1284 of December 1999, the Security Council set up a new supervisory committee, UNMOVIC (United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Committee) to replace UNSCOM.
So far, these efforts have been fruitless.
The economic and social situation in Iraq has become worse and worse since the Gulf War.
The suffering particularly affects the weakest groups - women, children and the poor - together with those groups that do not support Saddam Hussein's regime.
Very significant humanitarian aid is therefore being provided to Iraq.
The Security Council proposed the 'Oil for Food' programme as long ago as 1991 but, because of reluctance and delay on the part of Iraq, the programme was not implemented until December 1996.
The UN revised the 'Oil for Food' programme by means of Security Council Resolution 1409 of 14 May 2002.
The UN Secretary-General has been in contact with Iraq's Foreign Minister on a number of occasions this year in efforts to end the present deadlock.
These efforts have not yet produced practical results, however.
The European Union reaffirms its attachment to the unconditional observance of the United Nations Security Council Resolutions.
The European Union unreservedly supports all efforts on the part of the Security Council and the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
Such control remains necessary owing to the continuing concern of the international community regarding the potential use of these goods in mass-destruction or conventional weapons programmes.
The American President has said that the United States wants to see a change of regime in Iraq.
The President has also said that it will consult its European allies and partners.
The situation appears to be evolving day by day.
What is plain, whatever else may be doubtful, is that the risk of a very grave new crisis is increasing.
Many important voices have been raised, not least in Washington, about how to deal with Iraq and with the problems linked to its possession and development of weapons of mass destruction.
I note from this morning's papers what was said only yesterday.
Against the background of this tumult of speeches and articles, I would like today simply to concentrate on the things we know with certainty and on which we should all be able to agree.
First, as pointed out by Baroness Nicholson's excellent overview of the present situation in Iraq, which we discussed in this Chamber last May - and I agree, incidentally, with everything the Minister said about our concern for the people of Iraq - we can have no doubt about the evil nature of the regime led by Saddam Hussein.
There is, in his country, a total absence of basic human and civil rights and I have no doubt that the Iraqi people would be better served by new and different leadership.
Secondly, following the departure of UN inspectors in 1998, a UN Security Council Resolution, No 1284, which the minister referred to, was adopted in December 1999, establishing a new arms inspection entity, UNMOVIC, and setting out what Iraq has to do to have UN sanctions lifted.
Yet Iraq never complied with this Security Council Resolution - just as it failed to cooperate with the UN throughout the 1990s - there were nine Security Council Resolutions - either refusing entry to UN inspectors, or imposing unacceptable conditions on their operations.
This House has always been absolutely clear about the importance of the UN in securing better global governance of our troubled planet and I do not think that you can exempt Iraq from those considerations.
I think two conclusions stand out clearly, from whatever point people come to this argument and this debate, which is going to cause a great deal of passionate discussion in the next few weeks and months.
The situation may not quite exist in other countries yet, but at least we can begin in this Parliament with a consensus on that point.
The EU Presidency declaration of 20 May reaffirms European Union support for United Nations Security Resolution No 1284 and unhindered access for UNMOVIC inspectors.
Second, we must recognise that efforts to force Iraqi compliance are more likely to succeed if they are backed by a coalition of concerned parties as broad and effective as that which was put together with great diplomatic finesse in 1991 and which helped to secure the expulsion of Iraqi armed forces from Kuwait after the unprovoked invasion of that country.
We must all respect the authority of the United Nations and of international law.
Since the Gulf War in 1991 the EC has been the major donor of humanitarian aid to Iraq.
Over the last three years we have provided assistance of some EUR 10 million annually.
Meeting at Elsinore last weekend, Europe's Foreign Ministers called for full implementation of the UN resolutions and a resumption of inspections without excuses, without prevarication, without 'ifs' or 'buts'.
I hope that, as the debate on how to achieve these shared objectives continues in the coming weeks, it will shed light as well as generate heat.
We have to look at how we can continue successfully the international campaign against terrorism on as broad a front as possible.
We have to promote the end of violence in the Middle East, the restoration of a peace process and the establishment of a Palestinian State living side by side in peace and security with Israel.
We have - and this may not be popular everywhere these remarks are heard - to encourage the development of participative democracy, civil society and the rule of law in all countries, including those which comprise the Arab World.
We have to think equally constructively about whether the global rule book that has by and large governed our affairs for the last 50 years is still valid or whether it requires some changes, how it can be reinforced and strengthened.
I just wish I were as certain about some of the answers to these questions as are many of those whose voices are currently raised so loud. (Applause) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner Patten, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for this debate here and the debate in the international community is Saddam Hussein's dictatorial and criminal regime.
As both the President-in-Office and the Commissioner have already pointed out, Saddam Hussein already has a history of using weapons of mass destruction against his own people and against Iraq's neighbours.
The way Saddam Hussein is flouting international law is quite unacceptable.
Saddam Hussein must comply with the demands of the United Nations.
That is why it is unacceptable - and I am saying that very calmly - for the Federal Chancellor of Germany to talk about a German approach to this issue.
The first question is whether the coalition against terror that President Bush so impressively assembled after the events of 11 September will survive.
I can only emphatically support what Commissioner Patten said when he told us that we need a peace plan between Israel and Palestine, we need a Palestinian state and an Israeli state that can peacefully coexist.
That is why there is absolutely no reason for anti-Americanism in this debate, because exactly the same debate is going on in America as here in Europe.
What is important is for the United States and the European Union ultimately to establish a joint position.
I also call on all parties, on all the governments of the European Union, not to take unilateral action, but to follow the lead of the European Union as a whole.
I also call on our American friends to consistently act in unison with Europe on other issues, such as Kyoto, just as in the present case with Iraq.
I have the impression that our American friends see their relations with Europe more in terms of their bilateral relations with France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy and other states, than in terms of seeing the European Union as a single entity.
President Bush made an important speech to the Bundestag in Berlin.
We can agree with nearly everything he said, but he did not mention the concept of the European Union once in that speech!
That demonstrates how important it is to strengthen our dialogue with the US Government.
I would very much welcome it if in the foreseeable future we could also invite the US President to address this House, because if my memory serves me correctly, the last US President to address the European Parliament was President Reagan in 1986.
All these things would help to strengthen our relations with America, with our American partners and friends.
We need to step up our dialogue with America.
That is why the top priority is for us to act jointly on the world stage through the European Union. (Applause from the right) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen.
I think we need to distinguish between two subjects: one is our judgment of Saddam Hussein's regime in Iraq.
We must therefore pay close attention to what President Mubarak said, which is that unilateral intervention without the support of the United Nations would certainly have a devastating effect throughout the Middle East.
I am not going to talk about the debate underway in the United States, but it is odd, and it has already been said, that here civilians seem for the first time to be launching a military coup against the military forces, since those who have had military responsibilities, including in this field, are the most cautious when it comes to dealing with this issue.
Although these are not the subjects of today's debate, it is important for us to talk to the US Congress, as our interlocutor.
On the subject of Iraq - and I am anxious to hear your explanations - my group endorse the position voted by Parliament on 16 May 2002, four days before the Council adopted it.
We think that peace and stability in the region, in a region as fraught as the Middle East, can only be ensured within the framework of the United Nations.
We think it is very important to maintain humanitarian aid and we hope that the United Nations, under the leadership of Kofi Annan, will be able to make Iraq comply with its international agreements and allow inspectors back into the country.
Mr President, Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein poses a real threat.
He has used weapons of mass destruction in the past to oppress his own people and in seeking to draw Israel into a wider Middle East war.
The international community has a responsibility to stop Iraq developing weapons of mass destruction.
Those who urge America not to launch a pre-emptive strike against Iraq are not appeasers, as Donald Rumsfeld implies when he compares George W.
If I may paraphrase Senator Lloyd Benson I would say 'Donald, George W.
Bush ain't no Winston Churchill'!
The real lesson of history is this: Churchill correctly identified the Nazi threat at an early stage but when he acted it was not unilaterally and pre-emptively.
The Iraqi Government must comply with UN resolutions and must let weapons inspectors back in unconditionally.
European governments must make clear their support for UN-backed military action in those circumstances.
A broad international coalition must be built and must include Arab countries if we are to convince world opinion that we are not seeking a clash of civilisations.
Frankly, as the Commissioner said, our task would be a lot easier if the US showed the same focus on resolving the crisis in the Middle East, as it does on removing Saddam Hussein.
The international coalition, including America, must commit resources to nation-building.
The Union's position is as clear as mud.
If it were clear, Ambassador Burghardt in Washington would not lament how Member States are jealously guarding their own access to the American Administration rather than acting as a common front.
Just as at the UN Summit in Johannesburg, the European Union will have influence only if it acts as a United States of Europe.
The world cannot afford the instability which would come from a unilateral and pre-emptive military adventure in Iraq.
The war against Kuwait was fought for this dictator's own reasons.
There is very little to choose between him and some of our allies in the war on terror.
Last week President Bush was virtually paying court to Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the representative of one of the most reactionary regimes on this planet.
I anticipate that my group will conclude that anyone who really wants to guarantee democracy, human rights and security cannot call for a war to secure them, and can certainly not indulge in hypocritical power politics that demonstrate the absurdity of our stated objectives.
With regard to the most recent Council of Foreign Ministers, I would like to say that I have come to respect you very much here in this Parliament, but what I have heard from you today demonstrates to me that you are totally trapped in your current position.
I believe that we are facing a serious crisis as regards the Common Foreign and Security Policy in what is a vitally important international relations situation.
Thirdly, the UN inspectors should go back, but on the basis of the existing mandate.
My fourth point is that we need multilateral cooperative relations and not unilateralism.
I would first like to mention what Commissioner Patten said, which is that if we wish to avoid potential disaster, it is absolutely crucial to promote a very broad alliance so that action by the United States could only be taken within the framework of the decisions of the United Nations and the Security Council.
This threat is the culmination of two worrying trends.
Secondly, President Saddam Hussein's regime is strongly suspected of maintaining close links with Islamic terrorist groups.
This suspicion dates back to the 1993 bomb attack on the World Trade Centre in New York.
Since 11 September of last year, this suspicion has, politically speaking, become more topical than ever.
In the final analysis, this is exactly what is being done by the Russian Federation, which is, after all, a country that has so far been on more than just speaking terms with Iraq.
The launch of a European peace proposal for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is simply incompatible with tolerating a sponsor of Palestinian terror.
Mr President, one of our objectives is certainly to prevent war, to do everything possible to ensure that war is avoided, but the problem is not just defining our position for or against a possible armed intervention: the problem is seeing what Europe, the European Union, can do not just to try and avoid armed conflict but to try and stop the massacre of the Iraqi people by the dictator, Saddam Hussein, too, to do everything in its power to stop what is, in all probability, Saddam Hussein's build-up towards the development of weapons of mass destruction, with the genuine possibility, the real danger that these weapons will be used.
This is a danger against which the United States, under the Bush administration, has decided to take a stand, adopting a position which, although erroneous , is quite clear, quite cut and dried.
In other words, Europe, the European Union, must be the vehicle, the place, the centre where alternatives to conflict are developed: the alternatives of international law, the alternatives of the UN, the alternatives provided by what is known as multilateralism.
These alternatives must be developed with determination and must not be a smokescreen to hide ambiguities or conceal a policy which is directly or indirectly benefiting Saddam Hussein.
As the European Union, as the Union which has fought so hard to set up the International Criminal Court and other instruments imposing and promoting the rule of law and democracy, we must, of course, think back to Churchill's Europe and consider what has been said in this Chamber today, but we must also make every endeavour to prevent Europe regressing to the situation under Chamberlain.
Moreover, I should like to ask whether there is agreement in the Council on the policy in relation to Iraq.
Mr President, first of all I welcome this debate this morning.
This is not a resolution for doing nothing, as many Americans would say, but assures widespread support for that action and much of it has been outlined here this morning.
Mr President, we seem to be very much in agreement on this score.
For the past 23 years, he has systematically killed his own people and the leaders of his Stalinist regime.
Moreover, we denounce the US's unilateral action as well.
We would, in fact, urge the Council to take an active part in this debate in the United States now, because it is clear that there are different currents in the US.
I would like to say to the Security Council that this is not, therefore, a licence to launch into unilateral action.
We need the UN Security Council if we want to exert pressure on Iraq to reinstate the weapons inspections.
This also means that if we ultimately want to act and threaten with violence, we must have proof.
This also means that we must at the same time be prepared to act smartly.
What Commissioner Patten said here this morning is crucial.
We have established that Saddam Hussein is without a doubt one of the most dangerous people of our time, with his chemical and biological weapons, which apparently he is also willing to use.
After all, he did exactly that against his own people.
Finally, a strategy must be developed in order to boost support in Europe, for not all citizens, by a long chalk, are convinced of the need for intervention.
In the first instance we need to engage with the United States at every level.
The only response that the European Union and its Member States can make to this and to the current attempts by the United States to generate a war psychology in relation to Iraq is to stand together.
It seems to me that there is too much speculation about the nature of some sort of attack on Iraq while our concern should really be the threat posed by Saddam Hussein's regime being in possession of weapons of mass destruction.
It would be a dereliction of duty by any of our governments if they were aware of a threat to our security and chose to do nothing about it.
We believe that when it comes to dealing with international threats from states like Iraq - and there is no need for me to repeat what kind of threats we could be talking about - the only way to implement international law is through the United Nations.
The alternative is to respond to these threats on a unilateral basis, which is the approach currently being adopted by the US.
The answer is that we do not support unilateralism, as we have already heard, as Commissioner Patten asked how we could stabilise the international coalition against terror.
In these circumstances, war or the use of armed force may be a lesser evil.
A war on Iraq in these circumstances would be immoral, illegal, dangerous and wrong.
Nobody in this House asked for UN resolutions to attack Milosevic's Serbia, and human rights violations alone were deemed sufficient.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to take the liberty of making a personal comment, because I have worked with you for a very long time and because I have always very much appreciated the open and honest way in which you have expressed your views.
You have not told us what happened in Elsinore, but instead you repeated what the Spanish Presidency achieved in this area in May.
However, the United Nations is not an organisation where you can pick and choose - we have to comply with the United Nations Charter and we also have to comply with international law.
The second question was about the broad coalition.
On that point, I can assure you that that should in fact be the European Union's sole objective.
Even the Pentagon has reservations about a possible attack.
I am absolutely convinced that these issues were discussed in Elsinore, and I would therefore be grateful if the President-in-Office of the Council could say something about them.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the British and the Americans want to wage war on regimes which do not respect human rights, they certainly have their work cut out for them.
If they wish to wage war on countries which serve as a breeding ground for terrorists, they must destroy London and Hamburg.
I am obviously being ironic, because the reason for this military action is clearly not Saddam Hussein's regime, which is an authoritarian regime, of course, but also a secular regime which respects the right of Christians and of women.
So far, we have not yet been given any evidence whatsoever that they exist in a country that is dying on its feet, where light bulbs can no longer be found, where there is no lead for schoolchildren's pencils because these are made of graphite and where even a number of UN observers condemned the role that they were being made to play.
Mr President, there are two extremely sensitive issues of concern to the public of the Arab countries, including what are known as the moderate Arab countries, and they are the Palestinian issue and the impact of the embargo on Iraq.
It is the international community, not the dictator, which will be blamed for the impact of the embargo on Iraq, we must be quite clear about that.
However, the repeated announcements of unilateral action by the United States - which were not the invention of the international press but have been repeated on several occasions by the President himself - are having two, extremely negative consequences: on the one hand, the interests and fate of the dictator are becoming linked to those of his people once again - you saw, even yesterday, Saddam Hussein's declarations, 'we will resist, we will win' - and, on the other, there is a build up of opposition to this action.
Moreover, the West's task is hardly to replace Saddam with an ayatollah, for example.
We must introduce democracy into this and other Arab countries, and I believe that, if Europe genuinely believes in this position and is united, then it will be able to make a contribution.
Mr President, a speaker on the left side of the Chamber said that we must oblige the United States to act in accordance with Europe.
It is naïve to believe that the United States would act without evidence.
We should not of course be infringing international law by toppling a vicious dictatorship which is threatening its own people and world security, and the approach based on the UN model has of course been fully tried and tested.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, the debate about the situation in Iraq and possible military intervention is of course also a debate about the nature of solidarity.
I also feel that we should reflect on the fact that we are not in the middle of a moral or sentimental debate, but a political debate.
A political debate is based on two pillars: force and law, on the understanding that force must be subject to law and that there is a place where law must be exercised, and that is the United Nations.
That said, there are members of the European Union that have a seat at the United Nations, and the European Union could perhaps reflect on finding a solution to the current debate.
In any case, what position will the countries of the European Union - those that are also members of the UN Security Council - adopt if the latter is invoked?
This is the real question which, at the same time, sets out the limit of this debate.
Mr President, preparations are under way for a war that could have devastating consequences for the population of the whole world .
In answer to Commissioner Patten's question regarding the way forward, I believe the key issue is to bolster our relations with the Arab world and to get it to put pressure on Saddam Hussein.
The sanctions currently in place against Iraq, and which have been in place for 12 years, have brought enormous suffering to the Iraqi people.
The EU must therefore speak with one voice, and a strong one at that.
International law and the UN Charter must be respected, and the EU must state unequivocally that the international community has a duty to solve conflicts peacefully. 'Yes' to weapons inspectors, but 'No' to war against Iraq!
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the conclusions of the informal Elsinore Council were reasonable; it agreed to explore all avenues for a non-military solution to this problem, including sending in inspectors.
There needs to be broad agreement that Saddam Hussein must go.
Destroying the coalition against terror and establishing fundamentalist regimes in the 'moderate' Arab countries could have very negative consequences, particularly for us in Europe.
For example, we also need to consider what the direct consequences of such a military conflict would be for Iraq's minorities, given what Saddam Hussein has done to the Kurds or other population groups in the south of his country in given situations.
Since 11 September, approaches have been adopted that may be understandable but are nevertheless dangerous.
Since the events of 11 September, Article 5 of the NATO Treaty has been discussed but not implemented, because implementing it would have meant that we in Europe were involved in joint strategic planning and decision-making.
Mr President, on the eve of the anniversary of 11 September, Europe must, more than ever, speak with a single voice and defend peace.
Europe must firmly tell the world once again that the fight against terrorism, which it supports unreservedly, cannot involve war and that a so-called preventative war against Iraq would, on the contrary, sacrifice a nation, would cause unrest in the Middle East, and would have no guaranteed outcome.
Europe is faced with an historic opportunity to speak with a single voice and to distance itself from the policy of the axis of evil that the United States is trying to impose whether we like it or not.
In its report of 16 May on Iraq, the European Parliament called, in particular, for the UN to play a crucial role in seeking a regional, political and peaceful settlement, and for Europe to adopt a common position on the issue at last.
These words have been almost completely disregarded.
Once again, Europe is divided on which strategy it should follow.
Baghdad is wavering over whether to open its doors to UNMOVIC inspectors and the Iraqi people are continuing to mourn the victims of an inhuman embargo which has failed to destabilise the regime of Saddam Hussein, whilst President Bush is mounting his crusade of good, blatantly breaching international law in doing so.
In other words, that these inspections will not, as before the 1998 crisis, be infiltrated by US intelligence officers taking notes on locations to bomb in the future.
It would not be fair because, without the green light from the UN, it would be an affront to international law.
Mr President, I know that the President-in-Office, a highly respected former colleague in this House, will take back our views to the General Affairs Council.
Since the end of the Gulf War, our strategy has been one of containment and deterrence.
To change that strategy, we need compelling evidence that our objectives in the regions would be better served by military strikes.
Even with such evidence, military action should not be undertaken without clear and realistic political objectives and a commitment to finance and administer the necessary reconstruction.
To win a war against terrorism in one country, you need broad consensus of support in that country.
To win a war against terror across borders, we need to build a consensus across borders.
As the French newspaper le Figaro puts it, 'confronted with American intransigence Europe excels again in its inclination to compromise'.
After that only one alternative: war.
Mr President, I wish to begin by saying that I served in the American Army in the 1950s, so I have a little knowledge of the horrors of war.
The American Government could be boosting the armaments or the oil industries at home or it could be geared towards the re-election prospects of President George Bush, à la Margaret Thatcher.
Imperialism equates to war.
In order to prevent Member States engaging on this slippery slope, a few rules were drawn up through the ages, which, in the twentieth century, took on the name of collective security.
Unfortunately, in the same way as the efforts of The Hague were scuppered in 1905 by the First World War, the efforts of the League of Nations were scuppered by the 'Imperial' and not the 'National'; the Imperial Hitler Socialism and, more specifically, its preventative wars, particularly in the Sudeten region.
War is only permitted in specific cases, framed by stringent rules which assume, on the one hand, the support of the Security Council and, on the other hand, the monitoring of military operations by a major multinational State, itself placed under the authority of the Security Council.
We are now in the middle of a discussion to determine whether we shall condemn a State which is, led by its own President, contravening international law, whereas Europe should quite simply condemn it, not simply out of pity - and I did indeed say pity, speaking as a Christian - for a nation, which has, for ten years, been suffering genuine martyrdom and upon which we are turning our backs because it reminds us of our own powerlessness, but we must, above all, think of the very concept of law, with which Europe has become synonymous for centuries.
Our positions will never be similar, but Europe should, at the very least, remember that it has become synonymous, as has France, with the concept of law and this is much to its credit.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the American and British governments are preparing a general military offensive against Iraq, a small country of 19 million people, a member of the United Nations Organisation, in order to overturn Saddam Hussein's government which they - the self-appointed global police - suspect of posing, sic, 'a threat to world security'.
In doing so, they are violating the United Nations' Charter, international law and, more generally speaking, people's rights.
Since the end of the Gulf War, America and Britain have, in fact, never called a halt to their air attacks on Iraq and have caused, by imposing sanctions - a genuine crime against humanity - the poverty and death of civilian populations and, according to the UN, the death of more than one million children.
It is surprising that, although a number of countries, including the allies of the United States are dictatorships, Iraq, a Muslim country that is secular and tolerant towards religions and minorities - the Deputy Prime Minister is Christian and three government ministers are Kurds - is their number one target.
You are against the death penalty for murderers, but the British and the Americans are going to murder thousands of Iraqis and their children.
It is a difficult matter we are debating, but it is also a very simple matter.
Strong and combined international pressure of this kind is the only thing that can induce him to respond.
There was agreement about the inspectors now having to be given the opportunity of entering Iraq and there was concern about the weapons of mass destruction that not only the United States but also UNSCOM have reasons for suspecting are being produced and that may be a deadly danger to peace in the Middle East and in the rest of the world.
A regime such as Saddam Hussein's can only be expected to be prepared to comply with its obligations if there is strong and combined pressure from the international community.
I am even delighted to discover that one or two people have come back into the Chamber to hear the winding-up speeches which is a particular and rare pleasure.
So speaking for my humble self, in the expectation that I will have rather a lot more debates to reply to in the next couple of years - unless Parliament focuses its interest entirely on domestic affairs - I found this an extremely welcome breakthrough.
General Morillon asked the specific question of what we know about the attitude of the people of Iraq to their own regime, what we know about their ambitions and aspirations.
The sad truth is that we know damn all because they have not had the opportunity to express their views for all too long.
I look forward to the day when we will know rather more about the aspirations of the people of Iraq but I have my doubts as to whether, in a free election, Saddam Hussein would sweep back with a plurality of the votes.
I have never regarded enthusiasm as a huge attribute in the discussion of foreign policy.
I find myself signed up enthusiastically to the famous dictum of Talleyrand 'surtout pas trop de zèle'.
Reading so many articles over the last summer on Iraq and so many speeches, I have sometimes wished that I believed in the veracity and wisdom of anything I say as fervently as some people seem to believe in the veracity and wisdom of everything they say.
I know very few people, for example, who seriously contend that Saddam Hussein is not in possession of any weapons of mass destruction.
When we are asked to define weapons of mass destruction, I suspect it is a question which could be put with some benefit to the Kurds in Iraq or to the people who live in the marshes in the south of Iraq, who could explain what chemical weapons do to your lungs.
They go right to the heart of the issue of compliance with the United Nations and the whole issue of the justification for military action - an issue which was widely debated during the campaign in Kosovo and a question which goes to the heart of the matter we have debated on many occasions in this Chamber - the so-called clash of civilisations.
Today, he argues, one nation state can be faced with a threat from another nation state operating through non-state actors.
In other words, the argument is that intervention could be justified where a nation state appears to be using terrorist organisations to threaten another nation state.
At the very least I imagine all of us would argue that military intervention in a sovereign state demands a clear and well-argued justification.
I very much hope that we can work together with the United States - Europe and the United States - over the coming months to deal with an undoubted threat to world peace and to international stability.
We on our side may from time to time sound to Americans as though we are speaking with a rather self-serving condescension in arguing that United States leadership should be based on as broad a moral consensus as possible, referring to the Truman doctrine and the Marshall Plan, which helped to secure our futures, our prosperity, our freedom in Europe.
But we in Europe, if we are to pull on our end of the rope, have to face up to one or two rather difficult issues ourselves.
I am sure this will not be the last time we debate this issue.
I hope we can clarify our responses to some of those questions in the weeks and months ahead.
I want to apologise to Commissioner Patten because in my speech I gave him the title of Vice-President of the Commission.
It was a lapsus due to the Convention.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the situation in Afghanistan.
Mr President, I should like firstly to congratulate Parliament on the 'catch the eye' form of debate we have just tested in practice.
Where Afghanistan is concerned, I should like firstly to draw attention to the fact that, a year ago, Afghanistan was a country in ruins, which initially suffered under an occupying power and a succession of warlords and then under an extreme Islamic revolution which forced through the de-modernisation of society and introduced mediaeval methods.
Finally, the country became the domicile of fundamentalist terrorists.
That is what makes it that much more significant and that much more of a pleasure to be able now - nine months after the Bonn process was set in motion - to report on a country in which the situation is gradually being normalised.
In July, Vice-President Haji Qadir was killed openly in the street.
The convening of this Loya Jirga and the formation of the transitional government were essential steps forward.
The Loya Jirga process and the regional and district elections showed that Afghans throughout the country have the desire and the courage to participate in the process of democratisation.
If the Bonn process seems to be a success, this is particularly due to the fact that it is founded on traditional structures in the country, based upon the need to secure a broad representation of the various ethnic and religious groups.
The re-establishment of an Afghan state that can secure unity, peace and stability in the country and guarantee the observance of human rights is absolutely crucial.
A large number of Afghan refugees have returned, and those who have done so need international aid to secure their permanent reintegration.
I agree with the UNHCR that their return should be supported by relevant relief measures put in place by the international community and that individual Afghans should be offered 'realistic repatriation packages'.
In cooperation with the Commission and the Member States, the Danish Presidency will make efforts to comply with the Seville Declaration.
There are still various ethnic groups that, with the support of groups in neighbouring countries, do not believe that their own particular viewpoints are adequately represented.
There are various warlords who, for long periods, have become accustomed to a high degree of self-determination in those areas they control and who have resisted the establishment of a central government.
There are also different points of view as to how quickly and how far Afghanistan can move in the direction of a modern Islamic state with close contacts with the West.
The relatively encouraging development is also due to the fact that the international community has committed itself to Afghanistan.
The EU also attaches importance to helping promote stability in Afghanistan and in the region.
We wish to support the Afghan people in their efforts to secure peaceful development.
The Commission's and the Member States' combined promise of aid amounts in 2002 to more than EUR 550 million.
Recently - or, more specifically, on 22 July - the General Affairs and External Relations Council adopted conclusions concerning the situation in Afghanistan.
It was stated that, in dialogue with the transitional government, the EU would proceed on the basis of the key principles agreed by the Afghan parties and the international community.
Dialogues are also being conducted with the countries neighbouring Afghanistan in order to ensure their cooperation.
International commitment to Afghanistan will in the last analysis depend upon whether the Afghan parties really make efforts to achieve the stated objectives.
The EU will therefore attempt to promote a process in which, in partnership with the international community, Afghanistan's transitional government develops verifiable criteria and monitoring systems in connection with the considerable aid that is being given.
Direct budgetary aid will therefore also be necessary to ensure political stability in Afghanistan.
The international community and the EU can therefore strengthen the peace process.
I would like to thank Parliament for this timely opportunity to review the situation in Afghanistan.
In June this year, an Emergency Loya Jirga brought to power a Transitional Authority which has more democratic legitimacy than any of the previous regimes over the last two decades.
So far, President Karzai has found it extremely difficult to extend the authority of the central government to the regions, despite his own formidable efforts.
In this fluid environment, concerted long-term international support for the central government is more crucial than ever.
The Commission is therefore pursuing - along with other donors - a two-pronged strategy: delivering a tangible peace dividend to the population as swiftly as possible, while ensuring that most of this assistance flows through the central government.
It will take time to find lasting solutions to many of these issues.
The important thing, however, is that we see this country progressing, with our assistance, towards peace and long-term stability.
Among other fora, it was discussed by the Security Council in a meeting on 28 August.
The need for steady, long-term progress must not distract us from the huge and immediate humanitarian challenge.
We have more than doubled the humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan this year - from EUR 25 million initially earmarked at the beginning of the year to EUR 60 million at present.
The foremost challenge is - and this has been our line from the start - to ensure that this summer's returnees do not become again this winter's refugees.
For our rural recovery programme, the migratory flows are one important criterion for the selection of areas of intervention.
All these issues throw up one unavoidable conclusion: Afghanistan needs partners who are prepared to be there for the long haul.
Under the Aid to Uprooted People's programme, the Commission is funding the operation of 450 primary schools around the country in Afghanistan.
We are now supporting over 200 clinics, three district- and three provincial-level hospitals.
Our rural recovery and urban rehabilitation programmes are providing over 3 million person-days of work this year alone.
Of the EUR 120 million available so far for recovery and reconstruction, EUR 100 million has already been contracted.
I understand that Parliament will vote on a draft supplementary amending budget for the remaining EUR 70 million pledged for 2002 in October.
I can assure Parliament that these funds will be put to immediate use once approved.
I am determined to ensure that the European Commission remains fully engaged in Afghanistan even if world attention shifts to other places of conflict and post-conflict rehabilitation.
No one here, however, has forgotten the opinions of those who considered themselves, not so long ago, to be experts on Afghanistan and who recommended reaching an agreement with the Taliban regime, on the pretext of implementing a realpolitik which would mean that only the Taliban would be able to guarantee some semblance of peace in this ill-fated country which has been torn apart for so long - you mentioned this, Mr Haarder - by tribal feuds.
The risk was that the country would once again fall prey to various warlords once the Taliban regime had been eliminated.
That is why we can only welcome the fact that, despite these forecasts, Afghanistan is not being torn apart today and that the progress we have already made in restoring order in the country is, on the contrary, encouraging.
I shall return to all these points in order, if I may.
The fight against terrorism waged by al-Qa'ida and Mullah Omar is far from over because we have no idea what has happened to them, for it is unlikely that they could have found refuge in areas bordering on Afghanistan, in the uncontrolled territory of the Pashtun tribes in Pakistan, but there is nothing to prove either, as far as I know, that they are not still hiding somewhere in the very heart of Afghanistan.
They quite rightly emphasised the difficulties caused by these attacks for our representatives on the ground, and I join you, Commissioner, in praising the dedication and bravery of these representatives.
This may be the reason for the demand made by the transitional government, by President Karzai, to all donor countries, and to the European Union in particular, to extend the mandate granted to the peacekeeping force to outside Kabul and even to the whole territory.
Like the French Minister for Foreign Affairs, I do not think that this is desirable.
I do not think that it is desirable for the Afghans to entrust the responsibility of maintaining order on the ground to others.
I would also point out that we are expecting a great deal, and rightly so, from the work undertaken within the framework of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs seeking to make it possible to enforce international law and respect for human rights in Afghanistan.
There was a really broad consensus on the points we discussed, and I do not just mean humanitarian issues and reconstruction in Afghanistan, but also other political issues.
Our motion for a joint resolution starts with a clear condemnation of terrorism, stating that Afghanistan's historical problems also contributed to the need for intervention of this kind.
I do not want to say any more about that intervention.
We believe that the role of the United Nations - and I am now returning to the same discussion that we had earlier - is not being given sufficient weight at present.
The United Nations needs to decide not only about peacekeeping measures, but also about the future of this intervention.
These prisoners deserve to be treated in accordance with international law and the international conventions.
We believe that the international community bears an important responsibility for investigating and establishing the position as regards the human rights violations in northern Afghanistan that have been mentioned, and in particular those in the Dasht-e-Leile region which have been reported by the UN.
Mr Wurtz, I regret that your group feels unable to sign this motion for a resolution, but you can at least vote for it.
Afghanistan is a very difficult country to help.
For example the main message coming from the Afghan Government at the moment is that international pledges made in Tokyo are not being fulfilled and the government therefore cannot conduct its business.
Last Saturday I had the opportunity to speak in Tehran with the new Afghan Ambassador to the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Yet this is the largest drought for at least 300 years.
The figures provided by the Afghan Government have been unintentionally misleading to the international community.
Life expectancy is 46 years - the lowest in the world apart from Somalia.
I congratulate the Commission and I urge it to persuade other donors to adopt the same approach as our team in Brussels and on the ground.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, when my group invited the director Jamie Doran to show his film at the European Parliament on 12 June, we had three objectives in mind.
The first aim was to gain as much recognition as possible for the overwhelming validity of the war crimes allegations made by the people interviewed by the British journalist in Afghanistan.
Personally speaking, I have no doubt whatsoever regarding the need for a consistent fight against terrorism, and I have never had one ounce of sympathy for the Taliban regime.
It must be pointed out, however, that the military operations carried out by the United States or the West in Afghanistan, like the random detention of alleged Islamic extremists in Guantanamo or the compilation of ever-expanding lists of suspect organisations, have not enabled us to stamp out the al-Qa'ida criminal network.
To some extent, this observation is based on the report that the anti-terrorist monitoring group formed by the UN sent to the Security Council today.
For the time being, Mr President, it is clearly vital, as many of my fellow Members have said, that the international aid promised to Afghanistan at the Tokyo Conference be provided immediately so that the deeply scarred population - these people and, especially, these women - can, at last, begin to live once again like human beings.
We are all agreed without much hesitation that this inquiry falls within the remit of the United Nations.
My very explicit question to the Commission and the Council is whether they would make every effort to enable the United Nations to look into this and similar cases, and to sufficiently protect witnesses and researchers.
My second point concerns the comment I made earlier in the debate on Iraq.
The much vaunted regime change can only be effective if there is support for it in the country itself.
Building a democratic society is a long-term commitment.
My final point is, in my view, politically speaking, the most important point at the moment and I would particularly ask the Council to address this matter.
It is about extending the mandate of ISAF, the peacekeeping troops currently based in Kabul.
We as the Parliament and also most Member States have been insisting for months that the mandate should be extended beyond Kabul because that is where chaos is escalating.
Although the United States seems able to permit this, it will not supply a single soldier.
Finally, Mr President, the lesson I have drawn from this situation is that we ought to think twice, if not more, before we decide on military intervention.
Mr President, the fierce Taliban regime was defeated in the war but social and political calm and economic stability have yet to be established in Afghanistan, and the many problems linked to respect for human rights persist.
The new government is faced with severe difficulties and we must provide more than just economic aid.
Over 1.5 million refugees have returned from the places they had fled to during the many wars and upheavals which have afflicted their country in recent decades, but they have neither houses nor work and are prey to the ongoing dangers caused by the lack of security in the country.
With a view to bringing greater security, the US Special Forces advisors are working together with the Karzai government to set up a national army in Afghanistan, but if, on the one hand, the soldiers of the new army lack weapons, on the other, there appear to be 750 000 armed Mujahideen belonging to the various ethnic groups.
All this means that there will be further difficulties and that there is a need for especial political and diplomatic mediation between the national government and what are known as the 'warlords'.
No progress has been made as regards the situation of women: the only woman elected a minister in the new government had to resign after receiving death threats for declaring her opposition to the Sharia.
The Afghan government is proceeding, one small step at a time, to bring a return to law and order and respect for human rights, combating the extremist fringe groups which have combined terrorism and Islam to make a single religion.
However, the international community must also continue to discharge its responsibilities through technical, humanitarian cooperation which will give Afghanistan the economic and structural support it needs to eliminate drug cultivation, and through more unambiguous measures to combat the Sharia and discrimination against women.
This new, specific undertaking by the Union will also be an - albeit posthumous - tribute to the appeal made by Commander Massoud, who, on 5 April 2001 here in Strasbourg, called upon Europe for help, although Europe, I am sad to say, was insensitive at that time to the afflictions of a country oppressed by Taliban fundamentalism and which al-Qa'ida had made the cradle of international terrorism.
In a few days' time, it will be the anniversary of the assassination of Commander Massoud, who was murdered a few hours before the tragedy of 11 September.
It is our hope that the men and women in Afghanistan too who believe in freedom and democracy will respond to Commander Massoud's call and work together to defeat fundamentalist violence and secure peace for their people.
In Afghanistan, the excuse is not plausible.
You are quite right, however, Commissioner, that the problem in Afghanistan is the lack of security and that the current government, led by President Karzai, has little power outside of Kabul.
Personally speaking, I think that we perhaps have won the war, but there is a risk we might lose peace.
Currently, 4 800 soldiers from the international peacekeeping force are stuck in Kabul.
You are right, General Morillon, it would be better for the Afghans themselves to be responsible for the security of their country.
However, to put together an army and a police force takes time and, in the meanwhile, the tribal leaders are becoming more organised, as is evident from the attacks carried out in recent weeks.
It would have been much wiser and perhaps more useful if we had had the courage to invest as much in peace and security as we have in the fight against terrorism.
The debate will be resumed this afternoon at 3 p.m.
Mr President, I would like to tell Parliament that this morning the Prince of Asturias Foundation awarded the prestigious Concord Prize jointly to Daniel Barenboim and Edward Saïd.
Mr President, I was the Member responsible for the successful amendment to the Corbett Report, as a result of which the book where you sign written declarations under Rule 51 was moved to just outside this Chamber instead of being stuck in an office which nobody could find.
I spoke to the official there today, who complained that not a single Member has shown any interest in reading the declarations or signing the book, even though the procedure is now much easier and more convenient.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to move a point of order pursuant to Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure.
Mr President, Mrs Patrie's suggestion comes as a huge surprise to me, because not a single new issue was raised during the extensive debate we held here yesterday, both in the morning and in the afternoon, and because Commissioner Bolkestein has also emphatically confirmed that the Green Paper and the draft regulation are completely compatible.
Moreover, I should like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that this report has been approved in the Committee on Legal Affairs by an overwhelming majority, with two votes against and two abstentions, and that normally speaking, this report would not have been discussed in the plenary had we applied the new procedure.
If we adopt this amendment, we will prevent the Commission's regulation on State aid for employment from coming into force, which is something, I am sure, no one wants.
Mr President, this report was voted under Rule 110a of the Rules of Procedure, which allows for no debate in Parliament and no amendments to the report.
The British delegation of the PPE-DE Group has previously sought to amend reports which it did not support.
The British Conservatives deplore violence of any kind and welcome measures to combat this, including some of the initiatives under the Daphne programme.
However, the measures called for in Article 18 of the Avilés Perea report represent an infringement of the Member States' right to determine their own criminal justice systems and represent measures to introduce harmonisation of criminal law.
The calls for a specific European legal base infringe the principle of subsidiarity.
In fact, the Daphne programme, designed to protect women and children against violence, and which is now also open to the countries that are candidates for accession and to the countries of the EFTA-European Economic Area, has had an exceptional level of response and, as has already been said, is a victim of its own success.
We also support the rapporteur's proposals on the rehabilitation and treatment of aggressors, on undertaking comparative studies into legislation and punishment, on approaches to the problem of prostitution, to undertaking educational programmes which show that violence against women and children is unacceptable and on the creation of a common database on eliminating violence against women.
Nevertheless, in line with our Conservative colleague who has just spoken, we consider some excessive steps to be dispensable, in particular those which could be interpreted to favour a common European code, which we believe would breach the principle of subsidiarity.
Physical, sexual or psychological violence exists in every country in the EU.
The statistics gathered in the various countries are quite high, varying from 14.5% in Germany to 56.3% in Portugal, with 52.8% of women suffering physical violence at the hands of their partner or spouse.
Since 1991, Portugal has had a law to protect women who suffer domestic violence.
Nevertheless, this law was adopted under international pressure, and not as a result of any greater awareness, which means that there are almost no measures in place to implement the law.
The Daphne programme to combat violence involves policies combining prevention, punitive action and victim support.
The report itself recognises this and lists the projects rejected due to lack of budgetary resources.
It is women and children who suffer the most from violence, but we must not forget that men are also sexually exploited and also suffer.
We must therefore put in place effective measures to combat all forms of violence, by combining prevention, punitive action and support for victims.
The Daphne programme is an effective instrument and it must be further developed.
The fight against trafficking in human beings must include penalties that act as a deterrent and that are common across all Member States.
We welcome the report's criticism of the Commission, however, both with regard to issues of form and for the lack of information given to the European Parliament and the social partners, and for the delays in meeting commitments it has given, in particular concerning the following aspects: amending Directive 92/85/EEC on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health at work of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding, on the basis of the proposals tabled in the motion for a resolution adopted by the European Parliament on 6 July 2000; the establishment of criteria for the recognition of disabilities and the submission of an effective action plan to prevent musculoskeletal damage occurring in the workplace; and paying greater attention to the quality of work, to developing the social economy, to illiteracy, to combating illegal labour and discrimination against people with disabilities in terms of access to employment, to education and to vocational training.
The aim of this Commission proposal for a regulation is to remove any restrictions imposed by the Member States on unfair sales promotions (price reductions outside sale periods, free gifts, below cost selling), such as the restrictions adopted in Greece in law 2941/01 banning below cost selling.
The fact that it has opted for a regulation, which ensures immediate application, and the fact that the proposal was not discussed with the interested parties, especially SMEs, shows just how concerned the EU is to directly promote the interests of large companies.
We voted in favour, however, of the proposals that are intended to provide greater protection for consumers and micro-undertakings and small and medium-sized enterprises, by combating the habitual and repeated dumping practiced by certain economic groups, which use a predatory price strategy, in the de facto aim of ruining weaker competitors and of forcing them out of the market.
We also support the proposals that are intended to uphold the most progressive national legislation, to protect subsidiarity and the sovereignty of every Member State, specifically in laws designed to protect consumers and minors and to support micro-undertakings and small and medium-sized enterprises, as has happened in Portugal, specifically with a ban on below cost selling outside sales seasons. . (DE) Below cost selling has been a much-discussed issue over the past months.
The Commission would prefer to use this regulation to lift the ban on this practice in various countries.
In the Legal Affairs Committee, other amendments sought to prohibit any sales promotion whatever of alcoholic drinks such as wine, beer or spirits.
Prohibiting any sales promotion whatever is, however, disproportionate, harming as it does all consumers rather than only the small minority who are addicted to alcohol and therefore need treatment.
In this proposal, it is assumed that sales promotions, such as discounts, gifts and games, are conducive to welfare.
In 2000, they accounted for a million jobs in nine Member States and investments to the tune of over EUR 40 billion.
I abstained, however, from voting on the legislative resolution, because I believe it is still necessary closely to observe the follow-up given to this report in the legislative process.
I agree with the ideas of ensuring price transparency and of strengthening legal certainty, responding to the pressing need to establish uniform rules with the introduction of the euro and corresponding to the new Community approach intended to provide more appropriate and coherent regulation at Community level.
This proposal could contribute to clarifying contractual positions in a field of some sensitivity to consumers, such as sales promotions of the type covered by the regulation: discounts, free offers, prizes or opportunities to participate in promotional competitions or games, in the context of the selling of a product.
I welcome in particular the constant focus on the need to provide full information in sales promotions, a feature that stands out in the new agreement on commercial communications policy and which I hope will run through future rules in this field, as the rapporteur recommends.
This advantage is at present distorted by the fact that different types of sales promotion exist in member states and therefore cross-border price transparency is effectively distorted.
State aid for employment is an important way of stimulating the job market and small and medium-sized enterprises.
Likewise, the report throws its weight behind labour market 'flexibility', which may further dismantle the employment rights of workers, which is why I am unable to vote in favour of it. . (IT) I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work.
The Berenguer Fuster report on the draft Commission regulation on the application of Articles 87 and 88 of the EC Treaty to state aid for employment should be read in this light, considering that these articles would also normally apply to the transport sector.
The potential structural distortions generated by the - certainly lower - cost of labour in these countries, by different environmental, social and technical standards and by strong competition between the labour forces on the market can be addressed by making the labour market more flexible and, to some extent, through the provision of state aid to employment.
The accession of the candidate countries will lead, especially in the traditional economic sectors such as heavy industry, agriculture and transport, to excesses of labour, and these people will not be able to find work immediately in the new, emerging economic sectors. (Text abbreviated in accordance with Rule 137(1) of the Rules of procedure) The very title of this report is misleading in itself.
Since we do not wish to give our approval to this farce, we voted against the report.
The report says that unemployment is too high.
It is perfectly legitimate to use State aid to support a number of measures to combat unemployment and encourage employment.
This ignores all the problems of unemployment caused by restrictive monetary policies and by constant privatisations, including in basic sectors of the economy and in social fields.
Of particular concern is the damaging impact that its implementation could have in countries such as Portugal, with micro-undertakings and small and medium-sized enterprises which are experiencing serious difficulties, and in sectors such as ship building, which are affected by unfair international competition policies.
Hence our vote against this report. . (DE) I voted in favour of the Berenguer Fuster report, as I, like the rapporteur, support the Commission's approach to reforming the system of employment aid.
I particularly welcome the way in which the planned limitation of the prior notification requirement now gives regional authorities more scope to develop local employment programmes, thus enabling them to respond quickly and flexibly, with targeted measures, to changed conditions in the labour market in the regions.
The consolidation in a single text of current legislation on employment aid means that the Commission is also doing justice to its objective of greater transparency in the EU's lawmaking processes.
It is far more a matter of responding to the changed situation in the labour market by rethinking employment policy, for example by using new working arrangements to guarantee full employment while simultaneously safeguarding quality jobs. . (NL) State aid has become a dirty word within the EU.
These days, these forms of aid are often treated as a form of distortion of competition because they contravene the liberal principle of competition and go against government cutbacks.
Unfortunately, this proposal, targeting vulnerable groups of employees in small and medium-size enterprises, is immediately being rendered ineffective by a plea for the labour market to be made even more flexible.
The question is then the content of Article 4(3) of the draft regulation, with reference precisely to the above-mentioned regions, for we believe that the method of determining the areas does not produce a wholly accurate definition of which areas are genuinely disadvantaged and that the Commission is aware of this.
The aim of the ?U's employment policies is not to reduce unemployment; they are a vehicle for abolishing wage, labour and insurance rights and they spell redundancy for workers in full-time, stable employment, the aim being to impose flexible forms of employment.
The purpose of these proposals is not to help SMEs strengthen their defences against the onslaught of big business but to make use of SMEs, which have always had the most jobs but which also have the weakest trade union movement, and of the weakest social groups in order to support the drive towards labour market flexibility.
In fact, this rationalisation is intended to pursue a dual objective: on the one hand, to simplify and clarify the system of regulating aid to employment, in the aim of ensuring greater transparency in the Commission's action and of facilitating understanding and monitoring of this action; and furthermore contributing to stimulating employment in the European Union, in line with the European employment strategy, especially for workers in the least-favoured categories.
I have, therefore, approved the rapporteur's position, which supports, to a large extent, this Commission proposal, considering this to be the approach that will achieve the Lisbon Strategy, and I welcome in particular the references made to the need to support the economic development of the least-favoured regions of the European Union, with particular focus on the outermost regions.
For the first time, a crisis was declared to be a matter for NATO, Article 5 of whose Treaty was invoked.
One year on, we are of course all aware that the struggle against terrorism, as President Bush himself once said, will be a long one at various levels, and that quick victories are illusory.
In Afghanistan itself, the Karzai government enjoys de facto power only in Kabul.
It is also far from clear whether or not Osama Bin Laden is still alive.
Anyone reading today's Herald Tribune will find a sobering report on the transfers of gold to Sudan through channels running from Pakistan and Iran.
Europe is a destination not only for Afghan drugs, but also for illegal immigrants, in the number of whom there has been a significant increase on the borders between the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Austria over the past year.
Yet do it we must, if we are to demonstrate to the USA that we are to be taken seriously as a partner in an alliance against terrorism.
Relations with the USA in the aftermath of 11 September have, to put it mildly, been beset by irritations.
Developing such a strategy to pull the plug on the crises in the Middle East, settle the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians, and neutralise Islamic political fundamentalism wherever it rears its head - and it has its boltholes in Europe itself - to all these things, the European Union can and must make a substantial contribution.
The international anti-terror alliance then laid the spectre of the Taliban to rest.
It was there, for the first time and after two decades without political involvement, that it was possible for Afghan women, whether living in exile or in Afghanistan itself, to have their own forum and find themselves.
International pressure made it possible for women to be first admitted to the Loya Jirga and subsequently to participate in the new transitional government.
In the meantime, we saw to it that the Budget included funds to help the women make up a great deal of lost ground, and that it was again possible for self-help organisations such as the Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan (RAWA) to receive support from Budget funds.
All the political influence at our disposal must now be brought to bear in order to prevent the situation of women worsening still further and above all to ensure that aid reaches rural areas and is passed on to women.
My group, the Group of Social Democrats, will be sending a delegation to Afghanistan, and I look to the Commission to provide support for it in the shape of logistical aid.
The Afghanistan debate covers two matters: the current issue of the alleged war crimes in Afghanistan and the longer term question of the situation itself in that troubled country.
There is really nothing more to be said about that matter at present.
It has been very encouraging to hear the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commissioner report now on developments in Afghanistan less than a year after the country lay in ruins.
We also know that we are only in the first phase, that there is a long way to go and that the new administration, or transitional government, is subject to both external and internal threats.
We must therefore continue to maintain a close dialogue with the transitional government, as well as engage in close dialogue with any government resulting from the 2004 elections.
So let the EU supply water to Afghanistan, show responsibility and contribute to a more peaceful world.
For this and many other reasons, our economic and social aid must be provided swiftly and effectively to allow the establishment of the structures and infrastructure of a rule of law and to empower that part of civil society - particularly women - which is completely devoted to securing freedom, justice, development and peace for all men and women.
The situation in Afghanistan is tragic and we must continue to help the country in the knowledge that there is a universal need for sovereignty and that there must be an end to war in the region.
Fundamentalism has certainly not died out in Afghanistan's society, but we must make the return of refugees possible by planning our programmes well and by guaranteeing maximum participation by the population, including women.
Mr President, in all our efforts to help construct a better Afghanistan we should not lose sight of why we are now involved there with such commitment.
There is now wider agreement about the desirability of ISAF broadening its mandate beyond Kabul.
I should like to highlight three particular aspects of the situation: refugees, EU funding and the landmine issue.
There is now a degree of security in Afghanistan.
Yet, while many refugees have returned to the country, millions remain in Iran and Pakistan.
Furthermore, a large proportion of refugees and asylum-seekers coming to Britain and other European countries originate from Afghanistan.
There is an absorption problem: the Afghan Interim Government lacks the institutions to disburse the money efficiently and needs greater assistance in this area.
At the same time there has to be proper control and management of international funds.
Finally, the question of landmines, which has already been touched on by other speakers.
It is estimated that between five and ten people are injured in mine blasts every day in Afghanistan and that an estimated 10 million mines litter the country.
Mr President, a great deal still needs to be done for Afghanistan, and this resolution is a good political contribution.
I would, however, just like to focus on three points.
Firstly, we must restore the role, responsibility and visibility of the United Nations.
If we have had the opportunity to find out about what has happened in Afghanistan, it is partly thanks to the journalists who decided to go and report on this war on the spot.
Mr President, we are opposed to the motions on Afghanistan and to the joint motion because, although they may have some good points, they legitimise intervention and the slaughter of the Afghan people and give the go-ahead for similar operations in Iraq or wherever else the imperialists choose to go.
It happened in Iraq in 1991, in Cyprus in 1974, in Yugoslavia in 1993-99 and elsewhere.
The excuse for such an attack, even with the blessing of the United Nations, is the unproven claim that the brutal dictatorship headed by Saddam holds weapons of mass destruction.
And yet those who make these claims have many more far more destructive weapons scattered throughout the world and are threatening to turn them against China, Russia and elsewhere.
I was shocked to read that the opium crop this year was up to three thousand tonnes, overtaking even that of the Golden Triangle's 900 tonnes in Myanmar and Thailand.
Pakistan is also not fully cooperating with ISAF, allowing it to enter the tribal areas of the north-west frontier region where al-Qa'ida is currently regrouping to threaten Afghanistan's government and civil society.
I feel particularly strongly that the government of Afghanistan should grant a moratorium on the use of Sharia law in areas such as the stoning to death of women and the amputation of limbs, in order to show how a modern Islamic country respects international covenants and treaty obligations and promotes justice without cruelty or abuse of human rights.
I sincerely wish President Karzai and ex-king Mohammad Zahir Shah well with all the challenging problems that they face in the months to come.
Overall, I sincerely hope that Afghanistan will again be a respectable member of the international community as it once was. (Applause on the right) Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, we knew, and we warned, that the damage done to women by Taliban fundamentalism was going to be very difficult to repair.
The current situation now shows that a great deal of sustained effort and programmes specifically designed for women will be needed in order to re-establish the minimum right to personal autonomy.
The Commission should set in motion a cooperation project allowing Afghan women to make this change: burkas for driving licences, with cars included.
Commissioner, this morning you spoke of the importance and achievements of the groups working over there.
Furthermore, the lack of integration between the different cultural, social, religious and ethnic identities making up Afghan society increases the complexity of the problem with which the transitional government has to deal on a daily basis.
However, as Commissioner Patten said, the path is still very tortuous.
Even the new government has deteriorated from this point of view, with some warlords assuming a political role not just in the decentralised administrations but in the Kabul government too.
The Union must multiply its endeavours to ensure that the hopes which were raised at Bonn are not completely dashed and that the present situation of far-reaching inequality, discrimination and failure to respect human rights does not become established in the long-term.
Mr President, I think everyone agrees that big improvements have taken place in Afghanistan in the last eight months, and I should like to thank MEPs for the debate that has been conducted, but there is also agreement that there are still major problems, as emphasised in, for example, some of the most recent speeches.
I should like firstly to add a couple of remarks about the issue of possible infringements of human rights, for example in connection with the recent discovery of mass graves in northern Afghanistan.
Aid is also an important tool in our efforts to strengthen the transitional government at the expense of the local warlords.
Finally, the issue of the situation of women in Afghanistan was raised on quite a few sides of the Chamber.
In an overall assessment of the situation in Afghanistan and of the efforts by the international community, it is important to keep a sense of proportion.
The remarks made about the International Security Assistance Force underline the importance of the role that has been undertaken by the military in extending security.
I am sure that Member States will note what a number of Members of this House have said about the possibility of extending the role of ISAF and extending its mandate.
It is absolutely imperative that we give all our support to President Karzai and his team.
We have to be in Afghanistan, we have to be working in partnership with Afghanistan for many years to come.
Mrs Izquierdo Rojo asked about exchanging burkas for car licences.
She has not, alas, been able to stay with us for the end of the debate, but I will examine the point that she made and we will certainly ensure that the delegation to which she referred gets as much help as is required.
It is extremely important for Members of this House to visit Afghanistan, see for themselves what is going on and give their support to the early stages of the democratic process in that country.
It is obviously important, as we discovered in Kosovo, in East Timor and in other countries and societies recovering from crisis, to ensure that the help which is pledged arrives as swiftly as possible.
On the whole, what we are now managing to do is to provide assistance more rapidly and in ways which will actually stand up to the closest scrutiny by this Parliament and by the Court of Auditors.
Mr President, the fourth Asia-Europe summit, or ASEM Meeting, is to be held in less than three weeks' time in Copenhagen on 23 and 24 September, thereby giving ASEM cooperation a prominent place in European policy on Asia.
More than 40 initiatives have been launched in areas as diverse as money laundering, illegal migration, people smuggling, child welfare, human rights, environmental protection, educational exchanges, lifelong learning and international cooperation.
There are more than two billion people living in the ASEM countries.
The Asian ASEM countries form the EU's second largest trading partner.
The idea is that the political dialogue should be based on the new international situation following 11 September, and it will involve a debate on the new challenges we face in terms of security policy.
With a view to translating words into action, the expectation is that the discussions will result in the adoption of a declaration on cooperation between Europe and Asia on the combating of international terrorism, combined with a cooperation programme based on existing ASEM activities for combating cross-border crime.
Discussion of economic matters will concentrate on economic and financial priorities in the light of the global economic recession, the consequences of the recession for the two regions and the opportunities for cooperating with a view to rectifying the situation.
The current efforts to promote trade, investment and economic cooperation may, for example, be continued by working towards the implementation of the objectives formulated in the two ASEM economic action programmes, the Trade Facilitation Action Plan (TFAP) and the Investment Promotion Action Plan (IPAP).
Economic, financial and monetary integration as a growth factor is also expected to be discussed at the summit, as is the WTO Development Round as an essential prerequisite of sustainable economic development.
ASEM's efforts to break down barriers to trade and investment are based on proposals from high-ranking private sector business leaders via the Asia-Europe Business Forum (AEBF) whose tasks include that of helping improve trade relations between Asia and Europe.
In the third main area - that of social, cultural and educational issues - the general theme will be that of measures for combating the unintended consequences of globalisation.
The discussions during the third work session will also relate to environmental issues and include a discussion of the ASEM partners' opportunities for consolidating and developing cooperation in the environmental sphere, partly in the light of the Johannesburg summit.
By, as it were, building bridges between the European and Asian cultures and civilisations, ASEM is a forum well suited to the dialogue that is necessary in the fight against international terrorism's attempts to split the international community.
The subjects might well be the significance of education in the efforts to promote understanding of other cultures and civilisations, the importance of equal access to information and significance of closer contacts between the nations of Europe and Asia.
The expectation is that this special discussion will form the basis for an ongoing dialogue within ASEM concerning cultures and civilisations.
I hope we can achieve the objectives, with which I am in agreement and which are to be found in Parliament's report.
I should like to thank Parliament for the interest it has shown and also draw attention to the personal contacts that exist between members of the European Parliament and the Asian parliaments.
The importance of these cannot be overestimated, and the Presidency therefore attaches importance to Parliament's report on ASEM cooperation.
The debate takes place one year after the Commission's 'Asia Strategy' was published in 2001 and one week from the first anniversary of the attacks on New York and Washington.
And finally, as has been said, it takes place not long before the fourth ASEM Summit brings together 26 European and Asian leaders in Copenhagen.
Firstly, the 'Strategic Framework for Enhanced Partnerships' of 4 September 2001 followed our first substantial paper of 1994, called a 'New Asia Strategy', acknowledging that the new relationship between Asia and Europe had evolved beyond 'Aid and Trade'.
The strategy paper of 2001 therefore reflects the importance that European Union-Asia political dialogue has gained.
The unprecedented speed of globalisation has also affected developments in both regions.
Firstly, recognition of the great cultural, political and geographical diversity within Asia.
Secondly, strengthening the European Union's political and economic presence across the region.
Fourthly, recognising that Asian countries are crucial political partners for the European Union - a point which we are discovering in the present talks on international trade.
That is why constructive engagement, such as our human rights dialogue with China, is so important to the Commission.
While the European Union's 'One China' policy precludes formal relations with Taiwan, we have to recognise that Taiwan is an important economic partner for the European Union - it is our third largest partner in the Asia/Pacific region.
We will therefore maintain and where necessary intensify our dialogue with the Taiwanese administration in the economic and other fields.
The Commission, as Parliament will know, also intends to open an office in Taipei very soon, probably around the end of the year.
Naturally, both Council and Parliament have discussed and commented on the strategy after the appalling events of 11 September, which have since had a significant impact on policies and actions.
We are now only a few days away from ASEM 4 in Copenhagen.
Apart from the regular ASEM meetings of foreign and finance ministers, which will be complemented soon by an economic ministers' meeting in Denmark, we have had different ministerial meetings on the environment and on managing migration.
One of the major advantages of ASEM is that it provides an opportunity to engage leaders from various cultures and civilisations as well as from countries at different stages of development, in order to draw strength from unity in diversity.
Specific policy actions will be taken in the common framework.
Finally, there is the evolving discussion about the enlargement of the ASEM partnership.
On this last point, Members may recall that the Asia-Europe Co-operation Framework 2000 introduced the two-key consensus principle.
So it is important to define what should be dealt with bilaterally, regionally or multilaterally.
In the regional context, we will have to ensure that ASEAN, ARF and ASEM deal with those issues which each forum is best placed to tackle.
We have demonstrated our growing concern about Asia by the changes we have made to our external services over the last year or so.
Despite the political problems that we face, we will over the next few months be able to point to the opening of new delegations in Malaysia, Singapore, Cambodia, Laos and Nepal and to the opening of an office in Taiwan.
For example the importance of Indonesia in our political and economic lives has to be underlined in the establishment of a clearer and more coherent policy.
I believe very strongly that the policy being pursued by President Kim Dae-Jung is entirely right.
It is very important for us to play a supportive role - perhaps not as important as the role others such as the United States, China and Japan are playing - but nevertheless an important role in reconciliation in the Korean Peninsula and in encouraging North Korea to join the rest of the human race.
One of the flaws in the Europe-Asia relations is, in my view, the Council's minimalist approach to date, particularly by Foreign Affairs Ministers.
The European Union is currently Vietnam's key donor, but a parallel focus on respecting human rights is lacking.
This makes the policy incoherent and certainly lacking in one of the areas in which Europe always prides itself.
Not without reason did the UN human rights committee recently report on a large number of human rights abuses in Vietnam.
It would be impossible to list them all one by one, but I hope that the message is clear.
The observation of human rights, including, for example, the protection of investors, cannot be seen in isolation from economic cooperation.
The way in which Europe and our Council treat this country is hypocritical.
To give you an example: last year, President Chen Shui-bian was unable to receive his Liberal International Prize for Freedom, because he was refused a visa, whilst representatives of the People's Republic of China had a great time travelling across the entire Continent.
I can totally understand that Saddam Hussein and Robert Mugabe are refused visas, but surely it is very bizarre to bar an elected leader from a democratic country, who is on a private visit.
In fact, I do this for other Asian countries too.
Commissioner, you asked for credit, well, here it is.
I would like to recommend that Parliament take into account the fact that we are a little short of time and, for the consistency of the debate, it would be good not to have to divide it between now and the evening sitting.
Mr President, Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my dear Bertel, Commissioner, I will start by saying how glad I am that, as well as people watching the debate, there are in the galleries diplomats from the People's Republic of China and also representatives of the freely-elected parliament of Taiwan.
Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I speak on behalf of the PPE Group when I make the observation that we very much welcome your statements on the preparations for the fourth ASEM process.
The first is that a start be made on a special process of bringing the two cultural horizons together.
It is precisely in view of the anniversary of the terrible events of 11 September that Europe and Asia, whatever their many historic, cultural and religious differences, must define, for the sake of our co-existence and peace in the world, what they have in common, what binds them together and draw conclusions from this.
The third is the problem of migration.
In the President-in-Office of the Council, whose remit not only includes European policy but also immigration, we have a good partner, one who will see to it that definite decisions will actually be taken in the course of ASEM IV on how we can cooperate better in combating the illegal movement of people between Asia and Europe.
Commissioner Patten, you pointed out that the issue of enlarging ASEM's membership calls for a consensual approach, but you quite rightly understood that we in Parliament want to encourage you to talk with our Asian partners in ASEM IV in preparation for the Hanoi conference.
As Europeans, we consider it important that Asia should concentrate particularly on including such countries as India and Taiwan in the Asia process.
You yourself pointed out the special role that India and Taiwan play.
I believe that we should, so to speak, 'push' these countries in order to get them accepted.
You have already demonstrated political commitment to a dialogue on human rights, and on that you have our full support.
I believe that the human rights dialogue with the People's Republic of China, which has just begun, has demonstrated that both sides will from now on be working on the basis of human rights being universal in character.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, Europe should also perhaps play more of a part in the prevention and resolution of conflict in Asia.
The security of the region is of crucial importance for the world as a whole.
That is why we should also give constructive support to the political dialogue between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan on the basis of democracy, peoples' right to self-determination, respect for human rights and for the rule of law.
We should also be endeavouring to play some sort of role in reducing the tensions between India and Pakistan.
This has to do not only with the protection of cultural minorities, but also with the protection of Christian minorities in the region.
We are very grateful to you, Commissioner Patten, for referring, in your capacity as the Commission's spokesman, to the prompt inauguration of the delegation to Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan, Cambodia, Laos and Nepal.
On that you have our support.
I wonder whether the Heads of State and of Government should not perhaps take longer than just one day to embark on a truly in-depth dialogue with the People's Republic of China.
We have in the past too often neglected Asia and focused more on other regions of the world, but in fact it contains a majority of the world's population.
We also welcome and would like to encourage and deepen the widening of the ASEM process and its parallel parliamentary dialogue through ASEP.
The fundamental problem is poverty, with hundreds of millions of people around the world, particularly in Asia, living on less than one euro a day.
We hope Parliament will agree to the proposal in the amendment that I and other Members of Parliament have tabled to host ASEP III early in 2004.
On behalf of the Socialist Group, I have tabled amendments to attempt to correct these distortions.
Yes, we must recognise Taiwan as one of the most important trading entities for the EU, but here we are being asked to go further.
To demand membership of the WHO for Taiwan is to recognise it as a nation state; to grant it an independence that its own government has not even requested.
It is first and foremost a question of supporting the struggle to obtain respect for democracy and human rights in Asia.
With regard to the global campaign against terror, it is also important for the EU to forge sound alliances with the Asian countries.
More extensive relations between the EU and Asia must also play their part in supporting the market economy and sustainable development and, in that way, promoting a prosperous Asia.
Simply take a look at recent history and the examples of Japan and Taiwan and it will quickly be very obvious that democracy, the market economy and respect for human rights are the way forward.
I must naturally express my delight at the fact that both China and Taiwan are now members of the World Trade Organisation, or WTO.
It is of course gratifying to hear the Commissioner confirm that the EU is to open an office in Taipei within a year.
By the same token, I also regret that Taiwan is not a member of the World Health Organisation, or WHO, not even as an observer.
In my view, every democracy in the world should have a place in these international institutions.
Firstly, any consideration of Europe and Asia has to include Russia as well.
Secondly, to have an Asia policy without due consideration of the Shanghai Group and its place in Eurasian political events is to ignore the realities of the situation.
The ASEM is certainly a useful forum on cooperation, but it is that only if all the Asian countries belong to it, with, at the least, prominence given to those that are striving to become democratic.
Taiwan can, one might say, become the engine for the continuing process of democratisation that we want to advance in Asia.
Moreover, cooperation agreements between Asian countries and the EU - one thinks of Laos and Vietnam - are meaningless unless they are actually adhered to.
His Holiness the Dalai Lama left the country in 1959 and now lives, with his government-in-exile, in exile in India.
In this hybrid system, part-capitalist, part-communist, China has done everything to marginalise Tibetan culture along with this minority.
Here too there is repression, the violation of human rights and, after 11 September 2001, yet more suppression under the pretext of combating terrorism.
Attempts to resolve the conflict have been unsuccessful.
As regards autonomy, the same is true of Tibet, of Sinkiang and of various regions in the Caucasus.
The mountainous areas of the Hindu Kush have been laid waste, tourism is impossible there as an economic activity, and the mountainous areas are becoming more and more desolate.
What we Europeans have to bring about is, firstly, respect for all other lifestyles, the protection of minorities, and, of course economic aid, peacekeeping, education, conflict resolution, and, where necessary, intervention.
This last point is unfortunately the most important for us to resolve before we take on our real task in Asia.
Madam President, I can hardly conceive of a region that would be more difficult to draft a policy strategy for than Asia.
I am therefore noting, without any perverse delight, that if Europe is to play any role whatsoever in conflicts of this kind, the EU will inevitably need to work more closely with the United States.
After all, not only does the US's military presence guarantee stability, it also adds political weight to the region.
Secondly, along with the rapporteur, I should like to underline the importance of the principles of the rule of law and respect for human rights.
Our relations with, for example, China, Indonesia, Burma and Vietnam should be subject to compliance with these fundamental principles.
I completely agree with the rapporteur that the only true basis for economic and social progress in the region is to respect human rights and the rule of law.
Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the President-in-Office of the Council: this is a good report.
I cannot believe that, even today, we are unable to distinguish between democratic Asian countries and non-democratic Asian countries.
The problem is not economic, President-in-Office, and our Taiwanese friends are the best illustration of this, for, quite apart from any political or institutional relationship with our countries, they have become a country with 20 million inhabitants which is the European Union's third largest trading partner.
The businessmen of Taiwan and the European Union have found their own way.
It is we who have a problem, and the problem is that a number of countries are at war: in Vietnam, there is currently a Vietnam war against democracy and freedom, there is currently a war being waged in China against democracy and freedom, there is currently a war being waged in Laos against democracy and freedom.
All this seems to me to be completely incredible.
To do away with all these cooperation projects and give countries EUR 1 million once they have completed this specific democratisation reform.
I would also like the Council and the Commission to inform us whether there really is no hope of succeeding in obtaining the release of five 'disappeared persons' .
Madam President, Mr Haarder, Commissioner Patten, the report drafted by my colleague, Jules Maaten, on the Commission Communication on relations between the European Union and Asian countries deserves recognition, which is shown by the fact that it was adopted by the Committee by a large majority.
I also wish to thank both the Council and the Commission for the forward-looking manner in which they are handling relations between these two areas of the world.
I would like to draw attention to particular points that for many of us might seem no more than subtleties, but which are of particular importance with regard to our relations, for example, with the People's Republic of China.
The report raises the issue of the importance that Taiwan holds for us.
We have, however, accepted the concept of one China despite the fact that we are rightfully concerned about Taiwan's position and we oppose certain measures or the threat of them.
For that reason, if we are to be consistent we cannot treat Taiwan as a fully independent state, a position most clearly demonstrated by the fact that the Chinese People's Republic is a member of the United Nations, and Taiwan is not.
Neither can Taiwan therefore be a member of the WHO.
Therefore, the form of cooperation that I would also like to see develop must be of another kind.
Next, this is obviously my personal opinion, but as I have often had the chance to visit mainland China both officially and unofficially since 1985 and have talked with ordinary people and the authorities and followed developments there, I think that human rights there, which really are still nowhere near our idea of what they should be, have also seen some positive developments.
Whilst we insist that China make further and faster progress in this area, we should also acknowledge that this has taken place in a country which is important to us in terms of cooperation.
I would remind everyone that in the last ten years around three hundred death sentences have been carried out in Taiwan, with just under a hundred in Japan.
Approximately one-third of the world's Muslim population lives in Asia, which also has the world's largest Muslim countries in terms of population.
The PPE-DE Group believes it is very important to maintain dialogue with these countries and improve knowledge of each other's cultures, for example, in the form of citizen exchange programmes.
For the time being, the vast majority of Asia's Islamic population accept and comply with their governments' moderate and, to a greater or lesser degree, democratic policies.
The most critical situation is that in Pakistan where democracy has been has been overthrown and terrorist activity continues more or less openly.
For that reason it is also very important for our relations with Asia to find a solution to the situation in the Middle East - and that includes both the Israel-Palestine conflict and the Iraqi threat - through cooperation across a wide front using the most universally accepted means possible.
I know that, technically, Mongolia counts as a Central Asian country as far as the Commission's - and therefore also our own - work plans are concerned, but in my opinion it should be part of a more eastern Asia, as in fact it is, geographically speaking.
Mongolia, for many reasons, not least because the structures of communism totally vanished there, destroying the industrial structure, but also because of its climatic conditions, has slid into an almost medieval state as far as industry, education and health are concerned.
I think this country deserves and, furthermore, needs the sort of first-rate care and assistance the EU has to offer.
Although not a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have followed the matter and read the report, and I found it excellent.
We must also continue to cooperate on human rights issues, an area in which it has - quite rightly - been said that many of these countries have considerable problems.
I remain, however, convinced that dialogue will improve our chances of moving forward in this area, too.
What I would stress above all with regard to the fight against terrorism is that it must be conducted under the auspices of the UN and within the framework of international law.
I therefore hope that an ASEP meeting can be organised in connection with the next ASEM meeting in 2004.
We can even say that we in Europe have contributed to a relatively swift economic recovery in Asia by means of our open markets and investments.
Finally, I know from my own experience that Asians still do not know Europe well enough.
This results, for example, in the EU's trade deficit with Asia which, partly due to the crisis, has increased almost tenfold over the past five years.
Madam President, I would like to congratulate the Presidency of the Council on the ambitious programme for the Asia Summit in Copenhagen.
It is, in my view, particularly gratifying that there is a specific focus on dialogue on culture and civilisation, for it is particularly in these times that mutual understanding in this area is particularly important.
All too often, there is still great misunderstanding despite the progress made in relations between Europe and Asia, which are distant rather than close, in contrast to relations with the ACP States or Latin America.
We have to come to understand that the Asian states are not merely in economic or trading competition with us, but that they are genuinely important partners.
In this time of conflict, when we are faced with problems and challenges, it cannot be too often emphasised that it is most important that Asia and Europe should support a multipolar world.
With that in mind, I would like to encourage the Danish Presidency of the Council to do even more for the European-Asian summer schools and even more for mutual understanding between the young people of Asia and Europe.
I should also like to express my appreciation for the communication by Commissioner Patten.
Over the past ten years, the attention given to Asia by the EU has not always been what it should have been.
This, of course, has something to do with his great knowledge and experience in the area in question.
This reinforces the debate on mutual contacts, and the contacts are thus guided and controlled at parliamentary level too.
I should like to say something about Indonesia, because I know the country well and I am also co-Chairman of the newly formed working group 'Friends of Indonesia'.
The authoritarian Suharto regime has fortunately made way for a democracy under the leadership first of President Wahid and now of President Megawati Sukarnoputri.
After China, Indonesia is the region's largest country.
We should not forget that Indonesia, in terms of inhabitants, is the world's largest Islamic country.
Indonesia is vulnerable in this transitional phase to democracy, and this is why the Indonesian government deserves extra support from the European Union.
My question to Commissioner Patten is: how could this support be stepped up?
Secondly, I should like to make an observation about Burma, or Myanmar.
It is interesting to hear that the next Ministerial Conference will be taking place there.
Mr Pannella has tabled an amendment to this effect.
In my experience, it is useful to ask questions about this - and I have done so on numerous occasions - and for the Commissioner to assure that the European ambassador in Vietnam give this matter his urgent attention.
I have letters which show that Vietnamese prisoners have been released following pressure brought to bear by Parliament and the European Union.
I hope that this aspect will be given due consideration in the debates in Hanoi.
I hope that Taiwan will be accorded a place in the ASEM and I also hope we can appreciate that Taiwan is a more important democracy than the vast country of China, which, it is of course also to be hoped, will yet develop in that direction.
Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, although, when cooperation between ASEAN and the EU is mentioned, most people take it to refer to the ASEM process, that is to say the meeting of Heads of State and of Government, ASEP, the important meeting of parliamentarians from Europe and Asia, must not be overlooked.
We have, in the course of time, built up very intensive ventures in economic cooperation, and Asia is in any case the European Union's most important trading partner.
So I welcome the initiatives taken in this report, as well as the Commission proposals, and congratulate the rapporteur on the very precise proposals he has made.
A number of us from this House, led by the distinguished Lord Inglewood, took part in the ASEP meeting from 26 to 28 August, at which we were exemplary in so far as we wrapped up a very solid package in the area of counter-terrorism.
There I had the opportunity to act as coordinator, and I will ask you, as President of the Council, and you, as the Commission's representative, to incorporate these specific points from the terrorism package at the next ASEM Summit.
We decided on the establishment of a network facilitating cooperation in counter-terrorism, the exchange of information, mutual aid - including aid of a technological nature - in dealing with chemical or bacteriological weapons or the training of experts.
Finally, we also resolved that protection and help be afforded to the victims of terrorism.
We will be successful in the struggle against terrorism only when Europe itself takes measures that work, when cooperation with the USA is developed and made to work, and if, at the end of the day, we also succeed in developing first-rate cooperative projects with our Asian partners in the fight against terrorism.
The subject of this debate is the European Union's policy towards Asia.
However, the policy discussed in Copenhagen will, of necessity, focus on the institutionalised dialogue with the members of ASEM which, as you know, are the fifteen Member States of the European Union, ten Asian countries and the European Commission.
In this sense, it is very difficult to deal with all aspects of this area under this one umbrella.
However, it is a step in the right direction and I believe that this modus operandi and our involvement in this process is helpful to the European Union's strategy in political and regional partnerships and the multipolar world.
The European Union will soon have ten new members, making a total of twenty-five.
This means that this political factor is urgent in the extreme and enlargement criteria need to be laid down.
I think that the criteria which must, without fail, be adhered to by both sides are the Copenhagen criteria, which improve economic, cultural and, above all, human relations and human rights.
I very much hope that the decisions reached by ASEP II in Manila, and the decision of this Parliament in voting for the Maaten report, will endorse the call for another meeting of ASEP to be held to complement the proposed 2004 ASEM meeting in Hanoi.
In my view, the activities we have under way are, then, particularly wide-ranging.
If it comes to making a list, there have of course been very many examples of practical progress, some of them of benefit to our citizens.
I have also heard Mr Patten say that relations with South-East Asia are an area in which we could well do more.
With all the activities mentioned and with everything which has been said here in Parliament and which, I know, is taken note of in the countries we wish to cooperate with, there is a particularly sound basis for the range of activities we are now getting under way under the Danish Presidency.
The debate is closed.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0257/2002).
At the same time, our policy must involve resolute action to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings.
That is what is stated in paragraph 28 of the conclusions agreed in Seville.
It is outside the Council's competence to decide whether the measures taken by the Member States are, or are not, in accordance with the European Union's Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I should like to refer to Article 51(1) of the Charter, affirming that the Member States are bound by the Charter when they are implementing Union law and only when they are implementing Union law.
The Charter is of a different character.
I clearly asked whether the Council could indicate whether or not it agrees that the measures enacted by the Member States do indeed constitute a breach of the spirit, I repeat the spirit, of the Charter.
Surely you have to admit, Mr Haarder, that in your country too, legislation is now being enacted which is at least in breach of the spirit of what is written in the Charter.
I should also like to add that what the question says is false in certain respects.
I was myself the European Parliament's human rights spokesman in 1998 and 1999.
The food crisis in southern Africa was discussed at the most recent Council meeting on 22 July of this year, that is to say the meeting of foreign ministers.
The Council expressed its concern about the situation in southern Africa where up to 13 million people are feared to have been hit by the crisis.
The Council is of the view that solving the humanitarian crisis is one of the most important political priorities, and it therefore calls upon the countries in the area to direct their respective policies towards fulfilling that objective.
The Council calls upon the countries in the region to do their utmost to facilitate the regional and humanitarian operations that are under way, including those designed to provide logistical and administrative support and to secure access to, and the distribution of, emergency aid.
Organisations forming part of civil society ought to play a decisive role in the distribution of food aid so as to prevent such aid being misused for political ends.
The EU and its Member States are prepared, in close cooperation with the SADC countries, to continue to contribute to these efforts.
I surely do not need to say anything about Zimbabwe and Mr Mugabe.
The UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs is now warning that some 13 million people are threatened with starvation over the next six months as a result of food shortages brought about by adverse weather conditions and flawed government planning.
The UN Special Envoy for Humanitarian Needs in Southern Africa is to visit six drought-stricken countries in the region from 6 to 16 September, and I understand that representatives of WHO, the UN Children's Fund and the Food and Agricultural Organisation are expected to join the mission.
Would the Council take appropriate and urgent action to ensure that the EU is involved in this mission and in the coordination of international food aid with other international organisations?
Finally, I would like to know what the Council's response is to the FAO warning in a report last August that only 24% of the USD 507 million needed to provide food assistance until the next harvest in April 2003 has been pledged and that agricultural inputs are needed to help farmers recover from the crisis.
The EU is involved, then, but it is the UN that is responsible for actually carrying out the work.
The honourable Member is undoubtedly aware that the discussions in the Education and Youth Council on 30 May, discussions concerning the participation of young people, took place in connection with the adoption of a resolution on the framework for European cooperation in the youth field.
In consultation with the Member States, the Commission has drawn up a questionnaire on these subjects.
The questionnaire has now been submitted to the Member States, which should answer the questionnaire with due regard for prevailing opinion among young people themselves, youth organisations and other relevant bodies.
The issues concerning young people's voluntary work and greater understanding and knowledge of young people will be tackled at a later date.
Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his response.
I am particularly anxious to hear an answer concerning the initiatives they hope to undertake during the Danish presidency.
I am entirely in agreement with the presentation of the problem, as outlined here by my esteemed colleague.
On the one hand, we have a group of young people who are more internationally minded than ever before and who are deeply committed.
We saw this in the summer at the 'Youth 2000' forum, where a thousand young people from throughout Europe met at 13 folk high schools in Denmark, where they each drew up proposals for a constitution for Europe and finally came together and combined them all into a single proposal which they presented to the Convention.
I can only declare myself in agreement with the honourable Member.
The Council is very aware of this issue, and I think this has been stated so well that I do not need to repeat it.
This is precisely what the role of the European Council is according to the Treaty.
As regards any possible democratic deficit and the lack of separation of powers within the Union, the Council considers that the current situation, regardless of what one thinks about it, cannot be affected by a reform the sole purpose of which is, as has already been observed, to implement the existing provisions of the Treaty more effectively.
As the question concerning the separation of the executive and legislative powers - whether it is a matter of the principle in general or its application in the Union - has not been discussed as such by the Council, the Council is not in a position to respond to the exact point raised in Question H-O 535.
Of course, the Council is not unaware of this classic problem, which is indirectly taken up in the Laeken declaration, for example, adopted by the European Council in December, and which will, in all probability, also be taken up in the Convention and later at the subsequent intergovernmental conference.
Having said this, it is undeniable that in Europe, in the European Union, it is the Council that wields the most legislative power and, furthermore, controls executive power through the comitology procedure.
I would like to ask you if you believe that the United States would be the world leader if its legislative power, instead of residing with the House of Representatives and the Senate, resided with a Ministerial Council composed of representatives of the various North American States, from New York State or Washington State to California, Florida or Colorado.
I believe we must make Europe a true democracy, with separation of powers, as suggested by other speakers: legislative power should reside with this Parliament, and executive power with the Commission.
I will confine myself to saying that I am as exercised by Montesquieu's theories on the separation of powers as the honourable Member is.
As a matter of form, I would like to report what I said on behalf of the Danish Government in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs yesterday, that is that the Danish Government is an ardent adherent of the Community method and does not want the Council to take powers from the Commission.
That is what was said - but it was as a Danish Minister that I added this.
The President-in-Office made an extremely interesting remark in passing in the first half of his first answer when he referred to the President of the Commission having been a former Member of the European Council.
As the author is not present, Question No 6 lapses.
The decisions concerning the accession of the candidate countries must be taken before the end of the year within the normal enlargement procedure on the basis of the Commission's report and the recommendations which the Commission will put forward in its document on the enlargement strategy, which we expect by October.
Mr President-in-Office, that we are concerned about the impasse in cross-community talks goes without saying.
I should like to ask if the Council intends to put pressure on the Turkish government to take the steps needed in order to help resolve the Cyprus problem.
There is a continuing dialogue, and there should be a meeting very soon between UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan and the parties on Cyprus, so there is absolutely no question that anything has broken down.
I will not comment on whether there is a shadow, but I can say that this process, which was adopted in Helsinki and has been confirmed, is going ahead.
Pursuant to Article 181 of the Albanian constitution, the Albanian Parliament must adopt laws before the end of November with a view to finding a fair solution to questions concerning expropriations and confiscations that took place before the constitution was adopted.
The committee has not completed its work.
The Council is fully aware that a solution to the property question is also an essential prerequisite for encouraging domestic and foreign investments in Albania, just as it is a prerequisite for the development of agriculture.
The Council was able to subscribe fully to the assessment of the individual countries, given by the Commission in its first annual report on the stabilisation and association process.
On 13 May of this year, the Council approved the recommendations in this report and requested that rapid progress should be made in each of these areas over the next few years.
In one of these recommendations, Albania was specifically called on to adopt new legislation on ownership and restoration of property, to remedy the existing shortcomings in the legislation in this field and to ensure better enforcement of property law in Albania.
I thank the President-in-Office for his reply, from which I understand that the Council really is aware of the problem and is making efforts in the right direction.
And surely it considers it urgent and imperative, Minister, to put a stop to the plan to move 15 000 settlers from northern Albania and Kosovo to the Himara area, in order to tip the ethnic balance against the Greek minority?
I understand my colleague's concern very well, but I would like to stress that Parliament has taken up the matter, and a special committee has been set up.
The Council has expressed its opinion, and there is an ongoing dialogue between the EU and Albania, in the context of which I promised here a little while ago that the EU would ensure that Albania pursued the measures promised.
Mr President, first a comment on the manner in which the President-in-Office replied.
Nothing can justify this kind of behaviour and action, totally unacceptable in a Union which considers respect for fundamental freedoms and rights as one of its founding principles.
This also applies to public-order measures which the Member States take when meetings of the European Council are held within their territory.
As regards the second question, I would like to refer to the Executive Committee Decision of 20 December 1995 on the procedure for applying Article 2(2) of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement, which has a long reference number which I do not want to read out.
I must tell you that this episode, linked to the Seville Summit, has caused a small political storm in Portugal and has been used by many opponents of the European Union as an argument against the European Union itself.
Because we live in an area of free movement, the majority of public opinion in Portugal cannot understand how this area of free movement and these citizens' rights could be breached by border controls carried out in a quite oppressive and arbitrary way by the Spanish authorities.
As has been shown, it is not a matter for the Council to decide when it is reasonable to make use of the possibility under the Schengen rules for temporarily closing the borders.
It is what happened during the Nice summit, when thousands of Italian protesters found the French borders closed, during the Genoa summit, when hundreds of Greek demonstrators, who were badly mistreated, were prevented from disembarking in Ancona.
It happened to Danish demonstrators, your fellow countrymen, Mr President-in-Office, during the Gothenburg summit, when they tried to cross the border and meet up with people protesting against the policy of the European Union.
The Schengen cooperation means that the countries undertake to maintain open borders in respect of each other, except when there are exceptional reasons for temporary closure.
Furthermore, Regulation No 1250 from 1999 lays down that the Structural Funds shall contribute to removing inequalities between men and women and to promoting equal opportunities in the context of strengthening economic and social cohesion.
During the negotiations on the chapter on employment and industrial relations policy, the Union has stressed the importance which this section has for the equal treatment of men and women, and it has also been emphasised how necessary it is for the candidate countries to comply with the rules in this field.
I would like to draw attention to Regulation No 1257 from 1999, which groups together all Community actions in favour of development of the rural districts and in which it is expressly stated that measures aimed at removing inequalities and promoting equal opportunities for men and women should be supported.
Recently, the Council concerning agriculture, that is to say the Agricultural Ministers Council, at its meeting on 27 May of this year, adopted specific conclusions on the integration of the equality aspect into the Common Agricultural Policy.
The Council expressly recognised in these conclusions that women play a bigger and bigger role in the rural districts, and it calls on the Commission to use the Structural Funds to continue to promote entrepreneurial spirit, high-quality employment, training and the provision of life-long services for rural women.
Furthermore, the Council urges the Member States to adopt policies which actively strengthen women's economic capacity in the rural districts.
The Council points out that all the candidate countries have now agreed to come into line with existing Community law regarding equality immediately on accession.
We want to make use of every opportunity to draw attention to the general fundamental principles of the Treaty establishing the European Community, as amended by the Treaty of Amsterdam, and in this respect to promote equality between men and women, as referred to in Article 2 and Article 3(2) of the Treaty.
I shall gladly try, but I cannot answer the question here orally.
I believe the second question was this, but perhaps you would care to comment, Mrs Izquierdo Rojo.
Mr President, the Council must know how many female agricultural workers are going to join the Union.
Question No 10 by Jonas Sjöstedt, which has been taken over by Herman Schmid.
I would like to remind the honourable Member that the European Council in Seville expressed satisfaction that the Irish Government had firmly decided to get the Treaty of Nice approved, something which - as is well known - is a prerequisite for enlargement to take place within the time limits laid down.
On behalf of the Council, I would like to recall that, at the meeting in Seville, Ireland's Prime Minister stated that his government intended holding a referendum this autumn, so that Ireland can ratify the Treaty of Nice.
The Prime Minister presented a national declaration from Ireland, confirming that the provisions of the EU Treaty relating to foreign and security policy do not affect the country's traditional policy regarding military neutrality, and will not do so after ratification of the Treaty of Nice, as can be seen from Annex 3 to the Presidency's conclusions.
The European Council adopted a declaration, in which note was taken of the national declaration by Ireland.
This declaration can be found in Annex 4 to the same conclusions.
The European Council expressed satisfaction that the Irish Government had firmly decided to get the Treaty of Nice approved, something which - as is well known - is a prerequisite for enlargement to be implemented within the time limits laid down.
My question relates to a situation that is wholly feasible and quite practical.
I cannot say any more than I have already said, because this is the way things stand.
Of course it might turn out to be a 'no' - we all know that - but in that case we would have a totally new and unpredictable situation of which it would be impossible to predict the conclusion.
I thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his response.
This is what it says in the Seville conclusions, and I take my stand on these.
I have nothing to add: everyone is aware that deadlines were set in Helsinki and that these have been affirmed time after time.
What was said in Seville was that the Treaty of Nice is a precondition for enlargement to take place within the scheduled timescale.
Question No 11 by Gary Titley (H-0544/02): Subject: Better regulation This month, the Commission delivered its communication on better regulation.
It invited the three institutions concerned, that is, Parliament, the Council and the Commission, to arrange for this to happen on the basis of the work of the High Level Technical Group and to adopt an interinstitutional agreement before the end of 2002 in order to improve the quality of Community legislation and the conditions, including time frames, for its transposition into national law.
The High Level Technical Group for Interinstitutional Cooperation met on 15 July 2002.
In anticipation of this meeting, the Presidency had put forward a proposed timetable for drawing up and adopting the commercial interinstitutional agreement, starting with the specific actions relating to the three institutions as proposed in the Commission's action plan.
The institutions would then, on the basis of this, discuss the practical content of the specific actions of the agreement.
At the same time, it was emphasised that the principle of specific actions in an agreement should be viewed in the context of the work being undertaken in the Convention.
It is very important in terms of the interinstitutional agreement with Parliament to know exactly what the Council's approach is to impact assessments.
If I did not do so, it was because that very question is to be discussed in connection with the interinstitutional agreement; it is a question which, among other things, will be discussed next week, on 10 September.
I cannot say what will happen, therefore, but I can say this: a reform is not undertaken without carrying out assessments, and without pursuing the aims of the reform.
The question, therefore, is to what extent we shall proceed in this way.
It is that which is to be discussed on 10 September, and I ask that the House appreciate this.
Question No 12 by Manuel Medina Ortega (H-0545/02): Subject: Measures to restrict illegal immigration into the Canaries On the basis of the agreements adopted at the Seville summit, what measures does the Council propose to restrict the massive influx of illegal immigrants into the Canary Islands?
It should also be mentioned that, even before the Seville European Council, the Spanish Presidency had given a significant impetus to this matter, notably by adopting two normative instruments, which not only map out some of the necessary measures, but also set the framework for future efforts and the development thereof.
The instruments concerned are the action plan to combat illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings and the action plan for the management of EU external borders, which were both adopted by the Justice and Home Affairs Council.
The conclusions from Seville, which make specific reference to these action plans, attach importance to the following measures.
Firstly, speeding up the conclusion of readmission agreements currently being negotiated and approval of new briefs for the negotiation of readmission agreements with countries already identified by the Council: see conclusion No 30.
This also falls under conclusion No 30.
A number of measures are mapped out which should make it possible to achieve this goal very shortly: see conclusions Nos 31 and 32.
Two or three days later, on 8 July, I asked this question, hoping specifically that during the summer something would have been done.
If we adopt the new system - guaranteeing that it is the responsibility of the first country to handle an asylum application - combined with the system of fingerprint exchange, there is some apprehension that certain countries will see particularly large numbers of asylum seekers returned to them and will therefore bear an exceptionally heavy burden.
Question No 13 by Astrid Thors (H-0547/02): Subject: Finalising of the agreement concerning the Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Program According to the Commission (DG External Relations) a part of the bilateral work concerning the EU's relations with Russia focused for much of 2001 on energy, environmental protection and nuclear safety.
Similarly, in the press brief from the Commission (issued on 27 May 2002) before the Ninth EU-Russia Summit held in Moscow in May 2002, it was stated that the environment and nuclear safety were going to be discussed and that it would be important to ensure that the Russian federation finalise the MNEPR agreement as soon as possible.
The negotiations on the Multilateral Nuclear Environmental Programme in the Russian Federation (MNEPR) have been going on for more than three years.
It is true that the common will to conclude the negotiations was not formally expressed in the joint statement from the summit in Moscow on 29 May, but the question was discussed at the summit, and Russia expressed a desire for resolution of the outstanding issues, which are of course taxation and civil liability.
The EU attaches great importance to nuclear safety in North-West Russia and believes that this agreement could contribute to overcoming some of the obstacles to the implementation of projects which could further cooperation on safety in connection with the management of irradiated nuclear fuel and radioactive waste in the Russian Federation.
The inaugural pledging conference for the Support Fund of the Northern Dimension Environmental Partnership (NDEP) was concluded with a positive result on 9 July of this year in Brussels.
The initial contribution to the Support Fund was approximately EUR 110 million, of which EUR 62 million are earmarked for nuclear projects.
Participants in the conference emphasised that the conclusion of this MNEPR agreement is a necessary precondition for projects within the nuclear sphere entering into operation within the framework of the NDEP.
The NDEP is an important and practical step towards achieving the objectives, set by the G8, of the Global Partnership against the Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction.
The nuclear-safety issue is of decisive importance for environmental protection on the continent of Europe.
This particularly concerns Russia, but also other North European countries.
I am satisfied with the reply, but unfortunately I must say that the Russian side seems to have a certain attitude of divide et impera towards the European authorities.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would be interested to know whether these treaties were concluded at International Atomic Energy Agency level.
So I would not only like to know what the current position is on the agreement with Russia, but also what we ourselves think about nuclear safety and about how nuclear power stations are to be made safe.
The supplementary questions should still be on the Russian Federation and the problem of nuclear energy in EU-Russia relations.
Question No 14 will not be taken as the subject to which it refers already appears in the agenda for this part-session.
This is Question No 15 by Mr Fitzsimons.
The Commission will draw up an evaluation report to be submitted to the European Council at the meeting in Copenhagen in December.
The Danish Presidency intends to monitor closely the preparation of the Commission's report to ensure that the relevant working parties in the Council contribute to the greatest possible extent so that the report is comprehensive and informative.
The Danish Presidency has adopted a balanced approach to the drugs problem and will therefore endeavour to pay as much attention to prevention and drug-supply reduction as to international cooperation.
Mr President, again I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his response.
The reason for asking this question is that over the last eight months several huge seizures of illegal drugs and narcotics have been made across the European Union.
The European Union now has the distinction of being the main user of synthetic drugs such as ecstasy and amphetamines.
Mr President, what I would like to know is whether preventive programmes are being considered or whether the Council has given some thought to incentives for alternatives, so that young people who have already come into contact with drugs can come off them.
As the author is not present, Question No 17 lapses.
I urged the Council Presidency to take 'immediate action', reminding the Minister that it is not a question simply of more or less euphemistically condemning the situation, but of 'exercising the strength of the European Union', using every possible political and diplomatic means to put an end to this inhuman situation.
Two days later, Juan Ondó Nguema, one of those sentenced in the Marfil Cinema trial without any legal guarantees whatever, according to all international observers, died in the Black Beach prison as a result of the ill-treatment inflicted on him while he was being interrogated by the police, and of his having been deprived of food and water in the days preceding his death.
The Council is monitoring very closely humanitarian conditions and the human rights situation in Equatorial Guinea, in particular the case of the imprisoned opposition leaders and the conditions under which they are held.
The political prisoners in Black Beach may end up becoming names on a long list of the deceased which will continually prick the conscience of international and, of course, European Union public opinion.
Mr Haarder, the Council can think what it likes, but, of course, believing the government of Equatorial Guinea instead of the opposition is too much to believe.
This is of course yet another argument for maintaining the pressure and availing ourselves of all the means to obtain information and exert pressure.
Mr President, I know that the world is often cruel and that, of course, neither Europe nor the Council can solve all of its problems or shoulder all of its tragedies.
This, however, was a very specific, localised problem.
Thank you, Mr President.
Mr President, Commissioner, and those ladies and gentlemen who are still present, the report on the 2001 annual report on the European Agency for Reconstruction was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy on 11 June 2002.
The vote in plenary was, however, deliberately adjourned to the autumn, in order to give the Commission the opportunity to comply with a demand constantly reiterated by the Foreign Policy Committee by presenting a strategy for overall policy in the Balkans and the Agency for Reconstruction's role in it and clarifying how, in future, functions are to be shared out between, on the one hand, the Agency and, on the other, the delegations on the ground.
The Commission has not submitted a report on this, nor has it kept to the November 2001 agreement in which it undertook to present the report on the medium-term strategy for the administration of EU aid in the context of the stabilisation and association process before the end of March 2002.
The European Commission's report on strategies for assistance in the Western Balkans is a very thorough depiction of the situation, and Commissioner Patten was also available on 19 June to give us additional information.
The demand that the Commission submit a report to the Council, not as late as June 2004, just before the European Agency for Reconstruction's mandate expires, but by June 2003 at the latest, and involve Parliament in this, is therefore all the more important.
It is extremely regrettable and gives cause for concern that the export of electricity by the local electricity company KEK resulted in substantial irregularities, with export earnings amounting to USD 4.2 million landing up in an illicit account in Gibraltar.
The Agency has itself, however, introduced measures to prevent future criminal manoeuvres of this kind within KEK and help it to clear them up.
That a new agreement between UNMIK and Serbia created the political conditions for making it easier to supply Kosovo with adequate electricity is something to be welcomed.
Any strategy for this region must have as its objective the facilitation of a sustainable policy and the progressive reduction of financial grants from the EU, principally through efficient charging for all public services.
The extension of the Agency's mandate to Macedonia aroused controversy, as the political situation prevailing in Macedonia at the outset, whilst extremely fragile, was quite different to that in Kosovo and, above all, because the consultation mechanism between the Commission and Parliament, by which of course funds have to be approved, was not always ideal.
Turning specifically to the Agency's commitments in Macedonia, the situation has improved, and it has been possible to complete 900 houses.
It is also particularly important that the Agency should enjoy a problem-free working relationship with the local delegation in Macedonia, where elections are due to be held on 15 September.
Today in plenary, we have been debating the European Union's responsibility for Afghanistan, and have assured Commissioner Patten of our support.
In this sense, the report on the Agency for Reconstruction should make a contribution to sustainable crisis management.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few comments on this matter from the standpoint of the Committee on Budgets.
Since the beginning of the crisis in the Balkans, we - especially the Budget Committee - have insisted that all the substantial EU funds invested in reconstruction must be used in such a way that our principles of good governance are respected.
The Court of Auditors also commented on the high levels of efficiency, which is very good.
At the same time, guidelines are, of course, needed for the future, particularly since we now realise that we have been so efficient that we might have too little money left at the end of this seven-year term of the CARDS programme.
The fact that we, as my group has demanded, are actually debating it this evening is almost enough to give one a bad conscience.
As previous speakers have done, we must hang on to the fundamental truth that the Agency has performed well and that we can take much satisfaction in that.
At the same time, though, it must be said that there are a number of aspects in which the European Union's policy has to be continued with and perhaps even stepped up.
If we are to use the Agency to disburse funds - Mrs Stenzel thinks the amount should decrease, and she is right - we have to be aware that the economic situation continues to be very, very bleak.
There, too, the process of political maturation has not yet progressed as far as it needs to.
I am glad that Commissioner Vitorino is present to hear the third point I would like to make, which is that the central Balkan region continues to be a country of transit for a lot of objectionable cross-border activities.
We are of course aware that certain illegal organisations do not object to ethnic cooperation and have no problem with the overcoming of borders.
Some of us have ourselves visited the Bucharest centre that is actively dedicated specifically to combating these criminal activities, and I want to ask Commissioner Vitorino, as a matter of urgency, to collaborate to the utmost with Commissioner Patten in seeing to it that a stop is put to these criminal activities, which are giving the region a bad reputation.
As someone who for the last three years has been on the delegation to south-east Europe and more recently a vice-chair, I feel it is essential that we keep up and develop the financial assistance to allow the Balkan countries to aspire to the eventual goal, which must be membership of the European Union.
She particularly mentions that the agency should take the lead on energy in Kosovo, with which I would agree.
She also emphasises the need for a strategy on the future of the agency's relations with EU delegations.
I wonder from my experience in Skopje whether we have not gone too far in bypassing the competence of the local Commission delegation.
In view of the upcoming elections on 15 September, I am still not sure that we have reconstructed enough houses there.
All this points to the fact that things are going rather as we had feared but that that was rather to be expected: we cannot work miracles in the region, it is almost impossible for good governance at all times, on all occasions, to be guaranteed, but we must, of course, make every endeavour to reduce the possibilities of illegally providing or receiving funds.
On the other hand, however, the competence of the European Agency for Reconstruction has been extended geographically, and I wonder whether this is the right way to proceed, given that the problems presented by each individual situation differ quite widely.
The Commission had promised Parliament that it would produce a report, although this is not yet available.
It was, of course, an easier matter to provide initial aid, but things become more complex when it is a question of defining reconstruction and deciding where and how to strengthen the institutions.
Mr Patten has promised to present a report outlining the future implementation of assistance before the end of 2003.
This will form the basis of the recommendations which the Commission is required to submit by 30 June 2004 under the European Agency for Reconstruction regulation.
Today I will outline some preliminary thoughts, but first allow me a few comments on some specific points in the report.
I am pleased that the report so clearly acknowledges the efficiency and high delivery capacity of the European Agency for Reconstruction.
Under the Swedish presidency we organised the first meeting of the five countries in the region, because without regional cooperation we will not succeed.
Some Member States have developed a liaison officers' network and we have been cooperating with border guards and police forces in the region and that has definitely improved the situation although it is still far from resolved.
The report suggests that if the territorial competence of the agency were to be extended its regulations should be modified.
In the report you emphasise the need for coordination.
We are therefore pleased to note the systematic and extensive coordination already taking place between Commission services and between actors on the ground.
From previous debates, I know that you want to discuss the broader issue of the future of assistance to the western Balkans and its organisational aspects, including the competences of the European Community delegations and the agency.
The political role and the status of all delegations in the region are identical, beyond assistance implementation.
But we cannot give a clear answer at this point.
Administrative and institutional tidiness must not impede our primary objective of achieving real change on the ground.
The Commission will ensure that these decisions are taken on the basis of what is most effective in achieving the four objectives: more focus on quality, speedier implementation according to the highest standards of management, visibility, and above all the impact of our programmes on the ground.
Parliament's views will be invaluable in developing the arrangements that best suit the needs of the region and the strategic ambition for its closer integration into the European Union.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
What is essential is to promote awareness of a common heritage, based on a range of fundamental common traditions and values and, at the same time, of the recognition of a number of rights.
Recognition of this European citizenship has been a slow process, however, which faces too many obstacles, even today.
There are eight areas in which I am submitting proposals for the full application of the concept of European citizenship in its political, administrative, judicial, social and economic dimensions.
First: it is crucial that we implement a strategy of promoting European citizenship, at both the institutional and legislative levels, and in terms of education and information.
It is crucial to improve, through all available means, the European Union's information and communication policy, which must be targeted and appropriate to the population for whom it is designed.
Third: the steady decline in the rate of participation of the Union's citizens in European elections, which undermines the legitimacy of our Parliament.
It does not make sense, for example, that in Portugal the day of the Europeans elections frequently coincides with a national holiday, thereby seriously damaging the electoral participation of the citizens of my country.
It is important that those Member States that have not yet done so incorporate into their legal systems the measures needed to ensure diplomatic and consular protection for EU citizens whose state of origin has no representation.
Fifth: protection of the citizens.
The Member States must adopt all the measures needed to ensure that fundamental rights are respected, the protection of the citizens against terrorism and organised crime, support and compensation for victims, and to ensure the effective and equitable access of European citizens to justice.
In order to overcome these obstacles, Member States must adopt without delay the proposal for a directive of 23 May 2001, which, by revising the existing texts, introduces essential simplifications and in particular establishes the right of permanent residence after four years of uninterrupted residence.
Furthermore, the Member States and the competent authorities must use educational programmes to encourage a better knowledge of Europe, particularly in the form of history and language teaching.
Finally, I should like to ask the Convention on the Future of the European Union to agree on the binding legal status to be given to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, to communitarise the third pillar, and to endeavour to ensure that texts in which EU policies are laid down are more accessible to the general public as a whole.
Based on the principles of human dignity and equality of women and men, the Charter will serve as a framework defending the fundamental rights of women and men in the Union.
Also the Daphne Programme, created to defend the citizens' rights of children, adolescents and women, must be further developed as an instrument to strengthen European citizenship.
The action plan for mobility and the Commission proposal to adopt a directive combining the various legislative instruments on the freedom of movement and residence of the citizens of the Union in a single text is of particular importance to women and the problems they face in the framework of European integration.
Lastly, let us remember that strengthening citizenship of the Union will only be achieved through total equality between men and women in all sectors of economic and political life.
However, there is more to citizenship than that: in a way, it confirms the citizens' place in this European dimension, which they must feel both contributors to and responsible for at this time of great impetus and dynamism.
We feel that the level of participation in the European elections is low and declining steadily, but we wonder what we are offering the citizens of the Member States as part of this European package.
Well then, I feel that we should all make every endeavour to start building Europe at the level of the citizens, starting precisely with the recognition of status which the Charter of Fundamental Rights placed at the centre of the European project and which must be reproduced in the Treaties.
If we do not succeed in doing this, however many conventions we produce we will never manage to build Europe, especially when one country - I am referring to Ireland but there may be many others, including my own - has refused to recognise, to sign and to ratify the Nice Treaty and when three Member States have refused to share our experience with the single currency.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for me, citizenship of the EU is something like a building block towards enhanced integration, but also of course towards our citizens having a greater sense of their European identity.
Looking at the basis for it, though, we find just six paragraphs referring to citizenship of the EU, and, on reading these, we find relatively few rights attached to it, which range from participation in local elections or in those for this Parliament to diplomatic representation or the right of petition.
The concept of European citizenship has been one of the main legacies of the Maastricht Treaty and has contributed to increasingly engage the citizens of the Member States with the common project of European integration.
Now that more than a decade has passed, the balance sheet is clearly positive.
Freedom of movement, the right to vote and to stand in local and European elections, the right of petition and the right to diplomatic and consular protection are today already irreversible steps forward with practical effects from which Europe's citizens derive real benefit.
Nevertheless, the development of a genuine European citizenship requires more, both with regard to those rights already enshrined in the Treaties, but whose full implementation today still faces too many obstacles, and with regard to the integration of the future institutional model of the Union, which is undoubtedly the great challenge currently facing our community of peoples and countries.
Furthermore, full European citizenship cannot ignore the social and economic rights of our fellow citizens, at the risk of the citizens seeing the European project as a step backwards from the social contract expressed through national constitutions.
In relation to the freedom of movement and residence of Community citizens, I should like, Mr President, to congratulate the Commission on the reform that has been introduced in this field, formalised in the Directive of 23 May 2001.
In the aim of guaranteeing the citizens of the European Union conditions of movement and residence similar to those of Member State citizens in their own country, this Commission initiative has made the conditions of movement and residence more flexible, has simplified the legislation in force in this field and has established an innovative rule according to which after four years, residence in European Union territory can be extended with no formalities required.
It is, therefore, with considerable satisfaction that we welcome the Commission proposal for a directive of 5 July 2001, on the status of third-country nationals who are long-term residents.
In the field of the right to vote and to stand for election, the report rigorously describes the present framework, which is characterised fundamentally by the poor participation of Community citizens in European and local elections in their States of residence.
The lack of information and the short periods laid down by States Members in which citizens can be placed on electoral registers undoubtedly contribute to explaining this relative lack of success.
Nevertheless, this phenomenon should be seen in the context of the more global trend of a steady decline in voter participation which, as far as we are concerned, could be effectively countered by clarifying the European Union's institutional framework and by drafting a genuine constitutional text which enables the citizens to identify as closely as possible with the decision-making process at European level.
The rights of people must not continue to lag behind the rights of goods.
Secondly, of course our citizens want protection against crime and terrorism, but there is a very poor level of democratic scrutiny in the area of police and judicial cooperation.
The rapporteur stresses elimination of discrimination, on which I fully support him, but I would also add that respect for cultural traditions must not be at the expense of fundamental human rights.
My conclusion is that we need to reinforce our monitoring of the implementation of citizenship and human rights standards.
We must take the opportunity of transforming a process which is currently being applied to the candidate countries into a genuine European Union peer review process, so that the standards of citizenship and human rights applied in each of our Member States is the concern of all of us on a cross-national basis.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to speak this evening on a theme that is close to my heart: that of European citizenship.
As stated in the Treaty, European citizenship supplements national citizenship, but is not a substitute for it.
European citizenship should also be an added extra for everyone living in the European Union.
In December 2000, the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights finally placed the citizen at the heart of European integration, eight years after the Treaty of Maastricht.
The rapporteur listed the areas that are meant to feature in European citizenship.
The report gives an assessment of how these rights are being implemented.
We mentioned voting at the European elections, in which less than 50% of voters took part.
We must, therefore, put in place measures that will encourage citizens to take part in these elections and, above all, we must give renewed consideration to the link between the elected representatives and the electorate.
I would like to end, Mr President, by thanking the rapporteur for his thoughts and with the hope that, if we all pull together, we will be able to take steps to strengthen our approach and to go further in placing the citizen at the heart of our European project.
Mr Coelho's report is the necessary and appropriate complement to the third Commission report, giving it a crucial political meaning that is well expressed in the motion for a resolution, on which we shall be voting tomorrow.
The report and the motion for a resolution address the matter adequately, dividing it into various strands with regard to the political, administrative, and judicial dimension, and lastly, into the strand of promoting European citizenship, which contains proposals for various practical actions.
I do not wish to add anything to this, either in terms of the report's analysis, or of the motion.
We do have something to add, however, to the discussion, particularly when the Convention is up and running and the future of Europe and institutional reform are being so widely debated.
The fact, however, that, ten years after Maastricht, with so many direct elections to the European Parliament having already been held and so many actions having been undertaken to promote and disseminate the European framework, on which enormous quantities of money are spent every year, after all this, the State of European citizenship is as portrayed by the Commission report and justifies some of the rapporteur's complaints, forces us to keep our feet on the ground and to build the future with our eyes on the horizon - not as far into the horizon as the visionaries would like, but as far as the reality of the situation requires.
The real state of European citizenship - as demonstrated, for example, in the symptomatic low levels of electoral participation - shows, as the motion for a resolution points out and emphasises in line with the Treaty, that 'European citizenship shall not replace national citizenship, but complements and expands it'.
European integration can be achieved by respecting the feelings of the citizens, and will be more secure as a result.
The Convention must also not forget this.
Moreover, the recognition of fundamental rights must go hand in hand with the consolidation of measures to combat xenophobia, religious discrimination and discrimination on grounds of sex, race or social condition.
As regards these areas of cooperation, innovative proposals are also included relating to the involvement of the different groups of long-term legal immigrants.
If we encourage the development of genuine citizenship, this should be the decisive factor which will also lead to greater political awareness among the people at the time of European elections and to the many other forms of direct participation which are becoming increasingly available to all the European citizens.
It is important to make the citizens aware that European citizenship - a term which is often bandied about in this Chamber - does not replace national citizenship, which remains undiminished, retaining all its associations of cultural, historical and social roots which connect different races of peoples which, however, are united in a common destiny, the destiny of the European Union.
We cannot, therefore, accept the amendments tabled by the GUE/NGL Group, which impose a certainly excessive and dangerous acceleration on the process of integration of citizens from all the third countries, who are resident in Community territory without distinction.
This would be a serious mistake: there cannot be any disparity in the ways major issues such as asylum, integration, the recognition of civil rights - including the right to vote, most importantly - and the right to citizenship are treated within the Union.
It is my view that citizenship derives in the first instance from a sense of responsibility which comes from within a moral framework - I am not talking specifically about a religious framework, but a moral framework of how one sees the world and one's place in the world.
It seems to me that there is a lot of work to be done in terms of developing the notion of European citizenship and it is a mistake to reduce it to the notion of political citizenship, although that is an important aspect of it.
Turnout in elections is important, but people's identity as citizens is not confined to their political identity.
In fact many people, as we can see from the low turnouts, no longer define themselves in political terms and therefore disengage from the political process.
As an exercise, I logged onto one of the more popular websites a few minutes before I came down here and I found 1.8 million references to citizenship.
On the first thirty pages, I was not able to find a single site for the European Union.
Mr President, how can we speak about citizenship in the European Union without mentioning the plight of tens of thousands of men and women who have even been refused the right to simply have papers, papers that would permit them to stay in the Union without being pursued by the police and exploited by unscrupulous employers?
Many men and women have become paperless due to administrative acts, even when they have made a life for themselves in one of the countries of the European Union, often for more than five years, and they have worked there and often been much more useful to the community than a good many rich parasites.
For example, the Opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs annexed to the report asks yet again for transnational lists for European elections to be established, which would be the best way to increase the citizens' sense of distance from the Union.
To briefly summarise, all these proposals and a good many others that I could refer to tend to reduce or limit the rights of nations.
In this way, even if our citizens are convinced, as we are, of the importance and need for European cooperation, it is the Union's own attitude that turns them off Europe.
The Convention that is meeting to prepare the IGC 2004 will afford us the opportunity in the months to come.
A natural step towards EU citizenship would, of course, be a binding charter clearly stating and clarifying the fundamental rights and obligations.
The need for EU citizenship has become fully obvious in the light of the necessary restrictions on individual rights that followed the 11 September catastrophe.
The need for a developed EU citizenship thus becomes clear, a citizenship that provides a better definition of the basic contract between the individual and the EU and balances rights and restrictions in the same political decision-making system.
With every day that passes it becomes increasingly difficult to understand why some social democratic governments oppose merging the Communities and the Union, yet this is absolutely necessary in order to clarify the fundamental obligations and rights.
Without that simplification, any EU citizenship will be difficult to grasp and more or less impossible to communicate to EU citizens.
EU citizenship could provide an important tool for explaining to European citizens what EU membership means.
The idea is to show citizens how and where they can obtain the information that will enable them to take part in European democracy, by giving a simple summary of citizens' rights in European daily newspapers.
The funds for this are there but it is taking far too long to mobilise the political will.
Finally, I should like to thank Mr Coelho for his very constructive contribution to the democratic development of Europe, in which EU citizenship plays such a central role.
Ever since the Edinburgh summit in 1992, the architects of the EU have been cultivating the view that European citizenship is not a substitute for national citizenship, but, on the contrary, that it supplements and broadens national citizenship by creating 'EU rights'.
I believe that the objectives, which in 1992 ensured that European citizenship was included in the Treaty of the Union, have not lost any of their relevance.
Furthermore, citizenship is a crucial factor in the establishment, amongst the citizens, of the concept of belonging to the European Union and of having a genuine common European identity.
This identity is constructed, however, on respect for diversity, because national diversity is an integral part of the specific European identity.
I fully agree that the concept of European citizenship must be implemented in all its dimensions, be they political, administrative, judicial, social or economic.
We have reached a position in which citizens' rights are, in the Member States of the Union, broadly respected, but in which there are still some legal discrepancies and practical obstacles to the full expression of European citizenship.
We must further strive to resolve these discrepancies and obstacles, which prevent the citizens from enjoying their rights as European citizens.
One of the aspects highlighted in the report is the lack of information, one result of which is the low level of awareness of European citizenship.
What is required is for European Union policy in the field of information and communication to be strengthened by all available means.
This observation made by the rapporteur is shared by the Commission, whose report repeatedly highlights the need to better inform the citizens on the rights to which they are entitled.
Nevertheless, the European institutions clearly cannot, on their own, communicate with the 370 million people who make up the Union, or, if you wish, with the around 500 million following enlargement.
Since 1998 this service has provided information on a whole range of matters concerning the European Union, thereby contributing to people knowing their rights and opportunities as citizens of the Union and knowing how to take advantage of them.
Such as, for example, the creation of the universal green number for 'Europe Direct', which enables citizens anywhere in the fifteen Member States to access an operator who speaks their national language and who can answer any question they wish to ask about the European Union.
With regard to information, I should further like to add that the Commission will shortly be studying how to raise citizens' awareness of citizenship of the Union and of connected rights through a specific Eurobarometer survey.
The survey will be launched with the title 'Ten Years of European Citizenship' and the results will be used as the basis for future information and communication measures in the field of citizenship.
I also agree with the report's call for the Convention on the future of Europe to define the binding legal status that the Charter of Fundamental Rights should be given.
I believe that the most important debate to take place in the Convention, capable of producing real results to bring the citizens and the European institutions closer together, is not so much the debate on the institutions, but will perhaps be the debate on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, on its inclusion in the Treaties and on its legally binding nature.
The first pillar concerned the transparency of environmental information, and it is currently going through the conciliation procedure.
We are still awaiting a Commission proposal on the third pillar.
With regard to this directive also, the Council has already approved many elements of Parliament's first reading and now Parliament is to adopt many elements of the common position.
Nevertheless, problems do remain and it would appear that this directive will also only take on its final shape in conciliation.
The Commission proposal and the Council's common position are based on the 'quick fix' principle, while Parliament has wanted a broader horizontal approach.
It is nevertheless clear that it is not Parliament's aim to defend its amendments to the letter but rather ensure that there remain no grey areas in EU legislation, where public participation would be justified, but not possible.
Unusually, it directly affects all citizens in the EU Member States and candidate countries.
The public will now have the invaluable right to participate in decision-making on the environment.
This is also an important tool for the environment, and one which may improve the quality of decision-making on the environment considerably.
For these reasons, this is a tool that must be closely guarded.
It would be in nobody's interest - and least of all in the interests of the environment - if this tool were to be used for defending selfish interests, for politicking by opposition groups or to cause wilful mischief.
Furthermore, the authorities in Member States must be aware of the risks involved in national implementation.
The environmental organisations must also know they have an immense responsibility not to allow pettiness to inflate the importance of the rights granted to our citizens and the special status accorded the organisations themselves.
The tool now being created for this is too important and the resources used for its creation too invaluable.
For all these reasons I wish to defend the rights of our citizens to participate in decision-making on the environment and I am, moreover, prepared to repel any opportunity to abuse this tool.
In it I hold that the public as a whole have the right to express an opinion but the right to access to justice only applies to that section of the public affected by a decision taken.
My solution is unusual in that it would have simultaneously benefited both those citizens who were genuinely keen to participate and the authorities, and the parties responsible for the relevant projects.
Firstly the work of the authorities would be easier as they would not need to specify beforehand the parties concerned and, at the same time, the likelihood of omission when the parties were being heard would be removed.
Unfortunately, the Commission has not been able, despite its promises, to put forward a clear timetable and course of action in respect of the measures that need to be taken for ratification.
In its response to first reading, the Council scaled down the rapporteur's proposals somewhat, appearing to consider them to be too advanced and too open to a form of democratic participation that could slow down the process of drawing up texts or which, as the rapporteur herself said just now, could open the door to exaggerated , authoritarian or distorted interpretations.
In short, the Council intends to confer on the citizens' organisations a consultative role - an important role but not a decision-making role - giving the legislators elected to take decisions on the basis of the input of civil society sole responsibility for doing so but without rendering it impossible for exceptions to be made.
As regards the need to ensure that the Member States have the possibility of exemption from the directive in the event of an emergency, there is a specific amendment providing this loophole with due regard for subsidiarity and for specific environmental conditions or crises.
A further obligation is placed upon the competent authorities, and that is to make reasonable efforts - as the document states - to reply to the public individually or collectively, and an obligation is placed upon the Member States too, to adopt practical, tangible measures on the review procedures and to make available to the public all the necessary information on how to obtain access to both administrative and judicial review procedures.
This line of reasoning may, of course, be interpreted in different ways in different countries, depending on the level of democracy permitting public participation and, above all, protecting the organisations through which the public exercises this right of participation.
Even if Europe is not improving our knowledge of law, it is, at least, teaching us some philosophy.
Mr President, I think that if we manage to have the amendments from this second reading adopted, and this third pillar of the legal aspects the rapporteur talked about is discussed in Parliament and ends well, we shall manage to reduce this list of petitions on the environment at each sitting.
Mr President, I was listening to the debate here just now on European Union citizenship, and at least the latter part of the discussion, which I had the opportunity to follow, showed that we often understand the concept of citizenship as something rather abstract in this way, something handed down from on high, perhaps, which we must do no more than inform the people of.
At least I was not aware of anyone mentioning the fact that the right to participate in decision-making is an absolutely essential aspect of citizenship.
Mrs González Álvarez also raised a very important matter.
I took note of the fact that, unfortunately, the final document produced by the United States of America and the group of developing countries at the Johannesburg summit on sustainable development that has just ended made no mention of Principle 10 of the Rio Conference, which specifically concerns the right of the public to participate in decision-making on the environment.
It is even more important that the European Union should swiftly bring the Aarhus Convention into force.
Mr President, after having supported public access to environmental information in May 2000, today we back public participation in environmental programmes.
Achieving widespread public participation in the entirety of Community legislation seems utopian.
This type of procedure should be reserved for certain directives, such as Seveso or Natura 2000.
Yet, the directive recognises non-governmental organisations working for the protection of the environment as having an interest in this context, which considerably increases the scope of our measures to the detriment of public prerogatives.
The first meeting of the parties to the Aarhus Convention on access to information, public participation and access to justice in environmental matters will take place at the end of October.
The Community will not yet be in a position to participate as a party to that convention.
This common position deals with the second pillar of the convention, public participation in environmental decision-making.
In addition, other recent Community legislation already incorporates the principles of the Aarhus Convention concerning public participation and the common position on access to environmental information is under consideration.
The common position largely restricted this requirement and its wording leaves a wide discretion to the Member States and the competent authorities in charge of updating permits.
This will lead to widely divergent practice and legal uncertainty and will potentially mean that public participation is possible only in a few cases when permits are being updated, rather than being the rule.
Amendment No 15 requires public participation for the most relevant cases of permit updates, which are those covered by Article 13 of the IPPC directive.
The Commission considers public participation in permit updates covered by Article 13 appropriate.
Regarding the extension of the public participation provisions to cover other Community legislation plans and programmes which may have a significant effect on the environment, Amendment No 18 proposes extending considerably the scope of Article 2 to cover other Community legislation, plans and programmes, which may have a significant effect on the environment or health.
The Commission cannot accept this amendment, nor can it accept related Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 6 to the recitals, for the following reasons.
In regard to plans and programmes, the amendment would considerably deviate from the original approach to cover clearly identified plans and programmes in the environmental field.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 10 providing for access to justice in relation to plans and programmes covered by the directive, or Amendment No 5 on the related recital.
This is dealt with under the common position.
It would also be inconsistent to apply it to certain plans and programmes when it is not provided for in the case of those covered by the directive on strategic environmental assessment.
However, the Commission is preparing a legislative proposal on access to justice to fully implement the third pillar of the Aarhus Convention.
In the framework of that proposal, the content of Amendment No 10 could more appropriately be addressed in a horizontal way.
On the amendments concerning information about the outcome of public participation and practical information concerning administrative and judicial review, the Commission would like to point out that the provisions on public participation have to be practicable to allow smooth implementation in the different administrative systems of the Member States.
Amendments Nos 7, 13, 14 and 16 require the competent authority to make reasonable efforts to reply to the public and to ensure that information provided about decisions taken includes practical direction concerning the procedure for seeking review.
The common position already incorporates the obligation to inform the public about the final decision and the underlying reasons and considerations and provides for appropriate information to be made available on the review procedures.
To summarise our position on the amendments: the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 15 and 19.
Amendments Nos 3, 4, 11 and 12 can be accepted in principle.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 2, 5 to 10, 13, 14, nor Amendments Nos 16 to 18.
To conclude, I would like to emphasise that it is in our common interest, which is the interest of the European citizens, to have this directive enter in force swiftly so that public participation can be fully integrated into administrative practice.
Thank you very much, Mr Vitorino.
The debate is closed.
