Maintenance obligations (debate) The next item is the report by Genowefa Grabowska, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the proposal for a Council regulation on international jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation in matters relating to maintenance obligations - C6-0079/2006 -.
I would like to thank Ms Grabowska, as rapporteur, for the efforts she has made to give a voice to stakeholders such as non-governmental organisations assisting maintenance creditors during the very important public hearing on 11 September.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (EL) Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Grabowska, on her initiative in raising this issue and on the very positive view she has expressed this evening.
The 2004 Hague Programme has not been promoted to the degree that was needed, despite the efforts and initiatives of the Commissioner responsible, Mr Frattini.
Council Regulation (EC) No 2201/2003 on recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility is in need of radical reform and modernisation.
Above all, they overcome many obstacles which hinder the enforcement of maintenance judgments anywhere in the European Union, and they limit the debtor parent's or spouse's scope for evading justice when he or she has moved from one EU Member State to another.
At the present time, in order to enforce a claim against a maintenance debtor living in another Member State it is necessary to apply to the judiciary of the state in which the decision is to be executed.
Member of the Commission. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be very brief.
I would like to thank all those who have spoken, the rapporteur and Members who have taken part in this work.
First: to convince the Council that if we feel it is useful to amend a legal base under Article 67 of the Treaty, we do so to give a better democratic basis to an initiative which objectively protects vulnerable groups of people, especially children following the breakdown of the family unit.
The vote will take place on Thursday, 13 December 2007.
