He hopes that as many citizens as possible will express their opinion on fundamental issues such as 'What kind of Europe do we - Europe' s citizens - want?' 'If we want things to change, let us 'be' the change' , writes Vincente Garcia-Delgado Segués from Spain. 'Now every European citizen can say exactly what he or she wants - whether negative or positive - and the responsible leaders in the EU can listen to the citizens and take into account their wishes and hopes' , writes Ann Catherine Talbro from Denmark.
According to the Nice Declaration, this broad debate on the future of Europe must be followed by a new Intergovernmental Conference in 2004.
This year, the Swedish and the Belgian Presidencies will work with Parliament and the Commission to encourage wide-ranging discussions with all parties concerned: representatives of national parliaments and of public opinion, schools and universities and representatives of civil society.
We must naturally include young people in this debate - it is their future in Europe we are discussing - as well as the candidate countries, as they too will be involved in building the Europe of the future.
Our goal is to bring the Union and its institutions closer to its citizens.
According to the decision made in Nice the process will address issues including restricting the competencies of the EU and the Member States so as to reflect the principle of subsidiarity, the future status of the EU' s Charter of Fundamental Rights, simplification of the treaties without changing their content and the role of national parliaments in the structure of Europe.
If we are to begin this discussion at the right end, we should, just like the school pupils in Brussels and the contributions on the website, ask the fundamental questions of what tasks we want the Union to take on and what role we want the Union to play in Europe and globally.
Let me first say that the community method, which has played such an important role in European cooperation, must naturally retain a strong position in the future too, even if, in some areas, we supplement it with the new open coordination method.
A strong Europe requires strong institutions.
Next week, as the first in a line of measures, this Parliament will organise a meeting with participants from the parliaments in the Member States and the candidate countries.
Later this year, the Commission will make an important contribution through its White Paper on European Governance.
Sweden will also initiate a conference on the external role of the EU this autumn.
We ourselves are responsible for ensuring that there is a broad debate which also involves the national parliaments and addresses the issues and organisations which are relevant in our respective countries.
The Swedish and the Belgian Presidencies, Parliament and the Commission will share the main responsibility for this first phase, which demands close and trusting cooperation.
The European Council will then adopt a view on the continued process at the meeting in Laeken/Brussels in December.
The question has been asked - let the debate commence!
So they decided, at the same time, to call for a broader-based and more in-depth debate on the future of the European Union.
Less than a week ago, the Swedish Presidency, together with the future Belgian Presidency, invited Parliament and the Commission to participate in this debate.
The Commission had already structured its approach a year ago, as I am sure you remember, by proposing, with you and with your support, a dialogue on Europe which was to be a first step.
However, for this debate to achieve the objectives laid down in the joint declaration signed on 7 March by Nicole Fontaine, your President, Göran Persson, Guy Verhofstadt and Romano Prodi to highlight the challenges facing the European Union and encourage proposals, it is necessary to define the principles, the method and the agenda of this debate.
In the few weeks ahead of us, let us take the time to work on these principles, this method and the agenda.
Even if it seems difficult to find simple answers to these complex issues, and perhaps for that very reason, the debate must enable our citizens to become aware of them and participate in it.
The second principle is that of proximity.
There is the Internet, of course, which today is an irreplaceable information and dialogue tool, and this debate is already open on the website, even though, I admit, this site is far from perfect.
However, dialogue over the Internet is not enough.
The European debate must be opened up to people where they live, where they work, where they study, and to their national and regional elected representatives.
So, it must, of course, take place at a European level and be based first and foremost on the debates organised in each Member State at the most appropriate level which is, from my point of view, the level which is closest to the people of Europe.
If the Community institutions can make a contribution to the organisation of the debate - and the Commission is playing and will continue to play its part in this - these national debates will first of all have to be organised by the Member States.
The third principle could be that of anticipation.
Even though the candidate countries are not yet members of the European Union, they soon will be in a matter of years.
The future of this Union, therefore, concerns them here and now as much as it does existing Member States.
The final decision-making stage of this debate which, as you have said, Madam Minister, we hope will be as short as possible, will, of course, be the Intergovernmental Conference in 2004.
We hope it will take place as early as possible in 2004, as was suggested by President Romano Prodi.
It is only by holding an Intergovernmental Conference as provided for in the Treaties that the Treaties can be reformed or changed.
On the other hand, we also know that we must make careful preparations for this IGC and, without doubt, differently than in the case of the preceding IGCs in Amsterdam and Nice.
We must translate the challenges of the public debate into concrete proposals for the revision of the Treaties.
The structure or the competent body must, I believe, find inspiration precisely in the model or the precedent of the Convention thanks to which, in the course of a few months, the European Union adopted a Charter of Fundamental Rights, which was solemnly proclaimed in Nice.
The Commission is very attentive to the replies that the European Parliament is giving and will give to these different questions of procedure.
Finally, having talked about the principles and the method, I would like to say a few words about the agenda for this debate.
Throughout recent years and this very long round of interinstitutional negotiations which began in Maastricht and ended, at least temporarily, in Nice, the European Parliament and the Commission have always united their efforts to ensure that real reform can see the light of day.
This was especially true, I think, of the last IGC, on the occasion of which, in its resolutions of November 1999 and February 2000, Parliament had expressed the desire to discuss global reform of the institutions in the same spirit as the Commission.
I think we must now keep this convergence intact, even if this means that, beyond our work together, we have to open doors and windows, stretch out a hand, listen and participate in a much broader debate.
If we really want to address all the challenges facing the Europe of the future, the next IGC cannot settle for simply examining the four issues mentioned in the Nice annex, which are constitutional in nature.
In all honesty, some of these four issues, at least two in my opinion, may have a negative or even a regressive impact on the level of integration of the European Union, if they are tackled in the wrong way.
So let us not be afraid to tackle these four issues and let us not tackle just these four issues.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to successfully turn this public debate into discussions which are necessarily more technical and precise at the next IGC would be a measure of our success in achieving a more ambitious reform than that obtained in Nice.
It would also be an effective remedy to counteract the fears and all the prejudices which these fears underline or support and which some people bandy about to slow down the progress of European integration.
For these two reasons at least, which may be crucially important in the runup to the enlargement of the Union, the European Commission, its President and all the members of the College of Commissioners will leave no stone unturned to breathe life into this major debate which was promised in Nice by the Heads of State and Government.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, our group welcomes this morning' s debate with the Council and the Commission.
We make no secret of the fact that we, the European Parliament, and our group in particular, are in broad agreement with the Commission on these matters, which is important if we are to succeed in our joint venture.
However, before we turn to the future, I have a direct request to make of the Swedish Presidency and the Council, which is now being represented by the Swedish Presidency.
I am delighted to tell you that our group here in Parliament, the European People' s Party, has proposed a preparatory conference which would then table a proposal to the governments.
This conference should start work in 2002.
The method will not be decided under your presidency, but it is important for you to start paving the way towards Laeken.
We believe that a preparatory conference attended by Members of the European Parliament, members of the national parliaments, governments and other delegates is a transparent instrument.
One final comment, Madam President-in-Office: you spoke of the Community method and Robert Schuman.
The President-in-Office has said that the debate began on 7 March.
I have taken good note of what she said and furthermore I would like to thank her publicly - because I raised the question at the previous plenary session - for the fact that Parliament has finally been incorporated into the statement of 7 March, something which did not happen initially, and that you have amended the letter that you sent us which had rather too much of a tone of the secretariat of the Council, including annexes.
Then you began the debate in the European School and I must point out that you were really playing on home ground, because the children are sons and daughters of European officials and they are well-versed.
The night before you put very pertinent questions to the parents.
To turn to the heart of the matter, I must say that my Group, as we stated in plenary, agrees with President Prodi' s proposal for a structured debate in three phases, because this is neither an academic debate, a chat over a cup of coffee, nor a talk show.
The important issue for my Group is to know how you see the organisation of the debate, because since I agree with and respect Sweden' s essential role and tradition of openness and transparency, you will agree with me, Madam President, that the shock may be even greater if, after holding a very broad debate, open to civil society, we then take decisions behind closed doors.
What is unacceptable today will be even more so in the future.
It is very important, therefore, to know how you view the structuring by phases, especially because we are in representative democratic systems, and how you view the second phase, in which the various representatives of civil society, which are basically the European Parliament, the Parliaments of the Member States, the Council, the governments and the Commission, can truly make our contribution.
And although, in the end, we have corrected the statement of 7 March, I must say that it did not have the most auspicious start.
We hope that the Swedish Presidency, with the greatest respect for its democratic and open tradition, is capable of understanding the message, which I believe Parliament and the Commission agree on, and that this process may begin, in order to ensure that a debate is held and that decisions are taken on the future of Europe.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, on behalf of my group I welcome the tone of the Council's contribution and the content of the Commission's contribution.
You have referred to the four dimensions in the Nice annex, the debate on competencies, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the role of national parliaments.
I believe the convention method open to the Member States, national parliaments, the Commission and perhaps ideally also to candidate states can provide a very good framework - not necessarily a single-choice menu, but a framework of rational and consistent choices - and an Intergovernmental Conference can then be invited to proceed.
Finally, without anticipating the future too much, my own group feels sufficiently strongly about this participation that if Parliament was inappropriately excluded or diminished in its institutional role we would consider recommending that it should not give any opinion on an Intergovernmental Conference.
Madam President, 2001 is the year of public debate.
There was talk of the possibility of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission organising a great initiative, geared to mobilising civil society to study and write about Europe' s aims and its future.
It seems that that initiative has encountered some strange and inexplicable resistance, even within this House from a large group on your left, Madam President.
That is the only way to make the debate on the future of Europe public and exciting, and that is the only way Parliament and the Commission will be able to find the allies they so badly need to break the purely intergovernmental logic of the forthcoming reform, give words like 'convention' and 'Community method' a revolutionary and constitutional meaning and make the 2004 Intergovernmental Conference more than a mere formality.
Madam President, please tell us whether or not there is room in your programme for a European initiative like that, and if not, why not?
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, as you know, many of my fellow Members are critical of the Nice Treaty.
I specifically share the concern expressed by Commissioner Barnier in this regard.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in which we currently find ourselves is rather strange: Nice has not yet been ratified, much less come into force and yet we are already debating the 'follow-up to Nice' .
The issues that ran aground in Nice are the same issues that had previously floundered in Amsterdam, and many of them have been on hold since Maastricht.
Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, Mr Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, a fundamental point seems to have been recognised at last by Parliament.
The people of Europe are not very interested in this kind of debate.
Unfortunately, the contrary is often the case and our Parliament should perhaps travel somewhat more amongst the people of Europe to equip itself with new ideas.
But there is another aspect of all this which I should like to highlight today.
Surely there can be no victory or defeat for one institution over another; surely there can only be progress or retrogression with regard to the overall concept, i.e.
Therefore, allow me simply to point out certain issues on what we expect from the Swedish Presidency and from this European Council in Gothenburg.
You have said that we have to organise the debate.
The convention which drew up the Charter of Fundamental Rights was a success, because it brought together national and European legitimacy and it included transparency, publicity and participation by the people.
I think that it will be very useful to work together on this model.
Finally, with regard to the timetable, it seems to me that if we do all of this, the IGC 2004 will have to be very brief, since the work will already be largely completed.
I believe it is also very important that this model allows for the participation of the candidate countries.
You have called for maximum transparency in the debate now beginning and in the whole process described in the Nice Declaration, with a debate as close as possible to the citizens.
Well, the preparations for the Intergovernmental Conference before the Nice Summit demonstrated minimum transparency and maximum distance from the citizens.
That idea came from the Heads of State or Government, felicitously invented by them in Helsinki, so it is hard to understand why those same Heads of State or Government should now mistrust that method.
We should be writing the answers to the great questions on the future of the Union together.
Mrs Lindh, we feel sure the Swedish Presidency will want to commit itself to dispelling the extraordinary suspicion meeting every proposal made by any of the groups in the European Parliament.
We hope the resolution from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and hence from Parliament as a whole, will also help to make you more convinced than you are this morning and, in the meantime, we look forward to our meeting of 20 March with the representatives of the national parliaments of both Member States and candidate countries.
This morning, 76 citizens from different countries had chosen to take part in the debate.
Mr Poettering rightly said that the Community method is a good one from the point of view of small states.
Let it also be a good method for small countries that are not, or not yet, Member States of this Union in their own right.
The "regions" of Europe must be properly represented in this discussion and proper attention must be paid to subsidiarity.
If such a method is to be applied, it must be a convention for the national parliaments who are to discuss the treaty.
Instead, discussion should centre upon democratic reform of the European Union, providing full insight into the legislative work and reducing the power of civil servants, especially within the Commission.
Mr President, the European Union has a problem in that, despite the systems it has established and the extensive jargon and impressive rhetoric it makes use of, its people are either indifferent to, or directly opposed to, the integration process that has been on the agenda in recent years.
If a future convention worked with the same methods in a rarefied atmosphere, it would produce, in 2004, an ultra-federalist text which would be unacceptable to all or some of the Member States.
That is why, Mr President, we think there is only one viable solution: to organise the debate around national parliaments and under their responsibility.
There is no mention of Parliament participating in the debates on 7 March.
There is only a skeleton programme which is put on this web page under the Belgian Presidency, who will have a business forum.
I conclude by saying that in our Parliament we need to network with the national parliaments, the Council needs to give us the lead through the heads of state in each of the Member States and last, the Commission can produce guidelines so that we know what course this debate will follow.
We do not want to replace national governments and we do not wish to take decisions - you are the decision makers - but I should like to ask, why are you afraid of our ideas, our proposals and our contribution?
This is not simply because of our wounded self-esteem, but because the Member States left to themselves will quickly become obsessed with their own national power relationships.
The common European interest will only be fostered if all those who share executive power - the European Council and also the Commission - collaborate with all those that share legislative power - the European and national parliaments.
The most important unanswered question in this discussion about European democracy is the position of the Commission.
We must, I think, acknowledge that we have a broadly-structured discussion process before us, during which it will become apparent that the intergovernmental approach under the leadership of the Council will be unworkable with 27 Member States and that the executive leadership of the Commission, with Parliament as equal co-legislator, i.e.
In my opinion, there are three stages: the broad, public debate led - and I mean led jointly - by the three institutions, which must be held over the course of this and next year, but which must also accompany the overall process through to the end.
I, like many of my fellow members, are worried about wrapping this up in 2004 in the middle of the European election campaign.
This would allow us to initiate a public plebiscite on the outcome and to seal the dialogue, as it were, with the expression of the will of the people of this European Union. (Applause) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, taking the floor for the last time before this House, which I will be leaving in a few weeks' time, I would like to address a few words to my fellow Members.
Of course the problems of the method adopted in the follow-up to Nice are important: the Community method, the Convention method, and so on.
We also know that, despite the very interesting proposals made by Commissioner Barnier, the Commission has neither the strength nor the authority it had ten years ago.
I ask this question knowing full well that the answer is not easy, but it is nevertheless vital for the democratic future of Europe.
The debate with the citizens must focus on the central issues of the future in a more flexible Europe.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, you used the word strong three times in your speech.
The EU must be a strong force, the Community method must contain strong positions and we need strong institutions.
I too think that 2004 is wholly inappropriate.
A new Treaty of Rome would then perhaps be the right basis for European elections in 2004 and a good basis for completing enlargement.
Neither is it clear how many MEPs there will be between 2004 and 2009.
Thirdly, the current IGC procedure must be replaced by an interinstitutional convention which is capable of preparing these actions.
The damage which Nice has done must be repaired before the next European elections, in other words by 2003, for we cannot afford to carry this burden into those elections in 2004.
Finally, Madam President, you mentioned citizens.
This is essential if we want to clear the air for the debate.
For, pursuant to Article 48 of the Treaty, the conclusion belongs to the Heads of State and Government.
And then this Parliament will agree to consult all the wise men on earth and to participate in all the forums.
In the final analysis, however, it is the representatives of democracy who will have to participate in this convention.
Unfortunately, you went no further than perspectives in your reference to the objectives of Annex 4 to Nice, in calling for us to be closer to our citizens and in your more than cryptic comment that you see both advantages and disadvantages in the convention method.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, you have a reputation, not without reason, for being extraordinarily skilful, and your presentation has confirmed this.
I know that Parliament and the Swedish Presidency have a great deal in common in this respect and I hope that we will be able to help each other to achieve as much openness and access as possible.
Then there is the major question of the next Intergovernmental Conference.
I understand that Parliament is very interested, as I am, in the important discussion on how we will reach a decision - the debate we will have before the decision, how we will prepare for the debate, and the role which might be played by the convention method.
The Council has not said yes but nor has the Council objected, and we have definitely not said that we are afraid of a convention.
Therefore, I think it is important that this also be included as part of the on-going discussion.
In my introductory speech, I cited examples of major conferences we are organising in Sweden and in other countries.
This is naturally an important debate for the future.
Furthermore, our idea is to share the management of this site amongst several institutions, including the European Parliament, but I admit that we must push it forwards and perhaps also understand its role better, as it must be used as a platform for the national debates which will soon be organised in each Member State.
Mr Seguro asked a question of the President of the Commission and the Commissioner.
Yes, Mr Seguro, we are going to continue to meet with the governments in each of the capitals not only of the Member States but, as Mr Prodi has done, as each of us does, the capitals of the candidate countries too.
Mr Leinen mentioned, as did Mr Dupuis, the concern we expressed through our President that 2004 will be an extremely busy year.
So the sooner we can move, at the start of 2004 and perhaps, Mr Leinen, why not in Rome at the end of 2003, the better it will be for everybody, for us and for you, and so necessarily for the European debate itself.
The answer to that, however, is also in the hands of the Heads of State and Government.
I would like to thank each and every one of you, especially the group chairpersons who expressed their desires and their agreement with the ideas or the guidelines of the Commission.
The debate is closed.
I admire all the honourable Members with so much time to surf the Net.
Preparatory work for the Stockholm European Council (23/24 March 2001) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the preparatory work for the Stockholm European Council on 23 and 24 March 2001.
It is about social and economic reforms.
The road to full employment and increased competitiveness encompasses financial and social reforms such as increased education and lifelong learning, greater equality and modernised social security, strong welfare and quality at work.
We need a balance between social and economic reforms.
All these areas are dependent on each other if the Union is to achieve its high targets by 2010: creating the world' s leading knowledge-based economy, creating 20 million new jobs and combining competitiveness and greater social cohesion.
We will seek to forge ahead with the reform of the financial markets and achieve a common market for financial services by 2005 at the latest and for risk capital by 2003 at the latest.
As usual, the European Council will also discuss current issues in foreign policy, such as the Middle East, the western Balkans and the Korean peninsula.
The Lisbon Process is therefore a prerequisite, not only for sustainable growth, full employment and social cohesion in Europe, but also for confidence in European cooperation.
As has been announced, the presidency has even organised a meeting between European Union leaders and President Putin, on similar lines to the meeting planned with President Bush at Gothenburg in June.
This will be an excellent opportunity to review the main aspects of our partnership with Russia and our partnership with the United States as well.
What the Commission proposed at Lisbon was a detailed strategy for making Europe dynamic and competitive, while, at the same time, promoting social inclusion and solidarity: a strategy for ensuring that economic progress and social progress in Europe go hand in hand.
The outcome of that summit was very positive: the Member States unanimously adopted almost all the Commission's proposals.
Responsibilities and targets are therefore clear and we will be able to measure our progress clearly.
The Lisbon strategy is designed for a ten year period, and progress is to be assessed annually at the Spring European Council.
If the Gothenburg European Council agrees, we shall add an environmental dimension, giving Europe an overall strategy for sustainable development.
Among the initial successes I am particularly pleased with this year are the adoption of the Social Agenda at Nice, the endorsement of a strategy on social exclusion, and our progress in combating discrimination and ensuring equal opportunities.
Our report this year highlights ten areas where progress has been unsatisfactory and fresh or greater impetus needs to be given.
Let me say just a little more about these two issues, which I consider to be particularly important.
The Lisbon and Feira European Councils recommended that the Community Patent should be available by the end of 2001.
The Member States must act consistently and show a greater sense of responsibility if this project is to succeed.
The Kosovo war showed only too clearly Europe's total dependence on the American GPS satellite navigation system.
It would take only a modest injection of public funds to trigger massive private investment, although I recognise that this private sector participation has yet to be explored in depth, as some governments have been requesting and as, moreover, we undertook to do.
I have picked this topic because it is particularly close to my heart and because it has huge scope; because it has far-reaching implications for all our policies and because it will take us from Stockholm to Gothenburg, which means sustainable development; and because it is an issue that will stay with us for many years to come.
In the European Union, at present, for every person of 65 or over there are four people of working age.
These are the actual data, given that those who have not been born cannot be born in the future: these are the current demographic statistics.
In other words, a shrinking workforce will have to support a rapidly growing number of non-working people even in the enlarged European Union.
Then we must modernise our welfare and pension systems, making them sustainable in the long term.
We need a strategy for consolidating Europe's long-term competitiveness without giving up the social inclusion that characterises our societies.
Now that our working population is shrinking, we are facing a potential structural crisis in the distribution of wealth, a crisis that could, in the space of a few decades, severely undermine the European Union's competitiveness, Economic and Monetary Union and our social model, given that our objective is to preserve a sound social protection model.
Quite apart from the difficulties preventing young people from entering the labour market early enough, there is a trend towards early retirement that shortens people's working lives by 10 years or more.
In its report for Stockholm, the Commission urges the Member States to make it easier for women to enter or re-enter the labour market.
In short, we need to take ever better care of our increasingly depleted human resources.
The basis for this policy should be the 'shared assessment of the economic and demographic developments within the Union' which the Tampere European Council called for.
Last November, the Commission issued a communication on this subject, and I hope that this House and the Council will examine it as soon as possible.
They also mandated the High Level Working Party on Social Protection to study the sustainability of social protection and, in particular, of pension systems, on the basis of a Commission communication.
We need to develop indicators that show the long-term implications of our social spending and tax decisions, in particular with regard to pensions.
However, the Commission is fully committed to bringing the single market into full play here.
We have already tabled a proposal for a directive and I hope the Council will act swiftly on it.
This directive forms part of our Financial Services Action Plan that the European Council agreed should be implemented within five years.
I urge this House and the Council to speed up their work on this plan.
Coordination of national tax systems is essential here, and the Commission will be tabling its proposals.
The effects of ageing on our social systems must reinforce our commitment to reducing public debt.
What we need, therefore, is a renewed commitment to maintaining stable public finances that can sustain social protection in the longer term.
Indeed, sound public finances must be an integral part of the strategy for sustainable development in Europe.
This House is, of course, the European institution where the democratic debates on the fundamental aspects of our fellow citizens' future have to take place.
Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, my Commission is ready to fully play its part together with you.
The remedies for improved employment levels are simple.
The Council must achieve results quickly in its continued programme of liberalisation and improving the business climate, especially now that we are clearly headed for a period of uncertainty, with the USA in the lead, as prices on the stock markets fall and confidence weakens in companies and amongst consumers.
Of course, unemployment is still too high, but 2.5 million new jobs have been created.
Therefore, the US economic slow-down will affect us less than usual because trade exchanges between the fifteen Member States constitute nine tenths of our joint domestic product.
Of course, there are deficits in Europe especially in new technologies, this being less marked for information technologies than for biotechnologies.
In 2000, European investment in the ICT sector was higher than in the United States, even though some countries are still lagging well behind.
The leading exporting force in the world, in 2000 the European Union achieved one fifth of its exports in the high tech sector.
Making the correct choices is not about choosing unbridled liberalisation and deregulation without regard for our social model and our environment.
The liberalisation of the telecommunications sector above all has seen positive results because it took place at the same time as the technology revolution with mobile phones and the Internet.
The end to irrational exuberance on the financial markets paradoxically offers us the chance to turn our attention to the real economy and to influence the factors which are fundamental for the well-being of our citizens.
Mr President, I will finish by saying, as President Prodi has just said, that the priority at Stockholm must be to invest in people, education, information and research into the infrastructures that we have for improving the quality of life.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, representatives of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, in making an assessment of the observable results during the first year of implementation of the Lisbon agreements, we reach very limited conclusions.
We believe that we have to proceed much more quickly in these areas and we wish to focus on three fundamental questions which I will try to summarise in my few remaining seconds.
Firstly, structural reforms and liberalisation.
Mr President, Minister, President of the Commission, I would just like to make a few brief comments on the Lisbon European Council and on the resolution we have just signed on behalf of the group, without a great deal of enthusiasm it must be said.
Mr Prodi, I should like to address the following comments to you.
It is clear that in Lisbon the European Union set itself a very ambitious objective, that of achieving a competitive economy.
We support this project but we would like to draw your attention to the needs of our citizens.
I read in a newspaper yesterday that the mobile telephone market has reached saturation point with approximately 50 to 60 million surplus mobile telephones.
We wish your communication on sustainable development every success but we would like matters to proceed more quickly.
From this perspective, and while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, we support the idea of the European Union having a framework directive on its obligations to provide public services of general interest, which is not the case at the moment.
The Stockholm Summit was to have employment as its main issue, but there are no proposals for meaningful action to combat the major unemployment which currently affects 14 - 15 million people.
When, in the past, the Swedish Government was heading the campaign for Sweden to join the EU, it said the goal was not only to retain the Swedish welfare state but also, together with other left-wing forces, to pursue a social welfare policy throughout Europe.
Right-wing policy is promoted in the EU, and the Swedish welfare policy is at risk.
Mr President, the forthcoming Stockholm Summit will address many of the European Union's key social and employment problems.
I support the agenda set by the EU leaders at their summit in Lisbon last year.
I am referring in particular to the young and long-term unemployed still concentrated in certain urban and rural areas of the European Union.
Certainly the Commission, Parliament and Member States' governments have all worked closely together to ensure that the Stockholm Summit will be a success.
EU leaders want to promote more and better jobs and worker mobility, anticipate and manage change in the working environment, combat poverty, exclusion and discrimination, modernise social protection systems and promote equality.
They also want to focus on the external implications of employment and social policies, particularly in relation to the enlargement process.
The Union has an unemployment rate of 8% and the target of full employment is attainable.
These Member States have indicated that the European Commission must think of a strategy which will lead to the European Union rubbing shoulders with the greatest in the global bio-industry and biotechnological research.
Every form of human life must be treated with due respect.
In the discussion on human genetics, I call on the Council to maintain the ban on therapeutic cloning, as already expressed by the European Parliament in September 2000.
Mr President, the Lisbon Process is to create the most dynamic economy in the world.
Ever since the Essen Summit of 1994, there has been talk of the importance of lowering taxes on work and increasing flexibility.
In practice, Sweden has done the opposite.
The economic indicators are good, but this objective will not achieve itself and it will not implement itself.
Lisbon gave us clear guidelines within which to find the courage to set decisive priorities and move forward using a method of open coordination between the Member States.
We talk of already having bottlenecks on the specialist job markets, but we seem unable to implement a specific integration policy to help the unemployed - and there are well over 14 million in the European Union - make their own contribution to the working population.
Indeed, in some Member States, such as my own, which have tended to follow the American model, the gap between rich and poor has been widening.
Growth alone is not the solution to social deprivation and it never has been.
We have to find an economic path that does not strip the world of its natural resources and produce toxic or greenhouse emissions.
We can then adopt a coherent approach to sustainable development and see if we really are achieving the results we want.
We are also wondering about safety with regard to the use of wholly or partly genetically modified foods, and about the weight of that problem with regard to baby foods, pharmaceutical products or products on general sale such as vitamins or integrators containing animal gelatines.
And we wonder if the Stockholm Council will at least take an interest in the slump in the new market and the consequences for consumers.
We must be in a position to reform structural policy in 2003 at the latest, for two reasons.
Thank you, Mr Jarzembowski.
Yesterday afternoon, during Questions to the Commission, there was a Question No 91 from the Spanish People' s Party MEP, Mrs García-Orcoyen.
As you clearly indicate in your comments, the services of this House were not in touch with the media in any way.
VOTE Mr President, on this important report, I would like to say that the Commission is able to accept Amendments Nos, 3, 4, 7, part of 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, the second part of 13, 14, 16, part of 17, part of 18, part of 19, 21, 28 and part of 29.
In addition, Amendments Nos 1, 2, 5 and 23 are acceptable in principle.
We are in principle able to accept part of Amendments Nos 3, 7, 8 and 9.
After the vote on Amendment No 13: Mr President, I think a mistake was made in the vote a moment ago.
The second part of Amendment No 10 did not receive a majority, which means that there was no need to vote on the second part of Amendment No 13.
on the Commission communication to the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions - Action Plan to Improve Energy Efficiency in the European Community (COM(2000) 247 - C5-0567/2000 - 2000/2265(COS)) (Parliament adopted the resolution) President.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTEJackson report (A5-0041/2001) Mr President, I voted against the Jackson report on the environmental inspections conciliation.
All that means is that our Member States do not want to be controlled in implementing Community environmental standards.
Remember, the war in Iraq began because President Saddam Hussein did not want controls on his own territory.
Recommendation for second reading Oomen-Ruijten (A5-0068/2001) Mr President, why do you think I voted for the report allowing pensioners and old folk to breath clean air?
I just wanted to say that I am very pleased that Mr Fatuzzo the MEP is looking after pensioners, because that means he is looking after me as well, Mr Fatuzzo the man, who is getting another year older every year and who is getting close to collecting his pension too.' Mr President, I think it is quite absurd that the European Parliament deals with certain issues in such a technical way.
The main problem is to be able to fix ambitious limit values which will protect the health of all our citizens while acknowledging the possibilities of the different plants and power stations.
Setting ceilings which are too high would reduce to nothing the efforts envisaged to improve the situation.
The credibility of the European Parliament depends on the realistic objectives that Members of Parliament are invited to vote on.
Recommendation for second reading Myller (A5-0067/2001) Mr President, as a representative of pensioners and the Pensioners' Party, I voted for this report, which establishes the national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants: sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds and lastly, Mr President, ammonia, NH3.
Moreover, we have heard the Commission say that, in 2050, we might have to work until we are 99 in order for there to be enough money to pay people' s pensions.
The Action Programme's long-term goal will not be attained easily; therefore the Commission has rightly decided on a step-by-step approach setting out interim environmental targets for the year 2010.
Local authorities must also freely give information when requested.
I have requested information myself from the local authority and the regional Commissioner but so far without success.
Many of the existing environmental problems are the result of secrecy.
Our citizens across Europe must see that the European Union is transparent, democratic and open.
The directive aims to adapt existing legislation to reflect developments in IT such as the Internet.
The internet revolution has transformed the world.
The dot com world is too important to ignore.
Access to information is the very least our citizens deserve and we in the European Parliament must act so that this access is promoted and not denied.
Angelilli report (A5-0070/2001) Mr President, last Sunday, I held a meeting for pensioner members of the Pensioners Party in the Loreto district of the city of Bergamo, my home and constituency.
When they heard that I was going to be debating this report on the European crime prevention network in the European Parliament, they all cried out in unison: 'Mr Fatuzzo, you must ask for the introduction of the European policeman, the local European bobby.
Mr President, I have abstained on this report - as I did on the previous one for which I presented an explanation of vote - because Parliament is only called upon to express an opinion on this highly important issue and has no power of decision.
We must develop contact points and crime prevention strategies, and support crime prevention activities at local and national level across the European Union.
It is important that we pay special attention to juvenile, urban and drug-related crime.
These crime-busting measures must be implemented from Blackburn to Barcelona.
The British Labour Government puts crime at the top of its agenda, and is reducing violent crime and disorder.
The Tories, on the other hand, offer nothing but rising crime and falling investment.
Crime is a major concern for our citizens; we must ensure it stays our number one priority in Europe.
Marinho report (A5-0073/2001) President.
So if you vote for the report on cooperation between courts, I will always enjoy listening to you even more.' Bösch report (A5-0078/2001) Mr President, the Bösch report has received the support of Mr Fatuzzo, the representative of the Pensioners' Party, who is concerned about protecting the Communities' financial interests and combating fraud.
The Commission will have to convince us and the people of Europe of its determination to see its statements followed up by action in the fight against corruption and fraud.
Our group supports the request of the Committee on Budgetary Control regarding its call for greater operational independence for OLAF and its director, towards the European Commission, in exercising its powers of investigation.
If we also take into account the very serious cases of fraud which were brought to light in 1999 and which still have to be cleared up, we cannot fail to be astonished by the double standards of a unilateral approach which only highlights certain matters (such as Fléchard I, which is being used in an attempt to destabilise certain top-ranking civil servants in France and to put the spotlight on Ireland and France by artificially dragging out the issue, or Fléchard II, in which German, Italian and Belgian companies are now involved). (Intervention shortened pursuant to Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure) I supported the overall impact of the Bösch report.
However, despite these concerns, I have voted in favour of the report and I congratulate the rapporteur.
OLAF is now a reality but we must keep going along this excellent path.
So we insist that the OLAF reports are sent to the competent committee of the European Parliament.
The establishment of a European Public Ministry was not agreed at the Nice European Council and is therefore not mentioned in the new Treaty.
Yet, in order to establish a new authority with judicial powers and to provide it with the necessary authority in all Member States, an indisputable legal basis would have to be created.
As long as this basis does not exist, it is undesirable for the European Parliament to invite the Commission to put forward a proposal in this direction.
It started 40 years ago with the scrap fraud and continues until this day.
We have therefore abstained on the final vote in order to reflect our support for the fight against fraud within the EU, whilst protecting our position on the European Public Prosecutor. .
We have come a long way since the fraud and mismanagement report of the Commission which led to its resignation in 1999, but there is still much work to do.
Not least there is the problem of trafficking in adulterated butter using vegetable and animal fats and even chemical substances, leading to an estimated loss to the EU budget of some EUR 45 million.
I welcome the fact that many Member States have joined the action brought by the Commission in the case against the big American tobacco companies before the European Court of Justice.
I am sure that Neil Kinnock is precisely the right person to help restore public confidence in the EU institutions and their actions.
All of us, the EU institutions and the Member States themselves have an important role to play in ensuring that our citizens regain confidence in the European Union.
Wijkman report (A5-0054/2001) Mr President, I am prompted to say 'How cold it is!' This is the second report in which we take an interest in warming up people in our Community.
This should strengthen international competitiveness in the long term.
Finally, the Stockholm and Gothenburg Summits should also be linked and, in the future, environmental issues should be integrated in this process with economic policy, employment policy and other policy.
However, we may be forgiven for presuming to think that it is not so much a question of the excellence of that agenda as of its proper implementation nationally, in other words how the Member States carry through the processes of change, how they reconcile them with quality of life and work, and how they apply the strategy of greater social cohesion.
Because the Commission admits, if only indirectly, that those are the real problems, when it talks about the 14 million who continue to be jobless and wonders whether enough has been done at national level.
It would therefore be appropriate to check, in the area of employment policies, whether local partnership initiatives capable of producing investment in initial stages in order to speed up bureaucratic processes, infrastructure allocations and negotiated labour flexibility are consistent with national employment plans and are actually being implemented.
It would also be appropriate to check, with regard to the same policies, whether the State aid granted, even if increased in the future, is really consistent with the local employment system criterion adopted.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, in my short remarks I want to address one of the priorities that President Prodi outlined this morning.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the meeting of the Stockholm European Council is a very important stage for us as it will reconcile two of our major concerns: a competitive economy and the defence of a social model.
And it seems to us that everything that concerns human investment must be of paramount importance.
Faced with an ageing population, which you referred to, Mr Prodi, it seems to us that we neglect at our peril investment in education, in mobility, in languages, in lifelong learning, and in research too, which you mentioned when you spoke just now on patents and Galileo.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate the presidency of the Council and the presidency of the Commission, who have always promoted this initiative, on taking up the Lisbon debate.
This is an extremely important debate because less than a year ago we committed ourselves to nothing less than turning Europe into the most competitive and dynamic area of stability in the world.
However, the 2010 horizon is looking stormy because the reticence of some countries to carry out liberalisation programmes approved by everybody and the resistance of States such as France to losing some of the flagships of its public sector are creating a two-speed Europe, a Europe in which countries which fulfil their collective commitments see their progress threatened by suspiciously aggressive strategies from companies, which are still public, in relation to recently liberalised sectors.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight four social accents which seem to me crucial in the strategy for Stockholm.
First of all, Madam President-in-Office, Stockholm must hold on to the objective of full employment.
That also means that that 3% growth must remain on the agenda and that hence productive investments must be made, not only in the knowledge society but also in social services and in people.
And however important coordination methods are, it is important that a clear link is established with the social agenda, social legislation and social agreements in this connection.
Thirdly: Stockholm must be the summit where quality equals equality.
That means that we should not only talk about labour participation of the elderly, however important that is, but also of women.
Lastly: Stockholm must first and foremost be a social summit which does not reduce everything to labour market policy, however important that may be, but also maps out courses for the future with regard to social cohesion and solidarity.
I so much hope, Madam President-in-Office, that Stockholm will prove crucial in the strategy of open coordination in terms of social exclusion and social protection, so that the Belgian Presidency can outline clear and ambitious objectives in this strategy.
The Council decided to create the most dynamic economic area in the world.
Unfortunately, adequate economic and social cohesion between the regions has still not been achieved.
What we expect of the Swedish Presidency is an initiative to develop intelligent instruments for investigating qualitative and quantitative progress.
The socially disadvantaged must be better integrated into working life and discrimination in employment and the workplace must be nipped in the bud.
In the framework of Stockholm we need to look very seriously at the importance of the social partners in improving flexibility for our enterprises, whilst at the same time safeguarding workers in or moving between those enterprises.
The lessons of Lisbon have not been learned in London or Brussels, because we still see every day in this House more regulation and more red tape being produced.
Secondly, only two Member States - Sweden, luckily, and Finland - spend more than 3% of GDP on research and they have the industrial competitiveness which accompanies that expenditure.
Without Member State commitment at Stockholm, the knowledge-based economy simply will not happen.
We need to bear the social cost of these policies in the conviction that they will bring in maximum returns, for the benefit of the European social and cultural model.
I hope that we will have a good summit in Stockholm.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken on Thursday at 12 noon.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I appreciate the opportunity afforded by today' s debate because the triad of conflict prevention, civil crisis management and military capabilities needs to be seen in a wider context, ensuring of course that conflict prevention and civil crisis management are given a high ranking.
I do not intend to go into all the details, but I think that it is immensely important in this context for the Commission to take more of an initiative in these areas and play a central role in planning crisis prevention and crisis management, so that we can create the political awareness needed for all these capabilities to be brought under one roof.
We specifically call on the Member States to provide the capacities and resources needed so that the European Union can be quickly deployed in the four areas defined in Feira, although this will depend, among other things, on defining specific objectives in advance, possibly with a timetable, as we did during the discussion on police forces.
The example of Kosovo shows just how badly we need these capabilities; it also shows that we can act in a coordinated manner under uniform guidance.
As we know, war and armed conflict destroy all fundamental principles.
The ESDP is based on three pillars: military crisis management, civil crisis management and conflict prevention.
At the same time, prevention is different to military and civil crisis management in that it is not about reacting to a crisis that has already flared up, but about promoting in good time the fundamental values on which we all agree: that children should be able to go to school instead of to war and that democracy must be established at all levels.
We must use these in a more considered and coherent way, both in the field and in Brussels.
It is a matter of strengthening human rights and democracy in the long term and of the way crisis management and humanitarian aid gives way to development work.
The Commission' s upcoming communication on conflict prevention, on human rights and democracy and on humanitarian aid, reconstruction and development will, therefore, be significant.
However, we can see a telling example right next to us of the way the EU can mean that resources of common interest can create partnership and development.
The river running through Strasbourg used to be a poisoned watercourse, a barrier.
Similarly, we are strengthening relations with the OSCE.
On 22 February came the first reports that an armed Albanian group had entered Northern FYROM.
In order to prevent increased violence, the EU and the presidency representatives in Skopje established a close dialogue with FYROM' s government.
We have said that it is important to have closer cooperation and have also welcomed the cooperation between KFOR, UNMIK and the FYROM authorities and expressed support for FYROM' s sovereignty and territorial integrity, while also urging restraint.
Let me finally say a few words about other elements of the cooperation surrounding the Common European Security and Defence Policy.
The knowledge that the EU has military capabilities also plays an important role in preventive work.
An initial reconciliation will take place in May.
We have also started work on other areas of capability - strengthening the judicial system and civil administration during crises and conflicts, and the Council Working Group for Rescue Services is drawing up concrete targets in its area.
We know that armed conflict damages all vital functions in a society.
All of our regional cooperation programmes, CARDS, the ALURE Latin America programme, PHARE, MEDA, TACIS and so on, the Cotonou Agreement as well as our pre-accession strategies and stabilisation, association and cooperation agreements with third countries - all of them contain conflict prevent and crisis management provisions.
Rehabilitation programmes such as that in Rwanda after the genocide, economic reconstruction programmes such as that in Kosovo today, bilateral aid programmes built on peace agreements such as those in Guatemala and El Salvador are practical examples of how we are helping every day to prevent conflict and to build peace around the world.
We have taken some important new initiatives in relation to conflict prevention.
Last December the Commission and the High Representative jointly presented a report to the Nice Council with recommendations for improvements.
We focused in particular on developing better methods of analysis, closer coordination within the Union and more effective coordination with our international partners - and this follows a point that my honourable friend made - especially the United Nations and the OSCE.
The Commission is also preparing a communication on conflict prevention which we will present to the Council in April.
This communication will focus particularly on addressing the root causes of conflict through Community external aid and development instruments.
We will put forward proposals, for example, to build the objectives of peace and democratic stability more clearly into our assistance programmes.
We will place greater emphasis in future on support for the building of stable institutions and the rule of law including, of course, the police and the administration of justice.
We will also ensure through our assistance programmes that we take account of indicators of political exclusion, ethnic, social or regional marginalisation, environmental degradation or other factors which can contribute to violent conflict.
We have also to exploit to the full other means such as trade policy instruments and trade and cooperation agreements, or our skills on border-management police training, customs assistance missions - which have been such a success in the Balkans - or expertise in migration, social or environmental policy.
But I am acutely conscious that while we are working on these issues, events in the real world are not put on hold.
However, I have been determined that the Commission should contribute as rapidly and fully as possible to support the wider efforts to tackle this crisis both in southern Serbia and on the FYROM border.
As Parliament may know, we have already announced that we were prepared to provide about EUR 1 million in assistance for southern Serbia, for the Presevo Valley.
I think that is the right way to support deputy prime minister Covic's commitment to try to resolve these issues through dialogue rather than conflict.
We are also prepared to put some of the EUR 240 million that we are providing for Serbia in reconstruction assistance this year to doing more in the Presevo Valley.
We still have a long way to go in improving our capacity to respond to crises in the short term.
The Commission is responding to this challenge.
As Parliament knows we are engaged in a process of the reform of our external aid, which will mean that we are able to deliver assistance more rapidly and more efficiently across the whole range of Community aid programmes.
The rapid-reaction mechanism will give the Commission the possibility to do this and we will shortly start to negotiate framework contracts for this purpose with Member States, international organisations, NGOs and others.
The major problem we face in this area, however, is the lack of suitably qualified and available personnel in the Member States.
It is a problem faced not just by the Union but also by the UN, OSCE and other bodies engaged in international peace missions.
In the Commission's view, the best way to build up the Union's capacity in this field is by developing common recruitment standards and training programmes.
The Commission is encouraging Member States to work together and with the UN and OSCE in this area, and is prepared to support such training programmes from Community funds.
It requires the establishment of improved mechanisms for day-to-day coordination at headquarters level, in the field, and between the field and headquarters.
For its part, the Commission is engaged in reorganising itself internally in order to ensure better coordination of Community instruments in crisis situations.
The crisis management cell should be operational by the summer.
Furthermore, in the context of the on-going debate in the Council on crisis management procedures, we have suggested to Council that the coordinating mechanism provided for in the conclusions of the Helsinki European Council should be relaunched.
Finally, with regard to both conflict prevention and civilian crisis management, the Commission intends to play, in full association with the work of the Council's Political and Security Committee, an active role in helping to take forward efforts in this area with the Council.
We will work closely with Parliament, as well as the Council, on these issues.
I very much hope that the communication which we bring forward in April will provide a focus for a debate which gives us the opportunity to bring together in a more creative and constructive way the responsibilities with which the Commission is charged, the responsibilities which we have agreed to share on a Europe-wide level.
On the positive side, I would point out that efforts to keep the peace in Macedonia really have worked over recent years and the Georgievski government has made a special contribution here by including representatives of the Albanian minority in the coalition.
As proof of our trust - and I think as justifiable proof of our trust - towards the new Yugoslavian Government, we had allowed Yugoslav troops to start patrolling the Presevo valley in order to keep UCK extremists there under control and, in return, NATO has also stepped up border controls.
Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would first of all like to thank the Swedish Presidency for the explanation of the Council.
It is becoming clear that a civil strategy will be forming a completely fresh component in conflict prevention and foreign policy.
I would like to thank Commissioner Patten who has pointed out very clearly how vital it is that we provide the human resources so as to add substance to civil strategy.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists has added a new point to its amendments on the wide issue of the small arms trade.
This issue will be discussed in the PrepCom which will be taking place in New York between 19 and the end of March.
We have included these in our amendments which we hope will be adopted tomorrow in a resolution, so that Europe will be sending out a clear message in this respect.
That fact alone entirely justifies our strategy of conflict prevention, but also forces us to appreciate the complexity of this strategy.
It is a long-term task which cannot be carried out by one specific group alone and nobody else.
Mr President, as has been mentioned, this important debate is taking place against the background of further crises on the border of Kosovo and Macedonia.
First of all, therefore, I have to stress the on-going need for cooperation between NATO and the European Union.
Indeed that is stressed in paragraph 8 of the General Affairs Council's comments on international cooperation.
As has been mentioned by Minister Lindh, soldiers today carry out peace-making Community activities.
The crossover between peace and war activities is now difficult to see.
The European Union must be complementary to NATO.
I urge the Council of Ministers and the Commission to comment on that point.
I urge those present to ensure that this Parliament plays its full part, not just in conflict prevention and crisis management, but in ensuring that the Rapid Reaction Force has an ultimate responsibility to this Parliament as well as to national parliaments, the Council of Ministers and the Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the cost of peace is decidedly lower than the cost of war.
The Kosovo crisis showed us that.
In both recital D and in paragraph 8 it is unfortunate that NATO is mentioned because NATO has been one of the main causes of problems in many places, as we saw in the former Yugoslavia, in Kosovo and in Cyprus when it was invaded by Turkey.
Our support cannot therefore be total.
This oral question also contains an important element: targeting the global economic and social factors which may forewarn us of conflicts.
In the Western Sahara there is currently a very explosive situation which the authorities do not want to acknowledge and which should cause us great concern in the European Union.
The same could be said of Israel and Palestine, where a crisis with serious consequences for us could blow up in our faces at any time.
We do not want to behave like the United States of America, which whenever there is a problem - such as in Colombia for example - instead of supporting a negotiated solution, reached through discussion, sends more soldiers, more aircraft and more military force, thereby making the situation worse.
We want Europe to promote stability, peace and a negotiated solution to conflicts.
We therefore believe that, in relation to the conflict now arising between Macedonia and Kosovo, we must first concern ourselves with the complacency with which the Americans in the region have fallen into step with the KLA forces and, on the other hand, we must recognise and support Macedonia' s efforts to reach a border agreement and condemn terrorism.
Europe is making great efforts to keep the peace in South East Europe and many individual countries are also doing just as much, in terms of financial assistance and cooperation.
Therefore, it is not just a problem of military security at the frontiers.
The European Union must commit itself wholly to achieving the aims of peace and stability in the Balkans, but it must be increasingly clear about the fact that genuine financial assistance has to be closely linked to the pursuit of these aims, in the short term and without further tolerance.
What is happening now in Macedonia is happening in Macedonia and there is no point in creating alibis for ourselves and in saying, as many do, that the crisis stems from Kosovo, from the transfer of persons, of ex-members of the KLA to Macedonia.
The crisis in Macedonia is a crisis which arose and which spread because of our lack of a serious policy on Macedonia over the last ten years.
Commissioner Patten has now taken charge of this case.
As regards conflict prevention in this context, for ten years we have been witnessing absolutely intolerable behaviour on the part of our Greek colleagues.
Instead of looking ahead and trying to convince the Greek population of the need to give an identity to the Macedonian population, both Albanian and Slav-Macedonian, through the name 'Macedonia' , they have blocked, with insolence to say the least, any process which would enable Macedonians to finally have a republic which is not called FYROM, Madam President-in-Office, but 'Macedonia' .
It is perhaps high time that, within the Council, an attempt is made to convince the Greek representative so that, finally, this problem can be resolved and so that, finally, the Macedonians can have full entitlement to this name.
Mr President, I see eye to eye with my valued fellow MEP, Mr Dupuis, on a number of counts, but completely disagree on others.
For example, Paragraph 7 of our resolution is about better radio and TV reporting.
I believe that it is of utmost importance that this weapon is also being deployed as one of the civil channels, not only via the independent media which exist, but, if necessary, from an independent base in the European Union, so that we can actually influence the population in those regions and put an end to the atrocious ethnic thinking which will be the downfall of the Balkans as a whole.
It is important to know what the Swedish Presidency of the Council and the Commission have done since then as promises were made, especially regarding the civil aspects of crisis management.
Having worked with or in organisations such as the OSCE and the Council of Europe, both of which deal with the prevention of conflicts and the civil management of crises, I know from experience how timidly the Member States support their efforts.
The war in the Balkans offers sometimes tragic examples of all these shortcomings.
Let us therefore not overlook integrated development cooperation as a means of addressing the deeper causes of conflict.
Mr President, when it comes to conflict prevention and crisis management, the leaders of most Member States and the European Union itself have not chalked up any successes, nor are they able to give many guarantees for the future.
The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is threatened by a number of state or civil forces which refuse to acknowledge its definitive borders.
So, if you want to prevent conflicts and manage the crisis which already exists, you should state very loudly that UN Resolution No 1244 applies to the letter.
State, even more loudly, that the border agreement signed by Yugoslavia and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on 24 February is valid and completely legal, that all neighbouring countries must abide by it to the letter and that this is a criterion for our relations with them and for the funds which you so proudly announced and which are totally inadequate.
However conflict resolution and prevention of conflict do require investment.
Investment not just in terms of theories and studies and knowledge of history but also financial investment to try and ensure that the causes of conflict are recognised.
The most successful area of conflict prevention with which the European Union has been involved in recent years was in the city of Mostar.
Too often we miss the opportunity to intervene and prevent conflict.
My final point is that, in our discussions, we must be mindful of the effects of conflict on children and young people.
According to UNICEF reports, over two million children have been killed in the conflicts in the last decade.
Mr President, my major concern is that the focus of EU action on crisis management is too often - I could say invariably - of a military nature, rather than on the longer-term conflict prevention which my colleagues have spoken about.
Of course, we need to be able to react rapidly, but the EU must improve its ability to use all the economic and political levers at its disposal and use them more effectively to tackle the root causes of tension, which the Commissioner mentioned earlier.
Twenty-four of the world's forty poorest countries are either engaged in some kind of armed conflict or have recently emerged from it.
In Africa, 20% of the population live in countries affected by armed conflict.
Therefore I have to ask the Commissioner, how it is that the Commission's policy planning and early-warning units, provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty, have 20 members of staff, 11 of whom are engaged in working in Balkans whereas only one is assigned to the world's most conflict-prone region, Africa.
Finally, does the Commission agree that country strategy papers which have been drawn up under the Cotonou Agreement must urgently include an impact study of policies on conflict so that we can be assured that we know what might happen in the 77 countries which are part of the Cotonou Agreement.
I have been nagging the Swedish Presidency for a long time to address the issue, as I believe that this should be an important matter for the image of Sweden - Sweden wants to be a country of peace.
Does Mr Patten perhaps know why the FYROM government was forced to close the BBC office in Skopje?
Mr President, in order to prevent conflicts we must know what causes them, be it economic interests, social unrest, inequality, a dictatorship, repression, the struggle for power or access to natural resources.
Especially as assassination attempts and terrorist activities are not, of course, designed to bring about a new order, but to create new disorder.
To my mind, conflict prevention and crisis management by the European Union today means sending out clear messages to all extremist ethnic Albanian groups who do not want peace and to the extremist organisations or people - there are not many, but they do exist - attached to the HDZ in the Croatian part of Bosnia-Herzegovina which is unilaterally trying to upset the Dayton agreement - however problematic that may be.
And this leitmotiv presented by our diplomats, our generals and our politicians is without substance.
Yet, Mr President, Commissioner, the European Parliament, which has done a lot of work on this, voted in favour of two motions for resolution on this subject.
One, in 1996, called on the Commission to create a Crisis prevention network (CPN) to take on the role of strategic monitoring so that the analyses, diagnoses and proposals could be inter-European.
The Commission set this up in 1998 and extended it in 2000.
The Commission did not act on this suggestion.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on conflict prevention and crisis management policy and on the problems in the area of southern Yugoslavia in general is like testing theory and practice all at once.
Now that the European Union has taken substantial initiatives and general conditions in the area may be said to have improved, no new aggravation and no more armed reckonings should be allowed.
The European Union must assist and strengthen the healthy forces in the area and must keep its distance from those trying to turn the underworld and organised crime into political agencies.
I will hand you over to Commissioner Patten to answer this question in more detail.
However, let me point out that one of the primary reasons for the presidency prioritising the development of a programme of measures to prevent conflict is that we see a need within the Union to pool our resources in order to improve efficiency in the area of conflict prevention.
I see that two of those who asked me direct questions have not unfortunately been able to stay in order to hear the response, but I am sure that does not mean that they do not think the questions were important.
I am sure that Parliament will be pleased, but not surprised, that the Commission intends to put EUR 5 million of support into that university which has an extremely important role to play in ensuring the development of a successful multi-ethnic community.
We should continue to support the government of the FYROM in all its efforts to build a successful pluralist open society in the FYROM.
I thought, and certainly meant to make it clear in my earlier remarks, that this was a question that we intended to address in our communication in April on conflict prevention.
It represents the sort of development in the preparation of country strategy papers that we have seen with other aid donors and development partners so I hope we can pursue that.
The honourable Member suggested, perhaps in view of our past experience a tad ambitiously, that we should launch ourselves on four new common strategies.
I think we have some lessons to learn on common strategies as both the High Representative and this Commissioner have made clear in public and in private.
But the honourable Member is entirely right to say that we need to look at more coherence in our policies in Africa.
That has been and remains a very valuable contribution to our policy armoury, although I think that we have to do rather more in making use of it.
We have an excellent relationship with the parliamentary advisory group on conflict prevention and will certainly take account of their advice and of the informed advice and wisdom of, as it were, the godfather - I mean that in an entirely benign sense - in our future development of the network and of our policies in this area.
I hope that we can return to this subject in April when the Commission produces its communication on conflict prevention as a whole.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken at 12 noon on Thursday.
It is in the interests of the European Union, in the interests of the three institutions, to do something about the fragmentation of the European financial markets and find solutions which take account of the interests of industry, investors and end-users and which, in this age of globalisation, help to stabilise the financial markets.
This means that, if a clear correlation between political and technical matters is created within framework legislation, technical implementing powers and powers to adapt to technological progress will need to be decided as quickly as possible and backed up by giving the European Parliament a clear callback right if anyone acts ultra vires or fails to abide by the transparency rule, for example, during the consultation process.
Finally, the Lamfalussy report, like the European Parliament, attaches great importance to an absolutely transparent procedure in precisely this legislative area.
I should like to say that, with good will on the part of the Council and the Commission, this callback right could be included by simply amending the 1999 comitology decision to include the eventuality that, if the European Parliament feels that the Securities Committee has acted ultra vires, this must be rectified either by the Commission' s submitting a new proposal or by applying the normal codecision procedure in this area.
But I call on the Council and the Commission to give us a clear answer here today as to what plans they have for a callback right for the European Parliament or equivalent procedure because this is crucial to our democratic responsibility in the European Union.
As you no doubt know, the ECOFIN Council discussed the proposals in the Lamfalussy report at its meeting on 12 March 2001.
The Council welcomed the report, but the discussions will continue.
This makes it even more natural to discuss this issue in conjunction with the European Council in Stockholm, one of the aims of which is to modernise the European economy.
The financial markets and the venture capital markets in the EU must be integrated and made more efficient.
The action plans for financial services and venture capital provide a good foundation for achieving these particular targets regarding integration and efficiency.
As we see it, it is therefore necessary for the institutions concerned and the Member States to jointly review the legislative process in the financial area and exploit its opportunities more effectively, so that important and necessary decisions can be taken more quickly.
This can and must be achieved while, at the same time, fully respecting the provisions of the Treaty, the rights of the institutions concerned and the existing balance between them.
The Council largely supports the four levels which the Committee of Wise Men proposes in order to make the regulation process more flexible within the framework of the current Treaty.
I would just like to emphasise that, as I have said, the Council and Member States are aware of the need to speed up the legislative process.
The procedures proposed by the Committee of Wise Men for decisions at what are referred to as Level 1 and Level 2 are not actually new.
The legal framework with regard to delegating implementation powers is clear in respect of the Treaty, the Council' s 1999 comitology decision, legal practice in the European Court of Justice and the decisions of the legislature when it delegates implementation powers in each particular case.
In this regard, the Council and the European Parliament already follow established rules.
Through the new framework decision of 1999, Parliament is also guaranteed a greater role than ever before, with a large degree of openness also guaranteed.
If Parliament believes that the draft measures put forward by the Commission exceed the implementation powers in the basic instrument, the Commission should immediately re-examine these measures, taking into account as far as possible Parliament' s resolution.
For this system to work properly, all the institutions concerned must act in good faith and respect the fundamental conditions for the strategy at various levels as proposed in the report by the Committee of Wise Men.
I must emphasise the basic constitutional difference between the Council as an institution and a committee for comitology, which comprises representatives of the Member States themselves, and not of the Council.
This difference is important and, as everyone knows, forms the basis for the whole structure of the comitology.
I would like to stress that the Securities Committee' s main task will be to assist the Commission in exercising the powers delegated to it in accordance with the procedure for decisions on comitology.
With regard to the Council, I would like to repeat my previous comment that all institutions concerned will need to act in good faith and respect the fundamental conditions in the report by the Committee of Wise Men.
The structure proposed in the Lamfalussy report respects the codecision procedure and the institutional symmetry set out in the Treaty.
In addition, the extensive and open review proposed for 2004 will make it possible for us to assess how the system works and remedy any deficiencies.
As I said, on 12 March, the ECOFIN Council welcomed the report and the proposed strategy of four levels and made good progress in setting the general rules for solving institutional and organisational issues which may arise from the strategy.
However, some questions remain regarding relations between the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament in conjunction with particular acts and the establishment of the Regulators' Committee.
In order to achieve the integration of security markets by 2005, the Commission considers that Community legislation must become more efficient and flexible in order to respond rapidly to developments in financial markets.
Mrs Randzio-Plath has raised five main points on the Commission's position on the report.
In adopting directives or regulations at Level 1, the Council and Parliament will jointly define the scope of technical implementing measures by codecision, as has been stated, on a case-by-case basis.
On Level 2, the Commission is also ready to consult widely with market participants and end-users in an open and transparent way before adopting tactical implementing measures.
As regards the Commission' s right of initiative, I stress that the Commission, in preparing its proposals for Level 2 technical implementing measures, looks forward to benefiting from the technical expertise that the European Union's regulators will bring - after all they are the experts in these matters.
It seems to the Commission that such a symmetry is guaranteed by the codecision procedure provided for in Article 251 of the EC Treaty.
That procedure gives Parliament the power to decide, together with the Council, on the scope of the technical implementing measures to be adopted at Level 2.
Parliament must decide, together with the Council, on the difference between the general principles and the implementing measures.
Let me now turn to the question raised about proposals for implementing measures.
If the European Securities Committee were to fail to give a positive opinion to the Commission and the Council were to oppose the measures or Parliament were to express a view that the implementing measures exceeded the delegated powers in a resolution adopted by an absolute majority - the so-called ultra vires case - the Commission would, following the 1999 comitology decision, re-examine its proposal.
In such circumstances the Commission would be prepared, as I mentioned earlier, to take the utmost account of Parliament's position, as expressed in such a resolution.
In those circumstances, and even if the European Securities Committee had already given a positive opinion on the proposed implementing measures, the comitology decision still gives the Commission the possibility of putting forward a legislative proposal on the basis of the Treaty, i.e.
Furthermore, the proposed interinstitutional monitoring committee - on which, of course, this Parliament will be represented - will have a significant role in ensuring all of this.
To deliver it, the Commission considers that Community legislation must become more efficient and flexible in order to respond rapidly to developments in financial markets.
As the Council representative also stressed, legislation must be delivered in a way which is in conformity with the Treaty and with the 1999 comitology decision.
All interested parties will have to be satisfied and have an adequate role within the limits of the Treaty.
Thirdly, in the case that Parliament should adopt by majority vote the opinion that the Commission has acted ultra vires, then once again the Commission agrees with the Lamfalussy report in saying that it will take utmost account of Parliament's opinion and act accordingly.
Mr President, with your permission, I should like first to make a comment on Parliament' s order of business.
And we have here an initial opportunity where the European Parliament has already stated that it is prepared, if at all possible and if the Council meets us half way here, to complete the legislative procedures at first reading.
I should like to say a word on the question of whether democracy costs time.
Experience has shown that we are able to complete important legislative procedures in two years with the new codecision procedure.
I think this shows that it is possible to have a democratic procedure which does not take an overly long time.
He listened to the European Parliament and the vast majority of his proposals were sensible, useful and even necessary to achieve proper regulation of the European securities markets and to create a genuine market in this area.
I am fully aware of the need to legislate more rapidly, especially in the interest of the development of European financial markets.
In any event, it is a guarantee against the anti-democratic practices of a committee which sits behind closed doors and takes decisions without Parliament being able to intervene.
Mr President, I will just take as read my group's support for the Lamfalussy report and for the reasoning in it.
Of course, we must understand the difference between primary law and secondary legislation as referred to in Lamfalussy.
If you want speed and substance, if you want, Commissioner and Council, the flexibility to give tomorrow's solutions to tomorrow's problems, and not to yesterday's problems, then we need to give these committees a wide latitude but be able to call back, if necessary, on reflection.
Let me turn to the bit of the debate that has not mentioned its name.
I want to know from the Council as you give us that message why do you or at least some Member States go through the back door and use annexes, attached for other reasons on sensitive issues, to the June 1999 decision and make up new comitology rules for yourselves to jump from qualified majority de facto to simply majority as leverage on the European Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must send a clear warning to the Council and the Commission that the conditions for democratic control over a fundamental issue have not been met.
To create a European financial market could be a move in the wrong direction because of the finances of unstable and discriminatory markets or an obsession with financial assets.
However, the exercise may turn out to be positive if it is a question of pooling resources to develop a productive system, social cohesion or inter-generation solidarity.
However, who can say that we are actually preparing that?
The Member States have said yes to a pan-European financial market, but they have not bothered to consider its impact.
The Committee of Wise Men had to propose an extremely complicated procedure which was typically intergovernmental, whilst a method giving powers of initiative to the European Parliament with the establishment of a European regulator who was equipped with a clear mandate would have certainly succeeded in an effective, acceptable and rapid fashion.
As you know, in this area the Council has left it to the Commission, based on decisions taken by veterinary surgeons from the Member States, to decide on measures generally taken by the Member States.
In line with this, the Commission has taken decisions which mean the introduction of certain protective measures to prevent the spread of the disease.
On 6 March this year, the Commission took further decisions to ban all transportation of animals which can contract foot-and-mouth disease across the EU and to close down markets and collection centres for animals susceptible to foot-and-mouth disease across the EU.
The EU Veterinary Committee will have its next meeting on 20 March, at which time the situation in the UK and France will be discussed again, along with possible future measures.
The Council regrets the situation in the UK and France and is closely following developments in close contact with the Commission, while at the same time Member States are taking various preventive measures.
The Council has complete confidence in the measures which have been taken in the UK and France and in the way the two countries have dealt with the problem.
An outbreak of so infectious and serious a disease as foot-and-mouth is always extraordinarily painful for everyone affected.
The Commission adopted a safeguard decision the following day, 21 February.
This measure imposed a ban on the export of certain live animals - cattle, sheep and goats - from the UK and restrictions on the export of meat, meat products, milk and milk products and certain animal products.
Since then further measures have been introduced to ban movements of livestock throughout the European Union.
I would now like to look at each of these three concerns, beginning with the incidence in the UK.
The veterinary experts remain of the view that the restrictions on animal movements will, in time, limit the potential spread of the disease.
Since the initial decision to ban exports of certain meat and meat products, dairy products and so on, there has been a ban on movements of livestock both in the UK and in other Member States.
As you are no doubt aware, a case of foot-and-mouth disease was confirmed yesterday in north-west France in the Mayenne region.
The cattle farm is next to a farm to which incubating sheep had been imported from the United Kingdom on 16 February, a few days before the UK outbreak was known about.
The slaughter and destruction of all 114 cattle in the outbreak confirmed yesterday started yesterday evening and this operation is still on-going.
The early action to restrict movements of livestock in France should also have reduced the potential spread of the disease.
The Commission is consulting urgently with the third countries concerned to establish the basis and rationale for the restrictions.
We shall, of course, be explaining the measures already in place, which make such restrictions unnecessary, and we shall make full use of our bilateral contacts and our WTO trade arrangements to have these restrictions lifted.
I have already been in contact with the US Secretary of Agriculture this afternoon regarding the measures imposed by the United States.
We agreed to remain in close contact until a solution is found and I am convinced of her goodwill in that regard.
As an example of the approach followed by the Commission, I would point to the Community approach towards Argentina.
The Commission remains nonetheless committed to a regionalisation approach in which exports can be allowed to resume in safe conditions.
On a more general level, I would once more like to defend the firm action taken by the Commission in dealing with the current outbreak.
This approach continues to enjoy the strong support of the Member States in the Standing Veterinary Committee and in the Agriculture Council.
I firmly believe that the veterinary authorities, the Member States and the Commission have been working together very closely and effectively.
The approach is also supported by EU farmers, who are very conscious of the grave threat to their livelihood from this disease.
When the crisis is over - and it is a crisis in the UK, there is no other way to describe it - we will have to review the common agricultural policy and the whole single market to assess calmly whether we have, as an economic community, sacrificed our animal health status at the high altar of trade liberalisation.
Foot-and-mouth disease was never just a UK issue and the outbreak in France tragically underlines this, if we needed reminding.
While the spread of this virulent disease has raised legitimate questions about how the UK authorities are handling it, I would like to dissociate myself and my colleagues from the intemperate and highly inappropriate comments made by certain junior ministers in the Irish Government.
Certainly each Member State is responsible in the first instance for its own animal health, but it is clear to me and my colleagues from other Member States that there is no coordinated or consistent veterinary response.
In the Republic of Ireland, where we have no outbreak, all non-essential gatherings in rural areas have been stopped.
The disease is out of control in Britain and has now spread to continental Europe.
They have explained the situation in England.
Mr President, Minister and President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, foot-and-mouth disease has arrived in France, in my own department, despite a cordon sanitaire being erected between the United Kingdom and continental Europe and despite draconian measures being taken in my country, most notably the slaughter of 20 000 sheep which arrived from Great Britain just before the decision to impose an embargo to counteract the spread of the disease.
I think we can reassure consumers, since this disease cannot be transmitted to humans, but it is more difficult to quell the fears of farmers and operators in the industry who have already had to face the terrible consequences of BSE.
For almost ten years, there have been very few outbreaks and the outbreaks in 1993 in Italy and 1996 and 2000 in Greece appear to have been rapidly brought under control.
Mr President, at this moment in time, I find it difficult to criticise the attitude which the Commission or Member States have adopted since the initial foot-and-mouth outbreak in the United Kingdom.
Each time I enter that country, I am always struck by the fact that I have to state whether I have been on a farm over the previous three weeks and whether I am bringing foodstuffs with me.
These are questions which must be tackled alongside this crisis.
The priority is to get out of the crisis.
But once the crisis has passed, apply the precautionary principle and tackle the causes rather than the consequences.
Adopt long-term measures to put an end to this atrocious form of production and to return to extensive farming.
The problem of foot-and-mouth disease can be approached from three angles: the actions which must be taken immediately or in the short term, the establishment of responsibility and the prevention of these problems in the future.
Firstly, in the short term, the economic effects of implementing a vaccination campaign would be just as bad as not implementing one and the consequences would be extremely hard to bear.
The European Union cannot suffer in silence in the face of generalised and unjustified embargoes such as Canada' s or the deviousness of the United States' behaviour towards us.
According to my calculations, only EUR 50 million is available in compensation to livestock farmers, after the latest proposed budgetary review, for foot-and-mouth disease and also for BSE.
We should also consider the risks of Community livestock farming based on the transportation of live animals and high concentrations of animals.
Therefore, we should direct aid so as to guarantee the viability of farms which present fewer environmental risks and risks to the consumer and which are necessary for maintaining the social fabric of rural life, rather than reducing aid or eliminating it altogether.
Mr President, if uncontrolled, foot-and-mouth disease has the potential to wipe out EU livestock production, culminating in major job losses in the agri-food sector and seriously disrupting normal life.
We all know that foot-and-mouth is a difficult disease to control, but its implications for European agriculture and the broader European economy require that the most stringent controls be put in place and enforced.
I call on the Commission to appoint a special task force to oversee the implementation and the enforcement of regulations in the countries concerned.
The House will understand if I highlight the seriousness of the situation for Ireland, where very strict controls already are in place.
I should like to acknowledge the understanding of the public and the level of cooperation between the authorities north and south of the border.
It is ironic that it has taken this dreaded disease to bring home to our people not just the implications for farmers but also the consequences for employment in the food industry, the impact on food exports and the economic threat to tourism and other commercial activities.
The United States and Canada have just closed their borders, placing our farmers in a very difficult situation.
Europe is built around agriculture and it has to be recognised that, in such a situation, we must call on Member States to manage the crisis, as it did in the case of BSE.
Now, the future and the survival of our farmers depend on the relevance of the decisions which need to be taken and on European solidarity.
Mr President, the clearest lessons from this foot-and-mouth epidemic are that we need greater vigilance and a new emphasis on animal health, stricter controls on imports from countries where the disease is endemic on swill-feed plants and livestock farms, on animal transport and contingency plans for disasters such as this.
The Union can play an important role in helping to rebuild those economies.
Mr President, a thorough investigation is certainly required into the implications of the foot-and-mouth outbreak.
Indeed it is a crisis: 225 cases at present, a quarter of a million animals to be slaughtered!
Mr President, I want to thank the Council and Commission for coming in response to Parliament's decision on Monday to have this debate.
Food industry workers, the tourism industry, sporting events and everyday social life are all victims of the efforts to stop the spread of the disease.
While that has been acceptable up to now, we must not dismiss out of hand a review which balances the costs involved in continuing with the current approach and its impact on other key industries and on the freedom of citizens to get on with their lives.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the disease which is now threatening a borderless Europe may contribute to increasing the citizens' crisis of confidence in both national and Community institutions.
First of all, regarding globalisation, it should be stressed that foot-and-mouth disease was prevalent - even endemic - in many Member States in the past when trade was a tiny fraction of present levels.
Many measures advocated by Members such as restrictions on sporting events, for example, are simply outside the competence of the Commission and outside the Treaties.
With regard to controls, I should also emphasise that it is likely that this outbreak commenced in the United Kingdom as a result of illegal activity.
Thank you very much, Mr Byrne, for replying so concisely.
The debate is closed.
Question Time (Council) The next item is Question Time (B5-0018/01).
At the European Council in Nice, Member States once again repeated their aim to bring the Union and its institutions closer to their citizens.
Although your Prime Minister will make a wonderful speech here in the plenary in July, reporting on the presidency, a speech in this chamber is not the same as a comfortable talk to the peoples of Europe.
I really do urge you - the publications, the seminars, the debates that you organise in Brussels are not the way to reach 300 million people the length and breadth of Europe.
Question No 3 by (H-0229/01): Subject: Strengthening dialogue with Europe's citizens Europe's citizens are very interested in matters relating to the European Union.
The Commission's Dialogue on Europe has enabled it to meet members of the public regularly all over the Member States.
This decision will enter into force on 1 May 2001.
Despite this, the Council will naturally continue its analysis in order to further improve the dialogue with the EU' s citizens on the Council' s work.
The decisions taken in the EU are extremely important for us European citizens, as they affect our daily lives.
The decision, which we anticipate it will be possible to take on 19 March, does not go as far as the Ombudsman has proposed, but must be seen as a step in the right direction.
Question No 4 by (H-0145/01): Subject: Passports for Swedes travelling within the Nordic region From 25 March 2001, Sweden and the other Nordic countries will take part in Schengen cooperation.
According to the Nordic passport union, which some of us of course defend passionately, citizens in the Nordic countries have the right to travel within the territory of the Nordic countries without having to show their passports.
The agreements on the accession of Denmark, Finland and Sweden to the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement and the agreements between the Council of the European Union and Iceland and Norway concerning the association of these states in the implementation, application and development of the Schengen acquis contain a provision stating that these agreements must not constitute a barrier to cooperation within the framework of the Nordic passport union to the extent that this does not oppose or obstruct implementation of the agreements.
Once the Nordic countries have joined in the practical Schengen cooperation, the citizens of the Nordic countries will still have the right to travel within the territory of the Nordic countries and spend the night at hotels, camping sites etc.
The implementation of the Schengen acquis in the Nordic countries will not therefore entail citizens having to show their passports.
Consequently, Swedish citizens will also be able to travel within the Nordic countries without a passport after 25 March 2001.
But, partly via Danish newspapers and partly via the Swedish publication Från Riksdag &amp; Departement, as well as through my membership of the SAS Euro Bonus system, I have received information that passports will have to be carried even after the Schengen agreement takes effect.
As they deal with the same subject, Questions Nos 5 and 6 will be taken together.
Question No 5 by (H-0147/01): Subject: Integration of environmental aspects into the development sector of the Council's work What are the Council's (development) plans in regard to the drawing up of a comprehensive and coherent strategy for integrating the environmental dimension into its policies, containing a set of indicators and a timetable for further measures, as requested in the Helsinki conclusions?
Within the course of its regular and continuous contacts with the European Parliament, the presidency of the Council has, since the Council's meeting in Cardiff in 1998, informed the European Parliament of the state of the process of integrating concern for the environment into other relevant areas of Community policy.
According to the work programme, decisions in the area will be debated in more detail at a number of meetings during the spring: in March as regards fishing, in April for transport and agriculture, in May for energy, industry and development, and in June as regards the internal market.
The conclusions from the ECOFIN Council, which were submitted to the European Council in Nice, are still regarded as valid.
As far as the strategy for the Council (General Affairs) is concerned, the Council is awaiting a working document from the Commission which, together with a document from the presidency, will constitute the basis for a Council decision to be adopted in the spring.
The Swedish Presidency's work programme for development cooperation contains the discussion of a strategy for integrating concern for the environment into development policy.
The presidency will use all of these contributions as the basis for drawing up a coherent strategy which will summarise the results of the environmental integration process, with proposals for how these results will be monitored.
Mr President, I appreciate from the Council' s answer that fish are to be discussed at a later date, but I should nonetheless like to know how likely it is that the Cardiff integration process will take account of environmental problems in connection with external aspects of other EU policies, such as the damage to the environment resulting from the fisheries agreements with the West African states.
I think that it can probably be said that the high ambitions of the Cardiff process have, to a reasonable extent, been reflected in the form of increased resources.
The question of evaluation mechanisms in the integrated strategy is extremely important and relevant.
It is easier in certain areas.
However, it can be more difficult in other fields, for example, for Council constellations like ECOFIN or General Affairs.
Question No 7 by (H-0150/01): Subject: Provisional Judicial Cooperation Unit The Council is setting up a Provisional Judicial Cooperation Unit as a first step towards the establishment of the Eurojust unit.
However, the Italian Parliament is still trying to obtain more information on at least 368 journeys which Mr Caselli made in connection with meetings unrelated to official business, and on the costs incurred in connection with those journeys.
I can answer that very concisely: this is entirely a matter for the Member States, which have the right to appoint national members themselves within the framework of the Council Decision of 14 December 2000.
But it seems to me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that not everybody shares this view, at least in this Parliament.
The European Parliament would at least like to have a power of consultation in this matter and to know what criteria the Council, and not just the Member States, adopts.
Question No 8 by (H-0152/01): Subject: Deletion of references to nationality from identity papers and illegal naturalisation in Greece The findings of the committee of inquiry into the Greek general elections (9 April 2000) revealed that thousands of people who were not entitled to Greek nationality had become illegally naturalised and that a large number of irregularities had occurred in this connection.
Mrs Kinnock has withdrawn Question No 9.
The Union and the United States stated at that time that, together, they could promote their common values, their common security and their common welfare in a more effective way than either of them could on their own.
It was also pointed out that the new transatlantic agenda signed in Madrid in December 1995 has strengthened the opportunities for these entities to manage their tasks in Europe on a more structured basis on both sides of the Atlantic and elsewhere.
With regard to a European security and defence policy, it was noted more specifically in the presidency's report to the European Council in Nice that NATO, with regard to its Member States, remains the basis for the common defence of its members and will continue to play an important part in crisis management.
America has, in its most recent statements, confirmed its commitment in this respect.
At the conference last year on the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the European Union maintained the importance of the Antiballistic Missile Treaty, also known as the ABM Treaty, as one of the pillars of strategic stability.
One of these issues is precisely this question of National Missile Defence.
We need further assurances and guarantees on transparency and market consultation and on democratic oversight, but I hope we and the other two European Union institutions can find a way to make these proposals work.
This is an important political opportunity which should not be wasted and I am glad to hear that the Commission is taking a pragmatic view on its right of initiative.
All three institutions will need to show goodwill and make sacrifices and compromises if this arrangement is to work, but it is a prize well worth fighting for because the single market in securities will yield many benefits for the people we are elected to represent.
I am not speaking as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs but as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and I would like to express my agreement with the comments by Mr Cox, Mr Goebbels and Mr Herzog.
We all agree that Community legislation is very complicated, very ornate and very complex, but the reason why Community legislation is so complicated and ornate is the intergovernmental procedure which is used to adopt regulations and the lack of a genuine Community legislative body which has the capacity to adopt clear regulations.
The comitology procedure currently proposed by the Lamfalussy report would create many more camels and would not create satisfactory legislation.
The solution lies in creating a clear legislative procedure which allows Parliament to effectively exercise its powers.
It is generally rare in politics to make such clear proposals and I thank this committee for them.
This is a requirement that we should propose if we want to achieve a genuinely viable European internal market for financial services within the next few years.
In the codecision procedure Parliament and the Council are the bosses and all the others the secretaries.
Certainly, the Commission would like to see the pension fund directive become a reality as soon as possible.
However, certain articles in the Treaty concerning the internal market mention directives and not regulations.
Mr Goebbels asked if the new procedures would speed up legislation.
Mr Goebbels then asked whether the Securities Committee would consist of Secretaries of State.
So I cannot comment on that.
As I said, Member States will nominate their own representatives.
The Commission wholeheartedly endorses that.
The procedures set out in this report are not intergovernmental.
For example, the Securities Committee - which is an important committee in this respect - will not be a Council working group.
The decision of the Lamfalussy committee not to propose a single European regulator at this stage is the result of a full and thorough consultation process.
Mr Medina Ortega said that the European Union's legislation is complex, which is true.
The fact that there are 15 Member States further complicates the procedure.
In many Member States - in Germany and the Netherlands for example - there is a definite procedure for dealing with secondary legislation, which the European Union lacks.
Parliament, the Council and the Commission would be well advised to think about the need for a proper system of dealing with secondary legislation.
The Commission firmly believes that we ought to find a solution within the Treaty - which means Articles 202 and 211 - and that we should stay within the confines of the comitology decision of June 1999.
Firstly, the Commission will take full account of a resolution approved by Parliament.
If the directive contains broad principles and executive measures and Parliament does not agree that a certain executive measure should be called that and relegated to level 2, then Parliament should say so and amend the directive to say that a particular implementing measure should be elevated to the status of a general principle and therefore be dealt with under level 1.
Fourthly, in the year 2004 there will be a review of the whole process and this - my fifth point - will be steered by the Monitoring Committee, an interinstitutional committee on which Parliament will be represented.
The Commission cannot and will not do so.
I cannot speak for the Council.
The Council proceedings are not open and therefore it is very difficult to comment.
After all, a single majority vote is almost never mentioned in the Treaty.
Mrs Randzio-Plath referred this afternoon to a callback procedure or equivalent measure, or words to that effect.
If Mrs Randzio-Plath or any other Member of this Parliament then says it is time we changed the comitology decision, I am out of my depth.
The debate is closed.
I should like to point out that the Lamfalussy report and this economic report were originally scheduled for the beginning of the day and that the rapporteur arranged this evening' s discussion with voters in his constituency some time ago.
The internal market of the European Union will then become a real European home market, at least for the members of the euro zone.
Twelve Member States will belong to this European home market, in which individuals and companies will all share a common currency.
Another positive factor is that the rate of unemployment is falling and we have created 2.5 million new jobs in the European Union over recent years.
Yet another positive factor is the improvement in public finances - and the concomitant reduction in the rate of inflation - and long-term price stability.
It has all the right talents: the economic clout of 12 of the 15 Member States of the EU, low rates of inflation, falling national debts and historically low interest rates.
The situation in the euro zone, with over 2.5 million new jobs in three years is good, although caution is needed in the face of the slowdown in the United States.
There is the threat of weakening exports and increasing problems in funding social security systems.
We must improve the framework conditions for innovative start ups.
The social partners' agenda needs to include maintaining jobs for older people, creating more jobs and giving employees a share in company profits.
The social market economy is more than just an economic model.
This social model will be the basis for the new European home market which Karl von Wogau has been forecasting, and that does have a future.
Of course, nothing is perfect in this imperfect world and, as the rapporteur points out, the rate of inflation is set to exceed 2%, the stability criteria set by the European Bank, for the second year running, but not to a sufficiently serious extent to give us particular cause for concern.
Not, as you might assume, for ideological reasons, although of course ideological reasons are not easily dismissed, but for reasons of competitiveness.
These three factors form a unit, each feeds the other and they express the exact link between social solidarity and economic competitiveness.
We believe that equal weight must be given to social aspects such as equal opportunities, a fair distribution of income and closing the gap between the rich and the poor.
We have always argued that, in the Europe of the euro, there should be a genuine and well-defined leadership for economic and monetary policy.
It is well known that, at the moment, it is produced by means of negotiations between ECOFIN and the Commission, with the intervention of Parliament.
The broad guidelines are clearly a fundamental element, but - I repeat - it is still in our view a substitute for what should be a genuine economic and monetary policy at European Union level with the opportunity to act in a more direct manner.
The first is to push ahead with the process of liberalisation in sectors such as telecommunications, postal services, railways, etc., sectors which still hinder the possibility of achieving higher levels of competitiveness and a single market which functions better.
This better functioning - as Parliament approved in my report on structural reforms and liberalisation - would in particular guarantee a profound reform of the labour markets, an essential element, firstly, in better adapting to the economic and social needs of European society and, secondly, in achieving what we need, that is, higher levels of productivity in order to be competitive on an international level.
Mr President, it is true that the European economy appears to have grown quite solidly over recent years.
But we must also back and reform our education systems so that the lack of expertise threatening us does not in fact become a reality.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Commission' s report on the state of the Union economy in 2000 and, in part, the von Wogau report itself, do not fail to underline how the halting progress of the euro has been, even in the perception of the financial markets, attributable at least in part to the absence of sufficiently coordinated action by the eurozone governments to promote a policy of economic growth and development in the field of employment.
The impression we are giving is that the European Union is very passive.
Allow me to make three observations.
Firstly, the analysis of economic conditions presented by the Central Bank and by the Commission could, in fact, be summed up more or less by a slowdown in the global space, even though, for us, the growth indicators are good for the next few months, that is for the coming 18 months, and do not encourage us to budge.
We are lamentably lacking initiatives to consolidate the potential and perhaps real growth of the European Union.
For my part, I would lay great stress on the need for public and private investments and on the accumulated delays in the matter of research and training.
In the words of Emilio Gabaglio, the impression is that we are witnessing a sort of derailment between Lisbon and Stockholm.
We should give concrete expression to our desire to develop knowledge and skills in the European Union in the form of a spectacular initiative.
The debate between competition and service of general interest has only just started.
I also agree with the point some of you have made in relation to the importance of this moment in time, since we are now less than 300 days away from the introduction of the euro.
However, as always, I must repeat that we often confuse the introduction of notes and coins on 1 January next year with the introduction of the euro which took place on 1 January 1999, and which has already brought us clear benefits and positive results, as some of you have pointed out.
We must not rest on our laurels, because this healthy economic situation nevertheless masks certain deficiencies, certain problems caused by external factors, a certain lack of ambition in considering budgets and, above all, there are certain risks caused, in particular, by the development of economies such as the US economy.
In relation to this specific point, however, I would like to insist that the euro is also protecting us from the process of slowdown, which is affecting economies outside the European Union.
In our report on the 2000 review of the Union' s economy, the Commission studied the impact of expenditure and production in information and communication technologies and the advantages they could provide in relation to the possible increase in our growth potential.
Clearly, the structural reforms to which Mr Gasòliba referred are a fundamental point, but we must also focus on other shortcomings.
We also have to improve research and, at the same time, increase professional training for the new technologies.
There is no doubt that we have made progress and that is clear from the report on the implementation of this year' s broad economic policy guidelines, but we must not view this progress as completely satisfactory.
The Commission still insists on the need to continue making progress on these issues and, as you know, the Commission just yesterday presented new proposals to move ahead on the liberalisation of the energy market.
We are aware that we have to seek a balance between liberalisation and regulation in order to achieve the best possible economic results from this process.
A better combination of fiscal reforms and supply systems will certainly have a positive influence on the behaviour of the working population, as it must also help to create a better balance between wages and productivity on a local level, improve employment in certain areas and will also have a positive influence on certain factors such as the mobility of labour or better work organisation.
Another concern, which we do not believe is sufficiently highlighted in this report, concerns the problems of the long-term sustainability of public finances.
The problems relating to the ageing of the population are going to be one of the key issues and in order to deal with them we are clearly going to have to take measures on public debt and measures for improving the labour market, by achieving a greater level of activity, a greater level of employment, in particular of women and older workers, which can also help to counter some of these effects, as will reforms of the current social security systems which are coherent with employment and sustainability of the model.
I would like to thank all of you for your speeches, your comments and your positive contributions to the report, which we will take into account when it comes to drawing up our proposed broad economic policy guidelines for next year.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Mr President, as you can see, this is not exactly a hotly debated issue in Parliament today.
As soon as we started the discussion in Parliament we heard from the Commission and Council representatives that there might still be some problems in the Council concerning this mainly technical initiative.
After listening to the Council's worries I decided to table some amendments to the Commission proposal in order to reach a wide consensus at first reading.
It is of great importance that information on the Member States' accounts is comparable.
Comparison of this information is one of the prerequisites for economic coordination in the Union.
The differing statistics on unemployment are one of the best-known examples.
Different ways of compiling, calculating and documenting data on real unemployment renders comparisons between Member States difficult.
The possibility of reliable comparison of statistical information on the accounts also increases the transparency of our public administrations.
I hope that we in the European Parliament can prevent this from applying to statistical information within the Union.
The Commission proposal initially gave rise to concerns in the Council working group.
Excluding swaps and forward rate agreements from the deficit calculations under the excessive deficit procedure would indeed place an unnecessary constraint on the market activities of the national debt managers.
Swaps, forward rate agreements and other financial derivatives may, in some cases, reduce the cost of government borrowing and are, as such, useful tools for debt management.
I introduced separate treatment for swaps and forward rate agreements, thus paving the way for a first reading agreement on this dossier.
My personal view is that I would not like to take this dossier to second reading or to speak on this issue again in this Chamber.
I hope this issue will be swiftly dealt with, not only in the sitting tomorrow, but subsequently in the Council.
The technical nature of this issue should make this possible.
In this respect, I can also inform you that the amendments tabled by the rapporteur are perfectly acceptable to the Commission.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
Two 1999 Council Regulations represent the legal basis for transforming our role into a substantial commitment.
Under no circumstances - especially not in this specific case - can Parliament be regarded as a mere notary, called upon to ratify an electoral process or the quality of an electoral process.
Our legitimacy and our function are political in nature and our presence in the Union' s observation missions - our proper political role - can represent added value for the European Union.
Another fundamental point is the need for institutional coordination between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
In our opinion, a greater and different kind of flexibility in the European Union' s commitment criteria is needed.
Moreover, strategy consists of rules and objectives.
We want to continue to make our resources available, and not just economic resources but the resources of our democratic heritage and our political commitment as well.
And the European Union, as a multinational organisation of fifteen developed democracies, clearly has a duty as well as a significant role to play in all the global efforts to promote democratisation, sustainable development and peaceful progress.
I would like to welcome this communication from the Commission which provides the necessary clarity on these issues and a real focus on how the European Union should proceed and probably do these things better in the future.
Our credibility is at stake here and I welcome the opportunity offered to us by the Commission to define a very clear and shared vision of Europe's role in the democratic process in countries all over the world.
Not only should the units focus on the elections themselves, but also the period in the run-up to the elections, because it is often important to know whether candidates and parties are given fair chances before the elections.
My second point is that observers must be well prepared, so that all participants are aware of the potential problems they could run into in the country they are visiting.
The members of the delegations must leave for the countries in question in good time in order to observe the electoral preparations.
In addition, it is of course useful and necessary for the delegations to establish good working relations with other organisations, such as the Council of Europe and the OSCE.
Citizens are required, on certain occasions, to cast their vote, but the process of building democracy is a daily task.
I therefore feel that the European Union' s action must be directed at ensuring long-term democratic stability in developing countries through the efficient funding of the corresponding programmes, in which the Commission has a crucial role to play.
I should like, Mr President, to focus very briefly on the role that the European Parliament should play in these processes.
The European Union is the world' s largest donor of development aid and I think it is therefore appropriate that the European Parliament should have a role to play in this type of process.
Mr President, it is unfortunate that free and fair elections are still not a matter of course in many countries.
The sending of observers is therefore very useful, but can also entail risks.
A small nucleus of long-term observers may be able to offer a solution here.
In the past, economic or strategic interests have too often got in the way of the interests of democracy and human rights, unfortunately.
Mr President, Commissioner, I was honoured to be asked by Commissioner Patten to lead the EU electoral observation mission to Sri Lanka.
The credibility of an EU observation mission's final report will depend to a significant degree on the perceived and actual independence of its work.
It is absolutely imperative that neither the chief electoral observer nor any of the team pursues a political agenda in relation to the country they are observing.
This means that the integrity of the team must never be compromised by actions which could be construed as having a bias towards any political party or grouping or NGO.
I was fortunate that this was my experience in Sri Lanka.
It is also desirable that the composition of the EU team should not only draw upon youthful idealism and enthusiasm but should also have considerable depth and wealth of experience.
The Union supports and intends to continue supporting election processes in countries in transition towards established democracy as a key element in our external relations policy.
The communication was designed to boost our performance in this whole area.
First, a few remarks on coordination and information among the European Union institutions, which I consider to be absolutely essential.
Our coordination should begin with a definition of European Union priorities, based on an exchange of views on an election calendar which the Commission now produces.
Normally the advanced part of the European Union election mission will start at least five or six weeks before the polling day.
The core mission must be experienced and have appropriate technical expertise.
As the Commission notes, MEPs, as elected representatives, have a profound knowledge of all aspects of electoral issues.
The Commission wants to cooperate fully with the Parliament in this respect and to integrate any parliamentary delegation, if it so wishes, into the European Union election observation mission.
When participating in missions observers are, of course, bound by the European Union code of conduct for electoral observation and the general principle that the European Union must speak with one voice.
The visibility of European Union action is important.
The Commission believes that the recommendations of our missions must be built into development strategies and also into our political dialogue with the country concerned.
On coordination with other organisations and the building up of domestic capacities, I would like to stress that the European Union has worked with many international organisations and NGOs on election assistance and observation and we intend to use the same approach in the future.
The European Union stands above all for democracy and the values enshrined in the rule of law, pluralism and civil liberties.
The report that was adopted in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy only features certain proposals connected with the implementation of the strategy and some supplementary proposals.
On the other hand, it recommends that the Union should improve cooperation to help Ukraine solve these problems.
The western parts of the country were, for a long time, part of Poland or Austria-Hungary, and there the Russian population is relatively small.
The Union must seek to bring about a situation where Ukraine can unify and have balanced relations with Russia, on the one hand, and the West, the European Union and NATO, on the other.
Ukraine now clearly orientates itself towards Europe.
We have to encourage and support the country in this.
Paragraph 56 of the report reiterates the idea of a new European area that would be based on a market economy and free trade, protection of the environment, democracy, human rights and security.
Paragraph 57 calls on the Council to develop a comprehensive pan-European policy for the Union by combining the enlargement process with the bilateral and multilateral external relations of the Union.
My own thoughts are that creating a new European area as a separate organisation could easily come into conflict with the fora that already exist.
Finally, I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, and, especially, the 'shadow' rapporteurs for their constructive attitude to the report.
The 21 paragraphs of the draft contained everything that was essential, in my view.
But we should look upon these efforts in positive terms and with understanding.
It is almost impossible to talk about Ukraine without reference to nuclear power.
I believe I am the only Member of this Parliament who has visited Chernobyl, Khmelnitsky and Rivne, the three stations which have featured frequently in our debates.
Our financial support should encompass the whole sector.
I hope that this report will be strongly supported tomorrow and that the Members of the Rada will see in its adoption an emphatic endorsement of their wish for ever-closer relations with the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the common strategy of the European Union on Ukraine comes before plenary at a time when it is no longer possible to keep track of the symptoms of crisis in this huge, important country at the crossroads between east and west.
The common strategy on Ukraine and the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with it rightly seek to consolidate democracy, the economy and society and bring Ukraine closer to the EU's system of values.
This is all the more important in that Ukraine plays a fundamental role in European security, both as a result of its commitment in ex-Yugoslavia and its involvement in the Partnership for Peace, as the Charter on a Distinctive Partnership with NATO proves.
The Ukraine also plays an important role in the network of relations between the EU and Russia and as a regional force for order.
The Väyrynen report shows how we can help Ukraine to help itself and extend our mutual relations.
I am aware of my responsibility as Chairman of the Interparliamentary delegation, but I also believe that it is important for us to be critical on occasions.
The EU' s common strategy with regard to Ukraine is the practical expression of a clear, political stance, namely that Ukraine forms an integral part of our continent, that welfare and stability in Ukraine have a substantial impact on welfare and stability in the rest of Europe, and that, for that reason, the European Union is willing to assume part of the responsibility for the democratic, economic and social development in that country.
Part of the EU' s responsibility is also to express our concern about the issues which relate to the fundamental human rights and civil rights in that country.
As Delegation Chairman and co-chairman of the EU-Ukraine cooperation committee, I have already called for further investigations, also with regard to the brutal and harsh manner in which demonstrations have been broken up in Ukraine.
The explosive situation in Ukraine makes this report very much one of its time.
The Union now needs a clear common strategy for its policy on Ukraine.
There is good reason to criticise the country for its serious shortcomings in the areas of human rights, democracy and freedom of speech, among others.
This is something the rapporteur also referred to in his speech.
Ukraine also needs a comprehensive energy plan to which the country' s government and leaders can commit.
Mr President, when we talk of the strategy on Ukraine, the question of the finality of the EU resonates in the background and hence the question of whether or not Ukraine, as an important European country, has a chance of one day becoming a member of the European Union.
This on-going scandal is also affecting the European Union.
Mr President, in Parliament earlier today there was some discussion about the future shape and direction of the European Union post-Nice.
There is much about these plans and ambitions to which some of us might object, but one of the strengths of the European Union at its simplest is its role as a pole of attraction for countries that have not had the benefits of democracy, the rule of law and economic prosperity.
The prospect of European Union affiliation or membership is a great incentive for countries that have lived under communism for many generations to put their political and economic house in order and to resolve long-standing problems with neighbouring states.
They border Ukraine, a country of enormous geopolitical significance, whose very existence is a major factor in the security and stability of Europe, but where recent developments are cause for concern.
Let me touch very briefly on one very specific aspect: the issue of anti-personnel landmines.
Following the political upheaval in central and eastern Europe, association agreements were concluded in a bid to help these countries one day become members of the European Community or Union.
The principle of exclusivity, whereby a candidate country is either fully assimilated into the EU or is completely excluded should be replaced by the following concept: any country which thinks of itself as either partly or wholly European, such as Ukraine, should be given the opportunity to decide if, and to what extent, it is willing and able to subscribe to European policy.
Mr President, I would like to sincerely thank Finland's former Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Väyrynen, for his admirable work.
On 7 February this year, the Swedish Presidency commented on the general situation in Ukraine and, at that time, highlighted the disappearance of the journalist, Georgiy Gongadze, whose fate touches us all.
As the first Vice-Chairman of the European Parliament's delegation to these three countries, I am concerned about this development.
I would like to direct two questions to Commissioner Patten, who is doing an excellent job for the EU as regards foreign policy.
Firstly, I wonder how the Tacis programme and the partnership and cooperation agreement can help to strengthen ethical and moral principles, particularly in the areas of commerce, politics and civil society - something that is necessary in a country like Ukraine.
The situation is particularly worrying, given that Ukraine will share such a long border with the European Union after the first round of enlargement.
As the report points out, Ukraine has, alas, lost a lot of time, but it is a country with a vast potential in terms of economic and human resources.
In January, President Prodi had a long conversation on this case with President Kuchma when they met in Berlin.
I am sure Parliament will have seen the statement that the Swedish Presidency released prior to the recent ministerial troika visit to Ukraine.
The only way to deal with this issue is complete transparency in the short term and adequate checks and balances in the longer term.
The Swedish Presidency has included the European Union's support for the establishment of a free media in Ukraine in its working programme on the implementation of the common strategy.
We are also ready to provide technical assistance.
The report rightly stresses the need to promote economic growth and trade in Ukraine, but for this the conditions must be right.
In Ukraine the private sector still accounts for less than a quarter of GDP.
It is also a key condition in the memorandum of understanding of 1995 on the closure of the Chernobyl nuclear plant.
Together with our international partners we are following Ukraine's progress in reforming the energy sector very closely and we are providing substantial assistance in close cooperation with the Ukrainian authorities.
Gas and electricity market reform is also one of the priority projects in the TACIS Action Programme 2000.
I am glad that the report finds the main focus of the TACIS Programme for the Ukraine appropriate.
The report has proposed enhanced attention to certain activities.
I can confirm that a number of them are indeed being incorporated into both the TACIS Indicative Programme for 2000 to 2003 and the Ukraine Action Programme 2000.
This goes for projects concerning institutional, legal and administrative reform as well as assistance for private sector development, economic development, development of NGOs and civil society.
Addressing the social consequences of transition in the health sector and the labour market is another important part of TACIS activities.
Mr Van Orden referred to the stockpile of anti-personnel landmines in Ukraine.
In terms of our political agenda we can now focus on other issues: on the rule of law, on democratic checks and balances, on stimulating trade and investment, on setting the framework for cooperation in justice and home affairs and on the relationship between Ukraine and the European Union after enlargement.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Patten.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon.
The report expresses our full support as regards the role the European Commission can play in terms of organisation and management of the Internet, representing all the Member States of the Union.
We therefore urge the Commission to cooperate with these positive tactics by the US Government in order to carry this process of independence and autonomy of the Internet and its governing bodies right through to a conclusion.
The key problem facing Europe, which must, of course, be dealt with by the competent party, is how to close the gap behind the United States in this sector and other more advanced parts of the world.
The United States Government has played an important and benign role because the initial Internet developers and technologists came from a United States background.
This report quite rightly draws attention to the very crucial role that the European Union has to play in achieving this transition.
The other important issue is the role of public authorities.
International governance of the Internet owes its success so far to the fact that it is not based on complex international treaties.
On the one hand the crash in share prices and a spate of bankruptcies in the industry and, on the other hand, a huge demand for and a huge fascination with this industry, which is extremely widely used.
But we need something more.
As early as 11 April 2000, the Commission submitted its communication on Internet policy 1998 - 2000 and we know that the ICANN meeting in Melbourne was concluded yesterday.
The report raises many other important issues, including those that were debated in preparation for the summit in Stockholm.
I am extremely grateful that the Commission and other Member States want to raise this serious issue in Stockholm.
It is a new technology and it is only a good new technology if a lot of people can use it.
The digital divide mainly runs between north and south and this is a huge problem because in the south hardly anyone has access to the Internet.
So I hope this Internet board - and Europe too - will remember that, as well as the commercial Internet, there is also a social Internet for old people and pensioners.
Mr President, the report involuntarily illustrates the extent to which the EU is lagging behind on two counts which are of crucial importance in today' s world: one is a working democracy and the other is Internet practicalities.
At the same time I wish to thank the members of Parliament for this debate.
The Commission began to monitor these matters closely in 1997, when discussions started in the United States regarding the future of the management of the Internet.
As Mr Carraro said, relations with the USA in this field are important, when we take account of the fact that the US congress and a part of the private sector is inclined sometimes to deny or ignore the Internet' s global dimension.
It is most gratifying that Parliament' s report should be in agreement with this policy and that the Commission' s actions have the support of both Parliament and the Council.
I am also ready to accept the general aims with regard to the administration of the ICANN, which have been set out in paragraph 8 of Parliament' s resolution.
Many European organisations and companies were represented at the meeting this week in Melbourne.
Paragraph 15 of Parliament' s resolution also refers to codes of conduct, best practice and legislation in this area.
We can take appropriate action to promote and speed up the self-regulation process with the private sector and other governments, for example, within the framework of the Governmental Advisory Committee.
The national registries and the principles they are based on are very largely within the competence of the Member States.
Finally, may I say that the Commission agrees with the rapporteur about the importance of liberalising the telecommunications industry and investing in the backbone Internet capacity both in Europe and internationally.
The Commission will notify the Council and specialists in the field in the Member States of the contents of Parliament' s report.
Firstly, because specific events occurred in 2000 which have had an effect on the workings and even the very identity of the Joint Assembly, but also because we deliberately wanted to give the report a somewhat innovative approach.
In addition, therefore, to the traditional reminder of hard data on the activity of the Assembly for that year, we opened a more politically-charged debate on the role of the Assembly itself and, what is more, on how we should view the role of the Members of the European Parliament in the Assembly.
Similarly, the debate on this annual report should be an opportunity for Parliament to guide the work of its representatives in the Joint Parliamentary Assembly over the coming months.
Above all, 2000 marks a turning point in the European Union' s cooperation with the ensemble of the 77 States from Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific that are already associated members.
The effective implementation of the Treaty is also, undoubtedly, the most significant development this year for the Assembly.
Amongst the challenges that remain, the Treaty provides for the mobilisation of civil society, which is the collaborative fabric required for its very implementation, and here we need to consider how we can ensure that this is achieved efficiently and without confusion, putting each person in the right position for him or for her.
One of the prime conditions for achieving this is for the European Parliament to assume full responsibility for work in the Joint Assembly and to give this work the priority it deserves.
I would ask you to vote in favour of the former.
The latter seeks to remove a paragraph that was added to my initial proposal in an amendment by Mr Van den Bos, of the Liberal Group, which was approved in committee.
I should also like to thank my fellow members of that committee and all of you for your attention and for your votes, which I hope will be favourable tomorrow.
Our task now is to act as the watchdog to ensure that those mutual commitments on trade and aid are fully realised.
Trade access is the key to development for our ACP partners, just as it is the acid test for Europe's genuine commitment to put development first.
The Commission, through its quality support group, we in the Joint Assembly, and not least the beneficiary governments should all uphold our responsibilities in this respect.
This includes, for example, recent welcome moves to national dialogue by Joseph Kabila in the Congo, the democratic alternation of power in Cape Verde, the tentative maintenance of the peace agreement between Ethiopia and Eritrea and, as we saw for ourselves in the Joint Assembly last year, the entrenchment of democracy in post-Abacha Nigeria.
I, myself, will be serving quaint British cherry Bakewell tarts to users at the Suffolk Learning and Resource Centre in Bungay and will then go on to sell handshakes at 10p each to schoolchildren at the Highwood Infant School in King's Lynn, Norfolk.
Not only should the European Parliament congratulate everyone involved, we should underline that through such creative public exercises our electors show us that they back the political commitment to development, embraced in our partnership with Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific and marked by tonight's debate.
This means that only democratically elected representatives, without exception, have the right to participate and to express their views within the Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
But a single representative for each ACP country prevents opposition representatives from gaining access and expressing their views and hence obscures political pluralist expression in these countries.
Moreover, the principle of one vote for each country in the ACP group as opposed to one vote for each person on the European side is not a fair one.
The very structure of this Assembly is therefore unbalanced.
Secondly, the Joint Parliamentary Assembly has taken on a new role, but decision-making powers are not everything.
But the Assembly must continue to reflect on its composition, its function and its powers so that, in 2001, it can become a joint, fair Parliamentary Assembly.
We have built many of Mr Martínez Martínez's ideas into the new rules.
It is therefore fitting that the Joint Parliamentary Assembly should begin to reflect on how it will adapt to the changes introduced by the next agreement, particularly in promoting increased dialogue with our development partners on such topics as peace-keeping and good governance.
The rapporteur suggests that in this new context the Joint Parliamentary Assembly is now ready to take its place as a true parliamentary authority and welcomes the changes introduced by the Cotonou Agreement to strengthen the Assembly.
I fully agree with the rapporteur on the role that political dialogue can play in the ACP regions and countries, which can often be characterised by a climate of instability.
It is therefore important to take advantage of the possibilities for peaceful and constructive exchanges of views as part of a process of dialogue within ACP regions and countries involving government and civil society.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12 noon. (The sitting was closed at 12 midnight)
