At the same time, let me draw your attention to the Commission's report on the functioning of the transitional arrangements for the enlargement of 1 May 2004, and in particular to the finding that the arrival of workers from the accession Member States has had a beneficial effect and actually helped to reduce imbalances in national labour markets, without the newcomers largely taking the place of local jobseekers.
This report also found that there have been overall positive effects on the economies of the EU 15 Member States, with workers from the new Member States contributing to a better functioning of the labour markets, to sustained economic growth and to better public finances.
It is without doubt a prerogative of those countries, as for any other Member State.
I am proud of having in my previous capacity helped the Prime Minister of the Member State I know best to draft his speech on 1 May 2004 when he declared that Member State - Finland - was likely to remove the restrictions on free movement of workers from the new Member States.
I should firstly like to congratulate the Commission on its efforts in the area of free movement.
Secondly, I would like to congratulate those Member States which have opened their borders to the free movement of labour from the new Member States.
Therefore we can continue to argue the case so that we have positive benchmarks, like those two countries and other countries such as the Member State you know best.
Subject: Duty-free sales within the new aviation security regulations Following the 6 November introduction of new EU aviation security regulations, concerns have been raised as to how the new regulations will affect the global duty-free market.
However, I wonder whether you appreciate the anger that will be felt by many EU citizens and visitors from the rest of the world coming to the European Union this Christmas who, having brought premium Scottish whisky and other products into an airport like Frankfurt or London, from where they are going on to other airports like Edinburgh or Glasgow, discover that their duty-free goods are confiscated at that airport.
The Commission and the Community is doing what it can to further open up the system in place with regard to the European Union, although it will probably be quite difficult to achieve significant results in the very short term, and therefore before Christmas, as this calls for negotiations with third countries in order to achieve similar positions to ours.
According to Article 17 of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004, the Commission will submit to Parliament and the Council a report on the application of this regulation in the EU Member States.
I will, however, pass on the remarks that you have made to Vice-President Barrot in order to see whether anything further can be done, although as I pointed out in my reply to the question, the Commission does not envisage coming up with additional measures before the final results of the assessment - which is being carried out by an external consultant - are known.
I will also refer to Vice-President Barrot for his attention the specific comments you have made with regard to last night's events concerning Air France. (DE) Madam President, the extreme security precautions in response to the threat of terrorism are more and more frequently the cause of extreme delays, and such security measures do, of course, also cost a great deal of money.
In response to the question by Mr Davies as to when the Commission will introduce measures to end the discard of by-catch by fishing vessels, I should like to point out first of all that the Commission considers discarding to be a serious problem in European fisheries, and is committed to acting on this issue as a priority.
They tell me that their inshore fishery currently produces some 70-80% discards on vessels above 10 metres.
Question No 41 has been withdrawn.
Subject: Action taken by the Commission on the recommendations set out in the report on women and fishing A number of recommendations from the Committee on Women's Rights and Gender Equality were incorporated in the report on women's networks: fishing, farming and diversification adopted by Parliament on 15 December 2005.
The Commission considers the situation of women working in the fisheries sector, and in particular their legal and social recognition, to be a very important issue.
Moreover, under the Fund's new priority axis 4 on the sustainable development of fisheries areas, support can be granted for the diversification of activities and the promotion of alternative employment for fishermen through a large variety of measures.
The new priority axis 4 on sustainable development of fisheries areas, supported under the Fund, will be implemented through a bottom-up approach.
In 2005 the Commission conducted an ex-post evaluation of these actions in order to assess their impact and added value.
Questions Nos 43 to 45 will be answered in writing.
Recent calculations for Germany have shown that a proactive response to the needs and interests of the sometimes increasingly rich elderly could lead to 900 000 new jobs in the next two decades.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission agrees entirely with the honourable Member that the silver economy is a very promising area of development and should be boosted at local, national and European levels.
I should also like to mention that on 17 and 18 April 2007, the German Presidency, with the Commission's support, will hold an important conference in Berlin entitled 'Demographischer Wandel, Chancen erkennen, potenziale Nutzen, Wachstum fördern' (Demographic Change: Recognizing Opportunities - Tapping Potential - Fostering Growth) on possible synergies between ageing and the economy.
This initiative will draw on all available instruments including the Seventh Framework Programme initiatives under Article 169 in the area of Ambient Assisted Living, the new programme for competitiveness and innovation in the area of the best use of information and communication technologies relating to ageing, including measures for raising awareness and political measures.
The Commission has therefore opted for the concept of mainstreaming, that is to say, application across all policy areas, including consumer policy and consumer protection policy, as well as the economy as a whole. (LT) Mr President, Commissioner, in the Lisbon Strategy it was already planned that competitiveness would be achieved by increasing the retirement age to 65 years.
In Germany, the retirement age has been increased to 67 years.
It is much more important to create the conditions under which people can continue in work for longer.
The administrative age is often set at 65, whereas, the average working life currently ends at the age of 59 in Europe.
I should also like to point out that life expectancy in good health is longer, and currently stands at an average of 62 in Europe, although this age varies greatly between different Member States.
Honourable Members, as you may have gathered from my long speech, the Commission has yet to assess directly the issue of financial payments, which will be examined at a later date. (DE) Thank you very much, Commissioner, for that very good answer and for having the courage to address an issue from which many of your predecessors had shrunk back.
Questions Nos 48 to 53 will be answered in writing.
Subject: GM rice While the Commission decision of 23 October requiring mandatory testing for GMOs in rice imports is welcome, many aspects of this issue raise deep concern.
The UK Food Standards Agency has clarified its approach by agreeing to the conclusions of the Standing Committee on 11 September 2006.
