Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament which was adjourned on 16 April 2002 I should like to take this opportunity to welcome a delegation of Brazilian parliamentarians who have taken their seats in the official gallery.
I hope that their visit has proved interesting and informative.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Party of European Socialists requested that today's agenda include a statement by the Council and the Commission on the common fisheries policy at the beginning of today's sitting.
We requested this statement because the public is under the impression - an impression which the Spanish Government and its Minister of Agriculture have helped to create - that a Member State's government exerted an influence or pressure on one or more members of the Commission when these decisions were being taken.
These people want to ensure that they can continue in their role as fishermen feeding all the peoples of Europe and maintain strong, rural coastal communities.
So let us listen to what Commissioner Fischler has to say, and attack or support the policy.
Mr President, I accept the reasons that the Conference of Presidents had in the first place for keeping separate the debate about the substance of the proposals which we are all very anxious to be getting on with.
Mr President, I believe that we are engaging in a democratic process which, in truth, hides interests that cannot be denied.
Mr Poettering has made it clear here that it has already begun.
This issue was discussed in the Conference of Presidents when we planned the agenda for today.
From which I conclude that our security around the entrance is far from guaranteed.
My question is: why did the security guard not come to our aid?
The issue which you raise is a very serious one.
Mr President, it is appropriate I raise my point after this exchange because the greatest political excitement in the Brussels village at present is the machinations and intrigues on the fisheries policy, rather than the content of it which is of course very important.
I fully accept the point you make about the serious nature of the problem between Pakistan and India with regard to Kashmir.
The Spanish Presidency has indicated that it is willing to debate this matter in Strasbourg.
So although we are not in a position to debate this issue at this part-session, we have taken steps to ensure that it will indeed be on our agenda for the reasons which you have given.
Mr President, on 10 April we debated the González Álvarez report on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin.
By way of an emergency, it was rushed through the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development yesterday in a new form without any reference back to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
While I am on my feet on the issue of Rule 63, a lot of the issues under the common fisheries policy reform raise profound issues of legal base, and hopefully that will thoroughly considered in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market as well as the Committee on Fisheries.
The current fisheries policy is not sustainable and is therefore doomed to fail.
Economic opportunities for fishermen are deteriorating and, despite higher public subsidies, many have to give up their trade.
The future fisheries policy needs clear objectives.
The outcome of the reform must be a new fisheries policy which ensures sustainable development ecologically, economically and socially.
We have predicated stock management and stock management controls on quotas, instead of establishing a clear and direct relationship between scientific assessment of the stocks and allowable fishing effort, which is so much easier to oversee.
We have taken as our starting point the stocks in the sea which are generally fished in common.
In other words, in future we shall set ever smaller annual TACs and quotas and then determine how many boats may fish for how many days in certain zones and what nets they will be allowed to use.
We propose to use the funds previously used to export ships and for joint ventures for scrapping and, instead of supporting vessel renewal and creating artificial competition, to use the EUR 450 million for social measures.
The result of all these efforts will be a smaller but more competitive fleet, the fishing effort of which will be much better adapted to the resources available.
Inspections - be they in the Bay of Biscay or in the Channel - will be carried out in future by teams of inspectors from several Member States.
To achieve this, all our decisions must be transparent and understandable, so that fishermen no longer feel they are in 'Animal Farm', where everyone is equal but some are more equal than others.
So, in summary, our first reform package contains our future objectives and our reform proposals on stock conservation, on integrating environmental objectives into fisheries policy, on fleet policy, on fisheries inspections and on combating illegal fishing.
We shall soon come forward with further proposals and reports on the conservation of stocks in the Mediterranean, fishing outside EU waters, monitoring of fisheries, aquaculture, the integration of economic factors into fisheries policy and the restructuring of the fleet in coastal areas.
According to our timetable, we should be ready to start implementing measures by 1 January 2003.
I should like to make it clear that it is perfectly normal for a Commissioner to write to a colleague in the run up to a decision, although the choice of words in this letter was unfortunate.
So let us keep to the business of reform in hand, so that this sector and the people working in it can be assured of a future. (Applause) Mr President, I am grateful to the Commissioner for his presentation.
Indeed, devolution of management is a core feature of these CFP reform proposals.
However, as regards overall capacity reduction in the EU fleet there is great concern about the Commission's figures.
We will closely scrutinise these figures in the committee.
The Commissioner said that we do not want to go down the road of everyone being equal, but some people being more equal than others - that seems to be exactly the road we are going down with these proposed cuts.
I shall take advantage of this occasion to say, Mr President, after listening to the chairman of the Committee on Fisheries of this Parliament, that I have very little confidence in his neutrality when it comes to carrying out an impartial investigation, after what he has said, because the chairman of the Committee on Fisheries has to represent Parliament's interests as a whole, and not make his own calculations on what could concern one country or another.
If you will allow me, Mr President, I should like to say that we are facing a problem with regard to the reform of the common fisheries policy, but there is also a constitutional problem apparent: in the Council, a President-in-Office of the Council saying that he gives instructions to the Commission; in the Commission, a very clear, public and well-known division, which we found out about from the press.
Mr President, I am going to ask just one question of the Commissioner, based on the fact that Parliament has an enormous responsibility in trying to defend the interests of all Europeans, starting with fishermen.
Therefore, Mr President, the only question I would like to ask the Commissioner is the following: why not apply all those principles he claims to defend in the reform of the common agricultural policy to the reform of fisheries?
In its resolution on the green paper, Parliament asked for a policy that would strike a balance between the needs of environmental sustainability and of fisheries as a socio-economic sector.
We welcome too the intention to bring about better enforcement of the rules and the action planned to fight illegal fishing and ensure sustainable fisheries beyond EU waters.
The retention of the 6 to 12 mile limit will assist in development of conservation measures and do much to protect the coastal fishing on which many of our fragile communities depend.
Confirmation from the Commissioner that the new regulation on these limits will definitively be in place by 1 January 2003 would be of great comfort.
Mr President, this long-awaited package contains many welcome aspects.
Efforts to create a level playing field in enforcement are welcome.
Technical conservation measures and their development are welcome.
I take it that the Commissioner can confirm today that recent efforts in certain areas will be taken into account in that regard.
The wording of the document in that particular chapter points towards relative instability rather than the stability which was intended.
It is surprising that so little attention has been paid to technical measures for regenerating stocks and that industrial fishing should have been exempted from fleet reduction measures.
The real problem is a social one.
The Commission proposal will result in the loss of a tremendous number of jobs in areas dependent on fishing, which are on the periphery of the European Union and have a high level of unemployment.
Mr President, I had hoped that the extra time taken by the Commission to fine-tune the proposals would have resulted in documents which would fully reflect the concerns raised by this House when we adopted our opinion earlier this year.
Instead of carefully crafted measures which would address the real problems affecting the fishing industry, the Commission has delivered what can only be described as a blunt instrument which, if adopted, would fail to protect fish stocks or to address the issue of fishing effort.
These proposals underline an 8.5% reduction in fishing fleet.
Council Regulation No 3760/92 established the framework upon which the CFP rests.
That crucial point alone demonstrates that these proposals are a political fudge.
However, due to the almost total failure of previous policies, I am of the opinion that control of fishing activities should be better returned to the elected governments of Member States with the return of control over their former national territorial waters.
The fishermen are complaining that the Commission has not included their opinions in its proposal for a reform, nor has it included the opinions of Parliament on this matter, given in January this year.
What is more, this proposal was adopted yesterday by the members of the Commission by simple majority in the absence of four Commissioners, and with no guarantee that it has the necessary qualified majority in the Council.
The Commission is acting outside the sector.
Any reform of a basic policy such as fisheries must, in order to be credible, ensure the survival of the sector and an improvement in the living and working conditions of those concerned.
We, as socialists, call for the sustainable management of stocks, but we believe that this can only take place if the fishermen are involved.
With this plan, stocks will have been replenished within ten years so that Europeans can look at them in a display case, and we shall all be eating imported fish.
Fishing generates many more jobs, directly and indirectly, which are not counted in the document presented by the Commissioner.
My group, Commissioner, will therefore work in Parliament and the Committee on Fisheries as of today, the day on which we have seen the texts, together with the sector, together with the other groups represented in Parliament, listening to anyone who wants to talk to us to work towards a reform that is gradual, that is established by consensus and that is properly financed, because we believe that a sector of the vital strategic importance of fishing in the European Union cannot be condemned to die out.
Concerning control and enforcement, I share your view about international uniform control on a level playing field.
Secondly, you claim that, in principle, the polluter pays.
Mr President, while the Greens fully support the efforts of the Commission to create a sustainable fisheries policy within the EU, we reject any attempt to simply transfer our problems to the developing world.
Commissioner Fischler has stated that the EU must work for sustainable fishing wherever EU fleets operate and we shall hold him to that goal.
In relation to the over-capacity of EU fleets, I would like to ask the Commission how it feels about the announcement by the Irish Government yesterday for a EUR 56 million investment package for EU vessels?
It is being overlooked, for example, that Portugal is the Member State that has already far exceeded the objectives for reducing fishing effort, while maintaining an ageing fleet - around 40% of its vessels are over 25 years old - and which has the lowest average yield in the European Union.
Nevertheless, what the Commission is promising is more incentives for decommissioning fishing vessels, with 287 in Portugal or a reduction of around 12 thousand tonnes in gross tonnage, whereas what Portugal needed was to increase support for modernising its fleet with a view to supplying a population which is the biggest per capita consumer of fish in the European Union, which also makes Portugal a very attractive market for multinationals.
But this is not in the interest of Portugal's population or of workers in the strategic fisheries sector, which is now under such enormous threat.
We are therefore rejecting the proposal and proposing that there should be a wholesale review of it.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the euthanasia plan for coastal fishing in Europe which Commissioner Fischler has just calmly outlined to us must be rejected outright, both for its general philosophy and its technical structure.
This plan is dangerous because it is unworkable.
By recognising our lack of knowledge regarding fish stocks, which was in fact admitted in the Commission's Green Paper, this voluntary plan must provide for considerable development of independent research at the Commission and close cooperation between professionals and scientists.
This official support - I trust you are indeed supporting the reform, Mr Galeote - would be most welcome from all the honourable Members.
I hope that everyone speaking on fisheries here today and tomorrow is up for integration.
In the new CFP, we must cut the existing EU fleet; however the EU should not make a blanket cut but take into account the different sizes of the EU national fleets.
For example, the Scottish fleet has already shrunk in recent years to a more sustainable size.
We must see the retention of the 6 and 12-mile limits as proposed by the Commission - most Member States agree that these act as a safeguard for coastal regions especially dependent on fishing - with much closer involvement of the fishing industry via the new regional advisory councils in the development and operation of fisheries management measures.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, I hope that your proposal for reform of the common fisheries policy will be rejected by the Member States and by this House.
No one would dare to propose what the Commissioner intends to do in the fisheries sector in any other sector of the economy.
He also indicated that the fisheries policy must aim to strike a balance between economic, ecological and social conditions.
The multi-annual guidance programme has failed.
This control must be stricter, and I hope that we can sum up the courage as a Parliament to tighten this control by making sufficient financial means available for this purpose.
Mr President, no one with any common sense would deny or question the absolute need to preserve and protect our fishing resources, that is threatened marine species.
Most of the governments have not given a reaction to these proposals, which aim to sustain fisheries in the future.
This should enable us not only to salvage something from this situation but, more importantly, to provide the fishing industry with a new impetus and the sustainable development that is essential to our economic as well as human stability.
Mr President, Commissioner, I represent a country whose history revolves around fishing and the sea, and which still has a total of around 50 000 jobs in the fisheries sector as a whole.
The first criticism I have of the Commission proposal is that it does not take account of the diverse make-up of the European Union's fishing fleet: some countries' fleets consist mainly of large vessels used for industrial fishing and other countries which have predominantly small vessels.
In Portugal, 90% of the present fishing fleet consists of vessels less than 12 metres long used for small-scale coastal fishing.
As around 40% of these vessels are over 25 years old, the overwhelming majority of our fishermen will be unable to modernise and make their activity viable unless they receive support from the Community.
Furthermore, I would like to remind you that since Portugal joined the European Union in 1986, the Portuguese fleet has been reduced by 45% and total catches cut by 50%.
Commissioner, you have just outlined proposals on the reform of the common fisheries policy and these have instantly sparked controversy.
The only social measures envisaged are retirement or hypothetical retraining plans.
It is unacceptable to propose the protection of species, fish in this case, as the sole criterion in formulating a policy.
We believe that the guarantee of sustainability, in any area, is the result of a balance between economic objectives and environmental objectives, of course, but also between social objectives.
The impact of the measures on regions dependant on fisheries has not been taken into sufficient account and the proposals you have laid before us today will have to be reviewed to eliminate this imbalance.
Commissioner, you globalised fishing in the south of Europe, and ensured that the place occupied by a small-scale fleet, under an agreement between Morocco and the European Union, which respected biological rest periods and maintained very close control of nets and meshes, should now be taken in these fishing grounds by a fleet which does not respect rest periods, and whose nets are not controlled at all.
In a nutshell, you said that we had spent money on reducing the fishing effort, and we see that these funds have, in actual fact, served to increase it; you said that we had spent money on preserving fish stocks, and - on the basis of the figures you have disclosed, although we were not able to see them - fish stocks have become completely impoverished; you said we had spent money on limiting the social impact on this sector in terms of employment, and today you have told us that 66 thousand jobs have been lost and 28 thousand are likely to be lost in the future.
Well then, Commissioner, there is one initial question that has, in any case, to be asked: Why, if these were the results - and these results were plain for you to see - has the Commission so persistently defended this common fisheries policy for so long?
They are our main allies, they are your main allies.
Mr President, I welcome the fact that we have finally begun to discuss the proposals on the reform of the common fisheries policy.
We all know that.
I welcome the fact that we are going to give more responsibility to local fishermen closer to the areas in which they work.
And since the World Cup is about to start, we could say that the score according to your proposal, Mr Commissioner, is 'the North 1 - the South 0', but we are at the beginning of the match and we hope that you will be a fair and unbiased referee.
What are trivial are certain speeches we heard at the beginning of this debate, which put domestic political interests before the future of thousands of families in Galicia or Andalusia, which is quite simply disgraceful, and I regret that the people or person who said that are absent.
There is no institutional crisis here, but a personal crisis, a crisis of attitudes, a crisis which suggests that those who speak in this way will be in opposition for many years, to the benefit of everybody and in particular the fishermen of my country.
I am sure that everyone in this House believes in equal treatment for all Member States.
You can read the real numbers of ships per Member State on page 49 of the resource management regulation, Sir.
When a transitional provision runs out, it means that Community law must be applied without discrimination.
We need a common fisheries policy, one policy for all the Member States.
Naturally, industrial fisheries will be subject to the same restrictions and the same standards as any other type of fisheries.
We carried out 22 studies on these regions.
The debate is closed.
The next item is the report (A5-0144/2002) by Mr Konrad on behalf of the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee on the draft Commission Regulation on the application of Article 81(3) of the Treaty to categories of vertical agreements and concerted practices in the vehicle industry.
There will therefore be a broad majority tomorrow in favour of a proposal to extend the transitional period for the location clause to 2005.
The majority in Parliament is in favour of this proposal.
Commissioner, your reform proposal will receive the backing of a broad majority tomorrow.
The industry would therefore be well advised to gear itself up to the fact that there will not automatically be a follow-on regulation in 2010 and that we are working towards a time when there will no longer be any exemptions from fair trading legislation.
You can never quantify it exactly, but I would say that we fully endorse 95% of the Commission's proposals.
The current debate and all that has gone before have shown that this block exemption regulation, however esoteric it may sound, directly affects all our voters and will have far-reaching ramifications throughout Europe.
I think it is worth keeping an eye on this process for another two years.
Anyone who takes the view that freedom of establishment is one of the four freedoms and that competition is a fundamental factor in strengthening the internal market must say yes to both and to the basic idea behind Commissioner Monti's proposal.
But, let me be perfectly clear, we are talking about details and I think, after a long debate in committee, we have reached a good compromise in several areas, for which we have the rapporteur to thank.
I wonder if what is being proposed really is competition and if it really will improve competition.
We have clearly seen this in the form of the massive lobbying that has gone on everywhere in recent weeks and months in order to prevent a genuine internal market for car sales being established, with the consequent benefits for both dealers and consumers.
A majority in the European Parliament obviously do not want all the benefits, however, while many of the key aspects of the Commission's original proposal were voted down in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Mr President, this draft regulation is very important.
The chief danger of the draft text is the withdrawal of the location clause.
We are particularly concerned that the consumer will be exposed to the risk of a break in the sales and after-sales service link if the distributor is able to award after-sales service contracts to authorised repairers which are not subject to a location clause.
And the work by our committee was also very thorough and I feel that it produced some worthwhile amendments.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dossier that we are discussing today is, as we all know, fundamental.
The draft Commission regulation, which seeks to revise the block exemption regulation on motor vehicles, concerns the future of an economic sector that is absolutely essential for many European Union Member States.
This brings me to my next point: the debate underway today is not only a technical debate in which specialists alone can take part, it is a political debate as well, there is no doubt about that.
What is being discussed here is a specific concept of Europe, or to be more precise, the way that our fellow citizens perceive Europe.
I urge all my fellow Members to draw their own conclusions, taking into account economic and social realities.
We must demonstrate a more balanced and fair frame of mind in relation to this dossier in which many different factors are at stake, ranging from those relating to consumer safety to that of employment in all Member States, as well as in the most remote regions.
We support the liberalisation proposed by the Commission.
We believe that in the UK consumers have paid too much for their cars for too long and this Parliament should not postpone the cheaper car prices which will be the result of a more competitive market.
Parliament should remember that though we must be sensitive to the concerns of small businesses, every dealer who writes to us probably has 100 or 500 or 1000 customers, whose interests we must also consider in this difficult debate.
We believe that we will not see price reductions in the EU unless location clauses go and dealers are free to set up in different EU Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a new document which forms part of the effort being made by the European Commission to reform and update Community competition law.
The distribution of automobiles has always had special treatment, a sectoral treatment, and, if pushed, I would say that this system may have made sense before, when there were different regulations for the different distribution systems, but perhaps it makes less sense now.
The fact is, however, regardless of this, that the different regulations that have been in force in this sector have not managed to remove the obstacles in that market.
The differences in prices in the different countries are still considerable, essentially as a result of the actions of manufacturers who are determined to maintain national borders and prevent cross-border trade.
The Commission is now presenting us with a new proposal for a Regulation which I believe takes us in the right direction.
The essential point of the proposal is the disappearance of the location clause for the dealer, and that measure is a step in the right direction.
We must not underestimate the service you have done for consumers by opening up competition in after-sales and spare parts.
Commissioner, I would like to say that it takes real courage to tackle the substantial vested interest in the way that you have.
Particularly when that interest is one that can plead consequences right across Europe in terms of our economic viability.
New entrants to a multi-choice free-for-all will always be demonised as too rich or too unscrupulous.
That is why I am most grateful to the Commissioner for this courageous draft in favour of more competition.
So there will be much more competition here and I am most grateful to you for that, Commissioner Monti.
I personally lobbied in committee in favour of strengthening dealers' rights - and I am most grateful to Mr Konrad for his support here - by including an investment protection clause, for example.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal for the motor vehicle market would provide Community legislation with undoubted benefits for consumers.
The new regulation represents a significant advance across the motor vehicle market, because above all it puts an end to the excessive power of car manufacturers, which in some cases are not far from abusing a dominant position.
For example, the draft regulation deals with the roles of the motor vehicle trade, of wholesale distributors and of retail distributors in a balanced way.
Nevertheless, we can and must accept that the entry into force of the localisation provisions should be deferred for a reasonable period, and I regard such a deferral as being very much a question of positive discrimination for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The public debate surrounding this legislative initiative has at times been dominated by the suggestion that there will be immediate and significant cuts in car prices.
I hope that this new regulation will contribute to that.
Mr President, Commissioner, I will get straight to the point and enter directly into the debate on the location clause, which is the main focus of this debate in this House.
The proposal as presented by the Commissioner, however, raises certain questions which should be cleared up before accepting a drastic solution.
It seems clear that the current level between brands is sufficient.
Therefore, Commissioner, since there have been no clear replies, I believe that the rapporteur's proposal is a prudent one, there are times for valour and there are times for prudence and, in this case, it is clearly necessary to wait and see how the new elements to promote competition introduced by the proposal work before going ahead with the removal of the location clause.
And, in the meantime, consumers across the European Union will have to pay, as they have always done, and as they will continue to do unless we tackle the issue of the cartel.
It is very clear from your proposals, Commissioner, that you want to do just that and you have the support of the Labour delegation in this group and other delegations across this room.
I hope that the support which you have received here will give you the courage to continue in this bold move and that we will finally see some reduction in the activity of this cartel and some improvement for the consumer across the European Union.
The main aim of the new regulation is to increase the level of competition across the board with a view to improving consumer well-being and safety and the functioning of the internal market.
We therefore agree that the interests of consumers should take first place, and there are a huge range of possibilities within the common market.
Increasing competition between sales distributors and in the after sales market and increasing competition in the manufacturing and distribution of spare parts must therefore be seen as positive.
We must not, however, overlook the fact that, if the measures laid down in the new regulation are interpreted too rigidly or too loosely, they could reduce legal certainty and lead to forms of concentration in distribution location, in after sales services and in spares production, causing a considerable number of small and medium-sized businesses to disappear from our market and impacting negatively on employment and the expected benefits for consumers.
In addition, the draft regulation seeks to guarantee the smooth functioning of the internal market in new cars.
These practical cases show how consumers have been deprived of the benefit, of the right to choose where they purchase vehicles.
In this sense, I would stress that the Commission's aim is not to harmonise prices as such, but it does have the further-reaching, more fundamental goal of guaranteeing the smooth functioning of the internal market and, in particular, of allowing consumers to purchase vehicles directly or indirectly wherever they are cheaper.
The reactions of consumer associations, automobile associations, spare parts manufacturers' associations and independent repairers' associations to the Commission's draft regulation have been very positive.
The new regulation seeks to ensure that vehicles are safe products, that they are provided with very reliable after sales services and that they respect environmental standards.
We must have confidence - we do have confidence - in the many highly competent dealers who will take the appropriate commercial decisions.
The abolition of this clause applying to vehicle sales, which will allow dealers to open secondary sales and delivery outlets in other areas, including in other Member States, is essential to facilitate consumer access to vehicles sold by dealers from other Member States at lower prices.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs proposes to establish a transition period for this measure - the abolition of the location clause - lasting until 1 October 2005 and to make abolition of the location clause dependent upon the results of an assessment.
I realise that the transition period would allow both manufacturers and dealers to prepare themselves and to adapt to the new system, but I feel frankly that it would be detrimental, extremely detrimental to postpone a decision on abolishing the location clause until a future assessment.
It would not be right to leave this aspect to the two parties to negotiate while dealers are financially completely dependent on their suppliers.
To strengthen the position of dealers, therefore, we must give them the facility to decide whether to display different brands of vehicles in separate areas of the same showroom or whether to display them in separate showrooms, and whether to employ different sales personnel for each brand.
The draft regulation also seeks to alter the, at present, extremely close link between the sale of new vehicles and after sales services.
In my opinion, in its original form, the Commission's draft already ensures that there will be a service point near a dealer where the dealer subcontracts the activity, but, in the light of the amendments put forward in this regard, a solution could be to require the dealer to inform the consumer of the distance of the premises of the authorised repairer from the sales outlet as well as the location.
I must stress that it is particularly important to make the link between sales and after sales services less binding in a period when networks of dealers are being restructured and their numbers reduced.
Dealers whose agreements are terminated can now remain in the market as authorised repairers.
By way of conclusion, Mr President, I have noted and I welcome the favourable attitude of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to the approach taken by the Commission.
The next item is the debate on the Commission and Council statements on the EU/Latin American Summit of 17 and 18 May 2002 in Madrid.
Mr President, I am here on behalf of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council to inform Parliament of the results of the summit between the European Union and the Latin American and Caribbean countries held in Madrid on 17 and 18 May.
As Parliament knows, the slogan chosen for the summit was "The European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean, promoting a strategic partnership for the twenty-first century", which I believe sums up what we are creating between these two geographical regions: a common area and joint action in the international field between two regions of the world which share principles and values as fundamental as democracy, the Rule of Law, respect for human rights, equality between men and women, the market economy, rational thinking and many others which form the foundation of what we understand to be the western world.
Finally, the economic session discussed the international financial architecture, bi-regional trade, international cooperation for sustainable development and development funding, measures to stimulate economic growth and development and, finally, regional integration processes.
Secondly, strengthening bi-regional political dialogue through agreement within international fora, in particular the United Nations.
It is on the second aspect, in the economic and social field, that there have been more considerable advances in comparison with the situation resulting from the first summit in Río de Janeiro in June 1999.
All the participants have indicated the great importance of this act following complex and sometimes difficult negotiations which will lead us, as was the case with Mexico, to a privileged relationship with direct social and economic benefits for Chile, but which will go beyond that country and send a message of trust to the whole of Latin America at this time of economic uncertainty, in certain sub-regions in particular.
Furthermore, it has been agreed to continue commercial negotiations with a ministerial meeting in July, which will give impetus to the negotiation despite the adverse circumstances resulting from the situation in Argentina.
Meanwhile, agreements on political dialogue and cooperation are being negotiated and cooperation in the field of trade, investments and economic relations is being strengthened.
The Andean Community has expressed less satisfaction with the agreement reached although they recognise that the formula obtained opens the door to a future association agreement which will replace the unilateral concessions they currently receive through the system of generalised preferences relating to the fight against drug trafficking.
As we can see, these decisions and agreements have a broad perspective, creating fluid and intense relations between the two sides of the Atlantic in the not too distant future which, as I have said, will benefit the societies of both America and Europe.
I would also like to highlight three more issues in this economic field: the decision to cooperate in the eradication of poverty through, amongst other instruments, the strengthening of institutions.
Important decisions on this and its consequences were taken at the Monterrey Conference in March, which appeared in its final document known as the Monterrey Consensus.
Both institutions will thereby be incorporated into the process of strengthening the strategic partnership with all their experience and resources, which is a considerable innovation.
It is also worth mentioning the support for the introduction of the euro, acknowledging its positive effects, as both the Council and the European Central Bank have done at the Madrid Summit.
I will mention the following: the ALIS programme for the development of the information society, a four-year programme which will receive EUR 85 million, of which the Commission will provide 63.5 million and the Latin American countries will provide the rest, until that figure is reached.
This programme was presented by the Commissioner responsible for External Relations, Mr Patten, within the framework of the Cultural Forum which ran parallel with the summit and brought together cultural foundations and bodies from European and Latin American countries.
I should also mention the support which the summit gave to the 2002-2004 Action Plan in the field of higher education with the objectives of improving the quality of education and facilitating the mobility of students.
Mr President, the second European Union/Latin America and the Caribbean Summit has taken place within a none too favourable international context, on either side of the Atlantic.
In fact, as well as the economic difficulties resulting from 11 September, difficult situations in several South American countries - the particular situation in Venezuela a month after the serious crisis in April, the peace process interrupted in a climate deeply affected by the unacceptable terrorist violence in Colombia, the profound crisis in Argentina - all of this added to the European preoccupation with enlargement and the various elections taking place at the moment in certain European Union countries, did not appear to offer the best possible climate for the summit.
As a result of the agreements and decisions adopted at the summit, included in a political declaration of 33 points known as the Madrid Commitment, a new phase in our bi-regional relations has begun, which is an important step in the process of consolidating the strategic partnership.
Today my aim is not to provide you with an in-depth analysis of the three principal documents that the Madrid Summit produced, the Presidency has already discussed this issue in detail.
I want to draw your attention to the fact that the assessment report clearly stresses that the European Commission is most probably the most active institution in promoting the concrete implementation of the strategic partnership between the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean launched in Rio de Janeiro in 1999.
On behalf of Commission Patten, I would like to pick out the most important points to come out of the summit.
The fact that heads of state and government from both regions confirm their conviction that multilateralism is the best way to handle the problems and challenges that face the world today.
Both parties have rejected unilateralism in political and trade matters and have committed to joining forces and promoting a common vision on these significant issues within the framework of multi-lateral mechanisms.
This represents a strong commitment which will help us to move the partnership forward on a daily basis.
Secondly, the Madrid Summit provided an occasion for the European Union and Mercosur heads of state and government to note with satisfaction the progress made by the bi-regional negotiations committee towards the establishment of an inter-regional strategic association.
They also agreed on a new mechanism for their meetings with greater frequency, so as to strengthen and deepen the EU-Mercosur political dialogue.
These three initiatives should establish the conditions under which feasible and mutually beneficial association agreements, including FTAs could be negotiated between the European Union and both regions.
The Commission is particularly focused on the need to lead the EU-Latin American-Caribbean partnership in implementing new concrete bi-regional initiatives.
In the field of education, the Commission has just launched a brand-new scholarship programme, ALBAN, which will allow 4 000 Latin American postgraduate students to complete their training in Europe.
The ALIS programme has recently started to function and pilot projects in the information society field should soon be put into place.
Additionally, we are currently working on the design of a new social initiative by fostering contracts between administrations and the programme aimed at disaster prevention.
By the time the next EU Latin American-Caribbean Summit takes place in Mexico in 2004, I hope we will be pleasantly surprised by how much progress has been made in the six short years since the launch of the strategic partnership in 1999.
Mr President, the results of the Madrid Summit can be read from various points of view.
We could make a subjective assessment, aimed at our political advantage, or we could try to make a balanced assessment which, by taking account of all the positives and negatives, would allow us to examine the results of the Madrid Summit in light of the positions of the European Parliament.
I would particularly like to highlight the fact that the European Parliament was not present at the Río de Janeiro Summit and that, for this very reason, the Inter-Parliamentary Conference requested that it be present at the Madrid Summit, and that is what has happened.
I would therefore like to acknowledge the efforts of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council to receive the representatives of our Parliament at the Madrid Summit.
Mr President, last November, the European Parliament requested that the association agreement with Chile be concluded at the Madrid Summit and that has been done.
Also in November, Parliament requested the presentation of negotiation guidelines with a view to concluding association agreements with the Andean Community and the Central American Community.
The Madrid Summit has not been able to respond definitively to this wish of Parliament's, but there has been substantial progress in the sense that conclusions include a prospect for association in terms of relations with the countries of the Andean Community and the Central American Community, since they cannot be discriminated against in comparison with other geographical areas, and therefore when the system of generalised preferences expires in 2004 they can aspire to this future association.
We also believe the Madrid Summit's conclusions in relation to the International Criminal Court and the fight against terrorism and organised crime to be particularly noteworthy and, in this respect, I would like to remind the House that I have just returned from an electoral mission with other members of this Parliament to Colombia, where there is no question that the citizens of that country have offered a wonderful example of democratic maturity and civic courage, ensuring that the peaceful will of the citizens has prevailed over threats, violence, extortion, intimidation and blackmail.
Mr President, Colombia needs the support of the international community and also the European Union.
Mr President, I would like to make two comments which do not relate to the Madrid Summit, but which I believe are particularly relevant in this context.
Secondly, Mr President, we believe that the European Union needs to develop a common strategy for the region which, in full accordance with the bilateral or regional agreements in force or under negotiation, can offer a complete geographical perspective to relations with that region.
Finally, Mr President, despite the suspicion and the constant doubt as to whether these summits can achieve concrete results, I believe that the Madrid Summit has achieved complete, tangible and thorough results and that it represents a very reasonable balance between what is desirable and what is possible, between pragmatism and idealism.
Therefore, in order to make a balanced assessment, we must understand that in the time that has passed between Río and Madrid not all the hopes raised at the Río Summit have been fulfilled.
Developments, in particular economic developments, have lessened expectations and I therefore believe that all the participants and observers at the summit can be moderately satisfied with the fact that the summit has taken place within a context of general agreements, of common denominators, and by the fact that we have been able to present an assessment of relations between the European Union and the Latin American and Caribbean countries which contains concrete achievements, association agreements with Mexico and with Chile, the maintenance of the prospect and the will for an association agreement with Mercosur and also the maintenance of a positive outlook in relation to the partnership with the Andean countries and the countries of Central America.
I warned the Council and the Commission during the debate prior to the Madrid meeting of the foreseeable risk that these countries might be disappointed.
The important thing is to maintain political momentum and, as Mr Salafranca said a few moments ago, to maintain commitments which must not only be political commitments but practical commitments which are reflected in the budget.
It is incredibly important to develop cooperation further.
As President Fox said in this Chamber not so long ago, many Latin American countries see the EU as a role model where human rights are concerned.
The EU must open its markets to Latin America, especially when it comes to agriculture.
The referendum project, the Varela project, is worthy of all our support.
The free libraries play an important role in providing Cubans with literature other than the collected speeches of Fidel Castro.
Mr President, I want to highlight a number of disturbing aspects of this summit, which we, by contrast, Commissioner Vitorino, feel really has been a talking shop which was completely closed to the voice of civil society and silent, not least for reasons of diplomatic good form, on the genuinely important issues.
We have already said on many occasions that, for Europe genuinely to be able to play an important role in Latin America, it must say something different from the United States.
However, here too, the only clear deadline set at Madrid was the implementation of the Doha agenda and the negotiation of new free trade agreements.
In any case, even if we achieve a project with the FTAA which we might call the FTAEU, we really do not feel that it will be possible to avoid very large demonstrations such as those which took place in Madrid.
There is a whole raft of very worrying issues, for instance the fact that all the critical points in Latin America seem to fall within what could loosely be described as the dark shadow cast by the United States in the aftermath of 11 September.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to welcome the Madrid agreement reached at the second European Union, Latin America and Caribbean Summit and to welcome the recognition of common values between our two continents.
I have in mind in particular the protection of fundamental rights, economic cooperation, and the fight against terrorism and drugs.
Even if this summit had not achieved any other results, these would be enough to demonstrate that cooperation between the two sides of the Atlantic is a politically credible process, as Commissioner Vitorino has said, which will proceed at a good pace despite the difficulties being experienced by some Latin American countries.
It is also essential to increase trade and to stimulate investment in both regions by means of a prudent but decisive policy of opening up markets and by resisting the unjustified temptation to resort to protectionism, as President Prodi has also said.
Despite the gaps in it, I support the joint motion for a resolution, which is also supported by my own political group, and I am certain that the European Parliament will continue to contribute in the months and years to come, and will continue to devote its attention to this, to developing appropriate conditions for a successful summit to be held in Mexico in 2004.
The case of Mercosur and the crisis in Argentina are one example of this, but there are others.
The problem for us in negotiations with Mercosur and other regions is that we have to listen to several, rather than one voice.
Mr President, I support this resolution by the PPE-DE, PSE, Liberals and the UEN.
That is why dialogue with the European Union can gain Cuba concessions only if the situation there as regards democracy and human rights improves.
At the end of the day, the EU has to give life to Latin America's strategy, which, as Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra said, means making available the financial resources to do it.
Negotiations on an agreement of this sort with the Mercosur countries have unfortunately taken their place.
The European Union should not just leave the Latin American market to the USA.
In conclusion, Mr President, it is my view that the European Union, Latin America and the Caribbean have strengthened their political, economic, cultural, educational and social links.
With this in mind, the creation of a single market and the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice are bound to mean that it is necessary to harmonise private security services within the European Union.
Secondly, there are significant legal barriers between Member States restricting or preventing the free provision of services in the private security sector.
Both Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and I myself at the Committee on Freedoms have already stated the need to establish whether the activity to be regulated under the draft initiative presented by Spain is within the competence of the Community or that of the Union.
To do so would run counter to Article 47 of the Treaty of the European Union, amongst others.
Mr President, I shall surpass your most optimistic expectations as regards time keeping by saying that the subject of this report is the establishment of a European Institute of Police Studies which would essentially consist at the outset of setting up a network bringing together the various national police training and research bodies and which would subsequently develop in a way not specified by those proposing it with a view to offering added value to the European Union in coordinating the various police agencies in the Member States.
As we see it, this initiative is a victim of one of the teething troubles of the building of Europe, which is a tendency for bodies with more or less overlapping aims to proliferate.
The protection of public figures is, by definition, something which should be arranged between the Member States, or other states, and in the case of visitors, between the visiting state and the host state.
So I have taken the proposal and amended it in such a way as to facilitate cooperation between national intelligence, police and security services without setting up a bureaucratic institution and with no further cost.
However, there is, as I still say, the essential point and what I have added to it is that there should be cooperation and some kind of harmonisation, not only of the protection that is afforded, but the response mechanism in the event of such a tragedy, or an attempt being made.
There are a number of institutions ranging from the SAS in Britain through the German border guards, the excellent military police in Spain and Italy and other countries, who, since the tragic events of the Munich Olympics, have acquired a great expertise in the response.
On the issue of shared information, I think that the information should be shared on a need-to-know basis and, above all, should be kept away from politicians, bureaucrats and even the people who are being protected themselves, because operational security in this area must be paramount.
Mr President, the two reports that I have the honour of presenting to our Assembly today are very different in scope and nature even though they both deal with the same subject, namely Europol which, as we all know, is the European Police Office.
The first report was drawn up on the initiative of the Kingdom of Belgium, and relates to the adjusting of the basic salary and allowances of Europol staff.
First of all, I do not see why - and I hope that Parliament will support me on this point - Europol staff should be given a salary increase of 5.2% for the period 1 July 2001 to 1 July 2002, when, over the same period, European Union officials based in the Netherlands - in the same city of The Hague - will receive an increase in their salary and allowances of 4.3%.
Secondly, I think it is inconsistent and unacceptable for the Council to consult the European Parliament on such a routine issue, when it systematically refuses to do so on the Europol budget, despite the fact that both decisions fall under the procedure laid down in Title VI of the Treaty on European Union which stipulates that the European Parliament must be consulted.
As things currently stand, ladies and gentlemen, Europol is, as you know, an institution which comes under the umbrella of inter-governmental cooperation pure and simple.
Within this framework, any change, however important or however urgent, to the Europol Convention requires ratification by all the Member States in accordance with the requirements of their respective constitutional rules.
In other words, for example, it took no less than three good long years to ratify the Europol Convention.
I ask my fellow Members how they think 27 Member States will be able to agree unanimously on operational police decisions, with crime levels as they stand in Europe and with serious crime spiralling out of control in certain sectors; 3.
this proposal confirms the purely marginal role to be played by the European Parliament with regard to everything relating to Europol, while depriving it of the legal means and institutional framework which might enable it in the future to exercise genuine democratic control.
The use of this provision would have the direct effect of integrating Europol into the third pillar and, consequently, into Community legal order, with the following three considerable advantages in the short term: 1.
the improvement of Europol's operational capacities, since, pursuant to Article 34 of the EU Treaty, all decisions relating to Europol are to be adopted by the Council acting by a qualified majority with no derogation possible; 2.
the improvement of parliamentary scrutiny of Europol, since, pursuant to Article 39 of the EU Treaty, the European Parliament should be consulted before the Council adopts any implementing measures and, secondly, Parliament may bring an action before the Court of Justice should these rights not be respected; 3.
I hope that, in this area, the Convention will live up to the historical challenges that lie ahead and the expectations of the citizens.
Parliament already ruled on the appropriateness of including the Europol budget in the Community budget when called to do so in the past.
The decision on salary adjustment must be included in the scope of the budget.
The five initiatives that were presented by the Member States have different scope but all relate to police cooperation.
Concerning the second initiative of Belgium and Spain for a Council act drawing up a protocol amending the Europol Convention, this is a significant step to implement the provisions regarding Europol as laid down in Article 30(2) of the Treaty of the European Union, which, as you know, foresees Europol's participation in joint teams and the possibility to ask Member States to conduct and coordinate investigations.
It also directly follows up to the Tampere Conclusions 43 and 45 on the subject.
A Council decision will not only allow the amendment of articles of the convention through a simplified procedure but also the adoption of implementing measures with a qualified majority in accordance with Article 34(2).
Furthermore, the legal basis of Europol will then be in line with the one chosen for Eurojust.
Concerning Recommendation No 2 on the budget, the Commission feels, as it has explained in the communication that I have mentioned above, that the question of Community financing should be settled in the context of Europol's possible future operational competences.
From a Commission perspective, these latter two points are superfluous since the Council arrived at political agreement on them last April.
As regards the three initiatives submitted by the Spanish Presidency, I would like to express to the Spanish Presidency the Commission's gratitude for putting this subject on the agenda as they meet a real need for progress in police cooperation in the European Union.
With respect to police studies, the Commission has on different occasions underlined its interest in advancing cooperation in an area in which knowledge at European level is often insufficient.
At the same time, however, we have warned against a multiplication of networks, the functioning of which, according to the experience gained the European Police College may prove difficult.
The Commission has, therefore, suggested a more pragmatic formula proposing to amend the Council Decision of 22 December 2000 creating the European Police College to allow the police studies institutes of the Member States, where these institutes are separate from police training institutions, to participate as full members of the European Police College network.
Regarding the initiative for a Council decision setting up a network of contact points for national authorities with responsibility for private security, the Commission agrees that the growth of the private security sector in our countries, as well as in the candidate countries, requires a general policy discussion about division of responsibility between the public authorities and the private sector in providing security to our citizens.
However, as much we would like to see a serious policy discussion taking place at European Union level on this subject, we must totally respect the division of competences established by the Treaties.
The Commission has therefore taken the necessary steps to proceed within the context of the first pillar to a study of the need for common measures to regulate the provision of security services by private providers in the European Union.
An important point made by the rapporteur, Lord Stockton, and shared by the Commission, is that the network should not be competent to harmonise Member States legislation and regulations.
In conclusion, I would like thank the rapporteur, Lord Stockton, whose work is a valuable contribution to this initiative as regards its legal basis but also as regards the added value this network will bring to police cooperation.
Mr President, my good friend and colleague Mr Deprez has overlooked the fact that today is not a particularly good day for Belgium either.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first, and on behalf of my group, to thank the rapporteur, Mr Deprez, for the excellent report he has produced on Europol.
We talk a very great deal about this topic here in Parliament, and I believe we are agreed that Europol is an important department and one that it is right and proper that the European Union should have.
To the Council, I say that its conduct in this matter will determine the extent to which the great majority in Parliament will cooperate with it.
This is true in all areas, including internal affairs policy and internal security.
The Council's post-11 September measures have our full support.
Furthermore, experience in Europe demonstrates very clearly that the principle of 'provisionally definitive' and 'definitively provisional' is certainly in use here too, in the European Union.
Mr President, the two reports by Mr Deprez on Europol provide an opportunity for the European Parliament to demand that it be given responsibilities for control over this body.
This control might well be organised under the inter-parliamentary pillar, the creation of which was proposed by the cross-party group SOS Démocratie to the Convention that is currently considering the future of the Union.
I shall return to this point, Mr President, in my explanation of vote.
These initiatives create difficulties for us when more and more new institutions are created, meaning more bureaucracy and more expense, but nobody can explain to us what added value these new networks, institutions and facilities bring to the European Union or to security.
All in all, that does not make for a good day for this form of parliamentarianism or for initiatives of this kind.
We have to consider whether future initiatives like these will require us, perhaps via the Convention, to take a new path in order to achieve sensible solutions in the interests of security and also of Parliament.
Mr President, we are not, in principle, against the proposal to create a body which would both ensure effective cooperation between police forces in Europe and gather developments and results of studies and research on combating crime.
I am afraid that it is something more than and different from what is defined in the proposal as just 'organised crime'.
The mafia is expanding increasingly beyond its traditional areas of activity, it is forging literally global alliances, it is penetrating the economic and financial sectors through extremely sophisticated money laundering systems.
The objectives of the European Police College - which I propose should be named after Giovanni Falcone, who gave his life 10 years ago this year in the fight against the mafia and was the first to point out the transnational dimension of the tentacular mafia network - must include precisely the fight against the mafia and prevention of the risk it represents.
The initiative before us today is intended to go further still, to revise the Europol Convention itself, which as it stands limits Europol's functions to collecting, analysing and exchanging data.
I agree with the rapporteur on the importance of incorporating Europol's budget into the Community budget.
I believe that it is not the incorporation of the police forces or security agencies of the EU which will solve this problem, but the fullest cooperation between all these agencies now and urgently.
The debate is closed.
The MacSharry and Agenda 2000 reforms ensured - so it is written - a reasonable and stable income for producers.
There have been many exchanges of opinion and ideas, and I would like to comment on some of them for I have tabled a number of amendments on points of importance to me which have been the subject of lengthy debate.
Just a few days ago, the Minister for Agriculture revealed that there was a surplus of EUR 300 million in the modulation system developed and updated over the last two years, which remained in the hands of the State and was not redirected to the agricultural holdings.
This aspect therefore warrants a great deal of attention.
Mr President, this is an own-initiative report on the interim review of Agenda 2000 in relation to the second pillar - rural development.
The first and second pillars are two indissociable instruments of the common agricultural policy and should, therefore, complement each other and be used for the benefit of a multifunctional agricultural system that will enable many farms to be maintained across the European Union.
Mr Fiori, as you have just referred to my report, I have to tell you that I think that your view is wrong and ultimately inefficient.
Multifunctional agriculture must enable us to combine market management and management of rural areas and enable farms across the current and enlarged Union to exist and be viable.
We have also been unhappy to see that the uneven application of rural development measures by the Member States does not always produce a positive result for the rural areas of the Union.
This is particularly the case for those areas that are most rural, most remote and which are lagging the furthest behind, which are not finding a truly satisfactory solution to these problems.
We therefore propose that, without diminishing the powers of the national authorities, we should establish priorities under the second pillar of the CAP in order to move forward in defining a core of priority measures at Community level that guarantee sustainable development in the Union.
We also propose that the Commission define a new typology for rural areas to enable us to set priority measures for each area and also to help us to apply different percentages of co-financing according to the various rural problems that exist in the Union.
There should, therefore, be compulsory and uniform modulation of aid under the first pillar, in order to use those freed-up resources, not only for the measures that we can currently use them for, the agro-environmental sector, early retirement and reforestation, but also for all the measures established in the regulations on rural development.
We think that as part of this measure and in the interim review we should strengthen the eco-conditionality of aid and establish a link between the disbursement of direct payments and the provision of services within a multifunctional system, extending eco-conditionality measures in favour of sustainable development.
We also ask for the Community support framework for rural development to be simplified through the creation, on the basis of the two EAGGF Guarantee and EAGGF Guidance sections, of a single agri-rural fund for the whole of the CAP.
And on the occasion of this report in favour of multifunctional agriculture and of a different multifunctional agricultural policy, I would like to finish by asking for codecision for Parliament on agricultural policy.
Agenda 2000's mid-term review is a very important stage for agriculture, as the further development of the common agricultural policy is very important specifically in a global context.
I see the considerable attention paid by Mrs Rodríguez Ramos in her report to rural development, with all its demands, problems, opportunities and possibilities, in a favourable light.
Its continued promotion within the second pillar of the CAP really is an important matter of concern to me, although such promotion must not be to the detriment of the CAP's first pillar.
For me, a 'mid-term review' means reviewing Agenda 2000 and the current rules.
Moreover, the problems of enlargement must under no circumstances be mixed up with the discussion we are having today on Agenda 2000 and the mid-term review.
The European agricultural model must be secured for the future as well.
We Members of Europe's Parliament therefore look forward with great excitement to the Commission's proposals, in response to the mid-term review, for positive development of agriculture, forestry and rural areas, and thus for the future of farmers in Europe.
Now more than ever before, all the policy's COMs must promote or enhance the multifunctionality of our agricultural policy in order to guarantee food safety, sustainable development, rural development and territorial cohesion, in addition to animal welfare.
This is what our fellow citizens now expect from Europe's agricultural policy.
Consumers and taxpayers must shoulder their responsibilities in this area.
In this area, I would warn against any approach that aims to limit the CAP to receiving only public funds for multifunctionality under the consolidated rural pillar, and submitting other areas of agricultural policy to market deregulation.
Mr President, the Berlin European Council limited the interim review of Agenda 2000 - and the two own-initiative reports referred specifically to the Commission's future proposals on the review of Agenda 2000 - in terms of the limits on the financial perspectives and the possible review of the intervention prices for cereals and milk quotas.
With regard to the price of cereals, in my opinion, the real need is for the price differential for oilseed crops to be restored in order to correct the strategic deficit of vegetable proteins.
The requirement of co-financing, as it is currently designed, creates a deficit of rural development measures in the poorest regions, which are the most needy ones, and the predominant measures in some countries frequently have little to do with sustainable rural development.
The mid-term review of the CAP must be used as an opportunity to confirm the objectives set by Agenda 2000 and to reassure farmers that the negotiators are determined to defend our crops and to firmly establish the European agricultural model at the international talks.
The latter must also enable farmers to meet society's new expectations in terms of quality, environmental protection, animal welfare and financing the additional costs that the market is not ready to assume.
The task of rural development is not, however, to tackle all the environmental, social and territorial challenges of the countryside.
As a basis for the balance sheet, the mid-term review must be an option for the future; in other words, Agenda 2000 must be a valid and binding framework up to 2006.
Reliability and competitiveness for the farmers and hence greater freedom for their business operations when their performance is considered as a whole is the first objective.
However, it also brings a challenge with it, that is, to reform the European common agricultural policy so as to adapt it to the requirements of the twenty-first century in order to guarantee a future for the European agricultural model in an increasingly globalised economy.
And we will be turning our back on the agricultural industry that we wish to build, an industry that is committed to environmental preservation, consumer protection and an industry that is concerned with the economic, social and also territorial cohesion of the European Union.
This long-term approach has been one of the main pillars of the success of the common agricultural policy and it should not be underestimated.
Moving away from this model would mean standing still with regard to an approach that our citizens in the regions have only just begun to adopt.
Mr President, Commissioner, with the introduction of rural policy in the framework of Agenda 2000, a number of Member States took full advantage of the new funds that became available.
Rapporteurs Mrs Rodríguez Ramos and Mr Fiori consider depopulation as one of the key problems facing the countryside, and consequently base their vision of rural policy on this premise.
They are basing their assumptions too much on the problems in their own Member States in this matter.
The European rural policy should consider these problems too.
The common agricultural policy is currently undergoing a major change, due to the challenges that the European Union has to face, particularly with enlargement to the East and the negotiations with the World Trade Organisation.
The European Union is preparing to undertake a review of the CAP in 2003, which could be the prelude to a more in-depth reform planned for 2006.
One of the key elements in this debate is the modulation of aid from the market policy in order to transfer funds to the second pillar, to rural development, where we have been left short; in this way we will achieve a policy that many think will be more consistent with the agreements obtained at the WTO, as well as easing the path to accession.
Any change made by the European Union to direct income aid must be done without damaging the income of farmers.
The European Union cannot give in to the whims of any country when the future of its farmers is a stake.
I would like the European Commission to present its proposals to the European Parliament and very carefully weigh up the impact that the Farm Bill is going to have.
Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members, the regulations adopted under Agenda 2000 have been a disaster for farmers.
Mr President, like many other things in this world, if we were designing from the beginning a common agricultural policy today, I doubt very much it would take the shape or form we presently have.
When I first became a Member of this Parliament, the Union was a lot smaller than it is today.
Nevertheless, the people of the European Union have not seen the common agricultural policy as a great failure.
We must not forget that the business of agriculture is about producing food in the first place and we must ensure that food is safe.
Any future common agricultural policy needs to be sustainable across the board - economically, socially and also environmentally.
Furthermore, it must match what society wants and address the challenges of the moment.
They therefore expect it to fulfil a variety of roles.
It is therefore up to us to support all those functions.
When we talk about the interests of society, we should not forget that farmers are also part of our society, so that their needs also have to be taken into consideration if we are to ensure that our agriculture is socially sustainable.
I have always said that reform of the CAP is a continuing process.
However, we also intend to take account of the possible impact of the US Farm Bill in our analysis, and also of the work due to be published by the US Food and Agriculture Policy Research Institute, the FAPRI, probably at the beginning of June.
The draft of our mid-term review will then be presented on 10 July.
So we will not be in a position to present a second package until next year.
This will particularly help us in the WTO context, where the Americans' behaviour has been sharply criticised by most of their WTO partners.
The motion for a resolution generally takes the same line as the Commission on the future direction and role of rural development policy.
In particular, I believe that the further transfer of funds from the first pillar to the second pillar gives an important signal.
Nevertheless, the common agricultural policy is expected to contribute to sustainable development.
I would like to conclude by addressing a further point that goes beyond the mid-term review but which is nevertheless important for the future, and which is therefore something that we need to bear in mind when we are considering how to develop the common agricultural policy in future.
If the European Union is to open up its agricultural markets to developing countries without any restrictions, then mechanisms need to be found beforehand to prevent multinationals persuading farmers in developing countries to abandon their traditional land management methods for large-scale monoculture of products suitable for export.
These issues therefore need to be gone into in greater depth if we want to address our consumers' justified concerns.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0130/2002), on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council directive concerning the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector [15396/2/2001 - C5-0035/2002 - 2000/0189(COD)] (Rapporteur: Mr Cappato).
With regard to this matter - as my colleagues know - I have my own opinion, with which some people do not agree: I believe that it is not legislation, opting in or opting out, which will help us to combat unsolicited e-mails, and spamming is already banned on four or five grounds under the existing directives.
What I do not understand, however, is how these considerations, alone, have managed to sway, are swaying the overall position of the House.
It has even been said - and I think this is the worst thing that has been said to us - not in this debate, for, of course, this debate is taking place after the decisions have been made, but in recent debates we have held - that the positions were the opposite of what was being proposed.
I therefore call - and I am almost ashamed of my vehemence but I feel that, ultimately, the few Members remaining in the House deserve it - for the positions assumed to be changed once again, and I call for at least that clause which has nothing whatsoever to do with the matter - it is a third pillar clause, a clause relating to cooperation, justice and home affairs, which includes the possibility for Member States to make laws requiring the blanket retention of data - for that unlawful clause, at least, to be removed from our directive.
Mr President, since the vote in committee we have attempted to reach a compromise with the Council on the contentious points.
Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi then tabled certain proposals for compromise with the Council on behalf of our group, and we have negotiated on that package in countless meetings and discussions also involving the Presidency.
In my country, Italy, these data are kept for five years.
Article 14 of the present directive already stipulates that the Member States can adopt legislative measures seeking to limit the confidentiality rights in respect of communications necessary for the safeguarding of national security.
The solution laid down in compromise Amendment No 46 adds that, in accordance with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, these measures must be appropriate and proportionate within a democratic society, that data retention is only admissible for a limited period, and that the legislation on the subject must comply with the principles contained in Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union and therefore, in particular, with those enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the shared constitutional traditions of the Member States which are now - these traditions - included in the European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Mr President, my group deplores the way this matter has been handled in the last few weeks.
My group will uphold the committee agreement by voting for an opt-out system on directories to be possible.
Any imposition of these powers should be debated at national parliament level and then addressed in the context of EU cooperation on policing and crime-fighting, including guarantees for citizens' rights.
Mr President, my group is extremely surprised at the turn this debate has taken.
Moreover, I am of the opinion that the compromise that these two groups have reached concerning data protection is not such a good one.
Why are we as Parliament, in this first-pillar document, over which Parliament therefore has control, now willingly and explicitly encouraging the Council to conclude agreements about the systematic registration of people's surfing behaviour and other electronic activities in the third pillar, behind closed doors and with minimum parliamentary and judicial control?
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that you too will have received the letter from the various citizens-rights groups dealing with the very point that has now become key in this directive.
No one knows who will have access to it then - it could be the normal authoritarian Social Democrats, or it could be Le Pen, Haider or Rasmussen.
After all, even before 11 September no one was aware to what extent fundamental rights were being whittled away with the agreement of western democrats.
So the effect of the directive we are debating today could be that if I download information about right-wing radicalism from the Internet now I could at some point in the future lose my job as a civil servant.
The directive before us today is preparing the way for that proposal to extend monitoring by the state across Europe.
Unfortunately, it is difficult to feel satisfied with the result, but separate national regulations would create even greater differences and even more problems.
I returned to the issue in my report on the strategy for 'Creating a safer information society by improving the security of information infrastructures and combating computer-related crime? (A5-0284/01).
On the issue of data retention, Groucho Marx has been referred to tonight.
Actually, there were three brothers and the contributions I have heard tonight lead me to believe that the three brothers Groucho, Chico and Harpo are present.
I hope Parliament does the sensible thing, which is to vote in favour of the data retention proposals.
I could say a lot more, but thankfully my time is up.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive we are debating this evening is desperately needed, as it forms the coda of the telecommunications package that we adopted last year.
And this is exactly what we are doing today.
We are discussing a proposal for a directive which seeks to amend the previous European Parliament and Council directive - Directive 97/66 of 15 December 1997, to be exact - which laid down provisions on the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the telecommunications sector, and bring it into line with technological innovations which have taken place which were actually quite foreseeable.
We need to avoid this alleged respect for privacy leading to the establishment of two systems or a system with two different sets of rules, which would mean, first and foremost, excessive protection of the citizens' privacy and laying down excessively restrictive rules in the private sector, while leaving the Member States, on the other hand, absolutely free to intervene for their own purposes in the lives of the citizens themselves, for example requiring electronic communication service providers to perform tasks which almost amount to police work.
This is our major common need and our aim.
The proposed electronic communications data protection directive is the only element of the package still to be agreed between this House and the Council.
Adequate rules on the protection of privacy on line are just as essential for the sector as rules to ensure competitive markets.
The seven compromise elements that have been tabled by the PPE-DE and PSE, together with three amendments submitted by the Citizens' Freedom Committee and five further amendments submitted by the PPE-DE constitute a package of compromise texts that are acceptable both to the Council and the Commission.
On all four main and outstanding issues, some balanced solutions are now on the table.
On cookies, Amendments Nos 25 and 26 align the relevant provisions with the general data protection directive.
Amendments Nos 9, 18, 28, 44 and 45 are acceptable, both for the Council and the Commission.
On traffic data retention, discussions have been particularly difficult.
The Commission appreciates the strong feelings in this House regarding the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms.
The Commission fully shares these feelings and, like Parliament, is currently promoting the inclusion of a Charter on Fundamental Human Rights in the EU Treaty, so that it will become legally binding and directly enforceable.
As we have said from the start of the discussions, the directive we are debating today is not a third pillar instrument.
It imposes legal limitations on what we can usefully include in the provisions of the directive, both with regard to any national measures for public security or crime-fighting and with regard to safeguarding individual rights and freedoms.
As the Commission has emphasised in its recent submission to the European Convention, we think that the separation between the three pillars causes numerous difficulties and should therefore be abandoned.
But as long as the pillars exist, we are forced to respect them, because the European Court of Justice would not uphold any third pillar elements included in a first pillar directive.
The compromise Amendments Nos 46 and 47 jointly submitted by PPE-DE and PSE signify a very important improvement of the Council's common position on the topic of data retention.
They strengthen considerably the human rights aspect of the relevant provisions and also refer to case law by the Strasbourg Court on the European Convention of Human Rights.
The Commission fully supports these improvements and urges the European Parliament to do the same.
However, if the sentence on data retention is deleted from Amendment No 46 as proposed by the requested split vote, the whole compromise would unravel and this would surely lead to conciliation with an even more uncertain outcome.
The Commission understands the concerns that have motivated the request for a split vote, but feels that the current text addresses these concerns sufficiently.
A non-harmonised solution as proposed in Amendment No 35 is not sustainable with the internal market.
In summary, an agreed overall solution between all institutions is within reach if the European Parliament tomorrow accepts Amendments Nos 9, 13, 18, 25, 26, 28, 37, 38 and 44 to 50.
The result will be a directive with great added value for European citizens and for the development of the information society.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0136/2002), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the Council common position for adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on public access to environmental information and repealing Council Directive 90/313/EEC [11878/1/2001 - C5-0034/2002 - 2000/0169(COD)] (Rapporteur: Mrs Korhola).
Implementing it successfully is, however, almost impossible without the support of our own citizens.
As well as being signed by the Community, the Aarhus Convention has been signed by all fifteen Member States, but the Community has not yet managed to progress to ratification as the existing legislation does not yet comply with the Convention.
The directive being proposed is the first pillar in ratifying the Aarhus Convention.
The second pillar concerns public participation and Parliament will be able to start the second reading in the near future, as at the start of tomorrow's session it will be announced that the Council's common position has finally been received.
This being the case, today I submitted a draft recommendation concerning the second reading of the second pillar to the secretariat of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
The third pillar aiming at ratifying the Aarhus Convention concerns access to justice and a proposal regarding this is currently being prepared by the Commission.
The Council also proposes that historical documents, in other words documents received or created before the directive has entered into force be made electronically available, for example on the Internet at the discretion of the authority in question.
To rectify this situation, the Greens, the Liberals and the Left Group have jointly tabled Amendment No 48 to emphasise the general principle that the information should be free of charge.
All these are very important.
Mr President, Commissioner, we all agree that information is a basic principle of democracy.
The new Article 7a, on the quality of environmental information, is one of the most important amendments.
This important principle came directly from Principle 10 of the Rio Declaration, which places the citizens at the centre of environmental policy.
This convention is a major step forwards in terms of implementing Principle 10 of the Rio Declaration and continuing the process of openness initiated by Council Directive 90/313/EEC on the freedom of access to information on the environment.
Thanks to the work carried out by the rapporteur - and I should here like to thank Mrs Korhola - and by the European Parliament and the Council, the proposal has been greatly improved in recent months.
The Commission can partially accept Amendments Nos 1 part 3, 9 part 1, 27 part 3 and 48 part 2.
The remaining amendments cannot be accepted by the Commission, namely Amendments Nos 1-6, 7 part 1 and part 2, 8, 10-18, 20, 21, 23-26, 27 part 1, 29, 31, 34-41, 43, 44, 47 and 48 with the exception of part 2.
Thank you Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The aim of this directive was, firstly, to define a common evaluation procedure of active substances for both existing and new pesticides, and, secondly, to establish a positive list of authorised substances, which are deemed to be acceptable for health and the environment.
In the report, the Commission states that 31 out of the 834 active substances on the market have been evaluated, that is, less than 5%.
In these conditions and as the Commission quite rightly states, it will clearly not be possible to meet the July 2003 deadline.
The Commission itself is proposing this, therefore we can only support it and add what I believe to be appropriate comments.
I feel that the Committee on the Environment is right to support this proposal which aims not only to bring the 1991 Directive to a successful conclusion but also to reduce the use of pesticides, which is certainly a very good way of reducing the risks.
Mr President, Commissioner, in the proposal that is being put to us, the European Commission is asking Parliament and the Council to give our opinion on whether the evaluation period for active substances, which was to be completed by July 2003, should be extended to 2008.
We should retain and support those amendments in that respect.
The new integrated farming policy that is emerging in the European Union has led to a considerable decrease in the use of plant protection products, for example in some farms such as extensive arable farms.
Perhaps agriculture can exist without sustainable development, but the reverse is not an option.
Mr President, more than 10 years ago, Directive 91/414 concerning the authorisation, use and control of plant protection products entered into force.
Practice has shown that the pursuit of the sustainable production of drinking water is hindered by the lack of sustainability in the use of plant protection products.
These are just two examples illustrating that the present Community framework for plant protection products leaves something to be desired.
I should like to bring three important points to your attention.
I have only time to deal with one specific area, and it does not in any sense detract from my belief that the effective regulation of dangerous pesticides must be a priority task of this Parliament, and, indeed, this Commission.
I am concerned because there is a danger that some products of high toxicity which have not yet been regulated or properly examined, are still remaining in the market, whilst others, which are of no conceivable danger and are very low on Lists 3 and 4, are going to be taken out of the market because those who produce them, and they do indeed in some cases come into the category of essential uses, are likely to be unable to produce the complex dossier needed to go through all of the processes initially set out in what, as the rapporteur says, has been an extraordinarily slow process.
I just want to give the Committee one example of this: ad hominem arguments are always dangerous, but I have a producer in my own area who turned to a particular plant protection range of products because he was himself alarmed by the effect of dangerous pesticides as he had seen them.
If I talk of things like Agent Orange, you will know exactly what I mean.
I could provide in due course a comprehensive reply to the resolution after its formal adoption.
As you will all know, although the Commission report focused on our progress to date in the evaluation of active substances, it also has one eye firmly on the future.
I would mention in particular, the mismatch between the ambitious targets set in the directive and the resources available to the Commission to deliver on these targets.
This situation requires us to seek agreement on an approach to be taken in July 2003 as regards those substances and there will be several hundred of them where evaluations have yet to be completed.
Although the directive delegated this decision to the Commission through the comitology procedure, we considered that the issue was of sufficient importance to request your agreement on the approach to be taken in relation to these defended substances in 2003.
I share the view that this work should be completed in 2008.
The second point that needs to be highlighted is that the directive is now ten years old.
The preparation of the report has enabled us to reflect on how to effect these improvements without compromising the directive's principles.
Mr President, I recognise that there are many issues we could discuss and there are many points in the texts in front of us with which I could take issue, but I do not want to take up too much time, and I think that these issues would be better discussed when we propose amending the directive.
Member States and farmers insist that this could create serious problems.
Finally, I recognise that there is some impatience regarding the adoption by the Commission of a communication on sustainable use of pesticides.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
In any case the idea first presented in the Fifth Action Programme of integrating environmental policy with other policy areas is also the driving force behind this Sixth Action Programme and it is quite clear that only in this way can we make progress on environmental issues.
The environmental goals should of course be set on the basis of environmental considerations, but the responsibility for finding ways in which these goals can be reached should rest with the various sectors.
Several important principles were approved in the conciliation process, among which it may be worth mentioning that for the first time we have a decision on European-wide environment taxes.
The Council should now get to work and think about how and in which contexts this matter can be taken further.
We have to be able to find content for this thematic strategy on the urban environment in terms of environmental policy and improving the quality of life of our citizens.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate all those who have contributed to the programme, and also the Commission - I will explain why presently - and the Council, because in the final conciliation proceedings it clearly made every effort to accept and move closer to Parliament's position.
I must also commend the choice of thematic strategies.
I think that this is a qualitative step forward that heralds a new way of working, in which scientific values are going to be taken into account, a report is going to be drawn up on the status of the issue, the costs and capacity for implementation are going to be assessed and, moreover, there is going to be better knowledge of what is happening in Europe before commencing the measures.
I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the thematic strategies have to be applied to policy on climate change and emissions.
I should like to say a big thank-you to Mrs Myller, to all my fellow MEPs and, of course, to the entire Conciliation Committee for having made this work possible.
Clearly, my group would have liked to have seen a possibly more wide-ranging, target-oriented and concrete Environment Action Programme for the next ten years, in other words a real break with the trend in environmental policy and sustainable development.
The programme must stimulate the various players in society to solve environmental problems in an active and responsible manner.
The fact that she focused her amendments with care and precision meant that it was possible to reach a sensible compromise with the Council.
This agreement provides an excellent basis for the Community's environment policy for the next ten years.
It means that it is a programme for all - you can actually check on whether or not we deliver on these actions.
Thank you Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The next item is the report (A5-0163/2002) by Mr Lange, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council directive on the reduction of the level of pollutant emissions from two and three-wheel motor vehicles and amending Directive 97/24/EC [PE-CONS 3615/2002 - C5-0136/2002 - 2000/0136(COD)].
There is no way we can justify a motorcycle with just one passenger emitting 17 times as much pollution as a motor car with up to four passengers.
Up to now, a warm motorcycle was tested at 50 km.
We have therefore stipulated that measurement must start with a cold motorcycle and must also cover higher speed ranges, and also include an open-road section, because in practice motorcycles are of course scarcely driven at a maximum speed of 50 km.
We can be pleased that an agreement on the fuels emission standards applicable to two and three wheel vehicles has been reached.
This will ultimately provide for the introduction of a new dedicated motorcycle test in the 2006 standards as an option at the choice of the manufacturer.
The implementation of this test in the EU will ensure the best possible environmental controls on these vehicles.
At the same time, we will consider when a new dedicated motorcycle test will become the sole test for the user procedure for EU type approval.
Accordingly, the Commission would like make a declaration that has been previously circulated in the institutions and it is as follows: The Commission reaffirms its objective to ensure the best possible environmental protection as laid in Article 95(3) of the Treaty.
Accordingly, its proposal to include the new dedicated test cycle for motorcycles in the 2006 stage as provided for in Article 4(5), the Commission will also consider when this test will become the sole test procedure for the EU type approval.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
The next item is the joint debate on the oral questions (B5-0019/02) and (B5-0020/02) to the Commission, on the situation in the European shipbuilding sector.
Secondly, does the study confirm the need to launch a WTO procedure against South Korea?
Sixth, how many jobs have already been lost because no WTO measures have been introduced over the last two years and no accompanying protection measures have been taken?
Here we are again discussing shipbuilding and the unfair practices of South Korea in the sector.
I would also like to point out that in November 2001 in this House we approved the inclusion of gas carriers, ferries and boats for the transport of motor vehicles, which is part of the complaint to the WTO, but they were not included in the defence mechanism.
The Commission took note of the findings of the TBR report at its session on 7 May and authorised its transmission to the Council.
The updated TBR report will be discussed by Member States at the TBR Committee on 29 May.
As regards developments in 2001 in the LNG - natural gas carriers - sector, the updated TBR reports stresses the considerable increase in the Korean market shares and concludes that further examination is necessary to determine whether a consistent trend emerges over the longer term.
The Commission's proposal on the temporary defence mechanism on which the European Parliament was consulted in November 2001, is provisionally planned to be discussed again during the next Industry Council meeting which is scheduled for 6 June.
State subsidies have never been of benefit to anything at all and are expensive for the Member States.
Fisheries and shipbuilding, which are so closely linked, are matters of deep concern in many Member States, in regions of the European Union such as Galicia and in cities such as mine, Vigo, where shipbuilding and fishing are the source of employment and means of living for many families.
In December 2000, a report from Parliament set out the threats to shipbuilding in Europe: crisis in the fisheries sector, flags of convenience in the merchant navy and the risks of ships registered in a Community country being built outside of Europe.
I think that the naval sector accepts and desires the European Union's objectives: streamlining of the shipbuilding industry, an increase in productivity, an increase in the competitiveness of shipyards, improving the environment, which are objectives that can be achieved in a situation of transparency and equality, but not with the disadvantage of dumping and unfair competition.
What is worse is that if the European Union does not support shipbuilding through temporary investment, it may be giving an invitation to those who practise dumping and unfair competition to extend those practices to other sectors of the economy, such as the automotive industry and electronics.
The distortion in competition already described and recently confirmed in a Community report is becoming worse because of the ending of subsidies in Europe.
