Statutes for the Euratom Supply Agency (debate) The next item is the report by Romana Jordan Cizelj, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, on the proposal for a Council decision establishing Statutes for the Euratom Supply Agency - C6-0131/2007 -.
The Euratom Supply Agency has, during its more than 45 years of existence, helped to ensure the supply of nuclear fuels for the benefit of Community users.
The European Parliament has long called for the role of the Agency to be revived and for the powers contained in the Euratom Treaty to be used in full.
I would, in particular, mention the Maldeikis report on the 50th anniversary of the Euratom Treaty, which this House adopted earlier this year.
In conclusion, I welcome the support that the European Parliament is giving in order to reinforce the role of the Euratom Supply Agency.
rapporteur. - (SL) The role of nuclear energy is becoming increasingly evident, not only in Europe but also globally.
Naturally, I also agree with the Commission that the enlargement of the European Union to 27 Member States and the financial regulation adopted for the Agency demand new, modernised and improved statutes for the Euratom Supply Agency.
It must have control over the conclusion of long-term nuclear fuel contracts and provide a framework for investment, etc.
I believe that the European Parliament should also be informed of every major Agency project.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, first of all may I join in congratulating Mrs Jordan Cizelj on her report.
I also welcome the proposals that Mrs Jordan Cizelj has put in for clarification of the role of the Agency, in particular the role of its committee.
But, finally, I would like to welcome the renaissance of nuclear energy - as the Commissioner has said, at both European and international level - because of the vital role it will have to play in dealing with climate change.
on behalf of the PSE Group - (BG) Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Socialists, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur Mme Cizelj for the thorough work and the good cooperation within the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy in the preparation of the report.
I believe that the adoption of new Statutes for the Euratom Supply Agency should reflect not only the new number of Member States but also the modern financial rules.
I am confident that the adoption of the European Parliament's proposals by the Council could provide the foundations to promote the authority of the Agency so that to become a leading initiator of the implementation of the European Parliament's address to the international community in point 9 of its resolution of 14 March 2007 concerning non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament, appealing for support to initiatives for multilateral international uranium enrichmnet centres under the control of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
As Javier Solana pointed out in Lisbon on 6 November at the Euromed meeting, this issue has become particularly topical now, when countries like Morocco, Egypt and Jordan have announced ambitious programmes for the development of nuclear energy.
With due respect for the Commission, I would like to point out that the suggestion on limiting the Committee's influence and cutting the number of Committee members down to 42 was not very good, especially in view of the Commission's recommendations to establish such instruments, structures, as the Office of the Energy Observatory, with a view to creating efficient European Energy policy.
That way we will be able to achieve stability in the Committee and consistency in its competence.
Article 54 of the Euratom Treaty allows the Agency to collect funds when nuclear material is being sold by means of a charge.
This proposal would result in a situation where the Directorate-General for Energy and Transport is both promoting the use of nuclear energy and monitoring it, which is not right, especially as at international level the International Atomic Energy Agency also has an inconsistent role as a monitoring body for nuclear safety and one that promotes nuclear power.
