What we have seen, both outside the European Union – in Jakarta, Beslan, Iraq, Afghanistan and the Middle East – and inside the European Union – in Madrid six months ago – requires action now and in the future.
Every attack poses new questions which require new answers and pose new challenges that we have to address jointly through concrete action.
We have improved our legislation and widened our policy instruments.
True protection can therefore be realised only through international cooperation.
Terrorism is an attack not only on our political and economic freedom, but also on our norms and values: liberty, democracy, tolerance and the rule of law, values that we have to defend.
A new approach to security has been developed, through various processes, with a view to taking more conclusive action against terrorists and preventing new attacks.
UN Security Council Resolution 1373 has forced countries to improve their policies on terrorism, not only in word but also in deed, not only by improving old legislation or by drafting new legislation but also by implementing it.
The counter-terrorism agenda, incorporated in UN Security Council Resolution 1373, should therefore be considered to be the most important global point of reference for action – action that has to be taken by all United Nations Member States.
The key issue of security is at the centre of the European Security Strategy, which should contribute to a stronger multilateral system.
We have also decided to include a terrorism clause in new contractual relations with third countries, similar to the human rights clause.
The work programme of the Netherlands presidency in the field of counter-terrorism is extensive and wide-ranging.
The presidency works in close cooperation with the EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator, Mr Gijs de Vries, to implement and complement this action plan.
Having good information on what terrorists are planning and preparing to do is our first line of defence.
We also need to strengthen the role of Europol and make sure it can play its role.
In the near future, the European Union Justice and Home Affairs Ministers will sit with their US counterparts to see how we can strengthen transatlantic cooperation in the fight against terrorism.
The third Money Laundering Directive is a fresh step in this matter.
It is our firm belief that we must work with third countries to promote the ratification and implementation of UN counter-terrorism conventions and to use political dialogue and technical assistance to support countries willing to cooperate.
The EU also operates other programmes in various countries with a view, more generally, to strengthening their judicial systems.
That brings me to terrorism in Russia.
We must show – and indeed have shown – our sympathy.
It is clear that the European Union has always systematically condemned all acts of terrorism.
This cooperation forms part of our overall strategy to strengthen relations between the European Union and Russia.
It is part of our goal to make tangible progress on all four common spaces at the next summit on 11 November.
But the interaction should go hand-in-hand with building up cooperation in the common space of internal security.
We have been consistent in our position that human rights should be respected in the fight against terrorism.
Indeed, the European Union has a clear position on the situation in Chechnya.
We therefore fully supported your initiative, Mr President, for schools all over Europe to respect a one-minute silence at noon yesterday in commemoration of the victims of this terrorist attack.
Attacks on civilians are always contemptible.
In recent months, Russia has suffered several terrorist attacks, with targets ranging from the Moscow metro to domestic passenger flights.
Events in Beslan followed an intensification of rebel attacks in both Chechnya and Ingushetia since the spring.
The current conflict, now in its fifth year, has been a vicious affair, with widespread human rights abuses and the targeting of civilians by both Russian armed forces and rebels.
For the Commission, there are two principles that guide cooperation with Russia on terrorism.
The fight against terrorism does not justify or excuse the violation of human rights.
So when we return to discussion of Chechnya, we should continue to make clear our support for a political solution to the conflict, which fully respects Russia's territorial integrity.
But we should do so in a consistent, intelligent way that does not risk changing from presidency to presidency, and that recognises the complex nature of ethnic conflict in the whole of the Caucasus.
The challenge for Russia is to put in place a leadership in Chechnya in which the population of Chechnya has confidence.
I repeat the Commission’s readiness to provide funds for reconstruction and rehabilitation in the north Caucasus, as soon as the security situation permits, and once a needs assessment mission to Moscow and the north Caucasus can be undertaken.
I hope they are forthcoming and that the government of the Russian Federation will not conclude that the only answer to terrorism is to increase the power of the Kremlin.
Frankly, there is not much good history on the side of that proposition. &#160;&#160; Mr President, making a speech is always easier when you can say that you agree with the previous speakers, in this case, the Presidency and the Commission.
First and foremost, we must insist that institutions and governments act firmly.
We cannot accept, under any circumstances, any neutrality from an institution or State in the face of an act of hyper-terrorism of this nature.
The European institutions are alive to the problem.
I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that in our view terrorism has always been a struggle against democracy, freedom and the rule of law, which are the very cornerstones of our European Union.
That is why I want, in this debate, to draw attention to something: as we all know how these terrorists think, we also need to make two connections here.
The fact is that, for the first time in a long time, in not one Arab country were there demonstrations in the street in support of this act of terrorism.
While it is not for us to give Russia advice, anyone who reintroduces the death penalty absents themselves from our platform of action, which we in this House, let me add, share with our counterparts in the Council of Europe.
The brutality meted out to children, parents and teachers beggars belief; these terrorists are not freedom fighters, but cynical murderers.
Questions such as these do nothing to diminish our solidarity with the victims and our horror at the hostage tragedy.
The Russian Government must learn from the catastrophe of Beslan if the vicious circle of violence in Chechnya is to be broken.
This week, President Putin announced amendments to the Russian constitution, effectively removing the elements of democracy from the country’s political system.
That is no real war on terrorism, but it is Putin’s – a war on the political diversity that Russia needs so desperately, and his stronger government makes the country no safer.
We Liberals and Democrats are convinced that we have the right and the duty, as the representatives of the people of Europe, to speak out on Chechnya and to speak up for democracy and the rule of law.
That is a legitimate question, and, in Chechnya, a colonial power has for years been waging a colonial war that, day after day, brings forth monsters.
I hope that this House will find the strength to say that there is a solution other than terrorism to the conflict in Chechnya, and Natalia Estemirova would be the symbol of political action on its part in the face of this tragic situation. &#160;&#160; Yesterday, Mr President, the President of this House expressed on behalf of all of us our profound indignation at the monstrous hostage-taking in Beslan.
The accusation of interference carries no more weight today in the case of Chechnya than it formerly did in relation to Kosovo.
Finally, it must denounce the unjust, illegal, and increasingly dangerous war in Iraq, formally call for the withdrawal of the occupying troops and, in general terms, adopt as its own for the future the principle that war should be banned as a way of sorting out the world’s problems.
It is a new war, because never until now have the forces of evil been mobilised on such a broad front and never has the civilised world, at all latitudes of the globe, found itself confronted with such widespread atrocity and such total indifference towards civilised values and principles.
One of the last warnings was given to this Parliament and the international community by Commander Massud, who was later killed on 9 September 2001, just a few months after his visit to Strasbourg and two days before the attack on the Twin Towers, the attack that marked the terrorists’ official declaration of war on the whole civilised world.
There are no more ambassadors to announce that we are at war, but there are bombs ripping our countries apart, child murderers and rapists, and new terrorists being recruited from within our own cities.
Now that with a sense of solidarity we are struggling to fight this new terrorism that has declared war on us, it is difficult to understand how neighbouring countries that we respect and love, such as France, allow a terrorist convicted in Italy for four murders committed during the tragic ‘years of lead’ to escape.
Our national and European laws also need to be adapted to the emergency situation in which we are living. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Abdel Rahman al-Rashid, the director of the Al-Arabiya television station, wrote a remarkable opinion piece in the 5 September issue of the British .
Those who took children hostage in Beslan, he wrote, were Muslims, just as were the hostage-takers in Iraq, those who commit acts of violence in Darfur in the Sudan, Bin Laden and the suicide bombers who blow up buses, cars, schools, homes and other buildings all over the world.
Member States must work together more effectively in exchanging information and must adapt their legislation better with a view to combating international terrorism, or else things will go from bad to worse. &#160;&#160; Mr President, what happened in Beslan is fundamental proof that Islamist terrorism is now, and will continue to be, the main problem affecting coexistence amongst Europeans.
We must therefore say it, repeat it and affirm it in all the Union’s documents, in all our public statements: terrorism is the main problem.
We cannot start to fight terrorism unless we are sure, on the basis of the moral strength of our convictions, that we will be able to beat terrorism.
In summary, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we have a moral duty of the highest order. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the frightful terrorist attack on a school in Beslan has claimed hundreds of children and their mothers as its victims.
I am quite clearly not saying that the existence of these conflicts is a justification for barbarous violence directed at innocent people, but rather that we must adopt a joint approach in order to do away with this source from which violence develops.
In the same way, we also have to be prepared to act, to take international cooperation in the fight against terrorism further.
International terrorism cannot be tackled without international cooperation, and the European Union has an important part to play in that.
The President of Russia should be trying to assuage the mutual hatreds of the different peoples within Russia.
It is important for President Putin to show proper concern for every citizen of his country – not only Russians, but other peoples too, and for his immense power to be deployed to create peace and harmony. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on behalf of the people of Northern Ireland, who have known the cruelties of terrorism for more than a generation, I wish to convey my heartfelt sympathy to the parents and people of Beslan.
Be it the IRA fire-bombing a packed hotel outside Belfast and incinerating a dozen innocent people, al-Qa'ida attacking the twin towers, or Chechen extremists in Beslan butchering innocent children, the strategy is the same – maximum impact through maximum carnage in the hope of extracting maximum political concession.
Above all, our feelings of sympathy are for the victims, those left behind and the whole of Russian society.
Different though our opinions may be about a conflict such as that in Chechnya, there can never be any justification for atrocities of this kind, nor should anyone attempt to find one.
In addressing this terror, we in the European Union will therefore, more than ever, need to join forces with countries such as the United States and Russia, while, within the Union too, we have an awful lot to learn in this area of cooperation.
Many plans have been forged under the guidance of EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator, Mr de Vries, during this and the previous presidency, but it is just as important to monitor the implementation of plans that have already been adopted.
In the extra Justice and Home Affairs Council in the wake of the attacks in New York of September 2001, it was agreed that, from now on, all relevant information about terrorist threats would be exchanged within the EU.
In fact, the need for identical implementation also applies to terrorist organisations that have been included on the European list.
The discussion about an effective and identical implementation of the plans should be held at a higher level, and it would be useful if the coordinator, Mr de Vries, were to send his progress reports directly to this House too.
After all, we show no real understanding for, and sympathy with, the victims of New York, Madrid and Beslan, unless ambitious words are turned into concrete action. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we should express our deepest condolences to the victims of Beslan and their relatives.
The whole world has realised that things have now gone too far.
It is difficult to see how a continued centralisation of power in the Kremlin would help us understand this policy.
Up till now, we have supported the policy to promote stability and democracy under Putin’s leadership, and hopefully it will not now come about that, as a result of these tragic events, we start to rethink and alter our policy on Russia, because now Russia itself is also a victim.
This is a matter of joint concern. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, although it is the total horror, the complete and utter condemnation of the mad events in Beslan, that unites us all, I would urge you not to narrow the facts in Beslan and Chechnya down to a simplistic analysis of the fight against international terrorism.
Just read the reports by Amnesty International, or the report by our committee, of which I too was a member and to which Mr Paasilinna referred, or just look at what is happening in Chechnya.
What we need to establish is dialogue, a dialogue that should involve all parties, all parties within Chechnya, not only the clan around Mr Kadirov, but all clans in Chechnya, a dialogue including the rebels.
This proved to be the solution for peace in Ireland, and this is also the solution for peace in Chechnya.
They should enter into talks with all parties, and Europe should play an important role in this, just as the United States did in Northern Ireland.
That is what the Chechens are asking us, because the Chechens essentially want peace. &#160;&#160; Mr President, words fail me in the face of the tragedy that has befallen children and adults in Ossetia, but words must be found.
There is no such thing as good or bad terrorism, as all kinds of terrorism are bad.
In this film the sheriff has also shot people in the back in the past, as in Chechnya there really are two kinds of terrorism.
These views should be those of the entire EU, and this fact should be noted by Russia, which in the past has preferred to talk with selected Member States such as Germany and France, as demonstrated by the recent summit in Sochi.
If we act together, Mr President, as a single EU, it will be easier for us to exert influence on Russia and to fight for human rights, both in Chechnya and elsewhere. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, a particularly painful tragedy took place in North Ossetia, where the brutality on one side met with a lack of responsibility on the other.
Today when the Russian authorities declare that they will fight terrorism anywhere, that may seem new and positive, perhaps it opens the door to combined efforts in Iraq, Afghanistan, to stop acts of terror in Quatar and elsewhere.
When the Russian authorities condemn double standards, there springs the hope that Russian terrorists will also be persecuted, for example those who on the night of 31 July 1991 killed seven Lithuanian border guards in cold blood.
The 42 000 other children were no longer alive, were no longer suffering.
General de Gaulle did not disgrace France when he ended the Algerian War.
Thank you for your attention. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, one can scarcely find words to express the fury, grief and shame evoked by the terrorist attack in Beslan.
What frightens and concerns me, though, and many others among us, is the red line that connects Bush’s policy of preventive war in Iraq, via Sharon’s stubborn belief that violence can be countered only with violence, with Putin’s actions, which tend in that direction, the belief being that force can be dealt with only by force, with more force making authority necessary, which in turn makes authoritarian structures inevitable.
If we are to reject the proposition that ‘the end justifies the means’, then we must not exploit the situation that violent means have brought about in order to raise the question of our cherished aims.
What is more, one would want to see the European Union adopt not double standards, but single standards towards events in Iraq, Russia, Turkey, Indonesia and other countries.
No cause, whether it is the separation or autonomy of Chechnya, no injury, even brutal acts by Russian security forces – nothing justifies the mass murder of children and their mothers.
We do not have just a humane interest in the security and stability of Russia and her increasingly important southern reaches, but a selfish interest as well.
The inability of the Russian authorities to deal with the Beslan situation reveals many worrying and enduring problems that seem to be deeply embedded in the Russian state.
If the EU has anything to offer, it should be a single-minded condemnation of terrorism, together with humanitarian and reconstruction assistance.
Russia has to recognise who her real friends are. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the world was, once more, obliged to stand and watch helplessly while one of the most tragic hostage dramas in history was played out.
My second point is that, if you analyse what is going on there now, we have every reason to criticise Putin’s policy on Chechnya in recent years, but the underlying character of this attack has nothing to do with Chechnya.
What we need instead, my dear Mr Cohn-Bendit, in the face of such a web of international terrorism, is clear answers, for this terrorism menaces the whole of the free world, it menaces us and it menaces the United States too. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is worth reminding ourselves that we use the word 'terrorist' to describe one who seeks to cause terror, and truly do those responsible for the Beslan siege define that word – terror, horror, shock.
But children in a school are the most innocent victims of all.
I agree that there should be justice, but there should be no recriminations, no reprisals, no revenge, and, as all the institutions of Europe affirm in unanimity in this debate, no dilution of respect for human rights.
The victims were tortured for 52 hours and then murdered.
I have seen terrorism from close quarters in my own country, from less than five centimetres away, and I can state with democratic conviction that these savages cannot be given any advantage.
I call on you to restart the debate on Europol, to revise United Nations Security Council Resolution 1333 and to make the European Agency for the Management of External Borders operational. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first speaker noted that it is easy to take the floor when you agree with the previous speakers.
It is important for the dialogue to be in place, but at the same time for us to clarify our values.
We do so with the aim of honouring our own democracy, our own belief in human rights, of respecting minorities, and in saying this I am also referring to Chechnya, and we must do this together, we require everyone’s support for this.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; . – The cold-blooded massacre of a thousand children in a Christian school in Ossetia is an outrage.
The attack committed in Spain on 11 March was a demonstration in blood that none of our countries is safe from Islamic terrorism.
In the face of such an adversary, our countries must put aside their differences of opinion and of direction, and unite in defending the values of Western civilisation which they have in common. &#160;&#160; , . – We express our heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims of Beslan.
At the same time, we express our deep concern about future developments in the area in relation to USA and EU plans and the manifest copying of their strategy by the Russian Government in the areas of internal and external security, especially their adoption of the doctrine of preventive war.
It is perfectly obvious that the recent tragedy in Beslan and the inauspicious predictions are yet another result of the break-up of the USSR and the fall of socialism.
Although the ongoing violence is causing us concern, the past few months have also created space for a coherent and unified stand on the part of the EU in its support for Iraq.
June, in particular, was an important month for the long-term future of Iraq and the Iraqi people.
First, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1546 on 8 June, and on 28 June, Iraq’s temporary occupation came to an end and sovereignty was restored.
This became evident in the conclusions of the first general Council of Foreign Affairs Ministers under the Dutch Presidency in July.
This Council ratified the European Union Medium Term Strategyproduced by Mr Solana and Commissioner Patten, as well as the Communication by the Commission with regard to Iraq, entitled ‘The EU and Iraq – A framework for Engagement’.
However, we should not overlook the fact that very many Iraqis have also become the victim of violence, in most cases those very Iraqis who have taken on responsibility in the reconstruction of that country.
The constant violence is not only threatening society and the Iraqi economy, but also the political process in Iraq.
Partly thanks to the courageous efforts on the part of Ayatollah Al-Sistani, the restoration of order and safety in Najaf under the leadership of the Iraqi Interim Government is in sight.
Nevertheless, the Netherlands Presidency has adopted the conclusions by the July General Affairs Council and as a result of this, there is already greater EU involvement in Iraq’s political process.
Even now, the EU is regularly reminding Iraq’s neighbouring countries of their responsibilities.
During my visit, the UN representatives indicated that EU support for their activities is vitally important, certainly where the election process is concerned.
Delegates of the presidency, the Commission and the Council Secretariat looked into the possibilities of concrete EU involvement in the framework of civil crisis management in the areas of police, the rule of law, public administration and elections.
The mission did not only have talks with the Iraqi authorities, but also with representatives of the United Nations, the United States, NATO, the Multinational Force and the Election Committee.
Thirdly, civil administration; increasing capacity in various ministries and in the prison system.
I would also like to briefly mention the importance of the UN presence in Iraq, which, as I indicated, certainly with a view to the elections, is considerable.
Resolution 1546 provides for this.
The worst shambles to have overwhelmed us in the last five years has, of course, been the row over Iraq.
Whatever our past criticisms, we are all now up to our ears in this endeavour.
If Iraq goes badly, we all suffer.
We are developing a good record in disbursing this assistance, having paid more than EUR 200&#160;million into the United Nations and World Bank trust funds over the course of the past year.
The hazardous security climate&#160;– evident not least in the appalling series of kidnappings, most recently of humanitarian workers dedicated to the well-being of Iraqis, and evident also in yesterday’s appalling atrocity in Baghdad – obviously limits the pace of disbursement, as does the fact that we are working with an interim government that is still feeling its way in public administration.
That is life – at least in Iraq – and we will continue to do our utmost within the constraints of the situation on the ground.
This morning I was interested to read a report by the BBC from Washington: 'The US Administration wants to reallocate billions of reconstruction dollars for Iraq and spend them instead on security and other short-term needs.
I hope that the House will be generous to me in allowing me to stray a little on what is, almost certainly, my last outing in this mother of parliaments.
When, just over two years ago, some of us expressed concerns that the United States was abandoning the sort of multilateralism which had characterised its foreign and security policy since the Second World War, we were strongly criticised.
I have, after all, been a party chairman myself.
The world deserves better than testosterone on one side and superciliousness on the other.
It also worries us, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that the Council of Ministers has decided at first reading not to mobilise the flexibility instrument to fund the priority of Iraq, against the proposals of the Commission and this Parliament.
I hope that this is a tactical position on the part of the Council which will be corrected at second reading.
I believe that the previous debate this morning demonstrates clearly that we must not and cannot remain indifferent to the phenomenon of terrorism, that terrorism affects us all equally and that we must all respond equally.
We must therefore be completely united in the face of terrorism.
At the same time we anguish over the hostages, that odious form of violence and blackmail.
The international community has to be united to save those people, who are journalists and volunteers, as well as citizens of Iraq and of other countries.
Looking beyond the tragic hostage crisis, we have turned our attention in the speeches by the representatives of the Council and the Commission to Iraq’s current situation and prospects.
It is clear that to get out of this terrible crisis there needs to be political change both within Iraq and, in a more general sense, in the fight against terrorism, as has also emerged from this morning’s debate.
For example, the presence of US armed forces in the country is unlikely to help to restore peace, since it is evident that those who wanted the war and carried it out are attracting terrorism through their presence there, rather than bringing calm.
It has to be realised that these forces must be withdrawn at the time of the elections and replaced under UN authority with forces from countries not involved in the conflict.
In every area of activity there is a need to return to politics, multilateralism and international law.
Lastly, I should like to thank Commissioner Patten for his work and also for his words this morning which, in a fine speech if nothing else, reflected the prevailing feeling of the people of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, on behalf of my Group I would like to thank Commissioner Patten for his willingness over the past five years to engage in debate with this House wearing a tie with a very light tinge of blue.
It will drown the hopes of democracy in the Middle East.
Iraq is a vacuum, and in Falluja, Talafar and Baghdad, violence and the unacceptable terror of hostage-taking has rushed in to fill the space emptied by the fall of Saddam Hussein.
Yet too often, the coalition forces and the struggling Iraqi Government have met violence with blundering violence.
Under the auspices of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1546 the international community must offer every assistance to the interim government, and then to its sovereign successor.
Europe can help rebuild civil society in Iraq through support for non-governmental organisations, trade unions and political parties.
The European Union can play a key role in supporting and securing the elections to the Transitional Iraqi National Assembly in January of next year.
In a country where almost every citizen relies on government aid, we can help find the rice and the wheat flour that stand between Iraq and starvation, and the soap that guards against devastated public sanitation.
The new Iraq must be built on stable democratic institutions.
Only stable, democratic government offers the chance to remake the Middle East, and that may require our commitment for a generation. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Commissioner Patten most warmly for his clear statement at the end.
We have to develop a coherent policy for Iraq, Iran, Syria, and, of course, for Israel and Palestine.
That involves condemning what we have to condemn, and doing everything possible to prepare, by all democratic means, for free elections as soon as possible, so that the people of Iraq may be sovereign once more. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is clear that the primary objective of all of us here is to do everything possible to save all the hostages – French, Italian and Iraqi alike – because all lives are equally valuable.
I wonder, however, how we can dare to rightly ask for people to respect human rights and to save the hostages’ lives when the armies of countries sitting in this Chamber then continue to drop bombs and kill civilians.
Terrorism and war are mirror images and feed off each other.
We demand the immediate withdrawal of the troops and announce that, if our amendments against the war and for the withdrawal of the troops are not accepted, we shall vote against the draft resolution to be tabled tomorrow.
In practical terms, they are asking for a clear, firm stand on the part of all EU Members against the sustained involvement of Iraq’s neighbouring countries in the insidiously-growing terrorism on Iraqi territory, failing which, the EU itself will eventually be called upon to foot the bill.
If this local and regional reconstruction is successful, the people in the terrorist hotbeds can decide for themselves what will benefit them the most.
I hope, and expect, that this commitment will also be evident at the transatlantic level under the Dutch Presidency, because we will thereby be looking after Mesopotamia’s future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while we acknowledge its good intentions, we regret that Europe is essentially inadequate when confronted with the tragic events of the international crisis, the rise of terrorism and the situation in Iraq.
I should like here to remember the two young Italian women, Simona Pari and Simona Torretta.
The building of democracy in Iraq must begin with the foundations, not the roof.
Finally, the European Union mission should be in Baghdad, not in Amman, which is a long way from the Iraqi capital.
Let us not leave Baghdad to the US, as shirking responsibility is not a course of action that befits the EU. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, without stability in the region, society will not be reconstructed, there will be no security for investments, and without that no really peaceful development will be possible.
I see this as a reason why we must make it clear that there can be no justification for terrorism and that we will always oppose terrorism, which is, in this case, engaged in by minorities in Iraq, and that we have to support the majority population.
We must therefore call for a change in the nature of the multinational forces.
Finally – and this will be the last I shall say at this stage – I believe that we must be more insistent than we have been, more perhaps than the Council has been, on respect for human rights by all the parties on the ground.
We have to consider what is happening now in the aftermath of the conflict.
I would like to conclude by addressing a few words to Commissioner Patten.
I would like to ask him, as he rides off into the sunset, not to sing the song 'I am a poor, lonesome cowboy', but to seize the opportunity to put in the occasional mean tango! &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the recent dramatic events involving hostages – all hostages, Italian, French and Iraqi, for whose unconditional release we are once again appealing here – highlight the extreme gravity of the situation that has been developing in Iraq.
The military solution is thus revealing just how inadequate it is to solve the problem of terrorism and to ensure Iraq’s transition to democracy.
There is only one way to stabilise the situation in Iraq, and that is to withdraw the troops immediately.
It is not a case of giving in or not to the blackmail of terrorist groups, but rather a case of sending out concrete signs of a change in strategy, whereby the withdrawal of the occupying troops is seen as a precondition for sending in a UN contingent composed of forces from countries not involved in the war.
The Bush doctrine of pre-emptive war has proved to be tragically wrong and unable to curb terrorism, which has instead spread further precisely in the areas of conflict.
Europe can and must put across an independent and unified foreign policy proposal; it can and must play an ever-greater role in resolving crisis situations such as the one in Iraq.
What we see there, of course, is no more than the application of the USA’s imperial strategy, which aims to consign the world to an immense conflict of civilisations, one in which the civilised world will be gathered around Washington.
Europe, the Europe of the Euro-enthusiasts, is certainly incapable of choosing, but it is certain that, in the face of militant Islam, it is on a victory by the national resistance that Mediterranean cooperation – so necessary, yet, alas, so unlikely – depends. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is time to put an end to hypocrisy.
A subjugated Europe has never been willing or able to stand up to the aggressiveness of the victors at Yalta.
The role of the United Nations has been just as ineffective, for any UN resolutions that the great powers have found indigestible have been systematically ignored or sidestepped.
To hold him up as a representative of the Iraqi people is an insult to our intelligence and to that of the people we represent.
I call upon Member States who oppose the war – such as France and Germany – to put this behind them now and support new Nato initiatives to build up security in Iraq.
After all, we all share a common interest in fighting international terrorism.
The French journalists and the two young Italian aid workers who were taken hostage are all innocent in this war, and they risk paying for their commitment to a free Iraq with their lives.
We live in the – perhaps illusory – hope that, in 2005, free elections will be held and a government enjoying popular legitimacy will be formed.
We ask the Commission and the Council to do everything possible to fulfil this hope.
Capacity–building, the fight against corruption, strengthening the fight against organised crime and bringing in human rights and the rule of law – these words are familiar to us.
I ask you to remember that under Saddam Hussein Iraqis had no such freedoms, no access to human rights.
We should help Iraq build a peaceful society. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the war in Iraq drags on, and Allied troops continue to kill civilians as they bombard cities on a daily basis.
In terms of day-to-day life there, Iraq is very much a society at war, with battles, raids, hostage taking and the vicious circle of violence.
We must not allow the EU to be involved in the war in Iraq or to support the occupation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the EU’s declaration on Iraq.
The very idea of issuing such a declaration ties in with the general belief that the European Union has something resembling a foreign policy.
There is no such thing as European public opinion, and there can therefore be no EU foreign policy.
The Iraq issue is the best possible example of this.
Each of the Member States has its own foreign policy and its own opinion on Iraq.
Within each Member State it is also possible to observe a diversity of opinion on foreign policy, but each state has its own government authorised by the voters to conduct foreign policy.
It is an attempt to impose upon us all the belief that this House has a mandate to conduct foreign policy.
The European Union may provide humanitarian aid both in the case of Iraq and in the case of many other conflicts taking place throughout the world, and it may also offer its services as mediator and negotiator, provided that all sides in the conflict want the EU to do so.
That is something I myself have done, and I also have a definite answer to that question: yes, a military presence can lead to peace.
In the European Parliament, I represent Sweden, but I was born and brought up in the Balkans, a part of Europe that has seen many wars and a great deal of suffering.
I have a feeling that those who now criticise the process in Iraq have never even been near a war.
The fact too is that today’s Iraq without Saddam is a better Iraq.
We must ensure that we are involved and make our contribution so that the Iraq of tomorrow is a still better Iraq.
It must also be recognised that violence is escalating, and that this violence is being used as an instrument of political pressure both in Iraq and against countries that decided to participate militarily and politically in the rebuilding of an Iraqi state.
I would also like to say that in taking this risk upon themselves, they are acting primarily on behalf of the Iraqi people. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr&#160;President, Commissioner Patten.
The reports of terrible violence and of terrorism directed against women, children and civilians – mainly Iraqis of course, but also foreign journalists, aid workers, business people and military personnel – are alarming.
The kidnappings are absolutely abominable, and it is good that we in this House are, in any case, one hundred per cent in agreement about our demand that those kidnapped should be released and that the violence must cease.
The whole world has a responsibility for supporting the Iraqi people and developments towards a democratic and sovereign Iraq able to take its place in the international community.
We in the EU can offer support in many ways in cooperation with the UN and international bodies.
Naturally, the ultimate responsibility lies with the Iraqi people, but we all have a responsibility for ensuring that this process succeeds, both for the sake of Iraq and in the interests of stability throughout the region. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have serious doubts as to whether the actions of the European Parliament can influence the situation in Iraq.
In fact, every time there are killings or kidnappings, nobody asks whether European citizens were involved, but the Italians ask if there were any Italians, the Spanish if there were any Spaniards, the Greeks if there were any Greeks, the French if there were any French people, and so on.
Parliament’s political priorities in these negotiations must be in line with the structure of the new financial perspective.
I feel that it is crucial that Parliament’s final position should be incorporated into the Council’s common position, so that the negotiations can begin in a climate of mutual understanding of the European Project’s orientation in the near future.
Firstly, the committee’s work must not be allowed to replace, reduce or subordinate the parallel work, in accordance with procedure, that will take place in the other parliamentary committees.
This committee must bring added value, in close cooperation and in discussion with the various parliamentary committees, and must not be a motive for blocking or watering down.
It is obvious, as far as we are concerned, that opinions on the regulations of the different funds proposed, specifically at the levels of cohesion, social affairs and the productive economy, must be developed in the relevant parliamentary committees.
Secondly, different political and nationality groups must be guaranteed representation.
On the contrary, this temporary committee must at least adopt the Commission’s proposal on the financial perspectives and must seek to set more ambitious targets as regards the EU’s budgetary resources.
This is the challenge in these times of an enlarged Union and the new constitutional Treaty. &#160;&#160; We believe that the European Union’s policy on fisheries agreements must be reviewed.
We believe that, if the EU concludes a fisheries agreement with a third country, the total amount of the financial compensation for this third country must be funded by those EU Member States whose fishing vessels exploit the relevant opportunities under the agreement.
The EU must make an accurate assessment of the sustainability of fishing agreements with third countries, given that specific measures have taken on greater importance in the correct implementation of Community actions aimed at developing local communities, especially coastal communities that rely on traditional fishing.
These agreements, which are commercial in nature, may also contribute towards the sustainable management of fishing resources and towards the development of local fishing communities.
Although this a relatively modest agreement from a financial point of view and solely concerns tuna, the highly migratory nature of the species makes this agreement even more important to Community tuna shipowners.
In 2003 and early 2004 over 100 MEPs had, at last, begun to listen.
In the case of Africa, it means that some aspects of the deal may be slightly less bad.
The new Protocol’s global cost is identical to that of the previous Protocol.
I feel that the EU’s fisheries policy must stress the need for transparency, which is especially important in agreements of this nature, the objective of which is not simply about European interests.
Indeed, the development of the Malagasy economy, respect for the environment and the sustainability of the fishing effort in Madagascar’s territorial waters are three areas that must not be overlooked in this Protocol.
The extension of the current fisheries agreement for a further year – until 30&#160;June 2005 – will enable tuna shipowners to pursue their fisheries activities in the exclusive economic zone of Cape Verde, including the two Portuguese pole-and-line vessels and the ten Portuguese surface longliners.
The Portuguese fleet is, furthermore, allowed to catch up to 630 gross registered tonnes (GRT) by bottom trawling.
The position of the interim government is weakening, and there is a risk that the political process outlined in Security Council Resolution 1546 will be brought to a halt.
Elections are meant to take place by 31 January 2005.
If they do not, the constitution will not be adopted and a final, permanent government will not be appointed in early 2006.
Secondly, the UN’s role in Iraq should gradually be stepped up, and it should go beyond its current role as midwife to the democratic process.
Thirdly, and as set out in the motion for a resolution on Iraq by members of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, it is important for the European Union to be extremely active in its support for the transformation of Iraq in various fields, on the premise that Iraq is our joint responsibility, the joint responsibility of all Europeans and that of the entire European Union.
It is important to provide political backing, supporting the measures taken by the interim government, and later by the permanent Iraqi authorities.
Iraq’s future requires all of us and the entire European Union to be fully mobilised, as was and is the case for reconstruction in the Balkans. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in Europe have had very divergent opinions on the war in Iraq, but the disaster in that country, which is there for all to see, has unfortunately confirmed that the fears that many of us expressed were well founded.
Europe is being called upon to act and Parliament itself must take a more active investigative and steering role in such a decisive matter of foreign policy.
To promote this path to restoring peace, Europe needs to take strong, united action that is clearly in favour of dialogue with the Islamic world and strongly against terrorism and all kinds of violence.
I thank Commissioner Patten for his very lucid and effective speech. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly appreciated Commissioner Patten’s words, but it is with great disappointment and concern that I note that the text of the joint motion for a resolution on the situation in Iraq that has been put before us is a serious step backwards compared with Parliament’s condemnation of the United States’ pre-emptive war that was issued early in 2003.
Today, faced with the political and military disaster of the occupation, we cannot even demand or envisage the withdrawal of the occupying foreign troops and we avoid the need to identify those responsible for the current situation.
The evidence says that a mass uprising of the people is under way against the occupying powers and against a government that does not represent the country.
The terrorist presence cannot hide that fact.
If it does not make a stand, Europe is in serious danger of finding itself in a few months’ time not only facing an even more widespread disaster but also of being jointly responsible for it.
Under these conditions, the elections planned for January 2005, if they take place, will be neither free nor fair.
I believe we should send out a different signal to public opinion in the Arab and Islamic world and also to public opinion in Europe, the major part of which is hostile to the war, calling first of all for an immediate halt to the bombing.
Otherwise we all shall miss a great opportunity to contribute to justice and peace and to influence the international situation for the good. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to thank Commissioner Patten for the work he has done.
Mankind has to answer the question of what we are to do with tyrants, despots who kill their own people or those of another country.
Human suffering, whether it is in one’s own or another country, is always the same.
We must do all we can to combat terrorism, including its causes, as otherwise tomorrow we will find bombs in our own homes.
Finally, this is an opportunity to show the international community and the EU whether we are capable of leadership and keeping overall control of the situation, or whether we are just content with discussing the politics of the day. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to start by expressing my solidarity with and support for the European citizens – the two French journalists and the two Italian aid workers – being held hostage in Iraq.
We must all strengthen our cooperation and join our voices to obtain their immediate release.
Every day, the political process of transition to free elections, as provided for in UN Security Council Resolution 1546, is being undermined.
The departure of the international and European aid workers will be a defeat for the international community and, more importantly, for the European Union.
Last June we all welcomed unanimous Security Council resolution 1546 marking the start of the political process which would result in free elections and a new democratic constitution.
Despite the legalisation of the occupying forces as a multinational force by the Security Council, the occupation continues; it is a fact of life and the source and main reason for the continuing conflict.
Under these circumstances, who truly believes that the timetable set out in Resolution 1546 will be adhered to, who believes that it can guarantee smooth political process, who believes that the UN can play the leading role in Iraq?
The European Union must play its own autonomous role, make its own analysis of the security situation and proceed with its own analysis of the role and composition of and prospects for the multinational force.
The 2004 Commission communication is important, just as the role of Commissioner Patten is important.
Europe – and the Council in particular – will do nothing to make these four European citizens stop being considered just Italians or just French; stop being just journalists, doing a job assigned to those who feel they have a duty to report the truth; stop being just international aid workers, doing a job assigned to those who feel they have a duty to work for the common good; and start being adopted simply as children of Europe.
This observation, though bitter, is not intended to be one of resignation, and in fact I continue to call insistently for the immediate release of all the hostages, without making them undergo any further ordeals, and for support for all efforts to achieve this outcome.
With its people, its volunteers and its solidarity, including in peacekeeping or crisis containment operations, Italy has always done its utmost for the good of the population in the Italian areas of activity.
That is why we want them released, together with all the other hostages.
We also ask that the body of Enzo Baldoni be returned and, in this respect, we ask for his family to be shown pity as well.
Those two women and the two journalists are genuine representatives of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one aspect of this debate that angers me is that neither the Council nor the Commission have had a word to say about women, who make up the majority of the population in Iraq, not a word about their exclusion from the transitional government or the process of democratisation.
OK, so we want free elections, but what about Iraq’s female majority?
That, I believe, is why we must not forget, while demanding the immediate release of the hostages, that Iraq’s women, too, have to be set free. &#160;&#160; The instability and terror that Iraq is currently enduring, and the recent nominal restoration of sovereignty in the country, with the establishment of an Interim Government, go to show the complexity of the process of creating a secure, stable and democratic Iraq.
Europe must set an example of firmness in condemning terrorist attacks against civilians, the police, soldiers of the multinational force and civilian hostages.
We must also support the Interim Government’s intention to press ahead, in spite of all the difficulties, with preparations for free and democratic elections in January 2005.
When time appears to be against the Iraqi people who want to be able to prepare the route towards democracy and the dismantling of terrorist networks operating in the country, we have no doubt that the EU and its Member States share this commitment to support the Iraqi people in reconstructing a country that is secure, democratic, unified and prosperous, a country at peace within its borders, a country that wants to re-establish working relations with its neighbours and with the rest of the world.
Mr President, Parliament must not waver in the face of the complex nature of these times.
I realise that although the EU’s role is modest for the time being, it can nevertheless help determine the quality of democracy in future.
My questions are concrete and I should say beforehand that I welcome the proposal by the President-in-Office of the Council to perhaps send a fact-finding mission to Iraq later on this year.
That is why we need to constantly remind ourselves of what our goals are.
First of all, I think that we have to ensure that the political process is completed, as has also been clearly explained in Resolution 1546.
I also think that the European Union is determined to make a constructive and effective contribution to that effect.
We could, for example, help to ensure that everything in the election process runs smoothly and that all Iraqis can actually take part.
We could help install a legal government, and ensure that, once that legal government is in place, it is also supported by effective administration.
I am thinking about the establishment of a constitutional state and the way in which we, the European Union, backed by our extensive experience, with the contribution we can make to restoring a true, independent, legal body with judges who truly render judgment, with everything that is involved in this and what is important, can train these people and give them guidance.
As I already stated in my first intervention, during my meetings with the Prime Minister and ministers during my visit to Iraq, I noted that the European Union will gladly accept an invitation to take part in the next conference of neighbouring countries.
Peace and democracy in Iraq will also rub off on the neighbouring countries.
I therefore think that we cannot avoid our responsibilities and that we must actually follow the clear trajectory that we have mapped out.
That is our aim, and I hope that I will be able to report on the results at the end of our presidency. &#160;&#160; –The debate is closed.
What is more, some political positions appear to be held hostage by hostage taking.
I am informed that Mr Pannella was refused the right to amend the calendar by the Presidency in the same way that I was two years ago, as it threatened the twelve Strasbourg part-sessions, albeit within the letter of the Treaties.
First, a Commission communication on the Stability and Growth Pact; second, a Court ruling on the excessive deficit procedure with reference to Germany and France; and third, a statement by the European Council on the Stability and Growth Pact.
Ministers agreed that the Commission communication offered a good basis for discussion.
Next, we discussed these conclusions in the group of 25, because the other 13 hope to become members of EMU as soon as possible.
The first thing we noticed is that, contrary to what is sometimes thought, the Stability Pact has proven its usefulness in anchoring budget deficits.
The second point we agreed upon is that we will not change anything as far as the 3% or 60% criteria are concerned – these are in the Treaty, are of paramount importance and should not be changed.
Secondly, we shall use peer pressure and peer support at an early stage of budgetary deviations, rather than waiting until a country breaches the 3% rule.
Thirdly, we need transparent budgetary figures and growth assumptions in order to identify and correct budgetary deviations in a timely manner.
Firstly, more attention should be paid to the fact that a debt ratio should be sufficiently diminishing if it is above its reference value, approaching the reference value at a satisfactory pace.
Secondly, in assessing whether a Member State has reached sustainable public finances, the costs of ageing should be taken into account.
Thus concerns a few countries, but is something we should investigate further.
Thus in future, when assessing whether or not a country has met the recommendations, we should make a distinction between policy mistakes and forecasting mistakes.
Finally, within the framework of the Stability and Growth Pact, budgetary policies need to set the right priorities for structural reforms, innovation and competitiveness in support of the Lisbon Agenda to promote economic growth and create jobs.
As you know, in September the European Commission approved a communication on strengthening economic governance and clarifying the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact.
The Council has agreed that the Commission’s Communication provides a good basis for discussion and now we trust that in the coming weeks and months the work we are going to carry out at a more technical level between representatives of the Member States in the Economic and Financial Committee and the Commission will allow us to go to the November Ecofin with a degree of agreement with much more content than we have been able to debate and achieve on many points involving the more general ideas and principles included in the Commission’s Communication.
They are the basic principles, the basic reference values in terms of the evolution of public deficits and public debt and the excessive deficit procedure, as defined in the current Article 104 of the Treaty.
It is not therefore a question of discussing what is not subject to discussion, because that is in the current Treaty and is going to be in the future Constitution.
What we need to do is debate proposals to improve, strengthen and clarify its application and improve the degree of compliance with the framework laid down in the current Treaty and provided for, amongst other things, in the Stability and Growth Pact.
This framework is based on national but coordinated economic policies involving budgetary policies that must conform to the 3% limit for budgetary deficit and the debt criterion of 60&#160;% of Gross Domestic Product.
On this basis, the Commission’s ideas expressed in the Communication deal with both the coordination of economic policies and the coordination and surveillance of budgetary policies.
With regard to economic policy, we believe there is a clear need to coordinate our actions better in the field of structural reforms and increase our efforts to implement the Lisbon Agenda.
Europe needs to increase its growth potential and create more jobs and we cannot work solely on the basis of one instrument – the Stability and Growth Pact – in order to coordinate our economic policies.
Firstly, the need to place more emphasis on the level of indebtedness and on the sustainability of public finances throughout the process of monitoring the evolution of those public finances in each of the Member States.
In principle, compliance with the maximum limit for deficit of 3&#160;% must guarantee an adequate reduction in the level of indebtedness and the sustainability of the public finances of each country.
By means of two possible procedures.
Firstly, the current definition of exceptional circumstances included in the Stability and Growth Pact can be improved, allowing a country not be included in the excessive deficit procedure, despite being above the 3% of deficit, if it has been in a prolonged situation of growth beneath its potential level.
In order to distinguish between periods of cyclical low activity and those of structural low activity and in order to avoid weakening the surveillance framework, the other two requirements contained in the current exceptional circumstances clause must be applied strictly in all cases.
A second consideration is the need or the possibility to adjust the path of deficit correction, the speed with which a country which is above the 3% must bring its public deficit below that reference value.
The differences between the cyclical situations of the different countries in this position justify this approach.
In any event, there is an interrelationship between these two elements included in the exceptional circumstances clause.
We cannot choose to increase the room for manoeuvre in the two simultaneously in an uncontrolled manner.
If the current rigidity in relation to entry into the excessive deficit procedure is maintained, the possibility of adjusting the deadlines once the country has been integrated into that procedure may be considered in order to conform to the Treaty.
I am convinced that these improvements are going to provide a basis for strengthening the framework for economic governance of the Economic and Monetary Union, that these ideas and the debate which we will be holding following last weekend not only do not weaken the pact but in fact strengthen it, because the weakness of a pact, the weakness of a fiscal framework, does not just stem from the theoretical brilliance of the rules we all respect or in theory, but also from the capacity to apply those rules and, as the recent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Communities states, the decisions fall to the Member States meeting in the Council.
The Commission maintains its right to present proposals, but it is the Council, the Member States, who must apply the rules that they themselves have committed themselves to by approving the Treaty and the subsequent regulations.
We cannot demand that the Member States approve rules which they do not believe in themselves.
And, if experience suggests that certain rules require adaptation, it is better to adapt them than not to respect them, leave them unchanged and carry on failing to comply with them, which has unfortunately been the situation at times with the Stability and Growth Pact. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have ahead of us a debate that will be a difficult one and crucial to Europe’s future.
An unsound budgetary policy can be an even greater danger in a currency union and damage the Community as a whole, that is to say, all who participate in it, particularly if certain larger countries fail to take the required and necessary action.
The fact is that, during economic boom periods, budget deficits were not reduced.
Of course, we are all for policies being more flexible when times are hard economically speaking, when greater flexibility is a necessity and has to be guaranteed, but, on the other hand, we can see that there is the great danger that, if the criteria are reinterpreted, deficits will not be reduced when the economy is doing well.
We very much welcome the European Court of Justice’s decision as regards the relevant procedures, and, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we welcome last weekend’s decision to give the Commission a new mandate.
When we look at overall debt, though, we see that it is already well in excess of 60% in some Member States, and so I think that reinterpreting the Treaty and the Stability Pact would encourage new indebtedness and should therefore not be contemplated.
The course that the Council has chosen can – as we have seen – both guarantee that the preset Budget procedure will continue and encourage a number of Member States to revert to the budgetary discipline that the Treaty prescribes and which is vital to the future of Europe.
My advice to this House, then, is that we stay within the framework of the Treaty, while making use of the necessary flexibility that it provides, both when times are hard and when things are going well, in order to guarantee the continued stability of the European currency in the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we note with pleasure the evidence of movement in the Council at the weekend, and I am addressing you, Mr Zalm, as one whom I know as a vigorous defender of the former interpretation of the Stability Pact.
Some life has been injected into the debate now that it has become evident that there is one thing that we must keep in sight if we want to save the Lisbon strategy, to defend it and advance it, and if its objectives are indeed to be achieved, and that is that all the resources at our disposal – including the Stability and Growth Pact – must be mobilised in making the Lisbon targets realities.
Commissioner Almunia made a very important point about the 3%, which nobody wants to abandon, nor should anyone give up the 60%, but the crucial point is that if we retain this guideline – and our group too knows that it is indispensable – then the Commissioner’s statement to this House to the effect that, because conditions differ from one country to another, no one objective can be imposed, and that each country must be enabled, within its own specific limits, to overcome its difficulties in order to get back on track for the goals when it has problems, is also a step in the right direction, for those who want to save the Pact are thereby put in a position to be able to do so.
Those who interpret the Pact only in black-and-white terms – and recent developments in some countries show that this happens – and those who say that there can be no alternative to what we conceived fourteen years ago, overlook the dynamic social and economic changes that are taking place.
Commissioner Almunia, you have shown courage, and we, in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, will back you up as you go down this road. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, history tells of many attempts at introducing a single currency in countries that were not joined together in a political union.
The reality is rather different.
For the third time in succession this year, Germany and France have breached the 3% deficit limit.
The pact risks being revealed to be a paper tiger; confidence in the euro is shattered, and so the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe welcomes the promptness and decisiveness with which Commissioner Almunia has come up with proposals for saving the Pact.
In policy terms, Germany and France have got their way, at least for the time being.
The origin of Germany’s difficulties is not to be found in the Stability and Growth Pact; the problems are structural and start at home.
Our principal criticism of the Commission’s proposals has to do with the criteria for assessing whether or not a country is adhering to the Pact, which leave a great deal of room for interpretation of such factors as, for example, adverse economic conditions, particular circumstances resulting in poor long-term growth, and factors specific to individual countries relating to the adjustment of excessive deficits.
Last weekend, Mr Jean-Claude Juncker was elected President of the euro group for the next two years.
We hope he will manage to get the Member States to identify more with the Stability and Growth Pact and develop a greater sense of responsibility for it.
The euro is a unique success story and must remain stable for Europe’s sake and in the public interest. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Greens warmly congratulates the Commission on its plans for reforming the Stability and Growth Pact and is delighted that the Council appears to have given it a warm welcome.
The Council imposed no sanction on the big countries when they went over the 3% threshold.
If, though, the Council proceeds now to adopt the Commission’s proposals, it will demonstrate that the requirement for unanimity in twenty-five countries does not prevent necessary and intelligent reforms from being adopted.
Today, our fellow-citizens need such evidence and we are grateful to you for it. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, rather than producing stability and growth in Europe, the Stability Pact has resulted in the opposite.
It is unfortunate that the Commission’s proposals on reform of the Stability Pact do not indicate a change in thinking, but are simply cosmetic corrections aimed at reviving an obsolete concept.
It is obvious that critics who accuse the Commission’s proposals of watering down the Pact have simply not realised that the Stability Pact in its original version is beyond saving.
Budgetary consolidation cannot be an end in itself.
We are, however, firmly opposed to life-prolonging measures for an instrument which is designed to destroy the European social model. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is clear that the larger eurozone governments have no intention of tying their hands by promising to adhere to the 3% deficit limit.
The Stability Pact is rather like the common fisheries policy: every country has an interest in other countries keeping to the rules but in not being restricted itself.
The success of economic and monetary union has eliminated the possibility of seeing hungry speculators playing one currency off against the other for personal gain, while doing serious economic damage to European countries and to their citizens.
There cannot be some rules for the larger countries and other rules for smaller countries.
For example, the Commission reprimanded the Irish Government a few years ago about the economic governance of our country, at a time when our economy was growing at 10% per annum.
Any possible change to these rules must be fair and equal to all participants.
In Europe we have difficulties concerning the operation of the Stability and Growth Pact, but we must work through them with a sense of purpose and determination. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am strongly opposed to some countries not complying with the Stability Pact and to the European Commission allowing any kind of discussion on a possible relaxation of the Pact.
I believe that soft budget rules equal higher debts, and I believe that relaxation and non-enforcement of rules equal a loss of credibility for the entire European Union.
Let us not hide from the fact that in Europe today a number of Member States are struggling with stagnation, high levels of unemployment and growing debts.
I would like to point out that it will not be this House, or the spin doctors of individual politicians or individual governments, which pass judgement on the Commission’s economic measures, but the global market, and the market is well known for imposing extremely heavy penalties on debtors and those who are unreliable.
Although the intention is, reportedly, to strengthen the Pact, nearly all speakers have referred to its being weakened or relaxed.
While it is apparently not the intention to touch the 3% standard specified in the Treaty, my gut feeling is that it is precisely this budget standard that is proving difficult to deal with.
Furthermore, the enforcement of the Pact needs to be stepped up, but there is a great deal of wishful thinking about the greater impact of what is referred to as peer pressure, which certainly did not work for the big countries, and there is little in the way of more power for the Commission or of a decision-making alternative in the Council, which would lead to truly better enforcement.
Consequently, we have never said that the Stability and Growth Pact is stupid.
The fact that more harmonisation is sought with other economic policy instruments, as well as fine-tuning in certain areas, an optimisation of the debt ratio, economic realism, all of these are open to discussion.
That means that the Pact must be geared to long-term challenges of our social market economy, and should not be thrown off course by short-term sirens. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as Mr Schulz has just said, my group fully supports the proposal that Commissioner Almunia has put forward.
So it is that we endorse your proposals, particularly those about taking better account of the link between debt, deficit, economic cycles and countries’ specific situations in order to get away from the ‘one size fits all’ approach; we also endorse the emphasis you place on prevention, on early warnings, on peer pressure, and, finally, on anticipating events rather than simply relying on the sanctions machinery.
My group, however, would insist on two other items, which my colleagues will address, as it seems to us that additional measures are needed.
Secondly, we also have concerns about the long-term nature of debt and, at the same time, we are concerned to ensure that taking account of ageing does not become a pretext for propelling Member States towards the privatisation of their social security systems, pension schemes in particular.
Thus the Pact's main priority ought to be to stimulate economic dynamism, creativity and a growth in new quality jobs, so that even my sceptically minded colleagues from Britain would not doubt the substantiation of financial and economic stability. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, when President Prodi, two years ago, described the Stability Pact as too inflexible, he was met with sneers.
Two examples: my group has always argued for more attention being paid to the public debt and somewhat less attention to the annual budget shortage.
We have always said that there are situations conceivable in respect of which a Member State should not be penalised for exceeding the 3%, for example in the case of slow growth over a long period of time.
Finally, I applaud the fact that the Council and Commission now appear to be willing to be more flexible in their interpretation of the Stability Pact.
This is the time for you to do so. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that a number of Member States are now openly violating the criteria of the Stability Pact, thereby serving the short-term economic interests of the monopolies, the European Union insists that it be maintained, even underlining the need for it to be applied more rigorously in order to step up pressure for new anti-grass roots measures to be taken.
The proposed revision confirms that the only way to combat the Stability Pact and the anti-grass roots policy of the European Union in general is insubordination and disobedience on the part of the workers and by stepping up the working-class struggle. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, in modern economies, the budget balance operates as an automatic stabiliser of the real economy.
Stability in the real economy and, thus, employment therefore presuppose instability in the budget balance.
The Commission’s reform plan is therefore a step in the right direction, but it gives cause for concern.
This step is being taken because large and powerful countries failed to meet the demands made in the Stability and Growth Pact.
It was therefore right, and important, to demand that large countries too follow the applicable rules even when these appear less appropriate.
The problems are now diminishing for countries with high structural budget deficits such as France and Germany, but increasing for countries with high public debts such as Italy, Greece and Belgium. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Stability and Growth Pact is a success.
It is the basis for public debate on the link between budgetary discipline, inflation, price stability, growth and employment, for the debate on structural problems in Europe and for the debate on the Commission’s role with regard to the Member States’ economic policies.
The new Constitution has strengthened the Pact and the European Central Bank by including price stability as an objective in the Constitution.
Those who, like Mr Eichel, wish to muzzle the Bundesbank, fail to recognise the role played by an independent issuing bank and the importance of transparency for trust, reliability and credibility.
I support the Council’s position and the ECB President, Mr Trichet, in the comments he has made.
This is why I am also in favour of a debate on the ways in which we can boost the significance of total debt, establish criteria for accumulating much-needed budget surpluses during times of economic prosperity, incorporate the consequences of demographic change and conduct a public debate on the difference between structural debt and investment debt.
We want the European public to have confidence in the rules we set for ourselves, and we want the public to be sure that everyone in Europe is equal before the law and is treated fairly. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to join in congratulating Mr Almunia, who has made a valiant attempt to breathe new life into the stranded Growth and Stability Pact.
I should also like to congratulate, and thank, Mr Zalm, Chairman of the Ecofin Council, for the fact that, indeed, he has not remained stuck in the past, and like Mr Lagendijk, I would not like to be the one to resolve past issues either.
I would also like to note that my group very much appreciates the fact that you have indicated a wish to continue the debate with our Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
We have always called for a better balance to be struck between the objectives for growth and stability.
We would like to put a stop to the conflict of, on the one hand, ambitious Lisbon objectives and, on the other hand, budget standards that have been set too low over a longer recession period in order to be able to invest in renewed economic growth.
It is absurd that, for example, in Portugal, expenditure for research and development and education is being cut rather than increased and that Greece is being punished – another example of a country exceeding its budget – in connection with those splendid Olympic Games which we all thoroughly enjoyed.
Even in my own country, I can give the example of the discussion with local governments about the way in which they are permitted to fund investments out of the reserves.
I would like to hear from you whether you are prepared to conduct discussions of this kind in the Ecofin Council, and I hope that, in doing so, we can get the pact back on its two feet, which it needs, namely stability and growth. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of the Prodi Commission’s final initiatives, the proposed reform of the Stability and Growth Pact is one of the most significant acts at a time of uncertainty in the European Union’s economy.
The decisions made in recent years have ensured stability and kept inflation under control, but growth has remained low and there are no binding rules for implementing the Lisbon objectives.
The Commission’s proposal, presented here by Mr Almunia, is a good starting point but needs to be improved.
The discussion should be structured around three key points.
First, the future Pact should be ‘Lisbonised’, giving greater weight to all those criteria connected with structural reforms, innovation and investment in research and development.
Thirdly, clarification is needed regarding the credibility that the Commission wants the Pact to have, since the Pact was thrown into a serious crisis by the Ecofin decision in November and by the final text of the Constitution on the balance of power between Ecofin and the Commission, which favours the national governments more than the Convention’s text did.
In conclusion, I must point out that, if no solution is found to the political problem of the credibility of the Pact and of the Member States’ commitment to abide by it, then the whole point at issue is likely to be merely academic. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the changes being promoted by the European Commission in the Stability Pact do not affect its neo-liberal philosophy.
We demand a European pact on employment, growth and social cohesion which will introduce social criteria with quantifiable and verifiable indicators and will make provision for penalties and sanctions for the countries which infringe them, such as countries which maintain high unemployment. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is almost two years ago that President Prodi described the Stability and Growth Pact as stupid.
I should like to hear from Mr Zalm whether this suggestion has been taken on board and whether that might well prove to be the key to an acceptable new Pact.
I should also like to ask whether the Council could shed more light on the tasks and responsibilities of Ecofin’s next chairman, Mr Juncker. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, two or three years ago your predecessor, fellow countryman and party colleague, Mr&#160;Solbes, spoke before this House and responded to Mr&#160;Prodi’s comments, which have been quoted a number of times today already.
The Pact is sufficiently flexible and does not need to be changed.
The members of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) in this House support you, and I hope that at least some of the finance ministers do too.
That would amount to myth making, which should not be allowed under any circumstances. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I warmly congratulate you.
Commissioner, I turn now to a point that you raise in your communication, but which appears to me to be no more than lightweight and needing more work to be done on it, namely the link between coordination and the Stability and Growth Pact.
You make reference to this House at one point in your communication, but it would appear that this is almost a formality and that, at the end of the day, debate is, in essence, reserved for a very select and very definitely closed club consisting of the euro group speaking through the Ecofin Council.
I should also like to ask the chairman of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, who has unfortunately left his seat, why someone does not get hold of Mr&#160;Schroeder and tell him that he should observe the rules?
What Germany needs are major structural reforms. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the Commission has finally acknowledged that the different economic and social realities of the various countries calls into question the rationale behind nominative criteria in applying the Stability and Growth Pact.
We can only regret, however, that these proposals have come to light only after successive years of non-compliance by France and Germany, and are really little more than a cosmetic exercise that lets France and Germany off the hook.
We all know that the consequences of a slow-down, of stagnation and in some countries, such as Portugal, of economic recession are rising unemployment and social exclusion.
In order to safeguard economic and social development, it should be replaced by a pact that genuinely helps to create jobs and to foster social progress, a pact that prioritises social economic cohesion, jobs and social inclusion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am well aware that I represent a nation that is not a member of the European Monetary Union and I represent a party which is opposed to future membership of the euro.
However, as my party leader, Michael Howard, noted in a recent speech in Berlin, we believe that different combinations of Member States should have the possibility of pooling their responsibilities in different areas of their own choosing.
I am all for the principle that governments should avoid excessive budget deficits, especially when an economy is growing strongly and unemployment is low.
I am not going to look into the crystal ball, but I have to say that the most recent moves by the guardians of the currency have done nothing to encourage those of us who are cautious and wary to sign up. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a Community with a shared destiny, such as this Europe of ours, cannot function unless freely accepted rules are complied with.
We must welcome this political act by the Prodi Commission and must thank Commissioner Almunia.
European economic policy must be coordinated by political power, not against the ECB, but independently of a world view that is limited solely to monetary considerations. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Court of Justice’s ruling of 13 July was a positive development in the battle of the Stability and Growth Pact.
The Pact’s strength lies in its simplicity.
However, whilst in the past I was a fervent advocate of a much stronger role of the Commission in enforcing the Pact, the new Commissioner will have a job persuading me that the Pact is in good hands with him.
It is just as well that the Council, under the Dutch Presidency, has at least demonstrated its responsibility. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr Zalm, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the French contingent in our Group feels that the Stability and Growth Pact is one of the pillars of the European economy and currency.
We want it to be implemented in practice, so that we can keep control of public spending, combat excessive deficit and ensure sound management of Member States’ public finances.
The communication of 3&#160;September builds on principles of which we approve: enabling the Commission to issue early warnings, placing the emphasis on the level of debt, establishing budget surpluses during times of economic growth to allow room for manoeuvre in times of economic slowdown –&#160;the squirrel strategy&#160;– being responsive to exceptional circumstances – a concept that the Council of Ministers should incorporate thoroughly – and, finally, coordinating the main objectives of economic policy with the decisions made in national parliaments.
We also welcome the appointment of a permanent chairman of the Eurogroup in the shape of Mr&#160;Juncker, which is a step in the right direction.
In the future, budgetary policy will make a greater contribution to growth and will, accordingly, play a decisive role in achieving the Lisbon objectives, which determine the prospects for competitiveness and prosperity in the EU. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am speaking in support of the Commission’s Communication entitled ‘Strengthening economic governance and clarifying the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact’.
Since then, we have introduced the euro, we have decided upon the Lisbon strategy, we have drawn up a Constitution – I would like to point out that all the representatives of the governments went to the Convention’s working group to oppose the implementation of economic governance.
I believe that this is what justifies both the Commission’s actions – which we clearly support – and the positive reaction of the Council, because, just as the European Central Bank has to be monetarist, the Council has to concern itself with the functioning of the economy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, strengthening economic governance and clarifying the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact are important matters, not only in order to refocus attention on the Pact’s underlying ethos and to strengthen the foundation which lends stability to the monetary union, but also in order to avoid undermining the trust which the public placed in us in 1997 during the discussion on the introduction of the euro, a discussion which took place both in this House and elsewhere.
It must therefore remain in existence, and its direction and application must be preserved and strengthened in accordance with the spirit of the Treaty of Maastricht and the European Constitutional Treaty.
The Stability Pact illustrates the simple economic and fundamental truth that today’s debts always end up being tomorrow’s taxes, to be borne by future generations.
Against this background, the Commission communication rightly poses the question of long-term viability, and calls for better links between the essential features of economic policy and the Stability and Growth Pact.
The closer links between the Commission’s recommendations on the essential features of economic policy and the Stability and Growth Pact are to be welcomed, and have meant that the Commission has been able to stimulate competition among systems in the Europe of 25 and to make a major contribution to moving closer to the goals set in Lisbon.
We should therefore lend our unreserved support to these renewed proposals for increased transparency and accountability in the Member States’ budgetary policies, and it must be especially in the interests of all participants in the monetary union to support the credibility of the Stability and Growth Pact by means of transparent data. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the primary task of the European Union’s financial policy must be to provide a sound basis for the economy.
The current Stability and Growth Pact, as structured, cannot provide a solution either for growth, or for the infrastructure gap or for the call for reforms.
It is just a poor surrogate for a common economic and growth policy which does not exist.
As we all know, the three strategic objectives of growth, infrastructure and reforms can be synthesised by policy makers in a formula that economic theory calls the golden rule, which allows for intergenerational investment spending to be financed through deficit and at the same time requires current spending to be financed without generating a budget deficit.
Until now, European bureaucracies and governments have said no to the introduction of the golden rule for fear of opportunistic behaviour by the Member States.
Do not listen to the hordes of self-interested sirens in disguise that are likely to permanently sink not only the credibility of the Pact but along with it the credibility of Europe as a whole. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to point out to the Members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – but evidently not to Mr Brunetta, who has rather different ideas on the matter – that the Stability and Growth Pact is not being changed to make it less strict.
The Commission’s proposals are sound.
As President-in-Office of the Council I must be very careful in expressing my views because I have not had an opportunity to check whether all my 24 colleagues agree with my answers to some of the remarks made.
I believe that both Mr Poettering and Mr Klinz said a few words in that regard.
My colleagues in France and Germany also concluded that if they had been in surplus or in balance before the downswing started, they would not have breached the 3% limit and all these troubles would not have arisen.
I do not believe that there has to be tension between the Stability Pact and the Lisbon process.
We have to look at the necessary reforms and also set the right priorities in our budgets, so that we really spend the money within a budgetary framework and on the issues that are important for the Lisbon process.
As I said, the Commission proposals are a good basis for discussion.
As in Mark Anthony’s funeral speech, he sings the praises of budgetary austerity but, at the same time, tells us that he has put in place the necessary explosives to bring down the pillars supporting it.
The Commissioner advocates simple rules but, at the same time, he tells us that we must take account of the national circumstances of each country, which means there will be 25 different rules.
What we were saying yesterday about the Stability Pact is still true today.
It is absolutely true that we must maintain the austerity pact in order to maintain price stability; that budgetary austerity serves to free up resources for education, research and development in order to make the Lisbon process possible; and, above all, that it is necessary to meet the implicit, hidden, unbudgeted-for obligations resulting from the ageing of the population.
What we were saying yesterday is still true today.
And if we are saying other things, that is simply because we are treating the Stability Pact as done for.
The Stability Pact is not a pact in favour of the governments, it is a pact against governments, for restricting their action, in order not to neutralise the actions of the Central Bank and in order to maintain price stability.
But these of course, in these circumstances, are economic phenomena. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I could perhaps accept that the Stability Pact has been useful.
Had we done so, Germany would not have had a problem in either 2002 or 2003, or even this year, while France would have had a problem in 2002 and 2003, but not this year.
Thanks to the Stability and Growth Pact, we have a common code and a common criterion that has counteracted these factors.
The paradox is that we are now having this debate partly because the Stability and Growth Pact has operated as it was supposed to do.
It has put political pressure on those countries that increase their deficits and, for that reason, it is of interest to us all, irrespective of whether or not we have the euro or of whether or not we participate in monetary union.
Budgetary discipline is a political risk today for governments which have embarked on public finance reform, and yet it is of crucial importance for the stability of the entire European Union.
A flexible trade policy and reliable rules are conducive to stability.
I find the guidelines set out by the Commission interesting because they could lead to a less simplistic understanding of Member States’ public finances.
The proposed reforms give a dangerous signal to market forces about inability to control the situation even in the long term.
That is why I cannot support the proposed reforms, especially those relating to anchoring the budget deficit level and the different deadlines allowed to Member States for eliminating excessive deficit.
Budgetary and fiscal policy are particularly sensitive areas of political responsibility.
Of concern is the proposal for an extended period of weak economic growth, which would in effect offer a limitless time for those politicians who are unable or do not want to undertake structural reforms in their countries.
All these contributions will be extremely useful for me as I carry out my future duties as Commissioner responsible, insofar as it falls to me, for carrying out this adaptation and improvement of the Stability and Growth Pact and of economic governance in general, and they seem to me extremely useful in terms of communicating arguments and objectives on such an important issue as the economy of the Member States of the Union and of the European Union as a whole from Parliament to the public.
The limit of 3% of GDP for the public deficits of the Member States of the Economic and Monetary Union and the limit of 60%, in relation to GDP, for public debt remain in force.
And it is still necessary to preserve the objective of budgetary stability and those reference values by means of the system of rules – as has been said on many occasions during the debate.
But we must also be aware that the ultimate objective of the Economic and Monetary Union, of the budgetary stability of economic policies, is to guarantee more growth and well-being for some of our citizens.
And some of you have expressed the opinion that the debate on the reform of the pact could even in some way affect the stability of our currency, the euro.
I do not believe that is the case if the debate is held within the limits we have set for it as in the Council last weekend and as in this debate today in Parliament.
And that is a response we must find not only through the instrument of the Stability and Growth Pact, but also by rereading it, revising it and adapting it, introducing more economic rationality into it, taking account of the heterogeneous nature of the European Union of 25 following enlargement, taking account of the fact that the Treaty also talks about the need to preserve the sustainability of public finances and not just of preserving and ensuring budgetary balance in each financial year, by monitoring public deficit, and bearing in mind that, over the years the Stability and Growth Pact has been applied, its credibility has suffered because the rules in force have not always been adopted and applied by the institution which must ultimately do so, which is the Council.
We must take account of the economic cycle, preserve equality of treatment for each and every country – and this is a task the Commission identifies itself with in particular – and ensure better compliance.
The touchstone will be whether the reason why it has become necessary to change that regulation has been agreed, is reasonable and is in accordance with our objectives of budgetary stability, of maintaining a framework for fiscal and economic governance and of that framework preserving the stability and growth of the European Economic and Monetary Union.
We are following the development of the public finances of many Member States very closely, but in particular that of France and Germany during 2004, and the budgets that each of the two governments are beginning to draw up and which they will communicate for discussion to their parliaments in the coming months, before the end of the year.
At the end of October, when we will know the content of the budgetary policies formally announced by the two governments and while we await the final decision of their respective parliaments, the Commission will publish its estimate and economic forecasts and we will estimate how public debt in France and Germany may develop in 2004 – we could practically give an accurate estimate now, but I would prefer to wait until October – and our estimate for 2005.
The Council will have to take the appropriate decisions, of course, in a climate of cooperation, but naturally with the greatest respect for the principles and rules laid down in the Treaties and in the regulations in force in the field of budgetary stability. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, with the Commission proposal, we are out of the frying pan and into the fire: more flexibility but without clear-cut criteria.
In my view, the core of the Pact should remain intact, namely maximum 3% of GDP for budget shortage and 60% of GDP for public debt.
If the Pact is to become more flexible, this should be done on the basis of objective and general criteria.
Over the next two years we now face a third hurdle, which could prove to be the most complex and demanding for this historic project – its ratification by the EU’s 25 Member States.
I am aware, and our committee is aware, that there is a risk that the European spirit, which was very much present in the Convention, but which became less and less so, without disappearing entirely, in the Intergovernmental Conference, will be lost in the national debates and domestic political battles of coming months and of the next two years.
The fact that a populist and opportunist movement is turning against the Constitution should give us pause for thought, even when the reasons have little to do with this project.
Parliament, the Commission and the Council were active participants in the Convention and the Intergovernmental Conference, and I believe that the three European institutions also bear a particular responsibility in this ratification stage, as we must be advocates of the compromise that has been reached.
It is also the task of the European institutions to explain the fundamental goals and content of the Constitution to the European Union’s 450&#160;million citizens, and to provide them with information on this issue.
We would therefore like to ask the Commission and the Council whether a communication strategy exists, and whether suitable activities aimed at informing the European people about the project are in preparation.
We are well aware that ratification will take place in accordance with the national law of each Member State, and it is also clear that some countries will require more time than others.
The Commission, the Council and Parliament may not now sit back and content themselves with watching from the sidelines.
The 2004 Constitution must not suffer the same fate as the 1984 and 1994 drafts, which went straight into the archives and never made it off the printed page and into reality.
Mr Leinen is absolutely right in saying this, and a very important next step is to be taken in connection with the ratification and the referendums which will be held in a number of countries.
I am pleased that he himself indicated that there is, of course, a national responsibility where legislation, the implementation, the organisation of the ratification and also of possible referendums are concerned, and that this does not fall within the remit of Brussels.
The Council’s Secretariat will be collating this information and compiling a rolling document, so that new information with regard to the planning and organisation of the ratifications and possible referendums can be processed in this document at any time.
This will be a permanent concern for us in the Council and will also be discussed during the European Council.
We will set to this task in Amsterdam on 5 October, and will discuss, as already stated, both communications in a more general sense and also specifically the best ways of taking account of the ratification procedures in the different Member States and of the harmonisation that is required for this purpose.
We are, in fact, convinced that the European Constitution will help us to build a Europe that is democratic, more transparent, more efficient and placed at the service of Europeans.
I should first like nonetheless to point out, Mr Nikolai – and I shall just greet Mr&#160;Leinen as he goes by – the important share of responsibility that falls to national governments that are signatories of the Treaty.
With the 2004 credits, we have begun updating brochures for the general public and multilingual guides to the Constitution.
I believe we will therefore have a volume of information never previously achieved.
All of this requires a tailor-made approach, hence the need for dialogue between our three institutions: Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
We want to set up a programme and an information plan following up this meeting organised by the Dutch Presidency with the specific aim of adopting a practical, concerted approach and of setting up realistic action programmes that cater to our countries’ specific needs.
Please allow me, Mr President, on behalf of the Commission, to thank Parliament for having, by organising this debate, already stressed the importance of this information which, once again, we want to be objective but which, above all, we want to be as complete as possible and as accessible as possible to the greatest number of people. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am pleased to see you chairing this plenary sitting because it has a very important significance: that the President of the European Parliament stands by his word and that the ratification of the Constitutional Treaty is this Parliament’s political priority.
You have signed the Constitutional Treaty and, therefore, you, like us, have an interest in seeing it ratified as soon as possible.
If that report is in favour of the Constitutional Treaty, this Parliament must not remain neutral, but must campaign in favour of it.
I therefore believe, Mr Barrot, that the Commission must consider what it is going to do on this issue.
These procedures are national.
It is not insignificant that 25 elected governments of our Member States have all come to the conclusion that this new Constitution is the best way forward for the European Union.
Some have suggested having national referendums all on the same day.
That we know is virtually impossible, but some Member States may wish to coordinate their referendums within a certain time period.
It can, of course, be squeezed through, but it can only be squeezed through if all Members of the European Council accept that they have a collective and individual responsibility to campaign for it to be brought into force.
During the debates of the coming months on the ratification of a European Constitution, who else should act as an advocate of this Constitution, and as a guardian of the broad consensus achieved in the European Convention and of the concept of European integration, if not the European institutions, and if not this House?
We cannot allow this Constitution to become a pawn in what are purely national and nationalist debates, and we cannot leave it to the mercy of domestic political grudges and calculations.
You have an extremely important historical decision to take; do you wish, together with this House and the Council, to prevent the Constitution becoming a pawn to nationalism, renationalisation in Europe and chauvinism?
Every effort must, however, be made in this connection in order to ensure that Europe, and, more specifically, the text of the Constitution, are actually debated.
More action therefore needs to be taken to provide targeted information, and this is a point that I would like to make to the Commission.
Maybe for once it should not just be the facts which are conveyed to the public, but also the difficulty of the debate, the pros and cons of individual arguments, tax policy, and so on.
My final observation, Mr President, I would like to address to Mr Nicolaï.
The aim would be to set an example for peace and stability in our continent and for greater integration, and this would be a viable way of doing so. &#160;&#160; Mr President, both my party, the League of Polish Families, and my political group, the Independence and Democracy Group, always have been and always will be opposed to the creation of a constitution for the whole of Europe.
It is appropriate for an issue of such significance for the future of our nations to be the subject of a broad and fair public debate and referendums in all 25 Member States, without exception.
As to the proposal by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the Treaty should be ratified between 5 and 8&#160;May in all Member States, as some kind of reminder of the end of the Second World War, it should be regarded as a dismal historical joke.
In fact, further and fuller debate should be welcomed by all sides, because it would allow us to get rid of some of the misconceptions with regard to what aspects of the Treaty we would be voting on in our countries, or debating in our national parliaments.
It is also only right that we as a European Parliament, as the directly-elected representatives of the European people, should be seen to give leadership in relation to the way the discussions and the debate should take place in the Member States.
Let us not forget that, first and foremost, our most important role as Members of the European Parliament is as public representatives of the people.
I would urge all Members to support this resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a few days ago the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the allocation of large amounts of EU money to institutions whose job it is to inform the European public about the Constitutional Treaty.
In view of the fact that to date the European public has known relatively little about the content of the Constitutional Treaty, an overly biased campaign promoting the Constitution would have a negative impact on EU citizens, who would feel that they had once again been presented with .
We will also have to acknowledge the Treaty’s shortcomings and deficits, or else citizens will not truly accept this Constitution for Europe.
Domestic referendums on a national scale and the attendant debates are in no way connected with chauvinism or nationalism, but are merely part and parcel of democracy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am one of those who, within the Convention, were, along with you, the first to campaign for the future Constitution to be submitted for ratification by the people, and, if possible, on the same day.
In all the countries concerned, there is a risk that the European referendum will turn into a national plebiscite.
Furthermore, given that the danger and the aim are identical everywhere, our governments have every interest in adopting a joint ratification strategy.
Such a strategy must, to my mind, comprise at least three elements.
It is, furthermore, impossible to put the creation of a political Europe before the public without specifying what we mean by the word ‘Europe’ and without fixing the borders or at least the criteria for defining the borders.
In several countries, including mine, the notion of belonging to a political Union without borders – the future composition of which would be left entirely to the good will of the governments of tomorrow – would be rejected by the vast majority.
The Council must be aware of this when it comes to making its decision on Turkey. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too am glad that you are here, though I am naturally not surprised, because we in this House are lucky enough to be headed by somebody who in the Convention, as a member of that Convention, worked courageously to achieve the very Constitution whose ratification by the people we are trying to achieve.
The governments in the Convention, the parliamentarians, restricted ourselves to saying that this Constitution is good and that it should therefore be supported.
Firstly, by coordinating its ratification in the Member States.
There are 25 of us, but we are only one Union and the referendums must therefore be held within a few days of each other and why not close to the Day for Europe.
Secondly, the institutions cannot be neutral in this debate.
Parliament, the Council and the Commission, in common agreement, must carry out a strategy of information, debate and persuading the public, in order to defeat our main enemy, which will be low turn-out.
With majority participation, this Constitution will come into being. &#160;&#160; Mr President, given that a ‘no’ vote in one country can cause the process of adopting the Constitutional Treaty to fail for the whole of the EU, we can no longer deem the ratification processes to be national.
France recently gave us a lamentable example of this.
It is therefore on the platform of these sixty years of peace, thanks to the European Union, that we could build the Europe of tomorrow.
Catalan is spoken from north to south, from Salses, in Roussillon, to Guardamar, south of Valencia, and from west to east, from Fraga, in the Autonomous Community of Aragon, to Alghero, in Sardinia.
We have a great opportunity to build a true European federalism. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I love the word 'democracy' because it puts the word 'people' in front of the word 'rule' – government by the people, of the people, for the people.
In the committee we are told that it is our job to 'sell the Treaty', that we should restrict the debate in our home countries, that referendums should be scheduled to maximise the 'yes' vote.
I turn to the Council, Commission and Parliament: if we believe in democracy – especially in this process that you, Mr President, called the most important since the founding of the Union – I entreat you to do whatever you can to ensure a fair and free process, to ensure that resources are used to truly inform people, especially by distributing copies of the Constitution to all the electorate, and by ensuring that all sides of the debate are thoroughly aired.
Having said that, I can only agree with the requirement to give the people as much information about the draft Constitution as possible and to establish a coordinated timetable for ratification of the Constitution itself, in the hope that all European citizens can have the right and the opportunity to take part in this stage of the constitutional process through popular referendums in all the Member States.
We should not be afraid of participation and democracy, because it is the only way in which the new Europe of peoples, of rights and of the Constitution will really be a strong and empowered Europe. &#160;&#160; I too am a dissenting member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the Constitution.
These are national referendums and they should be allowed to be so. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, my speech is in Finnish and Swedish.
In 2005, our task as Members of the European Parliament is precisely that described by Mr Méndez de Vigo, Mr Leinen, Mr Duff, Mr Voogenhuber and Mr Corbett, so we must try to push this treaty through.
It is a success of which we are all particularly proud.
Secondly, at the very least we must help to inform citizens in clear, simple words about the differences which exist between the Treaty of Nice and this new Constitution.
Anyone who disagrees with this Constitution will need to explain to themselves and everyone else why and how the present treaty protects their reasons for disagreement better than our Constitution, because we shall continue to function; it will merely be with the Treaty of Nice.
The Constitution is alive.
We have this obligation if our Constitution is to be a constitution which promotes not only democracy, not only transparency, but also the power of the citizen in the Union we are building together. &#160;&#160; At least ten countries are to hold referendums on the Constitution.
I hope that my country will be the eleventh country to believe in democracy and let the people decide in a referendum.
The EU institutions must support the people and democracy by being neutral in what they have to say and by matter-of-factly pointing out the changes in respect of previous treaties.
It is not the role of the institutions to engineer ‘yes’ votes in referendums but to provide people with a basis for taking a decision.
My question to Mr Barrot and Mr Nicolaï is this: do you really believe that the idea of holding constitutional referendums in Europe on one single day, an idea which to my mind is quite impracticable, is a feasible one?
Mr President, if this must take place on a single day, I would like to propose 30&#160;February. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would briefly like to say that we have all come to the European Union because we share the same constitutional values.
They must mobilise themselves in this joint task of involving the public in objective and genuine debate on the reasons behind the Constitution, which is purely and simply an extension of the constitutional convergence between different States.
The institutions must now therefore communicate directly with the public and must get away from exclusive mediation by the States.
The institutions are taking the required steps towards transversal action in the process of concluding the constitutional foundation.
Even a constitutional debate offers an opportunity to people with that parochial mentality, people who are incapable of grasping what is at stake.
Given the nature of the European Project and, in particular, of the conditions for approving the draft Constitution, as has most aptly been said earlier, in any national process of approving a draft, in every country the interests of other States, the interests of all States and the interests of all European citizens are an important factor.
The intervention on the part of the Community institutions, the Commission, the Council and Parliament itself, is, moreover, the only one, in view of its unquestionably supranational nature, in particular that of the Commission and Parliament, to intervene firmly in this process without laying itself open to the charge of interfering in the internal democratic process of the States concerned.
Think, ladies and gentlemen, of the terrible sentence addressed by Cardinal Pie, a great Bishop of Poitiers, to Emperor Napoleon III: ‘If the time for Jesus Christ to reign has passed, then the time for governments to reign has also passed’.
Mr Corbett, Mr Vigo, Mr Stubb and many others have pointed out that there is, of course, a joint responsibility for the success of the process after 29 October when the ratification is signed. &#160;&#160; I asked the Council to remain within these time constraints, given that there is another debate to follow this one in the Council’s presence and that the Bureau was notified of your time constraints, Mr&#160;Nicolaï.
Mr&#160;Corbett, Mr Vigo, Mr Stubb and many others have said, there is, of course, a joint responsibility for the success of the process after 29 October, when the ratification is signed, albeit because we all rely on each other.
It would be unfortunate, as Mr Voggenhuber pointed out in his critical remarks, if we were to blame each other and pass the buck to one another, because I consider it, in fact, important and valuable, as many in this House have said, that the three institutions carry a responsibility in this.
It is my conviction that, so far, the Commission has played a very constructive, positive role in communicating Europe and informing the public about the Treaty, and it would, in fact, be wrong to put the ball in their court, because I see the Member States and Members of this House as also having a very considerable responsibility in this area.
I hope that you will agree with me that, although we might like the idea, we will not actually entertain it, because these are matters specifically related to constitutional legislation and should remain in the national sphere.
What is very important, though, is that the different Member States examine when and how harmonisation could be possible, and that is exactly what we at the Council and the Council’s Secretariat are doing.
It has everything to do with constitutional law and it also concerns precisely the sensitivities which many of you have mentioned that referendums are at risk of becoming a national plaything.
That is precisely why the Council is convinced that it is good to give national parliaments and national governments some leeway in choosing a sensible date for such a referendum.
What is crucial is the way in which we, the different institutions, the different governments, enter into these ratification procedures, the way in which we enter into discussion with public opinion, and the way in which we will tackle the referendums in those countries where referendums will be held.
We as governments and Council will be signing that Treaty and are in favour of it.
Or consider the level of decisiveness, which will visibly improve with the new Treaty, again an example of decision-making by majority.
Finally, I should like to comment on the meeting that is to be held in Amsterdam on 5 October, involving the European Affairs Ministers, to deal specifically with communicating Europe and also with ratification and with those referendums that are scheduled.
It is also gratifying that Mr Vitorino will be attending that meeting, and I welcome his statement that what we discuss at it should impact on the Commission’s further plans and in turn, needless to say, also on the decision-making in the European Council on 5 November.
It follows that there is a manifest commitment to the draft Constitution on the part of the Commission, and that there is no question of it not having an interest in the consultation that will result or in the consultations that will be held in the Member States.
We did not allocate EUR&#160;1.5 million to the preliminary draft Budget for 2005 in order to reduce the projects, but because, at the time the preliminary draft Budget was being drawn up, we were still too uncertain of the eventual outcome.
In any case, we declared our intention of reviewing the situation with you in the course of the Budget procedure.
The situation is clearer now, and we are ready to act on the basis of the appropriations that your House and the Council, represented by Mr&#160;Nicolaï, estimate will have to be set aside for this purpose.
While again thanking Mr Leinen, I would also like to stress the fact that we are agreed, in particular, on item 6 of the motion for a resolution, which states that the Council, the Commission and Parliament must prepare an appropriate campaign and a communications strategy, and that this necessitates a joint effort by all the parties.
When stressing the need for a sufficiently confident and effective partnership with the Member States, I certainly do not mean that there should be, in certain Member States, campaigns that are not coordinated and are not harmonized with those of other Member States.
As Mr Nicolaï has just said, Mr Vitorino will be in Amsterdam, and we may hope that the meeting on 5&#160;October will be productive, not only in terms of guidance for our joint information project for all Europe’s citizens – with information that will, let me repeat, be objective – but also perhaps in terms of that coordination for certain consultations for which many of you have rightly expressed a wish.
It is indeed in our interests that what is becoming a body of European citizens should be able to be heard through consultations organised in the various Member States and through their coordination.
I will close, Mr President, by expressing the wish that this meeting in Amsterdam might be able to shed as much light as possible on what would make for an effective partnership between Parliament, the Council and the Commission in winning the battle on the information front; I would suggest that it would be objectivity and truthfulness, for I have confidence in Europe and am convinced that truthful information will be likely to win widespread public support. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner.
I now give the floor to Mr Nicolaï to answer the first question by Mrs Ludford on fair trials for European citizens and European residents. &#160;&#160; The debate on these questions put by Parliament to the Council demonstrates that rather than ensuring a frank, clear and illuminating debate, in which different political opinions and arguments are aired on the Constitutional Treaty, Parliament has reacted tentatively and fearfully towards the national referendums that have been announced.
This was also true of the fact that the Council was asked about actions that it intends to pursue aimed at defining a joint Member State approach and, if possible, a coordinated timetable for ratifying the Constitution for Europe, and of preparing a communication strategy with the aim of achieving positive results in the ratification processes.
Member States whose citizens are held in Guantanamo Bay or elsewhere are taking the steps they consider necessary in order to ensure that their citizens’ rights under their bilateral relations with the United States are respected.
Speaking in general terms, I will point out, in response to this question, that the EU has always expressed its concern about the situation in Guantanamo Bay and has, on several occasions in its dealings with the United States, stated that the treatment of prisoners should conform to the standards laid down by the Geneva Convention and of human rights.
In conclusion, the Dutch Presidency will, in its dealings with the United States, continue to raise the concerns that remain about the status of the prisoners in Guantanamo Bay and the treatment they receive. &#160;&#160; I thank the presidency of the Council for that reply, but I am bound to say that I find it, yet again, disappointing.
The European Union is supposed to have a human rights policy under Articles 6 and 7 of the EU Treaty.
Indeed, I heard the President of the Council say this morning that in future we will have anti-terrorism clauses in those agreements.
The use of cages has been condemned as breaking international law and contrary to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch.
At the same time, too, the Council wishes to point out that all Member States, including the Czech Republic, have signed the European Convention on Human Rights, which includes, as you will be aware, in its Article 3, provisions on the combating of cruel or inhumane treatment, and that they have also ratified the Convention on Children’s Rights and the Convention against Torture.
The Convention on Children’s Rights contains specific provisions on discrimination on the grounds of disability – Article 2 – and on mentally and physically handicapped children, in its Article 23.
And finally, what is the Council proposing to do in terms of the enlargement negotiations with Romania, where I believe this is also a problem?
Mr Bot, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, visited the region between 21 and 23 July; this was one of his first journeys in his capacity as President of the Council of Ministers and emphasised that the region will remain a priority for the EU under the Dutch Presidency and that those countries’ future lies within the European Union.
The importance that the Dutch Presidency attaches to the Western Balkans is apparent from the various other ministerial meetings, including the very first meeting of the stability association council with the FYROM and the preparations for the first military mission, Operation Altea, in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
At Thessaloniki, in June 2003, the European Union again promised its strong support for the efforts to consolidate democracy and stability in the Western Balkans and undertook to promote their economic development and regional cooperation.
In certain countries, progress must be accompanied by increased regional cooperation, and the European Union will continue to cooperate with the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe, the SEECP, and the other actors concerned in further improving regional cooperation. &#160;&#160; – Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply and confirmation of the commitment of the European Union and, more specifically, the Council, to the process of stabilisation in South East Europe.
As the European Parliament noted in its annual report and as clearly formulated at the summit in Thessaloniki, we need to start taking stock and evaluating the implementation of the commitments undertaken by the countries in the area in question.
The Council regularly puts climate change and climate issues on the agenda, thereby stressing time and time again the particular importance of the prompt implementation of the Kyoto Protocol.
Furthermore, I would remind the House that sustainable development, of which climate policy forms a very important part, is a concept featuring in all areas of cooperation with third states, the Cotonou agreement with the ACP countries being one example. &#160;&#160; I am particularly disappointed by the answer given by the Council, as we know we are bringing pressure to bear on the United States and on Russia, but today we know that we have certain means at our disposal, including conditions relating to the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol in the agreements with the Member States.
This is in particular a matter for the four presidencies following that of the Netherlands to deal with, and needs to be addressed not only in the referendum context but more broadly in the context of communication with the public. &#160;&#160; I wish to thank the President-in-Office for his response to this question and also for his earlier remarks.
Under the Irish presidency, Minister Roche set up a working group in the Council to look for better ways in which to inform citizens of the benefits of Europe.
There is a need for greater communication and understanding not only of what Europe does but also of the responsibility of its citizens to ensure we are as good as we can be.
The only way to guarantee that is by involving the people more directly in open fora and in communication, etc.
It is clear, however, from the experience of numerous honourable Members who have visited the developing world that this is not visible: the citizens of the developing world are more aware of individual Member States or international organisations, such as the International Bank or the United Nations, than they are of the European Union.
The European Union and the United States are working on common strategies for dealing with emerging threats such as terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, rogue states and organised crime.
Both are working closely together to promote respect for human rights in the countries belonging to the United Nations.
The Council’s priority is to concentrate on purposefully following up these declarations.
As regards cooperation between the EU and the USA in the field of development aid, the EU, in its capacity as donor, is given the opportunity at tripartite meetings to raise issues relating to support.
