Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday 17 December 1999, and I would like once again to wish you a happy new year in the hope that you enjoyed a pleasant festive period.
The Cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes comes before Parliament on Thursday and contains a proposal in paragraph 6 that a form of quota penalties should be introduced for countries which fail to meet their fleet reduction targets annually.
I want to know whether one can raise an objection of that kind to what is merely a report, not a legislative proposal, and whether that is something I can competently do on Thursday.
Thank you, Mr Segni, I shall do so gladly.
It is the case of Alexander Nikitin.
We know, and we have stated as much in very many resolutions indeed, including specifically during the last plenary part-session of last year, that this is not solely a legal case and that it is wrong for Alexander Nikitin to be accused of criminal activity and treason because of our involvement as the beneficiaries of his findings.
Madam President, I would firstly like to compliment you on the fact that you have kept your word and that, during this first part-session of the new year, the number of television channels in our offices has indeed increased considerably.
Agenda The next item is the verification of the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 13 January pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
To this end, I would like to remind you of the resolution of 15 September, which recommended that the proposal be presented as soon as possible.
Mr Barón Crespo, you were unable to attend the Conference of Presidents last Thursday.
We have confidence in the Commission and in Romano Prodi and, after a difficult procedure, as everyone knows, the vast majority of our Group supported the vote of confidence in Romano Prodi and the Commission.
We believe, however, that the Commission's strategic plan needs to be debated within a proper procedural framework, not only on the basis of an oral statement here in the European Parliament, but also on the basis of a document which is adopted in the Commission and which describes this programme over the five-year period.
We have said, very well, if the Commission does not wish to introduce the 2000 programme as early as January then we will do it in February.
That is why we would recommend - and it is my impression that the Commission is also open to this idea - that we hold the debate on the Commission's long-term programme up to the year 2005 in February - and I hope that the Commission will agree on a programme before then which it will propose to us - and that, at the same time, in February we also hold the debate on the Commission's legislative programme for the year 2000.
Therefore, Madam President, I would like to repeat that the Commission has debated the action plan for the next five years and, when Parliament decides, - this week if that is the decision - we are prepared to come and explain the programme for the next five years and, next month, the programme for 2000, which is what we fully agreed upon.
Thank you, Mr Poettering.
I therefore repeat the proposal that this oral question to the Commission and the Council should be retained so that we can find out, once and for all, the positions of these two bodies regarding the proposal which is relatively modest but which would give a clear message to public opinion, particularly after the tide of feeling generated by the failure of the Seattle Conference.
Secondly, by adopting this directive we achieve a) an increase in safety when dangerous goods are both transported and transhipped; b) a reduction in distortions of competition resulting from wide variations in national training structures and training costs and c) equal opportunities for safety advisers on the European labour market.
The report looks at the issue of harmonising the examination requirements for safety advisors working in the areas of transportation of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
The rapporteur has pointed out to the House that in its common position the Council has accepted six of Parliament's ten amendments put forward at first reading and that the substance of Parliament's other amendments has been retained.
My Group will therefore support the common position and looks forward to the enactment of the legislation which will provide us with yet another tool in our fight to make transport in the European Union as safe as possible.
Madam President, I would like to make a few comments.
If we look at the situation where safety advisers are concerned, in a number of countries it is compulsory to employ such safety advisers in companies as from 1 January of this year.
The process of increasing safety margins and safety guarantees in transport is a process which must be improved day by day.
Finally, I would like to say that we have to consider safety in all types of transport.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by road, which entered into force on 1 January 1997, contains a number of transitional provisions which are only valid for a limited period of time, the term of validity being linked to the completion of specific standardisation work by the CEN, that is the European Committee for Standardisation.
It merely prolongs transitional rules by postponing deadlines, deletes provisions which are no longer applicable, and lays down the procedures for a) carrying out the ad hoc transportation of dangerous goods and b) enacting less stringent national regulations, in particular for the transport of very small amounts of dangerous goods within strictly defined local areas.
A final amendment is intended to ensure that tanks and tankers put into service between 1 January 1997 and the entry into force of this directive may continue to be used provided that they have been constructed and maintained in accordance with it.
I hope my proposal will be taken into consideration in tomorrow' s vote.
That is why we can only hope - and we should resolve all of this this week - that, in 2001, we will finally have Community regulations for the transport of dangerous goods by road so that we have a degree of legal certainty here and also so that our roads are a good deal safer.
The reason Mr Koch produced his sound report was because the work in the CEN and within the United Nations Economic Commission was proceeding none too expeditiously.
I would like to ask the Vice-President if she is in a position to tell us today what the state of play is with regard to the efforts towards harmonisation being made by these two organisations, and whether the EU is in a position to hasten these harmonisation efforts, in accordance with principles that are as simple as possible.
A moment ago, Mr Vatanen spoke to us of lower temperatures, not of 20 degrees below zero, but of 40 degrees below zero.
We therefore accept the four amendments which have been proposed.
The debate is closed.
Whilst, in the fifth report on the situation in the regions, unemployment was seven times higher in the poor regions than in the wealthy regions, the sixth report is already talking in terms of it being eight times higher, despite the fact that European structural funds are pouring into the regions.
Hence, it will, of course, come as no surprise to anyone that the very preamble to the new structural funds regulation places great emphasis on the call for the funds to be implemented more efficiently and in a more concentrated manner in order to achieve the European objectives of high employment levels and sustainable development, to name but a few.
I may have my doubts as to whether this indicative instrument will actually succeed in achieving efficiency and increased concentration and in actually putting the European objectives into practice, but it is a fact that the guidelines will be of central importance to the negotiations for the Community development programme.
Mr President, our committee views these issues very differently and, to start, I will speak from the point of view of research.
I would like to draw people's attention to Amendments Nos 1 and 2 which were agreed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs but not accepted by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
These amendments deal with the social economy and the need to provide social risk capital and support financially local schemes to develop employment opportunities and strengthen social cohesion.
In the past, this Parliament has viewed the social economy as an important potential provider of employment.
But the lack of specific guidelines here is particularly to be regretted, as the idea of linking Social Fund assistance to the employment strategy will be put into effect for the first time during the 2000-2006 programme.
Agriculture only provides 5.5% of employment in the Union.
For this reason, one of the most important and essential objectives which we should set in the European Union is to make efforts to create new jobs in rural areas, outside of the agricultural sector, in sectors such as rural tourism, sport, culture, heritage conservation, the conversion of businesses, new technologies, services, etc.
However, even though the role of agriculture is not exclusive, it is still essential, not only to prevent economic and social disintegration and the creation of ghost towns, but also because farmers play a fundamental role in managing the land, in preserving biodiversity and in protecting the environment.
It is important to prioritise general criteria for land planning and demographic equilibrium, and to bear in mind the conclusions of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the five fundamental issues, which have been only partly taken up by the Committee on Transport, Regional Policy and Tourism in its points 16 and 17.
If they do not, if businesspeople feel marginalised, if entrepreneurs cannot take part, not only in managing but also in receiving these funds, we will have missed an opportunity to attain our objectives more rapidly.
Our Group emphasises the importance of the principle of subsidiarity, the responsibility of Member States and the role of local players in drafting and implementing programmes.
Mr President, Commissioner, as proof that this Parliament has not yet overcome its role as a consultative and subordinate institution, the excellent report by a fellow member of my Group, Elisabeth Schroedter, has not been able to reach plenary sitting because the plans for regional development for the period 2000-2006 for Objective 1 regions have been sitting in the Commission' s offices for several months.
We need to consider it together, so that the new Objective 1 programmes and the plans for regional development, which have been drafted before the directives come into force, can be submitted for revision and proper assessment.
While urban renewal in our cities is very important we must always strike a balance in our policies between promoting rural development and improving the lives of city dwellers.
The Structural Funds have played a key role in the development both of urban and rural parts of peripheral countries, mainly through the upgrading of roads, water treatment and related transport networks.
Key EU programmes between 1989, 1993, 1994 and 1999 have certainly helped to improve the economic competitiveness of peripheral countries and Objective 1 regions within Europe.
In conclusion, while key infrastructure projects have been supported by the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund, we should remember that the European Social Fund has played a very important role in helping the less well-off in our society.
Consequently, I feel we must look to the future and establish guidelines for the mid-term review in 2003, and thus have an influence on the second phase of programming set to follow 2003.
The first is the harmonisation of national development policies and regional development policies.
Finally, in this time of natural disasters, I would just like to mention the issue of the use of Structural Funds.
The Commission, however, though bound to issue guidelines, does so only reluctantly and in a vague manner.
It is one of the steps towards a policy of employment and sustainable development.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work.
Mr President, like my colleague Mr Evans, it is a particular pleasure to rise and make my first speech to this House on this very important issue, especially since I represent a part of the United Kingdom, the West Midlands, which has hitherto benefited from Objective 2 funding in particular.
That way the much-trumpeted need for transparency in the use of these funds and the temptation to draw unnecessarily in the longer term on the local tax base in areas where such projects are located will be diminished and the European Parliament will show how seriously it takes the need for such reform.
Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to commend the rapporteur on her report, which is a meticulous and substantive piece of work.
However, I feel that we should be a little more concerned about the actual direction and outcome of the Community' s regional policy.
The Union' s economic and social policy is just as much to blame for that as its regional policy.
Mr President, I would like to say a few words in order to highlight two points made in these reports which are of fundamental strategic importance to the way we see the Union.
The first is the fundamental, central importance that we continue to give to the principle of economic and social cohesion.
We still feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the Union' s fundamental objectives.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, not least for being willing to include in the report the suggestions we made.
Mr President, Commissioner, the guidelines are intended to help steer the Member States towards achieving the reform objectives contained in the programmes.
I should be very grateful, Mrs Schroedter, if you would actually include this proposed amendment in the part relating to subsidiarity in your positive deliberations.
Unfortunately, the excellent Schroedter report did not take account of this criterion, despite the fact that there is considerable evidence to show - as we shall see later in the Berend report - how, in fact, these funds are providing splendid assistance to the most backward regions in order to bridge the gulf that separates them from Europe' s most highly-developed regions.
They are increasing in competitiveness but they are not all experiencing an increase in wealth because there is no increase in employment and there are still differences in employment opportunities between regions.
It is particularly important to address those serious issues concerning urban areas, employment in rural areas, aid to agricultural regions and equal development opportunities for the islands of the European Union and for the Greek islands which, of course, comprise half of the islands of the Union, as stipulated in Article 158 of the Treaty.
Regarding the role and structure of these guidelines, Mr Hatzidakis, Mrs Schroedter and Mrs McCarthy mentioned that the purpose of these guidelines is to assist national and regional authorities in preparing their programming strategy for each of Structural Fund Objectives 1, 2 and 3 as well as their links with the Cohesion Funds.
I myself took part in a meeting of the most remote regions on 23 November and, within the College, we considered that we would need several more weeks before being able to produce a report that dealt appropriately with the extremely serious problems and lived up to the expectations of these most remote regions.
As far as I am concerned - taking into account my own concept of the construction of Europe and regional development policy in particular - this is a situation which I find unacceptable and I have every intention, as far as possible, with your support, of dedicating all the appropriations for which I am responsible to this improved social, human and territorial cohesion, particularly in order to prevent what I once called in this House a two-speed Europe, a Europe of wealthy districts but, at the same time, a Europe of impoverished areas.
The third objective is urban and rural development, within the scope of a balanced territorial policy.
You expressed some concern about what might look like a lack of reference to this partnership, yet there is a clear reference to it on page 5 of the guidelines.
I should now like to respond briefly to a few of the comments you have made, ladies and gentlemen, and firstly on procedure.
On the subject of the role of the guidelines, Mrs Schroedter, you pointed out that this is the context in which guidelines on a number of European objectives, often very precise ones, should be provided.
The Commission kept to the actual text of Article 10 of the Structural Funds regulations, which stipulates that the aim of these guidelines is to provide Member States with broad, indicative guidelines on relevant and agreed Community policies.
You then mentioned, Mrs Schroedter, the section of the guidelines relating to urban and rural development, pointing out that urban development was not sufficiently taken into consideration.
It must, however, be stressed that the guidelines under discussion are related only to the Structural Funds, whose Objectives 1 and 2 specifically adopt the diversification of rural society as a priority.
At this stage, I would simply like to say that I would like to see it integrated into the programming for Objective 2 rural areas, in the way that the EAGGF Guidance Section is for Objective 1 regions.
I shall remind you that the Commission is going to be approving the Objective 2 zoning plans for France, Sweden, Austria and Luxembourg tomorrow.
I feel this augurs well for effective cooperation between our two institutions, at this time when programming for the period 2000-2006 is being undertaken, good joint working practice, which is, Mr Hatzidakis, backed up by something I am very attentive to: observance of the code of conduct which links our two institutions.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, the sixth periodic report contains a comprehensive and detailed description of the economic and social situation in the Union' s regions and of their development trends and represents, as I see it, a solid basis for the formulation of structural policy priorities at Union level.
Unfortunately, this European-wide development was due, in the main, to an increase in productivity and only partly to an increase in the level of employment.
A very important point to my mind.
We call upon those Member States that have not yet submitted a satisfactory map of development regions to do so immediately and, of course, we expect the Commission to examine with due haste the operational programmes for the regions for the new support period 2000 to 2006 in the light of the results of the sixth periodic report, and to do everything possible to enable this support period to commence without delay in those areas where it is needed and in the proper manner.
Mr President, Commissioner, this sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union constitutes a milestone in the analysis of regional data and highlights the progress made in this area since the issue of the fifth periodic report.
I consider, however, that the mention of any real convergence of average regional development levels in Europe offers a somewhat over-simplified view of the situation and, unfortunately, this is often the message taken up in the press and in some speeches.
In this respect, I am pleased to see that the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has adopted one of my amendments calling on the Commission to devote a specific chapter in its next report on cohesion to the special case of the most remote regions and, more specifically, to consideration of the impact of the measures shortly to be adopted under new Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The first is that important advances have been made in regional and social cohesion throughout the Union and that the Community Funds have been a major, although not decisive, factor in reducing regional inequalities.
It is therefore necessary to link structural financing more closely to job creation.
Thus, Mr President, I ask my fellow Members to approve this report and I ask the Commission, as other speakers have done, to take good note of the conclusions of their sixth periodic report when they address the programming for the period 2000-2006.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for having taken due account of the proposed amendments while the committee was debating it.
Our Group is in favour of adopting this report.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union' s regional policy has, until now, not been able to interpret, in any significant way, the existing differences in our inhabitants' incomes.
This does not mean that I do not see the need for competitiveness, particularly as I myself am an entrepreneur in an Objective 1 Region, that is in Brandenburg in the Federal Republic of Germany, and am only too aware of the problems and concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The key goal of the structural funds is to strengthen social and economic cohesion between the regions within the European Union.
Mr President, it therefore seems worthwhile and necessary to focus attention on both national and regional authorities, especially in connection with boosting employment.
Since it is the declared aim of all politicians throughout Europe to reduce unemployment, then one must pose the critical question as to whether the policy employed is the right one or whether it would not be more appropriate to boost the competitiveness of the regions by appropriate measures such as increased support for research and development, improvements in infrastructure and raising the level of training.
Mr President, Commissioner, my thanks go to the rapporteur for handling this very important report, because developments in the social and economic situation will decide to what extent the citizens of Europe will judge that we have been successful in our work.
In Reunion, for example, the rate is 37%.
The Commission document expected to be ready in December 1999 was delayed until January, then February, and the initial thinking does not fill me with much optimism.
I should also like to make a few comments, firstly, Mr Berend, regarding the assessment you have made of this sixth periodic report.
Fifthly, the importance and role of small and medium-sized businesses.
In relation to this, I must inform the European Parliament of my intention to organise halfway through the year 2000 a seminar with national and regional authorities on this question of the evaluation of procedures for the exchange of good practice in the management of Structural Funds.
I have, however, taken note, particularly with regard to the most remote regions, Mrs Sudre, Mr Fruteau, and Mr Nogueira Román too, that your observation is that there is still much to do - and this is my third point regarding the policy - in terms of improving employment take-up aspects, the fight against social exclusion, which is particularly serious and intolerable in many of our regions, and the integration of women and young people into the labour market.
The debate is closed.
