Mr Milinkevich, as leader of the unified opposition, you had the courage to stand for the presidential elections held recently in Belarus, which were seen by our Parliament as in no way democratic.
The European Parliament admires your courage and the perseverance that you showed both during and after the election campaign, and would like to express its full solidarity with you, your fellow countrymen and your country.
You may rest assured that the European Parliament will continue to support human rights and democracy in your country.
An increase in the reserves of the European Investment Bank of EUR 2.5 billion is being added to those additional resources, in order to fund programmes to promote research and development, transport networks and aid to small companies.
The flexibility instrument maintains the sum for the current period, two hundred million per year, but with the possibility of unused resources being transferred to the next two financial years.
That is the summary of the agreement reached yesterday, but I am sure that our rapporteur, Mr Böge, will be able to present that agreement more fully.
The political groups will have the opportunity to assess the agreement in our debate. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will admit it openly; I am not satisfied with the outcome.
I would like to express my thanks to the whole negotiating team under Janusz Lewandowski’s chairmanship, to Mr Walter and Mr Mulder for their excellent cooperation and also to the group coordinators.
I would like, in particular, to congratulate Mr Böge, Mr Lewandowski, Mr&#160;Mulder and Mr Walter for their remarkable job, which I know was done under very difficult conditions.
I have followed the negotiations very closely, determined to ensure that we reached a good agreement.
It is good news for Europe because it means we now have the funds to match our ambitions for the development of the Union over the next seven years.
We now have a clear financial framework to boost development of the ten new Member States that joined in 2004, and of the two new Member States still to come.
I am particularly pleased that we will have increased funding for programmes directly related to the new Lisbon Agenda, namely, research, lifelong learning, trans-European networks, competitiveness and innovation.
Another of my priorities, as you will recall – it was the subject of my letters to the President-in-Office of the Council, and of some of my statements here in Parliament – was to secure additional funding for programmes that reach out to our citizens, such as culture, youth, health and consumer protection.
That would not have been possible if we had not worked together to increase that funding after the agreement at the European Council.
I have also taken note of the comments made on this matter just now by Mr&#160;Böge.
We have also worked hard to ensure that the future budget of the European Union will be based on principles of sound financial management.
I also take very good note of what Mr&#160;Böge just said on that: it is not just about figures.
It is fair to say that the role of Parliament in the process has been strengthened and it will also play an important role in the review of the financial perspectives, which will be one of the top priorities in the coming years.
I can confirm to you today something I have said on several occasions: as you know, we have been asked by the Council to come up with a proposal for a ‘review clause’ for the future of the financial perspectives and we want to work as closely as possible with Parliament on that matter.
We have no more time to lose. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the road here has been a long and difficult one, and without this Parliament we would not be where we are now.
It is about winning over the public to the cause of Europe, so that this Europe of ours may be convincing.
We insist on the European Parliament being given a say in, and responsibility for, reviewing the European Union’s outgoings in 2008/2009.
The Commission has undertaken to submit proposals for the necessary next steps in respect of the revision clause to be taken in 2008/2009.
It has also proved possible to extract more money, and for that I want to take this opportunity to say: Thank you, Mr&#160;Böge, thank you, Mr&#160;Mulder, thank you, Mr&#160;Lewandowski, but I would also, and on behalf of my group, like to thank our colleague Mr&#160;Walter, who – as other members can testify – drove a hard bargain for our group in the closing stages.
I would not pretend that my group is satisfied with the outcome.
But if the centripetal force for our Union is no longer coming from visionary leadership within, it will certainly come from developments beyond our borders.
I hope that our Member States will use the review of EU financing that they have agreed on to look again at providing our Union with the resources it needs.
I too would like to thank the negotiating team – composed entirely of men – and the team that participated in this difficult work – composed entirely of women from my group.
The European Council has announced that there will be a revision clause, but has refused to include it in this agreement, with the result that we do not really know what will become of this clause.
What is more, I would like to know from the Commission – and I hope its members are listening to me – whether or not its intentions to improve the decision-making system relating to external programmes are genuine, because there are conflicting opinions on this that I would like it to clarify for me.
That is particularly true in the case of enlargement, which everyone knew, even before the start of the process, would entail legitimate costs, particularly in the context of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund.
We therefore agreed with Parliament’s decision to reject the European Council’s cut-price compromise of last December.
From the point of view of these objectives, the 1.5% increase demanded by our negotiators was in itself extremely modest: 1.5% of 1.04% of the Union’s gross national income.
That is the positive aspect of the situation.
It is anticipated that the Union’s GNI will increase by about 15% between 2007 and 2013, whilst its budget will only increase by around 2% in the same period.
Against this background, the Council’s resistance to adopting our negotiators’ very modest proposals amounts to pettiness.
It has often been said that certain political tendencies represented in this House demonstrate an incomprehensible Euroscepticism, and that this is especially the case of those originating from the new Member States.
I shall urge colleagues in the UEN&#160;Group to support the compromise on the new Financial Perspective.
We have a budget system that is overly complicated, but my question is: do we need a budget at all?
The European Parliament, in this very Chamber, inflicts poverty on its catering staff and its drivers, who earn the shameful sum of EUR&#160;1&#160;000 per month!
Mr&#160;Barroso, you need to go back to the days of Dr&#160;Salazar in order to find that principle, when the United States, in 100&#160;years, has only had 38 balanced budgets.
In other words, if our plan was to revise our financial perspective, then we should have revised the ultraliberal ideology underpinning it, but to question the three scourges of Anglo-Saxon thinking – Malthus, Adam Smith and Ricardo – was quite another matter. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much to everybody who has spoken.
The Council and the Commission have been able to hear the political groups, who have expressed differing degrees of dissatisfaction, in some cases satisfactory dissatisfaction and in others dissatisfaction pure and simple.
The political groups will discuss the agreement that our negotiators have reached on its behalf and Parliament will vote on it during its next part-session.
That concludes this item. &#160;&#160; – The agreement reached in the trialogue on the financial perspective is bad news because it is EUR&#160;108 billion down from Parliament’s original proposal.
I believe that you too can see that we have, from the very outset, tried to establish this collaborative approach within a team presidency.
I would like to start by giving you a brief report on the European Council.
In practical terms, we want to achieve a 1% growth in employment by means of the national reform programmes and improved framework conditions, which would amount to the creation of some 2 million jobs a year, or, by 2010, a net increase of an extra 10 million.
Secondly, it is our quite deliberate intention to concentrate on the training of the young, so that 85% of young people under the age of 22 should get higher education.
Our intention is that the number of school drop-outs should be reduced by 10%, and, quite specifically, that by as soon as next year, all young people should, within six months, be offered either a job, an apprenticeship or the chance of further training, with this period later being reduced to four months.
We have agreed a gender equality pact in the workplace, ‘flexicurity’ is being discussed in great detail at every level, and the globalisation fund proposed by the Commission provides us with the proper means of giving, through retraining or additional training, a new chance in the labour market to those workers adversely affected by structural change.
We have considered the practicalities of how we can make life easier for small and medium-sized businesses – of which there are some 23 million – by reducing official procedures and abolishing administrative rules.
Doubling this threshold is a vitally important initiative and enables us to make life much easier for small and medium-sized businesses and also makes it easier for us to encourage and support them.
It was, of course, as long ago as 2000 that we set the 3% target.
My comment on the previous debate is that, if we succeed in this – and it will of course call for considerable efforts – the consequence of it will be that EUR&#160;100 billion more per annum, drawn from the national budgets and from private industry, will be invested in research.
It is still true that the European Investment Bank will help us out with EUR 10 billion in additional risk capital, and, if the private contributions are added to that, that adds up to an additional injection of EUR&#160;30&#160;billion.
I fully support the basic idea that the Commission is putting forward here, the idea of creating a link between institutions of higher education and industry, between research and development on the one hand and the end users on the other.
This would not be some sort of super-authority, but a perfectly developed network primarily intended to really cooperate with the institutions in the Member States.
I congratulate Mr Barroso and the Commission on their proposal’s adoption and acceptance, and we look forward to concrete proposals for legislation by June of this year.
One thing that was of course completely new was energy policy, and here the prime mover was the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, although I also want to thank Tony Blair for having in fact set the whole thing off at Hampton Court.
Some of the time, and in some areas, Europe is at high risk of a black-out.
The whole situation positively cries out for a new joint effort on the part of Europe, and the Commission has done a first-class job of preparing the ground with its Green Paper, which the Council has taken on board, also defining as its three objectives security of supply, the competitiveness of our own industry and the improvement of environmental quality.
What that in fact means is that the EU is setting itself the long-term target of decoupling economic growth from energy consumption.
Each country must make up its own mind whether or not it wants nuclear power stations; Austria’s position is quite clear on this – and I know that other countries take a different one – and that must be respected.
With hindsight, these discussions and these decisions will be regarded as a breakthrough in terms of a genuine common European energy policy.
I regard this as an example of an area where the subsidiarity principle can come into its own.
I would be very happy if we were to be able, during the Austrian Presidency, to achieve together real progress at all three levels – services, the Working Time Directive and the budget.
This budget is for a period of seven years and is intended to provide not only legal certainty for the programmes but also, and primarily, to enable the new Member States to implement the things for which they hope.
If one includes the European Investment Bank in the analysis, one comes up with some interesting results.
Finally, there is foreign policy, where we have, quite apart from managing such crises as bird flu, the row about the cartoons, the gas crisis and the great foreign policy issues, to clarify a number of points, but that is not the main issue today.
The situation in Belarus is, of course, a tragic one; I can tell you right now that that is how I personally see it.
At the same time, we should also stress that the EU has no interest in isolating Belarus, and certainly not its people.
I can promise you my absolute cooperation, and I will also try to move as much as possible forward at Council level, without great fanfare and proclamation, but rather in such a way as to achieve real results.
The momentum initiated last autumn has put Europe and our institutions back at the centre of the debate.
The message emerging from the European Council is clear.
Europe needs to tackle the main problems linked to economic growth and employment.
The week before the Spring European Council, I presented to you, in this Chamber, the issues at stake in that meeting, which was a crucial meeting because it represented the first occasion on which the revived Lisbon Strategy for growth and employment was to be implemented.
I can tell you today that the objectives set by the Commission have been attained.
I am thinking not only of the excellent reception given to our Green Paper on energy, but also of other practical proposals, including the one concerning the European Institute of Technology.
In saying that, I am not speaking merely on behalf of the Commission, I am also speaking on behalf of the general European interest: I believe that we can unreservedly congratulate ourselves on the outcome obtained by this Spring European Council.
Guided by the excellent work and the perseverance of the Austrian Presidency, the Heads of State or Government have accepted the principle of partnership for the new Lisbon Strategy.
They have declared themselves ready to move into top gear and they have also taken major decisions paving the way for the actual implementation of our commitments under the new Lisbon Strategy.
From now on, the European Parliament, the national parliaments, the political forces, the social partners and public opinion in general can embark on a course whereby measures take the form of results: they can move on from the stage of rhetoric to the stage of practical measures in the form of results.
The main example taken up by the European Council concerns the move towards a genuine energy policy for Europe.
The person who recounts the history of European integration in 20 or 25 years’ time will be able to say, without any exaggeration, that an energy policy for Europe was launched in March&#160;2006, under the Austrian Presidency.
The Member States have reaffirmed their desire to work together in seeking common solutions and acknowledge the Commission’s central role in terms of setting up open and competitive markets at Union level.
As regards the Lisbon Agenda, we have no time to lose and we now need to get results.
It was in this spirit that, immediately after the European Council, Mr&#160;Verheugen and I met the national coordinators overseeing the implementation of the Lisbon Agenda.
We informed them of the Commission’s desire to thoroughly fulfil its role not only in terms of providing support and assistance, but also in terms of monitoring the implementation of the national reform programmes.
I wish to congratulate Mr&#160;Schüssel, who has just announced his desire to increase the level of representation responsible for monitoring the Lisbon process in his own country, Austria.
Sound technical preparations are obviously important, and we are very pleased with the technical level attained for this exercise in the various Member States.
We believe that the time has come to hold meetings in the various Member States, something that we are going to do from autumn onwards.
This close contact with the Member States is crucial when it comes to making progress with our programme, but it is not enough.
Allow me, in this Chamber, to lend my support to Parliament’s powerful message concerning the need for the greater and even more extensive involvement of all of the actors concerned at this crucial stage of implementation.
We have made efforts to clarify the levels of responsibility and competence of the various institutional, economic and social actors at European, national and regional level.
We must now promote a genuine kind of ownership of the Lisbon Strategy by all of these actors.
In order to do so, every one of us must also participate in the communication efforts and in the public debate.
I welcome the partnership that exists between the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
Your Parliament and the national parliaments are the key actors in this debate because, together, they all represent the people of Europe.
We will be unable to make a success of the necessary reforms without the broad support of the people, who will ultimately benefit from our efforts.
There was vision in this European Council, but it was also a practical European Council.
That approach of partnership between the Council, the Commission and Parliament is essential.
One area where Parliament’s role has already been decisive in finding a compromise was and is precisely that of the services directive.
It took some time to convince the Heads of State and Government, but eventually the European Council backed the line that Parliament agreed and that also received our support.
If you remember, since the beginning I have said, and the Commission has said, that if there was a real, clear consensus from Parliament, we would be ready to work with you to resolve this services directive issue.
Yesterday, we presented to you our amended proposal and you see that it fully reflects the compromise endorsed by a large majority in this House in February.
The revised text preserves the balance between the urgent need to unleash the full potential of the internal market for services and the preservation of our European social model.
In parallel, we presented the communication providing clear guidance on the application of Community rules on the posting of workers.
I would also like to mention three areas where I believe the European Council took decisions which will have a real and lasting impact.
The decision to cut red tape for new business is a sign that Europe is now becoming open for business.
With the green light from the European Council, we will be working to flesh out the plans and to show how the European Institute of Technology will be an effective catalyst for knowledge and growth in Europe.
It also set out the practical measures to be taken, including some of the 20&#160;specific proposals set out in the Commission Green Paper: a real internal market for energy, a coherent external policy, effective support for energy efficiency and renewables.
Now it is very fashionable to speak about energy, and now Member States accept what – let us be frank – two years ago would have been impossible to accept: that we need a common strategy.
So, for the June European Council, as Chancellor Schüssel said, the Commission and the High Representative will come up with some ideas on the external dimension of energy policy.
After all those internal points, the European Council was also able to send a strong message of commitment on the Belarus situation.
The Commission is working with the Council very actively to promote the reinforcement of civil society in Belarus and to support the independent media so that the citizens of Belarus have access to media that is not censored and not controlled by a government that does not respect the fundamental principles of a democratic state.
I believe that is the only way to deliver more growth and new jobs.
The right way to change that is to deliver concrete results, to resolve the services directive issue, as we have been doing, to settle the financial perspectives, as I hope will now be done.
So, if we can achieve results, we will create the best atmosphere for settling the institutional problems that have to be settled and for creating a new impetus for this Europe.
That is our duty.
We should do more to achieve it. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the European Council, Chancellor Schüssel, spoke of the responsibility that the European institutions have in common, and the President of the Commission has just been talking about actions.
Addressing the President of this House in particular, I can say that my impression is that we – by which I mean you three and the whole European Parliament – find ourselves today in a situation in which this sense of community and of shared responsibility for the future of the European Union is making itself felt.
It is my profound conviction that this is a good opportunity to restore, by our visible actions, the mindset that makes this European Union appealing to those who live in it, and to do this also with reference to other issues that we are not debating today, such as the Constitutional Treaty, to which we have to find a solution.
I am very pleased to note that the President of the European Council is working hard, together with us and with the Commission, on the common destiny of Europe, and doing so unspectacularly but with professionalism and efficiency, and sustained by European conviction.
That is a good socialist approach, and, in taking it, you can count on our support.
Now I do not know whether there is a cause-and-effect relationship at work here, but that is something we can disregard.
As far as nuclear power is concerned, that is the right thing to do, and you will get a lot of support for doing it, not only from people in your own country, but also in Germany.
The European Parliament is playing its part in this.
Today, again, you made a number of remarks – and you know perfectly well to what I am referring – in which you alluded to certain aspects of what needs to be done over the coming weeks.
You know how to balance different interests in such a way that it works to your benefit.
All Council members accepted that environment policy&#160;can make an important contribution to jobs and growth.
We are making progress and, combined with the prospect of an interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspectives and the economic growth that we now foresee, there is hope again for our Union.
But I hope that the Austrian Presidency and the Finnish Presidency that follows it can take this new spirit forward and help us to reconstruct a constitutional basis on which to build our Union for the future.
You need to discuss other issues – important issues such as Belarus.
Let us start to rebuild the Union with the active involvement of Member States.
Too often in recent years we have seen in Rome, in Paris, in London and even in Berlin attempts to unpick the Community method, to pull Europe apart at the seams&#160;– national capitals that risk enhancing global anarchy in the name of preserving national sovereignty.
The European People’s Party claims to be pro-European.
I believe that it must simply be repeated that this budget is insufficient and inconsistent from the perspective of the Lisbon objectives.
The proposals currently on the table are EUR&#160;110&#160;billion below the figure proposed by Parliament and EUR&#160;200&#160;billion below the figure proposed by the Commission.
My first suggestion is that we therefore need to speed up the work on the European Union’s own resources, as you yourself pointed out.
The second suggestion concerns the role of the European Investment Bank.
I believe that what has been decided is interesting, Mr&#160;Schüssel.
As you are well aware, in the next 20 years we will be faced with the problem of funding social security systems in nearly every country in Europe.
However, I wish to begin by saying that I absolutely deplore the way this House has been used this morning, in this debate, to fight national political elections.
In fact, a lot of positive things have come out of the European Council meeting that we should be promoting very strongly, in particular the commitments given to increasing employment opportunities and increasing the amount of money to be put into research and development; assisting in the expansion of the lifelong learning and education and training programmes; utilising the resources available to the European Investment Bank to kick start small and medium-sized enterprises, to give them an opportunity to create the jobs and to create the economic wealth and growth which is necessary within the European Union.
The overall new policies that we are trying to work towards include a common energy system, where we recognise, of course, the rights of the Member States to deal with their own energy issues, but also see where those individual Member States can cooperate with each other to guarantee minimum resources as regards safety and security, with regard to interconnection and to guaranteeing the proper use of funding for research and development as regards new renewable energies and in particular on biofuels.
In our desire to help the environment, whilst at the same time reducing our dependence on imported fuels, we could use new energy crops to run all of our public transport in the European Union, if we so wished.
However, that requires us to make an investment to guarantee that the technology is available for all and, through our taxation, to give preference to energies that are less damaging to the environment, as we did with the introduction of unleaded petrol many years ago.
With regard to the services directive and the financial perspectives, Parliament is willing to act as a political body to ensure that it can deliver on behalf of the European citizens, in cooperation with the other institutions.
We have delivered on our commitments, we must now ensure that we can deliver on our future promises for the future generations in Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, we have heard certain things from the President of the Commission.
Consequently, you are taking all the peoples, all the states hostage and, of course, the people understand that and that is why they react. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the improvement of Europe’s economy and of its citizens’ standard of living depends on all the economic entities acquitting themselves well on the global market.
Issues relating to many sectors of the economy such as agriculture should simply be dealt with by urgent procedure, as is the case for energy, amongst others.
Our Parliament has demonstrated its capacity for driving things forward; none of the three institutions has thrown in the towel, and the Council is once more capable of negotiating and getting the job done.
What I would like to see is a lot more thought given to implementation and infrastructure.
You said that we are all in the same boat, and that everyone has to row; I do not see everyone bent over the oars just yet, but I hope that will happen.
As regards the foreign policy elements – and this is something I would like to address to the Commission – we have been making this demand ever since the Commission was appointed, ever since it took office.
The President of the Council is right to say that our atomic energy policy is a matter for the nation states.
Although you referred to the employers, you did not mention the employers in the cooperative sector – which is itself of vital importance – or, in particular, the employees’ representative organisations, which have done much to bring about the social Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true to say that this spring summit has not been a failure, but it did repeat certain errors of the past that I regard as worthy of criticism.
Promising the creation of 10 million jobs was, after all, strongly reminiscent of the first Lisbon summit.
The necessary response, then, is not to do as in the past and make promises, but to make more competition possible, and the fact that the Commission is at last doing something about this gives cause for hope.
I have three specific questions that I would like Chancellor Schüssel to answer.
The funds that are needed for research and development, for training and education, are quite simply not being raised as they should be.
In this context, the riots in France are a demonstration of how difficult it is to reform the social system.
We will need to drive home to protectionist France too, though, that the social system is untenable without reforms.
If a European summit of Heads of Government were to come to a decision to that effect and to enforce it, then its meeting would be wholly justified. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have read through the conclusions of the March sitting of the European Council in detail, and I must say that I am very disappointed.
The European Council has missed a unique opportunity to proceed from words to actual deeds.
I cannot see this being the path to fulfilment of the Lisbon Strategy and greater competitiveness. &#160;&#160; – From my point of view, the challenges that Europe faces today were correctly identified by the European Council: globalisation, the demography question, key sectors of the European economy such as energy and services, research and development, innovation, education, jobs and growth.
After all, it makes no sense to have 25 European research policies that are not geared towards the key objective of the knowledge-based economy and that still lack the resources and the critical mass to be able to compete with other more developed economies.
Consequently, if we wish to send out a clear message today that the Lisbon Strategy is alive and if we want it to be implemented quickly, we must give the Commission the resources to enable it to get the European Institute of Technology up and running, which to my mind would be a very important step. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the people of France will remember two things about the Council.
The first is that when a Frenchman speaks English, the President leaves the room.
We therefore need confidence, and trust in each other as befits its Latin roots.
I do not think so, because the reform of the Lisbon Strategy which you are promoting sacrifices cohesion and the environment to a neo-liberal version of competitiveness.
That is why we have often been forced, here in this Chamber, to listen to endless numbers of speeches inspired by terrorist acts in Madrid and London, the tsunami disaster in the Indian Ocean or the risks of war in the Middle East.
The ageing of the population in Europe is, in fact, not so much a challenge as a life-threatening problem, not only in terms of keeping our social security systems, and therefore our economies, intact, but also, quite simple, of securing the continued existence of European peoples.
The Commission has published a Green Paper in a bid to explore this route.
If the EU wishes to alienate itself from the public even more, then it should go down this route.
If that is not done, the Lisbon objectives are nothing but empty words. &#160;&#160; Mr President, given the great expectations during the weeks prior to the Spring Council, with regard to the possibility of creating a common energy policy, the Council’s conclusions in this field are, on the one hand, hopeful, but, on the other, disappointing.
I shall end, Mr President, by telling the Council that we are pleased with its proposal that the existing obligations should be complied with, but disappointed that it lacks the political courage to establish a genuine common energy policy, which this House and the European Commission are calling for and which the Union urgently needs, because its future depends on it. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I have three messages for you.
I would like firstly to thank the European Council and Chancellor Schüssel in particular for supporting the Spanish Government at the beginning of the long process of overcoming terrorism following the ceasefire announced by the terrorist group ETA.
Secondly, I welcome the fact that the European Council has accepted the Hispano-Swedish initiative of a pact for gender equality, which is one of the most important areas of progress in Europe.
There are currently two liberalised markets in Europe, which are the United Kingdom and Spain.
Furthermore, having accepted Parliament’s views on the Directive on the liberalisation of services, the Commission should offer us a directive on services of general economic interest.
Because we are not talking about a market, but about utilities and companies providing public services, and the Commission is obliged to do its duty. &#160;&#160; I would like to bring up two points: Europe has, and will continue to have, an urgent need for energy.
However, under the long-term financial perspective, the European Union is reducing the resources available for trans-European networks by EUR 20 billion.
This will do nothing to further the trust of Slovakia’s citizens in EU policy. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I begin by welcoming the firm stand of the Council on the situation in Belarus and the sanctions that have been agreed.
On the Lisbon Agenda, I welcome many of the Presidency conclusions but, sadly, Europe has yet to find an answer to its underlying economic malaise.
Mr Blair talks the talk; he says he is leading the way and that the rest of Europe is falling into line, but I think he deludes himself – and not for the first time.
The Council meeting could have made clear its determination to fight the protectionist threat to Europe’s prosperity and the functioning of the single market.
I congratulate him on his continuing determination on this issue.
Last week in Florence he said that national governments were giving in to populist temptations.
The distinction made by the Council between the Belarusian authorities and Belarusian society is particularly significant.
This important distinction was proposed by the European Parliament as the basis of the Union’s strategy towards Belarus.
More and more targeted sanctions are needed.
The European Union and the European Commission in particular are not doing enough for Belarus and they are reacting too slowly.
The Union should be providing much stronger and more specific support to civil society in Belarus.
Fourthly, the scope of certain Union programmes like the Erasmus student exchange programme should be broadened to include Belarus and its civil society.
Fifthly, and this is my last point, the Union and its Member States should arrange stronger diplomatic representation in Minsk. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I have just two brief observations to make.
Firstly, I am very glad that we succeeded yesterday evening in achieving agreement on the financial framework, so that we now have enough time to allow things to really take off in 2007, with all the programmes being implemented.
I hope that the initiatives you have taken will help to achieve that, and I can tell Mr Schulz that people in Aachen, which is so close to the border, know perfectly well just how uncompetitive German legislation is even in North Rhine Westphalia. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, grateful though I am for the words of encouragement that have been spoken at the mid-point of the Austrian Presidency, we are not resting on our laurels – in any case, there are none – but want to carry on working hard alongside you.
Yes, of course it will call for national commitment and for funding of infrastructure.
If you take only the example of research and development, provision is made in the budget for an increase in excess of 75% over the next seven-year period.
The amount allocated to the trans-European networks has doubled; that available for lifelong learning has been increased by 50%, so now between 30&#160;000 and 40&#160;000 more young people virtually right across Europe, have the opportunity to learn.
The only solution is a new definition of what is meant by ‘own resources’; that is the only way to deal with the situation.
Getting this Financial Perspective off the ground in the first place was a great achievement, and for it I would like to thank Mr Barroso, the President of your House and all the groups in it, and the negotiators.
I am ready and willing to do so and I very much hope that we will work together on the constitution issue every bit as well, so that we may well not have a solution in place by June, but we will be able to map out a way whereby we will achieve the better legal basis that we all need. &#160;&#160; .
An honest assessment would certainly reveal that these results have overall been welcomed.
There can be no denying, however, that we have seen results in the energy sector, in SMEs, in research, in the employment objectives and overall in the new system of governance of the Lisbon Strategy.
Consensus has also been achieved at European Council level as regards the services directive.
As regards energy, I wish to underline that our work has certainly not finished at the European Council and that the results of yesterday's Commission meeting will show you that the Commission is determined to ensure that all of the principles of Community law are upheld: for example, compliance with the principles of the internal market and with competition rules.
As regards SMEs, a particularly important step was the encouragement by the Austrian Presidency and the Commission to reduce the red tape that hampers so many potentially job-creating initiatives by companies.
As for research, for the first time all Member States were able to accept workable research and innovation objectives, and this is extremely important.
Equally important was the broad support for the idea of the European Institute of Technology and for the Commission now having a mandate to put forward a proposal.
I should like to underline one new aspect that arose at this European Council to which Chancellor Schüssel did not allude, but which I feel is worthy of mention.
Chancellor Schüssel, as President-in-Office of the Council, has taken every opportunity to introduce the debate to the Commission, and to the forthcoming Finnish, German, Portuguese and Slovene Presidencies.
These points were positive.
Similarly welcome were the confirmation of the agreement in principle on the services directive, and the news we received last night, or I should say early this morning, on the financial perspective.
I am totally convinced that if we achieve practical results, if we manage to resolve problems on a regular basis, we can take this Europe of projects forward, regain the confidence of our citizens and find a better environment for resolving some of the institutional issues that need to be resolved.
With this team spirit, this spirit of partnership, Europe can and must move ahead. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I want to raise a point of order.
The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; We expect a great deal – sometimes too much – of the European Councils.
The one that was recently held at the end of March was mainly devoted to the economic aspects of European integration.
Several countries have worked particularly hard on this issue that is crucial to our countries’ independence, including France, which proposed a memorandum that was the subject of a broad consensus.
The European Council launched an ambitious strategy promoting a secure, competitive and sustainable energy supply for Europe.
The Spring European Council also decided to double the European research and innovation budgetary effort over the 2007/2013 period.
This is essential for the competitiveness of our economies and therefore for Europe’s place in the world faced with the presence of developing countries.
At the same time, the European Council made official the creation of a Globalisation Adjustment Fund, which was widely sought after by our fellow citizens.
Europe is undoubtedly going through a difficult period, but that must certainly not overshadow the positive signals given by the implementation of instruments of economic progress and of solidarity. &#160;&#160; Making the European Union the most competitive knowledge-based economy by 2010 involves two priorities, as far as I can see: investing heavily in Research and Development and removing the constraints weighing on businesses, and particularly on the smallest ones.
The European Council’s appeal for the EIB to enhance its R[amp]D efforts is, in this context, an innovative and pragmatic solution, if EUR&#160;30&#160;billion actually can be harnessed in this way.
This measure might not be enough to overcome the chronic deficit in European R[amp]D expenditure, and a great effort is still required if the objective of devoting 3% of GDP to R[amp]D is to be attained.
It is crucial to involve the private sector in this effort, since we can clearly see that public budgets are not enough.
On the basis of these Rules, I would like to postpone the vote on that amendment to the next part-session because I would like to reopen the political discussion about our working methods in this Parliament.
As we all know, the fact that we have to travel between our work office and our actual seat here makes life somewhat difficult.
We would also like to ask the Conference of Presidents to reopen the discussion about amendments to the calendar. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this week we have debated the issue of better regulation.
One of the biggest obstacles to better regulation is our calendar of meetings.
I therefore think that we should have another debate on Strasbourg, but not in this fashion.
Accordingly, I do hope that Parliament will understand what this is really about and that it will not accept the two amendments tabled by the Chairman.
It would be a great mistake on Parliament’s part to adopt his Amendments 62 and 63, as they would undermine the notion of active remembrance which is contained in this programme.
Mr President, this course of action is, I think, insulting to our Committee. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to clarify the following: I am a member of parliament and I have the right to table amendments in plenary.
The recommendation and report by Mr Takkula are astounding, but what does our proposal with the two amendments add?
As committee chairman I followed due procedure, but as a member of parliament I have the right to table amendments. &#160;&#160; That concludes the vote.
The explanations of vote will take place following the formal sitting. &#160;&#160; Mr President of the Republic of Malta, it is a great pleasure for me to welcome you to the European Parliament today and to offer you the opportunity to speak to its Members, who have been discussing your country at length over recent days.
Almost three years ago you signed the Accession Treaty, which was the culmination of many years and great efforts leading to Malta becoming a member of the European Union.
They illustrate the most important challenge facing Europe in terms of defending and protecting human rights and building better relations with its neighbours in the South.
In these special circumstances, Mr President, your visit is very welcome and Parliament therefore has a great interest in hearing what you have to say to us.
As a representative of one of the countries that joined the European Union in 2004, I bring with me recent experience of the meaning of enlargement, both in terms of what a country goes through in preparing for membership of the European Union and in terms of the impact of membership on a new Member State.
My country considers membership of the European Union as a natural return to our home in Europe, where we belong.
We are proud to be part of the family of nations that forms the European Union, with all its spiritual, cultural and humanistic heritage.
We had a long and difficult debate leading up to the point, three years ago, when the Maltese people made a clear and sovereign decision in favour of membership by means of a referendum and then of a general election.
This lively debate gave us the opportunity openly and freely to discuss the merits and dangers of membership, while we scrutinised the possible impact of membership not only in economic terms but also in political and social terms.
In this sense, it was an exercise through which we brought Europe closer to the people, and it is an exercise with which we should continue.
It is true that no enlargement on such a scale had ever previously taken place, and never before had candidate countries been asked to implement such huge reforms as part of their preparations for membership.
I wish to congratulate all the new Member States of the European Union for having completed such a difficult process.
I also want in the same way to congratulate the European Union itself on the way it acted as a hugely effective catalyst in encouraging those countries to adopt the reforms.
We often speak of the pessimism that gripped Europe following the two referenda that took place last year and in which the European Constitutional Treaty was rejected.
That adjustment requires leaders to take difficult decisions, which are often unpopular.
It is a mistake for governments to blame Europe for these difficult decisions and then to take all the credit for the benefits.
Mr President, I also wish to share my thoughts on a number of other issues with you.
To new Member States, the Constitutional project seemed premature and unduly rushed, for example.
I know that the Constitutional Treaty was supposed to speed up decision-making by the Union of twenty-seven, but the citizens of some of the Member States clearly viewed it differently.
The Union that they had grown up in was altered by the 1995 enlargement and even more by the 2004 one, and in the light of globalisation the Constitutional project appeared to entail never-ending change.
In retrospect, therefore, we can see that we might have been wiser to have given this important project more time and waited not only until the ten new Member States had settled in but also until all twenty-five members had had time to adjust to the new realities of the European Union.
It goes without saying that the wishes expressed by the people of the two countries that did not accept the Constitutional Treaty have to be respected, but the same could be said of the decisions of the fourteen countries that ratified it.
Now is the time to engage in debate and to share our opinions about the possible scenarios we have before us.
One scenario is to stick to the commitment made by the signatory Heads of State or Government to try to find a solution within the European Council if four-fifths of the Member States ratify the Constitutional Treaty and one or more Member States have difficulty doing so.
In that way, it would be possible for the agreed process to continue with a view to our deciding afterwards how to proceed.
We thus need to ask ourselves what we can do to win back people’s confidence in the European Union and its institutions.
We can do this by once more developing a bond with the people, and in this connection I would praise the work of the Commission which, through Plan D, has taken on the difficult task of bridging the gap between the EU and its citizens.
As an institution elected directly at a European level, the European Parliament is in an ideal position to support the work of the Commission.
It is not more words that are needed in order to form close ties with our citizens.
It is a question of listening more and, if Europe communicates more effectively, it will be in a better position to reflect the aspirations of Europeans and to produce results in all areas of concern to them.
To strengthen confidence, we must not only communicate better but also be more efficient in the sectors to which the European Union is already committed.
More importantly, however, we can increase confidence in the EU by showing that, when adopting policies, taking decisions and acting both internally and externally, the European Union permits the expression of reason.
Let me cite a few examples: Because I come from Malta, I am also an observer of the way in which the European Union tries to find a balance between the interests of large countries and those of small ones.
The European Union is, however, unique in the way it develops a model for leadership that balances the interests of large and small countries and often combines these interests in a common interest.
It is a virtue that makes Europe what it is: rich in diversity and fully respectful of its Members’ obvious differences.
The European Parliament should also continue to develop this balance and to take account of the particular interests of the small states.
The Services Directive is another example of how the European institutions stand out as the voice of reason.
It is such initiatives that show that Europe really deserves people’s confidence.
However, there are other challenges to which Europe responded too slowly and in relation to which there is always an ever-increasing need for action at European level.
In these sectors, we have to do more work to permit the expression of reason, to achieve a fair balance and thus to increase people’s confidence in Europe.
It is not just because I come from an old maritime nation that I state without hesitation that Europe’s maritime heritage is not being utilised enough at European level.
We should win the confidence of people not only within the Union but also outside it, showing also that we are capable of increasing their confidence in us through acting justly.
Our Euro-Mediterranean policy is a clear example of this.
The complexity of this region, which we share with our neighbours, and its intrinsic connection to the peace process in the Middle East require us, much more than ever before, to be the voice of reason.
These events do, however, give us the opportunity to rebuild confidence even at this level.
Another challenge comes from the obvious but inevitable consequences of globalisation.
The answer to this challenge cannot be found in protectionism or in putting aside what has been attained so far.
There has to be a fair balance between the inevitable consequences of free trade, on the one hand, and the affirmation of the main values of Europe, and not least our social model, on the other.
However we cannot forget that it is Europe’s sense of balance and reason that distinguishes it from the other actors in the international arena.
Another challenge, and one that is more visible on the human level, is the challenge of illegal immigration.
Some days ago, a delegation from your institution visited my country as part of Parliament’s current efforts to visit countries within and outside Europe in order to examine the extent of the challenge of illegal immigration.
This is a problem that, at the moment, places a heavy burden on the ability of a number of Member States, and not least of my own country, to cope with the seemingly endless influx of people coming mostly from sub-Saharan Africa.
On the one hand, the Mediterranean faces a humanitarian disaster in which hundreds of people die while trying to reach Europe, while thousands more live in uncertainty and in difficult conditions after having achieved their aim.
At the same time, the countries receiving a heavy influx of immigrants see their capabilities and resources stretched beyond their limits.
It is a common challenge requiring a collective effort.
Europe urgently needs an immigration policy offering a more practical solution to this problem in all its complexity, a solution offering a typically European solidarity with the people involved in this drama and with the countries of origin, but also with those countries that constitute immigrants’ introduction to Europe and that do not have the means of addressing this problem on their own.
I therefore thank the European Parliament and the members of the delegation that came to Malta for having placed this item on Parliament’s agenda and for having made our country’s call for urgent action heard.
If we want to increase people’s confidence in us, we have to show that we are responding effectively to the interests of the people and, to do this, we need to acknowledge the mood of the people.
There are a number of values that distinguish Europe from other continents and the European Union from other projects in the world aimed at regional integration.
For Europe to be the voice of reason, we need to go beyond the bounds of national egoism and work together for our common good.
We must continue to uphold this value in the action we take both among ourselves and with other countries.
Thank you. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for your words, Mr President.
I am sure that your presence here will have given all of the Members a better understanding of your country’s difficulties.
We want to carry out our work on behalf of our constituents where it is most effective and cost efficient, namely in Brussels.
The cost of having to maintain parliamentary operations in both Strasbourg and Brussels has now become indefensible, and we will continue to campaign to have Parliament sit only in Brussels in future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I voted in favour of the Roure report on the grounds that it constitutes a very positive initiative in favour of greater security.
In this way, liaison officers from the Member States should establish and maintain direct contacts with the local authorities in the host State or the international organisation, with a view to facilitating and expediting the collection and exchange of information, which should in turn be passed on to Europol.
The objective is to help establish a spirit of European cooperation between police authorities, in other words, a Community approach to tasks assigned to liaison officers and direct exchange of information between those officers and Europol central command.
I therefore support the amendments tabled by the rapporteur and hope that agreement can be reached at first reading. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the tenor of the programme of the Takkula report perfectly mirrors official Europe’s arrogant, condescending attitude following the referendums in France and the Netherlands.
The present ‘Citizens for Europe’ programme fits into this dubious communication and information strategy.
This is exactly the kind of hypocrisy that is meeting with resistance from an increasing number of Europeans. &#160;&#160; .I voted in favour of the report by my fellow Member, Mr&#160;Takkula, on the proposal for a decision of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing for the period 2007-2013 a programme to promote active European citizenship.
The Member States’ ability to harbour common ambitions at the same time as upholding our values is strictly dependent on the involvement of the people in European integration.
We must therefore all work towards this, particularly the MEPs in contact with our colleagues from the national parliaments, who represent the national citizenship of those living in the Member States.
The report emphasises constructive solutions such as the importance of disseminating knowledge about the victims of Nazism and Communism.
It is also good that the EU institutions provide information about their activities and about the rights and duties attendant on European citizenship.
The victims of fascism and other dictatorial regimes that have been in power in Europe in the recent past must not be forgotten.
To vote against Amendments 62 and 63 is a historical and political mistake.
The promotion of citizenship entails encouraging the citizens to become involved in defining the policies that affect them directly and indirectly.
This is, in fact, a list of the economic, social and cultural freedoms, guarantees and rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
We regret, however, that the adopted report will serve to contaminate European history and that the majority in Parliament has opted to contaminate the collective memory on which the identity of current and future generations will be based.
The report is based primarily on an attitude of apparent incomprehension faced with the low turnout in the 2004 European Parliament elections and the fact that the draft Constitution was voted down in referenda in France and the Netherlands.
We are opposed to increasing this programme’s budget over and above the EUR&#160;235&#160;000&#160;000 set aside for 2007–2013, as recommended in Amendment&#160;36.
The aforesaid sum is already too generous.
The work in relation to local amateur sports clubs smacks of contempt for people.
We have therefore voted against this report. &#160;&#160; I am well disposed towards the report to the extent that it is about EU citizens needing to become more aware of, and informed about, the EU and the opportunities they have to exercise influence.
They must also become more efficient and cost-effective.
Parliament and the other institutions need to operate in a way that gains trust and respect.
This report approaches those problems in fundamentally the wrong way.
It will further undermine confidence in the EU with its call for a budget of nearly EUR&#160;300&#160;million of taxpayers' money to be spent on arbitrary projects that seek to impose an artificial European identity.
We wish to make clear that British Conservatives are strongly in favour of solemn acts of remembrance and commemoration of the evils that Nazism and Stalinism inflicted on millions of people in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
The rejection of the Constitutional Treaty in France and the Netherlands has brought this situation into even sharper relief.
In this context, the Commission has put forward its ‘Citizens for Europe’ programme aimed at promoting European values and active European citizenship.
The programme provides for the implementation of measures that will bring European citizens together in order to share and exchange experiences, opinions and values, to encourage debate and reflection on European citizenship, via cooperation between civil society organisations, to hold high-visibility events, to carry out studies and surveys, and to bolster other information and dissemination instruments.
Broadly speaking, I endorse the amendments tabled to this report, especially as regards the title of the programme.
With appropriations of EUR 235 million to pay for and pay off all manner of eulogists and propagandists of the European one-way street, it is mobilising the mechanisms constructed years ago and so-called NGOs to cultivate a positive climate and sow delusion in the people as to the character and policy of the EU.
Fresh challenges are appearing on various fronts; weak economic growth has had a social impact and has posed global challenges to which we have yet to find solutions.
The increase in scepticism and the clear lack of satisfaction with the project of European integration is widening the gap between the citizens and the political decision-makers.
I feel that this programme is an important tool in raising awareness of European values among all citizens.
It features a range of citizens’ projects, support for the provision of information to European civil society, and the holding of high-visibility events and other events that will help to raise knowledge of the European memory.
The European project is characterised by respect for diversity and cultural wealth.
This is achieved by means of measures that deepen the cohesion between Europeans that is vital if we are to complete the internal market and achieve the sustainable growth and development of our societies.
I therefore voted in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; .I obviously support this report aimed at bringing the citizens and the European institutions closer together, which is something of an objective, if not a necessity in today’s Europe of ever-increasing scepticism.
This report introduces new lines of thought in relation to communication, to citizens’ projects with a transnational dimension and, above all, to a duty of ‘active European remembrance’, which is a unifying initiative aimed at commemorating the victims of the mass deportations and exterminations carried out under the Nazi and Communist regimes.
I voted against all attempts to water down the text, some Members having been keen to refer to other forms of totalitarianism in Europe.
Over and above this initiative, our role is to inform, to meet, to hold dialogues, to convince, to ensure that each citizen is aware of how Europe manages its daily affairs, to strengthen the feeling of belonging to Europe, to fight against any form of retreat into nationalism, to make Europe’s added value a reality and to point out the fact that the European idea represents the brightest idea of the 20th century.
Let us remember that, at a time when some of us are beginning to have doubts, the rest of the world is dreaming of Europe. &#160;&#160; .The ‘Citizens for Europe’ programme is nothing other than a propaganda tool designed to benefit the European Union.
This report notes that the Constitutional Treaty was rejected in France and the Netherlands and that Europeans are sceptical about enlargement, meaning enlargement to include Turkey.
Yet, far from drawing conclusions from this scathing disapproval, this report seeks to ‘re-educate’ the citizens!
However, I am today standing up to explain the vote in relation to the report on the Cultural Capital of Europe.
As regards the programme, the only requirement is that it must be consistent with the Member State's domestic cultural strategy or policy.
Accordingly, diversity and the particular characteristics of the cultural heritage of each EU Member State will, in our view, be brought to the fore and dialogue between the various cultures will be facilitated. &#160;&#160; We are well disposed towards the basic idea of the European Capital of Culture event.
The idea of the European Capital of Culture is a good one, so good in fact that it could be funded in many other ways, for example through local sponsorship.
Financial resources from the European Union should not be necessary to this project’s survival.
We are therefore voting against the report but are not opposed to the actual idea of the European Capital of Culture. &#160;&#160; Receiving the title 'European Capital of Culture' is meant to – and should – considerably improve a city’s image, but European Capital of Culture status should not primarily be about a year-long festival in the city and short-term marketing of local culture.
In 2009, the title of Capital of Culture will go, once more, to an Austrian provincial capital – Linz.
The programme’s huge success with the citizens has helped to strengthen the European dimension and socio-economic development in the selected cities.
An example of this is the creation of a website with information on the cities awarded European capital of culture, the existing contact networks and exchange of experiences – a strategy that should be extended to all Community programmes.
I therefore voted in favour of this report. &#160;&#160; This decision does not involve any new costs but gives the new Member States and the enlargement countries the opportunity to choose Cultural Capitals.
The Commission’s power is limited, and it is countries and cities that are responsible for working things out.
I therefore voted in favour of the proposal, despite its containing a certain amount of woolly Euronationalism. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am giving this explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation from the Austrian People's Party.
We voted against the report because it calls for the currently applicable transitional periods for the free movement of workers to be abolished.
This is quite justified, because statistics show that the number of workers from the new Member States has already doubled in the last two years.
The delegation from the Austrian People's Party opposes the report because, both now and in the future, only Austria can and will decide how long the entry restrictions guaranteed under the accession treaty will be retained in the interests of the Austrian workforce – it could be for up to seven years. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that Commission communication COM 2006 on the functioning of the transitional measures shows that the influx of workers from the EU-10 states into the states with open labour markets has not been at all great and, on the contrary, according to the experts, has had a positive effect by increasing output and improving the economy, and also in view of the fact that the transitional periods have clearly contributed to an increase in the numbers of illegal workers, I consider approval of the report by Mr&#160;Őry as a significant initiative which should help to open up labour markets fully in states throughout the European Union.
I firmly believe that the concerns of some of the EU 15 countries are groundless, and it is deplorable that they do not accept the recommendations from a European Commission report that has been drafted in accordance with the accession treaties.
On the other hand, we must praise the decisions taken by those countries that will be opening their labour markets during the European Year of Workers’ Mobility.
For these reasons, the Öry report should be viewed not so much as a bogeyman, but more as a simple guide on how to achieve the gradual fulfilment of the revised Lisbon Strategy goals.
It is an attempt to ensure equal rights for the old and new Member States in a united Europe.
For this reason, I have voted in favour of the report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, there were transitional provisions when Greece and Portugal joined the EU, too, to enable the labour markets to adapt to the new situation.
Until companies stop relocating to the low-tax economies in the east and trying to extricate themselves from tariff agreements, and until the market has adapted to the new situation or appropriate accompanying measures have been put in place, complete freedom of movement for workers would be irresponsible.
That is why I voted against this report. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the four European freedoms, that is to say the freedom of movement for goods, services, capital and above all persons, have always been among the things that people valued most highly about the European Union.
It is therefore incomprehensible, unjust and discriminatory that people from eight new Member States, including the Czech Republic, still do not enjoy the same rights in this respect as citizens from the other EU states.
The examples of the United Kingdom, Sweden and Ireland show that labour markets are not under any threat.
We need a Union in which all citizens share the same rights and the same obligations and not a Union where some are equal and others more equal, as in George Orwell’s .
I have therefore voted in favour of Mr Őry’s report. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, along with other MEPs from the Civic Democratic Party I have backed the report from my colleague Mr Őry on the free movement of workers.
We fully respect the right of individual Member State governments to decide on temporary restrictions in respect of the free movement of workers, within the context of the Accession Treaty.
We also appreciate the decision of Great Britain, Ireland and Sweden not to make use of this right and we welcome the decision from the governments of Finland, Spain, the Netherlands and Portugal to end these restrictions.
The political reasons for restricting this freedom, however, appear just as compelling to the old Member States as the free movement of workers is important to the new Member States.
On the one hand, MEPs claim to defend the free movement of workers and to want to put an end to the unfair situation in which workers from the new Member States find themselves.
Hence our decision to abstain. &#160;&#160; We defend an efficient internal market and fully support the free movement of workers within the EU.
The free movement of workers helps to create more jobs and to strengthen the EU’s competitiveness.
In the report, the European Parliament calls on the Member States to abolish the current transitional arrangements.
We are thus opposed to the European Parliament shaping opinion with a view to influencing the Member States to take a particular line on this important issue.
Nor do we believe that the EU should carry out information campaigns concerning the free movement of workers.
We have every confidence that the respective national authorities can carry out this task satisfactorily.
The other Member States of the EU-15 have opted to apply national restrictions under the transnational arrangements.
In macroeconomic terms, the policy of opening up the labour market translates into a marked increase in the British growth rate.
It reinforces exploitation and creates unnecessary conflict among workers from different Member States.
A study carried out by my party, the Socialist Party in the Netherlands, has shown that the influx of workers from new Member States has resulted in people being pushed aside in the labour market, unfair competition for small businesses, cheap labour being exploited, bad housing and working conditions and wages under EUR 3 per hour.
According to a study which the Socialist Party carried out among contractors in the Hague region before, many building companies are also badly affected by unfair competition from Eastern European countries, against which the Dutch trade unions mounted a campaign in March.
Nowadays there is certainly hope for a better future for those countries, and the expectations engendered by accession have led to a belief that their national economies can develop, as events have borne out.
In 2004, the United Kingdom, Ireland and Sweden opened up their borders without restriction.
Two years later, a Commission report is defending this political approach, with figures to support it: there are fewer migrants than anticipated and they are filling jobs left vacant in certain sectors.
However, since we cannot allow ourselves to be naively optimistic, I am also in favour of the provisional measures taken in this area by the majority of the Member States.
First and foremost, these restrictions are limited in time, and deal with both the real situation on the ground and the sometimes unfair competition between European workers and employers.
From the outset, Portuguese workers saw their freedom of movement restricted by barriers put up by Member States fearing disruption to their labour markets.
I voted in favour of this report because it has been shown that, just as in 1986, migration from these countries has had positive effects on the economies of the Member States that have decided to open up their labour markets.
Above all, this is a matter of solidarity towards the new Member States.
The EU must not respond to the challenges of the world with the kind of nationalism and protectionism practised in some of its Member States.
The three countries that have opened their borders have not been faced with a large-scale migration flow.
This report can ensure that by abolishing the transitional periods, social rights are no longer blocked and the road for a social and just Europe is cleared.
What is crucial is that a European labour market is created where there is equal pay for equal work, that equal working conditions should apply and that all employees should be guaranteed equal access to social rights.
A single market cannot function properly whilst labour markets remain protected and sealed off.
The UK has shown how free labour markets, coupled with proper social protection, can boost a prosperous economy.
This has led to the longest period of sustained economic growth in living memory in the UK.
I would like to talk briefly about the current situation and draw a few conclusions in relation to the responsibilities the European Union should take on at this moment which could be absolutely crucial to future peace in the Middle East.
I would like to begin with the situation in the occupied territories.
That ideal is no less than a negotiated solution leading to the creation of a viable Palestinian State living peacefully alongside Israel, within the framework of the principles of international law.
It is clear, Mr President, that there can be no negotiation if the parties do not recognise each other, there can be no peaceful arrangement if the parties believe that arms can resolve the conflict and there can be no solution based on the principles of international law if the parties disregard the fundamental principle that agreements must be complied with.
It would not be appropriate for me to carry out a detailed analysis of the result of these elections, but I believe that a few comments may help us all to find formulae that allow us to carry out an analysis with a view to identifying different ways to work.
Thirdly, and I believe this is perhaps the most worrying thing for all of us and for the peace process, I believe that the elections have demonstrated a consolidation of a desire for what I would call separation, perhaps illustrated by the completion of the wall and the absence of dialogue between the two peoples on defining Israel’s borders.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the aspects relating to the Middle East peace process, the victory in Palestine of a movement such as Hamas, which is affiliated to the Muslim Brothers, in elections that were free and democratic, as acknowledged by the Union’s own observers, is a complete novelty.
What we want is for that government, as well as respecting the principles of which it is well aware, which have been proposed by the international community, also to apply the principles of law, the rule of law and democratic alternation, and to preserve the pluralistic nature of Palestinian society.
I would like once again to stress something that is absolutely clear: a satisfactory solution to the conflict has been, is and will remain a fundamental priority for us, the Europeans.
Now, more than ever, we must insist that only a negotiated solution can be stable and lasting.
I believe that we should also reiterate today that the European Union believes that peace must be based on respect for the 1967 borders and that only territorial changes agreed by both parties will be acceptable.
More than 200&#160;000 people have crossed from Egypt to Gaza and from Gaza to Egypt since it was opened in November thanks to the presence of generous people from the European Union.
Mr President, our fundamental objective is to get through the period ahead of us, which will remain a period of some uncertainty, in such a way that, when better conditions are in place for a negotiated peace – and I hope that will be soon – the European Union can continue to enjoy the trust of both parties and make an active contribution to achieving peace when that time comes.
Consistent with the Quartet’s statement of 30 March, the European Union is currently reviewing its programmes of aid to the Palestinian authorities.
But I would also like to make it very clear that the European Union will maintain aid for the Palestinian people, and it must do this for at least two reasons: firstly, because it is a moral imperative, which the European Union must never renounce — it has not done so in the past, it is not doing so today, and it will not do so in the future — and, secondly, because the humanitarian crisis and instability in the occupied territories do not benefit anybody, including Israel itself.
Ladies and gentlemen, another of the European Union’s fundamental objectives is to preserve the institutional structure of the Palestinian Authority.
To facilitate the transit of humanitarian aid to the Palestinian population is fundamental, but beyond a strict interpretation of this obligation, Israel should also facilitate movement within the occupied territories in order to make economic sustainability possible, without compromising the security of Israelis, which nobody wants to see.
In this context, I believe that it is urgent for the parties to apply the Agreement on Access and Movement, which was signed in November 2005 in Jerusalem, and I was present at is signature.
Thirdly, I would like to say a few words about the international framework and the Union’s objectives.
Defending international legality requires the decisive support of the whole of the community of nations which are currently to a greater or lesser extent represented in the Quartet.
We must work on the peace process, bearing in mind the positive role that the States of the region can play, but also bearing in mind the negative role that certain States can play, and certain negative influences and negative repercussions, such as the situation in Iraq or the situation in Iran.
The results of the elections in the occupied territories and in Israel have undoubtedly created a new situation.
I believe that the European Union must approach it on the basis of two principles which may apparently, but only apparently, seem contradictory: rigour and flexibility.
And flexibility, in order to adapt to the development of a reality on the ground which is going to change, which can be changeable, and to support any solutions that may allow progress to be made towards peace.
Hamas cannot change its past, but it can and must change its future.
How we react and how the parties position themselves will have a determining influence on the prospects for moving towards what I hope will be a peaceful solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Let me underline that we, as the European Union, stand ready to work with the next Israeli Government to promote security and peace, but for both Israelis and Palestinians alike.
We want to continue the progress that already has been made in implementing the action plan in areas such as human rights, the protection of minorities, research and development, as well as economic integration.
We strongly believe that Israel’s legitimate security concerns cannot be met&#160;– and I would like to reiterate this on behalf of the Commission&#160;– through unilateral action or decisions imposed by force.
The European Union would only support changes to the pre-1967 borders that were agreed by consensus between the parties.
I think it is important to say again and again that we should underline to our Israeli partners the importance of refraining from any action that may prejudice final status negotiations.
The Commission expects the next Israeli Government to reaffirm its commitment to a negotiated solution by full implementation of the Quartet’s roadmap, and to show this in deeds as well as words.
So the onus is clearly on the Palestinian side, and on the new Israeli Government to act responsibly in fulfilling its obligations.
Positive; the entry into force of the European Union-Lebanon Association Agreement on 1 April — the next meeting of the association council will take place over the coming days.
Negative; the situation in Iraq and in Iran, in relation to which we should really wait for the 30 day time limit that the United Nations Security has set for Iran to comply with the demands of the International Atomic Energy Agency to elapse.
I believe that our political group has no option but decisively to support the Quartet’s decision to call upon the Hamas Government to renounce violence and to recognise the State of Israel, as well as the agreements signed by the Palestinian National Authority.
Within this context I would like to put three questions to Mr Solana and Mrs Ferrero-Waldner.
The first is whether, during the meeting of the Quartet on 30 March, they noted any dissent from Russia, in view of Hamas's visit to Moscow and the European Union’s position on the Belarus elections.
Secondly, Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, it is clear that the European Union must continue to provide humanitarian assistance, because the situation in the Gaza Strip is horrendous, and the number of people living in poverty has rocketed.
But what does the European Commission intend to do in order to ensure that that humanitarian aid is not used for the purposes of terrorist activities?
This equation is not bad after all, and if the European Union wants to play a part in it, then it must tackle three problems.
Secondly, the European Union must hold talks with Hamas, under certain conditions, certainly, but it must hold talks.
For all those who remember the many terrorist movements that have become respectable political parties, but also for all those who want peace and who respect the electoral choice of nearly half of the Palestinian population, it is vital that we begin talks and it is vital that we open negotiations.
Thirdly, the European Union must obtain a guarantee from the Israeli Government that the unilateral disengagement plan is only a plan B and not a plan A.
It is true that it is more difficult to negotiate peace than to ensure a reasonable level of security for oneself by unilateral and forceful means.
If, however, the unilateral convergence plan turns into Israel’s secret programme, then that will mean not only the end of the road map and of any bilateral initiative, but also the end of any hopes of peace, and Europe will lose any credible influence it has in that part of the world.
There you have three problems requiring solutions, but I have seen that you have already grasped the main lines of action in relation to this. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the Palestinian and Israeli electorates have indeed dealt us a complicated hand.
If Hamas recognises Israel, continues to observe the ceasefire and does not resume violence; and if Israel engages in easing the many restrictions, guarantees real rights of defence to the hundreds of Palestinians held in administrative detention, and refrains from holding people indefinitely in such detention, both the new Palestinian and the future Israeli Governments might find themselves somehow able to work together, if only to keep life going.
I know it is a far cry from calls to revive the peace process, but maybe in the short term we can only hope for small steps in the right direction.
Thus, you have a Palestinian Government that wants unilaterally to define what constitutes Palestine and what must not constitute Israel, and an Israeli Government that wants unilaterally to define what constitutes Israel and what must not constitute the Palestinian State.
Thus, if you take the problem of drinking water in that region – and Mrs&#160;de Keyser spoke about avian influenza – you cannot tackle the problem of drinking water or of avian influenza without negotiations being held between the Palestinian Government and the Israeli Government, because drinking water comes from the West Bank and goes to Israel.
You cannot stop it any more than the unilateral withdrawal from Israel could.
Not even Israel can do that.
Circumstances therefore exist in which the European Union can force the governments to negotiate because their vital interests require this, and the environment is one such example.
Therefore, we can and we must be inventive, we must be intelligent and we must say things clearly.
The wall is not just a security measure, it is a territorial conquest, it is unilateral and it runs counter to all of the European Union’s principles, just as the non-recognition of Israel ran counter to the European Union’s principles.
To conclude, allow me to say one thing: we must be very clear with both sides and make them fully aware that our principles are our principles.
In this context, it is almost moving to see new peace initiatives emerge from Palestinian and Israeli society, such as that of the combatants for peace, which is due to be officially launched on Monday.
This initiative involves former officers of the Israeli army, who have joined forces with former combatants from Palestine and drawn from their respective experiences the common belief that the solution to the region’s problems can only be political and based on the relevant United Nations resolutions from 1967 onwards.
Aid alone is not enough: every nation needs freedom just as much as it needs bread.
More generally, what political role should Europe now play?
Mr&#160;Solana just mentioned the Venice European Council in 1980, which is a good point of reference.
A quarter of a century has, in fact, gone by since another key moment in the history of the Middle East, when we were able to assume our responsibilities.
That act must be aimed at providing new and clear reference points leading to an outlook based on law and at restoring hope among the peace-keeping forces throughout the region.
There should in any case not be any doubt in our minds that Hamas, as a terror movement, has disqualified itself.
It follows that this whole new situation also presents the European Union with an opportunity to restore its own credibility. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr High Representative, during the elections in both Palestine and Israel, it was still clear to me, despite the different outcomes, that the great majority of citizens on both sides are moderate, and that they want peace and an end to violence.
It is important to reach an agreement that will stand up.
It is important for us to contribute to this and, in particular, for the Quartet to have a greater presence in the region than previously, through their leaders, in order to provide the necessary security guarantees and encouragement.
In this context, it is clear to me that Palestine must be a viable state, and that we will therefore have to continue to provide humanitarian aid.
It is abundantly clear that the renunciation of violence and recognition of Israel's right to exist will continue to be two of the essential preconditions for good relations with a Palestinian government that wants our support – especially financial support.
I believe that it is the Union’s duty to take this new reality into account and to lead a strategy that puts an end to the current deadlock, for the sake of two peoples, of two viable States and a fair peace. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the result of the Israeli elections gave the answer of the people in Israel.
All Knesset parties are committed to the peace process and the majority says yes to the convergence plan proposed by Mr Olmert, which sets out a two-state solution.
Now that it has no partner on the Palestinian side, Israel needs all our support to continue its commitment to the peace process. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a few days ago American diplomats were forbidden to make contact with officials in any Palestinian Government agency controlled by Hamas.
At the same time, Canada suspended aid to the Palestinian Authority and President Bush stated that he would not agree to aid a Hamas-led government.
However, one has to understand that Hamas was elected in a free and fair election.
I welcome the recent statements made by Mr Haniyeh that his government would cooperate with Mr Abbas, which seems to transmit a softer image of Hamas.
We must continue to endorse the Quartet’s statements that the new Palestinian Government needs to commit itself to the principles of non-violence, the recognition of Israel and the acceptance of previous agreements and obligations, including the roadmap.
We must never forget that suspending aid to the Palestinians would make it look as though we were directly punishing the Palestinian people for their choice, and subsequently we would increase their suffering.
The European Union’s common foreign and security policy has no legitimacy.
Mr Solana has no legitimacy as the EU’s de facto foreign minister.
Mr Solana speaks as though the European Union common foreign and security policy is an accomplished fact.
This is not a debate about how to solve the problems in the Middle East.
This is a debate about how to further an illegitimate United States of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Mr&#160;Solana, coincidentally, elections have taken place recently in several unsettled parts of the world such as Belarus, Ukraine, Palestine and Israel.
It created its state by force and should therefore set a good example by agreeing to the creation of the Palestinian State.
Only then should it demand that Hamas recognise the state of Israel. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I am very pleased with the statements by the High Representative and the Commissioner.
It is true that we need to negotiate, but that means that Hamas and Israel must also be prepared to do likewise.
Of course, we also need to explore the reasons why Hamas was elected.
For years, another government, namely Fatah's, was undermined, partly by its own fault – through corruption and other circumstances, for example – but also due to Israel's refusal to accept it as a negotiating partner.
Secondly, Israel's right to exist, in a peaceful climate and within reasonable borders, must obviously be recognised, but Israel must also accept, at least in principle, that the UN's resolution regarding its borders is right.
My third point is that we must do all we can to improve the situation in Gaza, including economically, so that Gaza is viable.
Finally, we are deeply concerned at the developments in East Jerusalem.
Even though we welcome Kadima and the reasonableness of its members, when it comes to East Jerusalem they do not yet have the sense to acknowledge both that Jerusalem is the capital of Israel and that the Palestinians have a claim to East Jerusalem.
That should continue to be a clear policy within the European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, coupled with the election of Hamas, the vote in Israel will have a defining influence on the prospects for peace in the Middle East.
However, 25% of the vote clearly does not give Kadima such a mandate and, even if it could garner additional support in the Knesset, a unilateral withdrawal from the West Bank and the unilateral setting of borders not in accordance with the 1967 borders cannot be a solution.
Alternatively, make their situation worse and they will simply dig in more.
If a constructive relationship with the EU and international pressure can bring Ariel Sharon from his early political career to the legacy he has given to Kadima, this surely proves that positive engagement can shift seemingly zero-sum mentalities. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, after three days of rain in the occupied territories, this wall, which, as all of you have said, is illegal, caused a build-up of water that swept away the bodies of two dead brothers at Bi'ilin.
We have a great deal of responsibility, and we cannot keep on repeating the cliché about two peoples and two states.
There are not two peoples and two states: there is one state and something in development, a territory that is being constantly torn apart, both by this illegal wall and by force.
For two years now Hamas has declared and observed a ceasefire, and has halted its activities.
Let us be extremely clear about this: for the last two years Hamas has not undertaken any activities, and must never do so again.
We need to be active with regard to Hamas, but also with regard to Israel, so that it understands that the international community has meaning. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Hamas may well have put on sheep’s clothing, but beneath that sheep’s clothing the wolf can still sometimes be seen, if it is really true that, in the last few days, the Interior Minister, Said&#160;Siam, in moving away for the first time from a practice introduced by President&#160;Arafat to help secularise the country, has encouraged a visible sign of the Talibanisation of Palestine along Hamas lines, by allowing Palestinian policemen to grow their beards.
To do otherwise would be to fail in providing security for its citizens and that must be the prime concern of any government.
We can derive two main facts from this description.
While Palestinians are governed by Hamas, an organisation that is unwilling to accept the basic principles of international law, the situation in Israel is different.
The elections there may yield a government that wants above all to address the social and economic issues that are viewed by all people living in democratic societies as the most important ones for the governments to resolve.
The challenge is that, regardless of how we view Hamas – and I am sure that most of us view it as a terrorist organisation – you, in your capacity as our top representatives for external relations, must find a way of cooperating with the Hamas government.
And I would also like to ask if you could find out from Mr Kofi Annan exactly what was said about the existence of Israel in the letter he received from the Palestinian foreign minister? &#160;&#160; – Mr President, the results of the recent elections in Israel basically legalised the strategy of the unilateral imposition of the terms of any resolution to the Palestine problem.
It is no coincidence that the political leadership in Israel makes more use of the word 'security' and far less use of the word 'peace', because peace requires negotiation and painful compromises.
I believe that Israel's strategic plan, strengthened by the new political situation in the Palestinian territories, is not creating conditions of peace.
On the contrary, it is helping to create a virtual state of unconnected areas without stable borders.
Today, both Mr Solana and Mrs Ferrero-Waldner broached the question of greater realism on the part of the European Union.
We need to continue in the same reliable vein if we are to be an effective European Union. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to begin by congratulating the Israeli Labour Party on entering into government.
They are socialists, they are our sister party and I welcome their manifesto commitment that ‘the occupation erodes the moral fibre of Israeli society’, along with Amir Peretz’s Herzliya speech in support of respect for international borders.
These are legal obligations to which the European Union and the Quartet have a duty to seek compliance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to make a few brief points.
It was Ariel Sharon who once said that once you find yourself in power, your perspective on the world changes dramatically, and some world leaders have come out and described him as a man of peace.
We therefore need a long-term strategy.
It is my hope that the next time we see elections in Palestine, the Palestinian people will vote Hamas out and the only party that will be able to beat Hamas is al-Fatah.
The young generation of al-Fatah, meaning anyone under 50 for that matter, is calling for internal reform, and I think it is right to do so.
I stand in full support of its goals and I call on all my colleagues to look for ways to invest in this reform movement. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to begin by making some observations.
Firstly, the demographic problem has been at the heart of the political debate; secondly, the Great Israel utopia is no more; thirdly, the social issue has been at the heart of the debate in Israel; and, fourthly, Hamas did not influence the elections in Israel.
Unconsciously, the Israelis have once and for all acknowledged the existence of two States.
Public opinion in the two countries is in favour of peace.
However, the primary responsibility rests with the two parties and we – the international community – have to support them in following this path.
We all agree that it is important for Hamas to respect the three conditions; it has to renounce violence, recognise the existence of the State of Israel and stand by existing agreements made by former governments.
It is also highly important that the international Quartet remain united.
This will not always be easy, but we will try to stay united as much as we can.
Secondly, humanitarian aid is absolutely necessary.
Therefore this aid will continue through the United Nations organisations and international organisations.
We will find ways to do that through NGOs but we will also have to review our position and find some alternative mechanisms.
The Russians said it was important to talk with Hamas in order to get it into the right line even before the government was formed.
Any agreement on the city’s status must be negotiated by the two parties and should not be pre-empted by new factors on the ground, as I said before.
Statements by the Council and by the Quartet have made that abundantly clear.
The first step by Israel should be to end discrimination against Palestinians in the cities.
The elections in both Palestine and Israel have created a new political class.
The political parties that have dominated life in Israel and Palestine over the last 20 years have disappeared or have come very low in the polls.
We have to invest some hope in this movement to see if we can take advantage of the situation to move the process forward.
I have the impression and the deep conviction that the result of these elections is a profound change in the social structure of both societies.
I believe they voted against other things that are more closely related to the tyrannies of not doing things properly, of corruption, of a lack of proper organisation.
But at the same time there have to be people in government who are able to produce the results that the majority of people want: social services, no corruption, democracy, etc.
When you see that the Prime Minister is going to be Ehud Olmert and not Mr Sharon, it is really very impressive: what a profound change has taken place in such a short period of time.
The person who led Kadima and Likud, the party that has been running affairs in Jerusalem for more than 20 years, is now suffering in hospital.
Mr Cohn-Bendit said that it is terrible that avian flu may spread from Israel to Palestine.
The peoples are separated by a barrier, which may not stop avian flu but may stop people going from one place to the other.
Not long ago we said that we believe that the 1967 borders are the starting point for negotiations.
We are ready to defend that; we are ready to accept changes to borders agreed by most people&#160;– by both parties.
I should also like to say that everybody has to be given the opportunity to change.
We have to act to create the conditions so that people can behave differently in future.
I would like to see Hamas change and recognise Israel.
It is impossible to negotiate if you do not want to negotiate and at the same time you want to have a pistol in your pocket.
I should very much like these elements to be considered not only by think tanks, but also by political players in the European Union.
I have hope in my heart and I would like you to have hope in your hearts.
Together let us see whether we can fulfil the hopes that I am sure you have in your hearts. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
They have been invited here by the President of the European Parliament as a sign of the European Parliament’s support for democracy and freedom in Belarus.
Sharon’s legacy contains three tasks: - the Palestinian side does not want to conclude a permanent treaty with Israel.
Perhaps we, too, should examine the negotiations on this basis, and see whether this is the road that leads to a secure peace in the future.
The problem now consists in seeing whether the new Palestinian Government will be able to continue along this road in spite of Hamas’ victory in the last legislative elections.
Achieving a genuine form of peace in one of the most fragile areas of the global geopolitical landscape is possible only by means of genuine guarantees in terms of the security of the two countries and, therefore, by means of European political action that is not only capable of guaranteeing development and dialogue, but is also more resolute in condemning the terrorism and violence of those who, even today, want to wipe the State of Israel off the map.
I would remind you that, immediately following the elections, you held a very serious and very convincing special debate on this matter, in which I also had the honour of participating.
The Council, too, has, of necessity, had Belarus on its agenda for some time now, because the country gives considerable cause for concern.
I hope that he will draw further courage from the support that all the institutions of the European Union lend to him, his supporters and the brave men and women of Belarus.
I would remind you that the President of the European Council, Chancellor&#160;Schüssel, spoke of Mr&#160;Milinkevich during this morning's debate, saying 'we owe him all conceivable political and economic support wherever it is required'.
The European Union as a whole and the Council in particular can now essentially do two things: first, we must make it clear that we will not tolerate such behaviour.
The Council – and now the European Council too – has, in principle, decided to take appropriate action against those responsible for violations of human rights and of the rules of democracy in Belarus.
A visa ban will be imposed on a number of people, including the president himself, as the European Council also specifically said in its declaration appended to the conclusions.
That is why the second thing that the European Union can and must do – and the Council has already discussed this, too – is take specific action to help the population.
I am sure that Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner will make a detailed statement and list the specific measures that could be taken.
The Member States also have a duty, and I would say this quite clearly to all the Member States: when it comes to giving young people the opportunity to study in our countries, and when it comes to assisting civil society, then, alongside the European Union – and the Commission is taking specific action here – we, the Member States, also have to take quite specific action.
As Chancellor&#160;Schüssel said this morning, a group of states, including Austria, has already decided to provide special grants for young people from Belarus, in order to give them the opportunity to travel to our countries, to see how democratic countries work, to learn, and to take the message home that the European Union supports them and has not forgotten them.
This message that we have not forgotten the people, that we want to help them and that we support them is also absolutely essential.
Finally, we must not grow tired of calling on the government to set at liberty those who have been imprisoned.
We must remind them that all that these people have done is to make use of one of their human rights, namely the right to demonstrate and to express their opinion freely.
The Council will continue to do this.
We had a meeting this morning, so the day started well, and I heard directly what is in the hearts of the Belarusian people.
Therefore, I think it was very important to have this discussion today, because we all have seen that the events in Minsk confirmed Mr Lukashenko’s determination to win this election come what may.
I remember what Mr Milinkevich said to me today, that even if it seems that the elections were won by Mr&#160;Lukashenko, in reality the Belarusian people have won and Mr Lukashenko has started to lose the elections.
This is very important for the future.
We hope that we will be able to continue to give as much support to the democratic forces as we can.
The OSCE/ODIHR official report concluded that the elections clearly failed to meet OSCE standards for democratic elections.
We must continue this strategy, because we want to stand by the people and work for their benefit.
In line with the Council conclusions, support for democratisation will continue through our different assistance tools.
I agree that we will have to see what we can do in looking for ways to support the students who were expelled from the universities.
Perhaps not at the next Council, but in the near future, we will establish programmes and the Commission, together with the Council, will certainly support them.
We have already been financing Vilnius University, because Minsk has been closed, and we have tried to give the young people a chance.
People-to-people contacts are most important in order to enhance the possibility of working together.
This means that the Council and the Commission must take a series of courageous decisions.
I am delighted that both Mr&#160;Winkler and Commissioner&#160;Ferrero-Waldner have already mentioned some of these, but I would like to raise a few other issues.
Secondly, the list of individuals banned from entering European Union territory should be extended considerably to include various categories of people responsible for violating human rights and freedoms.
Consequently, the list must include not only representatives of the local, regional and national administrations but also university Vice-Chancellors responsible for expelling students who demonstrated, and editors responsible for propaganda in favour of the regime.
This would enable us to implement our principle of not isolating Belarusian society whilst isolating the leadership.
Fourthly, we must make our voice heard at international organisations such as the UN and the OSCE, and call for the release of political prisoners.
A Polish diplomat, Mr&#160;Maszkiewicz, is currently being held as a political prisoner in Minsk and I was glad the Commissioner mentioned him today.
Fifthly, it is essential to put Belarus on the agenda for the next EU-Russia summit, because Russia is in a position to bring political and economic pressure to bear on Belarus and this could serve to relax the regime in that country.
For its part, the Union can put pressure on Russia to encourage it to exert its influence on Belarus in such a way.
It was already said two weeks ago that we cannot accept the outcome of the elections as the outcome of a free and democratic process.
Paraphrasing what the Commissioner said, I should like to add that Lukashenko did not win, but the people in Belarus were the losers.
We do not want to see him, or talk to him again.
I agree to the visa ban being extended to include other authorities and personalities in Belarus.
We must constantly follow the developments in that country.
I was involved in Belarus for five years myself, as predecessor of Mr&#160;Klich and chairman of the delegation.
Whilst the previous presidential elections were obviously rigged as well, attention for Belarus visibly dwindled after a couple of months.
We owe it to each other, as an institution but also as Parliament, to continue to focus our attention on that country without any let-up.
I would also like to hear from Mr&#160;Winkler what his opinion is of the way in which we can add this item to the agenda in meetings with Russia, because – as I have already said – the congratulations by Mr Putin to Lukashenko were delivered incredibly promptly again.
It is still unclear when, and in what way, the proposed sanctions and measures will actually be carried out by all Member States, including the Commission.
I would once again like to urge the Council and the Commission to spell out clearly to Mr Putin what the EU stands for.
I would therefore ask the Council whether it is scared that taking a clear stand might conflict with other priorities, such as its own supply of energy? &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to start by warmly welcoming, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, our guests from Belarus, Mr&#160;Milinkevich and Mr&#160;Viachorka.
Our group has the greatest respect for the achievements and the courage of the active opposition movement in Belarus.
For many of your supporters, arrest, imprisonment and expulsion from university were the results of simply exercising their right to free expression, a basic right that goes without saying in the countries of the European Union.
However, we believe that they are the new power in the country and can bring democracy and economic recovery to Belarus.
We hope that the spirit of freedom will stay alive in Belarus.
Please also remember – as others have already said – that Mr&#160;Putin supports Mr&#160;Lukashenko and that this fact must be a focus of discussions with Russia. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, our political group believes that the election in Belarus was undemocratic.
In this situation it is important for surrounding countries to have close contacts with democratic forces in Belarus, such as national movements and free trade unions.
The people of Belarus must not be isolated.
This is partly due to the relative social equality and relatively high degree of social protection in the country.
It is my earnest hope that the day will come when you will be able to take your own seats in this Parliament, gentlemen.
Our noble plans will come to nothing, however, if we do not take on more political responsibility for the future of Belarus.
If we delegate too much of the responsibility for the process of change to Russia, our efforts will be in vain.
Political and economic stability cannot be achieved without changes of this nature and without genuine links between Belarus and Europe.
This House has recently done a great deal to support the emerging Belarusian democracy.
Democracy is developing amongst them only slowly, but when it does come about the European Union can be assured that Belarus will prove a trustworthy partner and guarantor of peace for many years to come. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too would like to extend a warm welcome to Mr&#160;Milinkevich.
That means that we must give priority to restricting the visa regime and freezing assets, and that we must also look into a different direction.
We must offer opportunities to students and to those people who cannot remain in Belarus.
Every country is entitled to favour certain candidates or certain governments.
The OSCE has stated that the elections are neither free nor fair, and Russia cannot respond by saying that they are fair and by simply congratulating President Lukashenko.
It is therefore important that this should be added to the agenda of our meeting with Russia and also to that of the G8 summit.
If Russia wishes to present itself as being a democratic country, then it must fall in with the community of values of Europe and uphold democracy and human rights. &#160;&#160; – Nobody here can doubt the undemocratic nature of Mr&#160;Lukashenko’s government.
I too welcome Mr&#160;Milinkevich and join my colleagues in supporting the Belarus opposition.
As an MEP from the Slovak Republic, a country that faced a similar situation over many long years in the past, I can certainly confirm that this is the case.
I also believe that it is necessary to consider the question of visa requirements very carefully, as we will certainly not be raising the awareness of the Belarus people if we prevent them from travelling to EU countries and seeing a different picture to the one portrayed by Mr&#160;Lukashenko via his media. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the general opinion within the European Union is that we have only limited possibilities for exerting pressure on Mr&#160;Lukashenko’s regime, because the Union only plays a minor role in Belarusian politics and economics.
Clearly, the European Union is becoming an increasingly significant factor in the Belarusian economy.
It is not easy for young people to travel abroad and obstacles are even placed in the way of people wishing to leave the country to obtain medical treatment.
In conclusion, I would like to emphasise the need for us to change our approach.
He looks more and more like a governor appointed by the ruler of all Russia to undergo once more the well-known dishonest procedure of a fraudulent vote and to continue his experiences on the spot.
We have to state here that the new post-Soviet tri-electoral military union of consolidated dictatorships in Moscow, Minsk and Tashkent is not the way to a better future for the three states and nations.
Therefore, as Russia itself now prefers post-Soviet authoritarian nationalism to any ‘orange’ renovation there is a growing danger that Belarus will be forcibly merged with Putinist Russia, the basis for which was laid down in advance.
If we do not want Mr Milinkevich to disappear forever, as happened to leaders of the opposition in Belarus several years ago and as is going on in Chechnya every day, the resolution on Belarus sets out the right step, which is first to call on the UN to set up an international commission to investigate previous crimes of the terrorist regime in Belarus, so as to prevent new ones today.
But nobody knows what might happen there any day. &#160;&#160; – &#160;Our work in the immediate future must be characterised principally by persistence and insistence.
The Minsk regime hopes that, in time, the Belarus story will fade in importance in the international media.
This is one of the proposals made by the Delegation for Relations with Belarus a long time ago, and I am sure that a look at the action plan we put forward more than a year ago would reveal more proposals.
Mr Milinkevich, we will never allow you to disappear. &#160;&#160; We are facing a complex situation after the presidential elections in Belarus.
Consequently, if the European Union is seeking an effective solution, one of the important things it should do is to include this topic in the agenda of the bilateral negotiations with Russia.
One of our priorities is to provide the Belarusian democratic forces led by Mr Alexander Milinkevich, as well as the civic organisations, not only with moral support, but also with well-considered, concrete financial assistance.
I trust that you will all support the resolution proposal tabled before us. &#160;&#160; I support the position taken by Mr&#160;Winkler and Mrs&#160;Wallner and for my part would like to stress four points.
Firstly, as the elections in Belarus were unfair, then legally Lukashenko is not the President and cannot be afforded this title in any European Parliament documents.
Lukashenko should not be called President in this Chamber either.
Thirdly, we must use all means possible to strengthen the united Belarusian opposition.
I could mention Vasil Bykov, Uladzimir Arlov and Slawomir Adamowicz.
Even young people involved in contemporary pop culture lent their support.
The EUR&#160;2&#160;million the Commission has allocated to the free media is but a drop in the ocean.
In addition to support for the free media and independent journalists, funds are needed for other purposes, and I shall mention just a few of these.
I have in mind not only support for political and research publications but also for Belarusian literature.
The only way to respond to regimes that imprison individuals simply for writing a poem is by providing extensive support for freedom of thought and creativity.
It is important for the European Union to speak with one voice on this matter and to send the right signal.
Mr&#160;Klich and others after him raised the issue of exerting influence on Russia.
I would remind you that the declaration appended to the European Council's conclusions already explicitly states that we need to find ways of getting our international partners, and in particular Belarus' other neighbours, involved in this debate.
There is absolutely no doubt that this matter obviously also needs to be raised with Russia, an important neighbour of Belarus.
You can be assured that the Council will not avoid this subject in its dealings with Russia – we have just had a debate on human rights, and there will be other opportunities for this.
Many of you pointed out that the relaxation of visa rules must apply specifically and concretely to those people who we want to receive here and show how western democracy works.
The Council will also look into other possible sanctions and measures, in which connection we really must be very careful not to take any action that ultimately does the opposite of what we want to achieve.
Let me answer a few of those specific matters brought up again in the discussion.
Our future assistance tools that will replace the EIDHR and decentralised cooperation for the next period under the financial perspectives will allow for assistance to be granted outside Belarus.
The media project was mentioned.
We financed five components of the media: TV, radio, the internet, support for the independent written press and the training of journalists over the next 24 months.
The daily radio broadcasts and the weekly TV programmes for Belarus started in February and immediately – I would say, two weeks after we had signed the contract – we tried to do everything to make the population of Belarus aware of that.
Both the radio and TV components will keep providing independent, reliable and – we hope – very balanced information on Belarus, as well as on the EU, on the diversity of its 25&#160;Member countries, and on our relations with Belarus.
The general approach on visa facilitation that was adopted by the Council in December last year stated that, as opposed to readmission agreements, visa facilitation shall not be offered to third countries proactively.
Despite this general common position, we are looking for possibilities to facilitate people-to-people contacts between the European Union and Belarus through measures waiving visa fees on an basis.
Finally, on the question of students, we are very much inclined to facilitate access of Belarusian students to its universities.
We fully share the view expressed by many of you that students have to be helped, not least because they have been the platform, the basis and the bulk of those who have protested peacefully after the elections, but also because the cementing of democracy will rest very much on their shoulders.
Therefore we can facilitate access of the students to our universities, provided that all the Member States and the Commission pull their forces together and provided that we can find some sort of coordination between Member States and us, and I think the Commission would be ready to do that.
This will also require financial efforts, which we are ready to consider.
We have the Tempus and Erasmus programmes and, along with efforts made by the Member States, I think we can do a lot.
President Barroso spoke with vigour on 17&#160;March and reminded President Putin of our well-known position on democratisation but also warned that we would not accept violence on election day.
There was no bloodshed during the elections on election day, but Russia needs to be convinced that leaders other than President Lukashenko would not threaten the special relationship with Belarus.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12&#160;noon. &#160;&#160; (&#160;The European Union attaches great importance to respect for human rights and the creation of democracy the world over.
It must, however, pay particular attention to events just beyond its borders.
We support the Belarusian opposition because it is fighting for something we take for granted, namely democracy and freedom.
We support the opposition not because we share its political views but because of the aims it is struggling to achieve.
We ought also to do everything in our power to make life difficult for the regime and for Mr&#160;Lukashenko.
The dictator's supporters must realise they have no place in Europe.
Just a few minutes ago we were discussing the so-called 'elections' in a country where it is clear – as the international observers concluded – that they were neither free, fair nor democratic.
In contrast, we are now talking about a country where democratisation has made huge progress, and where the European Union has made a major contribution to that fact.
The parliamentary elections in Ukraine on 26 March were at the opposite end of the democratic spectrum to those in Belarus.
Apart from a few technical problems and shortcomings, they were free and fair, and gave the Ukrainian electorate the opportunity to cast their votes without hindrance, having been well informed by an active, open and fair election campaign observed by a free press.
The international observers agreed with this.
That is a great success for all of us – a success for Europe, for the European Union, for the OSCE and for the Council of Europe.
The elections also showed that the people of Ukraine have assumed responsibility for democracy in their own country.
To me, the especially important thing is – and it is therefore convenient that the debates on Belarus and Ukraine have been held so close together – that the elections set a welcome new standard for elections throughout the region and are therefore an example for the region and for other countries in the Union.
There were technical problems and shortcomings, but not to an extent that should cause us concern.
Unlike in the case of Belarus, the European Union is now in a position to press on with its efforts to strengthen its partnership with Ukraine.
We will make our own contribution to ensuring that the programme continues to live and work within the framework of the neighbourhood policy and the action plan, and that Ukraine continues to make progress democratically – in this respect the country has already come a long way – and also economically, socially and politically.
The elections were indeed free and fair, and we can really be delighted with that.
The coalition negotiations are in progress, and they are not easy, but it is important that we make it clear now that we will be happy to work with any coalition that wants to continue to work with the European Union and move in our direction.
It is very important for us to indicate right now that we will give Ukraine the option of a closer agreement, in which the issue of the WTO will play a particularly important role.
Once Ukraine is a member of the WTO, we can have a free trade area, which is absolutely vital for further progress in Ukraine.
I formed the view, personally, that in many ways the elections were superior in design to those in my own country, the United Kingdom.
In my country the boxes are of black wood, no observers are allowed into the polling stations and our boxes are transported by officials, but with no observers, to a centralised counting point.
The only minor problem we encountered, which reflected the large turnout of enthusiasm to participate in the election, was slight overcrowding in some polling stations.
I have always championed Ukraine as a modern European country that is entitled, in due course, under Article&#160;49 of the Treaty, to apply for EU membership.
That is still some way off, given the enlargement fatigue that has now set in and the fear of some Member States of offending Russia.
That does not represent the views of either my group or this Parliament.
Nevertheless, in the meantime, the European Union must collectively do more to recognise that Ukraine has demonstrated political maturity in fully respecting European norms of democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
That is why our resolution requests from the Council and the Commission that plans be made that go beyond the PCA formulation towards a free trade and visa-free travel area, particularly if Ukraine can shortly join the WTO.
Ukrainian democracy passed its quality control test, thanks in part to the efforts of this House.
I should like to thank the representatives of all the political groups who participated in the observation mission and spent time in Ukraine recently.
We can rejoice in a job well done.
As to the political situation in Ukraine following the elections, only five groups are represented in the Parliament.
President&#160;Yushchenko has a particular role to play and duty to perform.
They must also understand that it is incumbent on them to reach agreement on certain issues, despite their differences.
The resolution before us reflects the consensus within the European Parliament on issues pertaining to Ukraine.
It also places obligations on all those who committed to ensuring progress in Ukraine, including the Members of this House and the European institutions. &#160;&#160; . – Having witnessed the previous Presidential elections and these most recent elections, I see welcome changes in Ukraine's democratisation process.
Europe must increase opportunities for people’s cooperation in culture, education as well as simply cooperation between citizens.
We have to help Ukraine rejoin the European family.
A European Association Agreement would be a realistic way of lending a hand to Ukraine. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, what was the most important thing I noticed as an election observer in the Ukraine?
It was the total dedication with which many citizens exercised their right to vote freely, for which they had fought a year previously.
The conclusion I draw from this experience is that Europe can benefit enormously from this process in Ukraine.
We cannot continue with the 'business as usual' attitude that has crept into the relationship between the European Union and Ukraine just one year after the Orange Revolution.
I have the impression – and this is based partly on the writer Yuri Andrukhovych's stirring speech in Leipzig – that there is a risk that Kiev is losing hope in Europe.
Therefore, I would say to you, Mrs&#160;Ferrero-Waldner, and to the Council: you must be more precise and more ambitious in the offers you make to Ukraine.
You must not allow the statement by the former Commissioner for Enlargement, Mr&#160;Verheugen, that there would still be no place for Ukraine in the European Union even in 20 years time, to stand.
I also urge the Commissioner to come up with a much stronger and more specific text concerning Ukraine’s future membership of the European Union.
It is hard to find a more joyful, convincing and heartening example of democracy’s success in the brief history of Europe’s new era.
In particular, the 70% of Ukrainians who exercised their right to vote, a right which was challenged and threatened all across that country only 18&#160;months ago, demonstrated to us the importance of democracy.
I should like to say that I believe it is entirely appropriate for the speakers taking the floor in this debate not to comment on the result of the elections in Ukraine and on the outcome of the vote by the Ukrainian nation.
This right was respected in the latest elections and the people of Ukraine went to the polls.
Ukraine needs support and it needs to be assured that the Union will be open and welcoming towards it.
This means that we must support not only the values we hold dear but also the interests we have in common with Ukraine.
Firstly, Ukraine can support the Union’s energy policy.
Oil and gas from the Caspian Sea can be transported to Europe through Ukraine without involving any other countries.
It is a step forward, one that deserves our admiration and our greatest respect.
The European Union plays a key role in this.
This concrete aid from the Commission and the Member States must now be reinforced at bilateral level.
There is some support for this, but not enough.
Where the European Union was too cowardly to actually condemn Putin’s attitude of unfeeling cynicism towards Belarus, we must now send out a positive sign to the Ukrainians to demonstrate to the Ukrainian people that their choice in favour of democracy also leads to concrete improvements in their day-to-day lives. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am sure the European Union does not regret its part in resolving the conflict in Ukraine several months ago.
Mr&#160;Winkler has just assured us that there is a will to do so.
I believe the Union must say quite clearly that Ukraine is entitled to join it.
Nonetheless, such a statement needs to be made, because only an offer of this nature will suffice to spur internal forces into action to develop democracy and the free market economy. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, I had the opportunity to observe the parliamentary elections in Ukraine, where the atmosphere was very different from the passions provoked during the presidential elections.
This time elections were free and democratic, and the atmosphere was very similar to what we see in our own countries.
Ukraine also ought to introduce a limit on pre-election campaign expenditure by the political parties, to limit possible corruption and ensure fair competition.
It is interesting, however, that contrary to Russia’s expectations pressure from Russia in connection with gas supplies and the blocking of exports from Ukraine directly fuelled support for the forces of democracy.
The European Union, for its part, should state that Ukraine’s attempts to become integrated into Europe are being assessed.
I would like to call on the Commission to provide Ukraine with all possible assistance to enable it to overcome its weak administrative capacity, fight corruption effectively and decrease the influence of the oligarchy in politics, to reform the legal system and thus reinforce democracy. &#160;&#160; It gives me great pleasure to congratulate Ukraine for the fact that the elections, which took place on 26 March, were democratic, free, fair and satisfied international democratic standards.
This alone is a great victory for the people of Ukraine as they create a civil society, especially when one remembers the events of December 2004 which caused considerable concern and ended with democratic Presidential elections, and also the fact that over the past two years, Ukraine has achieved good results as it implements democratic reforms.
Now we can only hope that the coalition, in which the majority of citizens placed their trust during the elections, will be able to come to an agreement and form a coalition government to continue the democratic and market reforms which have already begun, and will consolidate democracy.
Soon after the elections Javier Solana stated that the EU intends to activate cooperation with Ukraine, to support political and economic reforms, which will guarantee the rule of law, and to consolidate market economy principles in the country, and I might also add, to support a more effective war on corruption and the shadow economy.
I believe that once again the future will depend on the Ukrainian people's political will and determination, on their efforts, as no matter how we look at it, Ukraine is in Europe.
Mr Tannock, I am deeply impressed by your report on the elections.
I would not go so far as to compare Ukraine’s election law with the law of our countries, as different countries have different election laws, but the important thing is that the elections in Ukraine were indeed fair and democratic and I think that is very important.
In order to keep up this enthusiasm, and the faith in the European Union, we – the European Union, that is – must now take specific steps.
We are ready to do so.
I absolutely agree that it is not sensible to talk about specific timetables, but to avoid stumbling we need to take one step at a time, and not try to run before we can walk.
It is precisely using this possibility of a deeper and stronger agreement that it will be achieved.
The debate is closed.
As you know, making people in every European state even more aware of this issue than they already are is a particular concern of the Austrian Presidency, the intention being that this should lay another vital foundation stone for a common European road safety policy.
I am, then, very grateful to the Commission for its presentation of the mid-term review of the European Road Safety Action Programme, which was discussed during the informal meeting of transport ministers on 2 and 3 March, which I have already mentioned, and most recently at the Council of Transport Ministers on 27&#160;March in Brussels.
It is at this point that I would like to make an advance announcement to the effect that the Austrian Presidency also intends that the formal Council of Ministers in Luxembourg on 9&#160;June should adopt final conclusions on road safety.
The European Road Safety Action Programme, which dates back to 2003 and aims to reduce by half the number of deaths in road traffic in the European Union by 2010, lays down EU-wide road safety targets for the period from 2003 to 2010, and includes 60 measures to be implemented across the EU, most of which are not legislative in character.
A successful transport policy rests on three essential pillars – people, vehicles and infrastructure, and, in the course of the meeting to which I have referred, we were able to discuss all three of them in detail.
If this trend is not stopped, there will, in 2010, be only half as many people killed on Europe’s roads, but one out of every three of them will be a motorcyclist, as against the present one in six.
We in Austria, too, have done a lot in this regard in the last few years, stirring people up, thinking or making people think and ultimately, and most importantly, getting people to change their behaviour in a way that makes for greater road safety and fewer road deaths, fewer people injured and seriously injured in road accidents.
I am sure that an initiative of that kind will also help to create greater public awareness throughout Europe.
My special thanks are due here to Vice-President and Commissioner Jacques Barrot for his particular commitment.
Significant efforts have been made since 2001 to make Europe’s roads safer.
Initiatives such as CARS 21 or the European Road Safety Charter, which create awareness in European local authorities, regions, undertakings, associations etc., should also be mentioned here.
Vice-President Barrot’s activities and initiatives, which include proposals already announced for daytime running lights, blind-spot mirrors and in the field of infrastructure, will help to make our roads safer at European level.
I should like to echo what Mr&#160;Gorbach said in his excellent speech and to thank him straightaway for his personal commitment to this great cause that is road safety.
Just as I, myself, had to do when I gave an account, after five years, of our assessment on the basis of the programme that the European Union had set itself in 2002, we must note that the countries comprising today’s European Union saw 50&#160;000 people die on the roads in 2001.
That corresponds to a reduction of 17.5% in four years.
As you said, Mr&#160;Gorbach, the number of deaths in the Union is in danger of increasing to 32&#160;500 in the year 2010 if we do not take it upon ourselves to give new impetus to this road safety policy.
The Austrian Presidency has enabled us to make progress with an agreement on the European driving licence, for which I should like to express my gratitude once again.
Over and above this assessment and over and above the progress made during this Presidency, the Commission will present, in 2006, new initiatives to be included in the action plan that I will propose in the revised White Paper.
It is not a question of us explaining how a road should be made safer, but of the European Union confirming, in each of the Member States, that a great deal of attention is paid to safety when a new road is built or an existing one is improved.
Finally, as you said, Mr&#160;Gorbach, we are going to close a loophole in the current legislation regarding the blind-spot mirrors fitted to existing heavy goods vehicles.
Mr&#160;Gorbach also mentioned the idea of a European Road Safety Day, as well as the launch of awareness campaigns, events that will all need to be carried out at European level.
That regulation was accompanied by an interinstitutional declaration in which our three institutions reaffirmed their determination to enhance the quality of aviation security systems in the Community.
Furthermore, it seemed necessary to prevent any distortion of internal and external competition.
Finally, the three institutions noted the Commission’s intention to commission a study concerning the way in which the financing of security is divided up between public authorities and operators.
The Commission committed itself to submitting to the European Parliament and the Council the results and the proposals that would emerge from this study.
A similar position was taken when the regulation on the improvement of ships and ports security was adopted in 2004.
Together with this proposal for a revision, the Commission presented the first annual report on the implementation of the regulation currently in force, as well as the main results of the inspections.
Furthermore, I would highlight the fact that the regulatory committee created by the framework regulation of 2002 has worked hard and has made it possible for eight implementing regulations to be adopted.
The Commission has also launched two crucial studies, which have confirmed the importance of the issue of financing.
As regards aviation, the study was brought to completion in 2004.
As regards civil aviation security, the study carried out shows that the costs incurred within the Union, which consisted at that time of 15 Member States, fluctuated between EUR&#160;2.5&#160;billion and EUR&#160;3.6&#160;billion in 2002.
The study also highlighted a certain lack of transparency as regards security taxes and charges.
In that respect, I must explain to Parliament that I have decided to organise a meeting between all of the air traffic operators, which will be held tomorrow and the day after tomorrow.
This meeting will mainly focus on airport taxes, but it will certainly reflect on these security problems and their associated cost.
The European Union has more than 1&#160;200 seaports and around 3&#160;700 port facilities, for which, according to this report, the average investment in security amounts to more than EUR&#160;400&#160;000, with running costs exceeding EUR&#160;200&#160;000 per year.
As regards the security of ships, the average investment stands at EUR&#160;100&#160;000, with running costs of around EUR&#160;25&#160;000 per year.
That is why we must reflect together on these security problems and on the way in which they will be financed, and I am delighted to hear your contributions on this subject.
That, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is what I wanted to say, and I should like to thank you and to thank the Austrian Presidency for allowing us to hold this debate on the two issues of road safety and security problems. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I agree with your question, and we ought to discuss in presidium how we can arrive at a sensible procedure while respecting all the constitutional rights of the institutions.
If the two institutions want to debate among themselves, surely they can do that in the Council.
Thank you for what you have said, Vice-Chancellor, I agree with you.
The heart of the matter is the simple question: how can we pay for security measures in aviation?
May I remind you that we as the European Parliament agreed in 2002 that the aviation security measures occasioned by terrorism should be paid for by the Member States.
Then, because we were unable to agree, in the legislative process for the basic regulation in 2002 we settled for at least an interinstitutional agreement that the Commission should present a proposal for the public financing of such aviation security measures.
A regulation in this respect is all the more urgent, because the costs involved in new safety measures continue to spiral out of all proportion.
The Commission promised to present a communication on a strategy to tackle this problem by the end of 2005.
Indeed, under these circumstances, it is difficult for us, as co-legislators, to do our jobs properly.
I must admit, however, that when it comes to the ‘safety’ aspect of the word, it is thanks to the contribution of Parliament that fundamental progress has been made with regard to driving time and driving licences.
It is rather difficult to answer ‘yes’, partly because we have also come to realise that security is a single issue, that there are not 25 types of security and that it is not possible for each Member State to establish its own security.
If, however, a single security exists for all countries, then we cannot do anything other than define standard, potentially uniform, measures, and establish in a clear, transparent way how to pay for it.
While we wait, reality moves on.
What we have today is, in fact, a basic security financed through fares and extra ticket costs, and more or less cofinanced by the Member States according to the levels of security they wish to establish.
This system must be regulated differently.
We must follow these principles at least in order to continue our work. &#160;&#160; Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today’s debate goes back to a very serious question from the Committee on Transport and Tourism about the financing of present and future measures in the matter of security.
We were promised a communication here that ought to have provided us with the basis for this debate.
The tragic events in Madrid have given us cause to reflect that other traffic routes and modes of transport are faced with the same challenge.
But it will also be particularly important that all projects and all measures are well organised.
It is four years since we agreed on public cofinancing in the interinstitutional agreement, and if we now make money available – which will take some time – I am almost certain that people will not benefit from that money, but that we will get a new charge that will then probably be offset by refunding other charges.
As regards the content, I of course agree with my fellow Members that counter-terrorism is clearly a state responsibility and clear lines must be drawn here.
It must be clarified that in some countries the taxpayer pays for it, in other countries the airlines, in others the airports and passengers.
The Austrian Presidency plans to deal with the question of the financing of security measures in the next Council working group, which takes place tomorrow, 6 April, and in particular to discuss the way forward with this dossier, especially as the Commission has now announced that it will not be presenting its study on the matter until the end of 2006.
In any case, close contact between Council Presidency, Commission and Parliament is essential in this matter, especially since we want to reach agreement with Parliament quickly.
How difficult this question of financing is is shown by the fact that there are also different views in the European Parliament, as is evident from the Costa report and also from what you said, Mr Jarzembowski.
I should like to point out that, in its communication on the repercussions of the 11 September attacks on the air transport sector, the Commission has already stressed that the public authorities should take responsibility for strengthening certain security measures put in place by the public authorities in the wake of those attacks, which were attacks on the whole of society and not solely on those involved in the transport sector.
I believe I share Mr&#160;Costa’s view on this distinction, which will probably be one of the guiding principles of any future stance taken by the European institutions.
Mr Jarzembowski, Mr&#160;El&#160;Khadhraoui and Mrs&#160;Lichtenberger, I note your impatience.
I should like to point out that, while it awaits the findings of the maritime transport study, the Commission is drawing up a report, to be ready by the summer, which will respond to the interinstitutional statement on the regulation on implementing common rules in the field of civil aviation security, as well as to the regulation on enhancing ship and port facility security.
I should like to thank Parliament for its commitment to this important matter and the Presidency for enabling us to raise this tricky but very important issue. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed. &#160;&#160; The next item is questions to the Council (B6-0017/2006).
We will take the following questions to the Council.
These include in particular the unrestricted exercise – both in public and in private – of the freedom of religion and belief and respect for cultural rights and religious freedom in Tibet and Xinjiang.
Religious freedom has therefore been clearly highlighted on the agenda at meetings between the EU and China, not only at dialogue meetings but also at higher levels.
I can confirm from my own experience, both in my former work as a legal adviser who was also responsible for human rights and in my present position, that these subjects are in fact being raised at a great variety of levels.
In line with this conclusion of the Council, the European Union has regularly raised not only the persecution of Christians, the restrictions on house churches and the distribution of Bibles in prisons, but also the persecution of Buddhists, Muslims and members of the Falun Gong movement, a subject that the EU brings up on many occasions.
We have also made it clear that in our view these practices are in breach of China’s international obligations.
Quite recently, freedom of religion was discussed in detail at the dialogues in September 2004 and October 2005, and the EU Troika has visited Tibet and Xinjang in connection with the dialogue.
The EU has regularly called on China to comply with the recommendations of the UN special rapporteur and the UN committees relating to freedom of religion and belief.
It has also continually raised specific cases and called on the Chinese authorities to investigate reports of torture and provide information on sentencing.
In 2005, China sent an official invitation to the UN special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, and the EU looks forward expectantly to the confirmation of a date for the visit.
The European Union will continue to press at all levels for genuine freedom of religion and belief in China, not least as part of the process of ratification and implementation of the International Pact on Civil and Political Rights. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for a helpful reply.
It is good that it is on the agenda at Troika and High Level meetings, but Mr&#160;Sonik was obviously hoping that stronger pressure could be exerted on the Chinese side to ensure implementation of these provisions. &#160;&#160; .
The situation is still not satisfactory.
Other opportunities, where the European Union does not confront China directly – and I believe they are important – are international bodies, the United Nations, hitherto the Human Rights Commission.
I have already mentioned that the UN special rapporteur has a particular role to play here.
Falun Gong is a special case, especially because we know, as you mentioned, that degradation and torture are used.
We have raised them as well, not only in connection with religious freedom but generally.
The Chinese side has known for many years that re-education camps have long been a thorn in the flesh of the European Union, because they certainly do not meet the normal international standards of human rights.
I believe that dialogue is the means of choice because I doubt very much whether we would achieve the desired result if we started speaking about trade sanctions.
Believe me, we are bringing these questions up, not only through the Austrian Presidency, but through all Member States in their bilateral contacts, the European Union as a whole, the Council, and within the framework of the United Nations.
The software which facilitated the eavesdropping activated the installed listening software and could be installed in any other company in Europe which has the same operating software.
Madam President, in response to Mr Papadimoulis’ question I must first of all say that the Council has never discussed the incidents he mentions.
Madam President, I could now say something about the legal position.
I assume the honourable Member is fully acquainted with the legal position and would therefore prefer not to list every single directive, but to mention just a few, such as the data protection directive, Directive 95/46, and a number of others, such as one which requires operators of publicly accessible electronic communications services to take appropriate technical and organisational measures to guarantee the security of their services.
The important thing, however, is that the competent European authorities take appropriate action when Community law is broken.
If the Commission believes that the rules are not adequate, it and it alone has the right to propose that they be amended.
That is how the European Union works, and we would be well advised to stick to these procedures, which are laid down in the Treaties. &#160;&#160; I would like to pose a more philosophical question.
The rules that we have, both national and European rules, are there to prevent that.
So far as I am aware and according to the most recent Commission report from last year, Greece has incidentally not yet notified any measures to implement the directive in question and the Commission has therefore taken it to the European Court of Justice, which only goes to prove that the system is working.
The fact that something unlawful happened should not call the legal system itself into question.
At the same time, the newspaper Hürriyet has revealed the new national security philosophy adopted by Turkey's Council of Ministers following its approval by the National Security Council.
According to this authoritative source, the Turkish political leadership now accepts as 'grounds for war' the exercise by Greece of its right, recognised under international law, to extend its territorial waters in the Aegean to 12 miles, while continuing to oppose the re-opening of the Theological School of Halki.
Madam President, in answer to Mr Beglitis’ question I can first of all say that the Council is of course very much aware of the questions he raises.
The ratification and subsequent application of the protocol adapting the Ankara Agreement to take account of the accession of the 10 new EU Member States is also a priority, and indeed a short-term priority for the revised Accession Partnership agreed in January 2006.
Moreover, the European Community and its Member States noted in their declaration of 21 September 2005 that the Union would be monitoring whether the additional protocol was being applied to all EU Member States without restriction and without discrimination and would make an assessment of the matter in 2006.
As you know, the application of the protocol is a precondition for opening negotiations on the relevant chapters.
If the protocol is not fully implemented, that will no doubt be detrimental to progress in the negotiations as a whole.
The Council will be reviewing the progress made on these questions in the course of the year.
Now so far as the unresolved border disputes are concerned, I should refer to the corresponding conclusions adopted by the European Council at its meeting in Helsinki in 1999 and at its meeting in Brussels in December 2004.
There can of course be no doubt that if Turkey is seeking accession it must share the European Union’s values and objectives as enshrined in the Treaties.
It must show undoubted commitment to good neighbourly relations and settle unresolved border disputes in accordance with the principle of the peaceful settlement of disputes enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
These questions form part of the scope of the negotiations, are short-term priorities of the Accession Partnership and are systematically raised in political dialogue meetings with Turkey.
The enactment of a law that will deal with all the difficulties of non-Muslim religious minorities and religious communities in accordance with current European standards is one of the Accession Partnership’s short-term priorities.
In the light of this, the Council can assure the honourable Member that we are continuing to pursue these questions in the ongoing reform process in Turkey and in so doing will take full account of the conclusions of the December 2004 European Council, the negotiating framework for Turkey and the revised Accession Partnership.
The extent to which progress is made in the reforms and Turkey complies with its Treaty obligations will naturally affect the negotiation process.
As things stand at present, however, I cannot of course anticipate the conclusions the Council will reach in its further deliberations on these questions. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Minister, for your reply, but we must be honest here, because I fear that the European Union is still sending contradictory messages to Turkey.
Secondly, you did not reply to my question on the role of the army in political life in Turkey.
Everything will be examined in due course and the various points will have to be satisfied as stipulated.
These obligations must be satisfied.
As I have already said in my answer to the original question, progress in the negotiations will very much depend on the extent to which these obligations are satisfied and not on the nature of the declarations.
That meeting, with all the foreign ministers present, was not the right occasion to raise Dr&#160;Mugraby’s case.
It has already raised it with the Lebanese government on several occasions; one such occasion was an approach to the Lebanese authorities on 22&#160;December expressing the European Union’s concern about the charges brought against Mr Mugraby.
The accusation levelled at Dr Mugraby is that he answered a question put to him by the European Parliament, something that undermines the functioning of the institutions and our ability to put questions to people who are ready to work with us.
As you know, the European Union is about to begin negotiations with the Lebanese government on an action plan as part of the European neighbourhood policy, in which we shall of course be raising human rights and democracy as main priorities, as is usual with such action plans.
It will be a useful instrument for supporting the government in tackling important and necessary reforms in these areas.
It is not only – it is also – about the question of the fulfilment of obligations in connection with the initiatives and activities with regard to Syria, as we know them within the United Nations.
The Council has also expressed this in legislative acts and programmes, as for example the framework decision of 13 June 2002 on combating terrorism and the EU Counter-Terrorism Strategy of 1 December 2005.
The foreign ministers discussed the question of the camp in Guantánamo during their dinner on the occasion of the 22/23&#160;March European Council in Brussels, noting among other things that Guantánamo remains a cause for serious concern.
Some EU ministers also pointed out that they had already voiced their concern at meetings with the US Secretary of State in Brussels.
I should also point out that the Council President, Foreign Minister Plassnik, stated publicly on 22 March that EU Member States and US allies had already called for Guantánamo to be closed on a number of occasions.
This was said in recognition of the fact that terrorism must be fought in a manner that is credible and consistent with human rights and that we have to insist on that, especially as the European Union, which is offering possible solutions. &#160;&#160; – Mr President-in-Office of the Council, sometimes you speak plainly, such as this morning when, in the name – so you said – of the violation of human rights, you are taking measures against Belarus, and sometimes you speak in riddles.
The question of the compatibility of Guantánamo with the relevant provisions of international law and of humanitarian law in particular has been raised with the United States.
We as the Council of the European Union have also supported the efforts of the UN special rapporteur on torture, Mr&#160;Novak, to prevent arbitrary arrest and inhuman treatment.
The Supreme Court and other courts in the United States have repeatedly dealt with the question of the legality of a number of things that have happened in connection with the camp.
I believe that the legal system of the United States is quite well equipped to deal with this question.
The Council welcomes the fact that the Court of Justice found that examination of the questions referred by the national court for a preliminary ruling revealed no factor of such a kind as to affect the validity of Articles 5, 6 and 7 of Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing common rules on compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights, and repealing Regulation (EEC) No 295/91.
May I also point out that Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council gives passengers certain rights if they are denied boarding or flights are cancelled or delayed.
Article 16 of the Regulation (‘Infringements’) requires every Member State to designate a body to be responsible for the enforcement of the Regulation on its territory.
It is therefore primarily up to the Member States and the national bodies responsible for implementation to ensure that passengers actually enjoy the rights granted them by the Regulation when they make a complaint.
It should finally be pointed out that the European Commission has the right of initiative to propose legislative acts to strengthen the rights of air passengers and that no new proposals have been presented.
As I asked in the question, what is the Council doing or what action is it considering to ensure that the decision is enforced and that consumers are helped and receive the rights to which they are clearly entitled, as proven by the ECJ ruling? &#160;&#160; . – I should like to reiterate that that is a matter for the Member States.
I understand that it is a question for Member States, but can you please use your good offices to try and ask the Member States to make sure that legislation is complied with.
If passengers are not even given any information about compensation, what can they do? &#160;&#160; . – I can only repeat to the honourable Member what I have already said in reply to the supplementary question, which is that it goes without saying that I am ready and willing to make my good offices – to use your words – available to make the Member States aware that these things are important and must be taken seriously.
I shall discuss this matter within the Council. &#160;&#160; As they deal with the same subject, the following questions will be taken together: The political agreement reached by the Council Summit in December 2005 concerning the Financial Perspective for 2007-2013 reduced the Commission's original proposal for funding of the Trans-European Transport Networks from € 20 billion to € 7 billion.
Attaining the goals of the Lisbon Strategy will not be possible without efficient European transport networks.
As regards the field of transport in general, it must be emphasised that Community financial aid in the field of the trans-European transport networks is intended for cofinancing projects that are often carried out within the framework of cooperation between national, public and also private authorities in the Member States.
If the implementation of a project of common interest is considerably delayed, the Commission may, pursuant to Decision No 1692/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network, consult the Member States concerned and adopt suitable measures, with due regard to the division of competences.
My question is clear: given the need for the development of the trans-European networks and for the completion of the single market for mobility and everything you spoke of, can these objectives be achieved with EUR&#160;7&#160;billion?
For this reason, it will be the overriding task of those with relevant responsibility in the Councils to ensure that those priority trans-European networks that have been identified as important to employment and economic development have the necessary, relevant approval and are thus ready for construction. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President-in-Office of the Council, my question related specifically to the time frame for the European Magistrale from Paris to Vienna via Strasbourg and Munich and the branch line to Rome through the Brenner Base Tunnel.
I should like to ask the President-in-Office about the overall project, but in particular the connections from Munich to Vienna and Rome. &#160;&#160; . – In response to the question by Mr&#160;Posselt, I should like to say that the Council Presidency is of the opinion that the extension of the two railway axes – axis No&#160;17: Paris – Strasbourg – Stuttgart – Vienna – Bratislava, and axis No&#160;1: Berlin – Munich – Verona – Palermo – is vital to counteract congestion on the roads, particularly by heavy goods vehicles.
In addition, these cross-border projects improve economic integration in the internal market.
However, the final decision on these large cross-border projects and their swift implementation naturally depends on the Financial Perspective for 2007–2013 and partly – as I have already mentioned – on the necessity of finding private funding.
Once there is agreement on the necessary budget, a long-term implementation plan is required for the completion of these ambitious projects.
I myself turned the first sod for the heart of the project, the Brenner Base Tunnel, and, over the last three-and-a-half years, together with my fellow Minister Mr&#160;Lunardi, I have done my utmost to bring this project to where it is now.
I believe that a concerted effort is appropriate and necessary in respect of these two important axes. &#160;&#160; I did not receive a reply to my specific question concerning the Gdańsk-Vienna axis.
This is a particularly important section, because in terms of links between the new Central European Member States and the old Member States of the Union, it is clearly a key part of the transport network.
I shall be glad to take up and pass on this suggestion. &#160;&#160; The Commission has proposed the nomination of six coordinators for six out of the thirty projects.
We shall have to show flexibility, however, as the routes are important not only for economic growth and employment, but also for the implementation of the principle stated in various white and green papers, namely that of shifting freight transport from the roads to the railways.
I have great confidence here in the innovative potential and approaches, mentioned earlier, of making use of private funds, too, so that projects can be implemented more quickly than would otherwise have been possible, not only in the interests of the economy and of job creation, but also, in particular, of the environment and the people living along many transit routes. &#160;&#160; I am very much obliged to the Vice Chancellor for first raising the subject of the Financial Perspective.
As I have always said, if we are ambitious in our pursuit of these objectives, it is quite possible to save a couple of years, so that, in the best-case scenario, the heart of this transit route – the Brenner Base Tunnel – could be completed in 2013.
As you see, I have been waiting here for one and a half hours but, unfortunately, we are going for a written answer. &#160;&#160; Mrs President, on a point of order, every single month I find myself left out of Question Time, even though I am in the first 12 or 13 questions.
To take three questions together and only get through ten questions is really a reflection on this House.
I have noted what you have said, but the mere fact that other debates overrun means that we frequently have the problem of a reduction in the time for Question Time.
Ageing populations in Europe, the United States and most wealthy countries, combined with increasingly sophisticated medical treatments that require specialised staff, mean that demand for health workers in the developed world is outstripping supply.
Indeed, the demand for health workers is not only outstripping our internal capacity to produce doctors and nurses: it is placing a huge strain on the international market for health workers.
However, the shortage of health workers in rich nations does not even begin to approach the severe shortages being experienced in many parts of Africa, where the lack of health workers can often mean the difference between life and death.
With less than one health worker per 1000 people in Africa, compared to over 10 health workers per 1000 people in Europe, it is hardly surprising that the shocking and unacceptable death toll of children and their mothers continues.
More than one in five children die before their fifth birthday and more than one in a hundred mothers die as a result of complications of pregnancy in many African countries.
Progress towards the Millennium Development Goals in Africa is unacceptably slow, with progress reversal in some countries as a consequence of HIV/Aids.
The burden of caring for the sick falls on families and communities who have few resources to cope with this significant burden.
There has been chronic under-investment in health services in developing countries for many years, including under-investment in training of health workers.
Many countries in Africa are still trying to run their health services on a budget of less than EUR&#160;10 per capita – that is much less than the minimum of EUR&#160;30 recognised as necessary for providing essential services.
The rich world can attract health workers from other countries; the consequences for poor countries is that they train health workers who leave the country, effectively providing a perverse subsidy to health services in developed countries, by shouldering the burden of training costs.
The ‘pull’ factors for migration – better salaries in rich countries, better working conditions and greater security, which are sometimes coupled with aggressive recruitment practices by private recruitment agencies – also play a significant role in increasing health worker mobility.
These issues have all been described in the communication from the Commission to Parliament on the EU strategy of action to address the crisis in human resources for health in developing countries.
If we are to overcome the crisis, developing solutions must begin in the countries most affected and must support strengthening of their planning and financing of health worker training, support and finance, and improved terms of conditions of services.
It is important that we look closely at our own health worker training programmes and increase our own production capacity, to make us more self-sufficient.
EU Member States have agreed a Statement of Commitment, which is being announced for World Health Day.
In Africa they have under five doctors per 100&#160;000 people.
Because the developed countries take 63&#160;000 doctors and nurses a year from developing countries and return just 1300 to those countries.
In Europe we must do much more to recruit and retain health professionals through training, through pay, through working conditions, through research facilities and so on, but with developing countries we must do so much more and above all we must stop this recruitment rape of their skills.
Europe has 15 times higher a ratio.
Ghana has only 1500 doctors for its population of 20&#160;million.
Two-thirds of the young doctors in that country leave the country within three years of graduation, and yet Africa bears 25% of the world’s health and disease burden, and has only 0.6% of the world’s health professionals.
In the United Kingdom, my country, two thirds of new doctors and 40% of new nurses come from abroad.
No fewer than three out of these eight objectives are about health care, about the fight against diseases such as AIDS and malaria, about reducing child mortality and the mortality of mothers during pregnancy or childbirth.
Every year, worldwide, more than one million children die of malaria, six million children under the age of five die of a lack of food or qualitatively imbalanced nutrition, and two to three million children die of diseases which could have been prevented by vaccination.
Moreover, when we grant budgetary support, we must be much tougher with regard to the spending criteria.
Europe should guarantee the funding of projects for sexual and reproductive health care which, on account of policy by the US President to block resources for these projects, are short of funds.
The US Congress concluded today that this campaign causes confusion and hampers existing campaigns.
Access to a basic service such as health care is of the essence for the poorest of the poor, but this access is often inadequate due to a lack of expertise and infrastructure at source.
In our resolution, we are right to focus on the shortage of health workers, often caused by brain drain, a phenomenon whereby highly trained doctors and nurses decide to work elsewhere in the world.
We must prevent this brain drain by actively concluding agreements between sectors and countries, by promoting circular migration, whereby people return to their home countries following a short spell abroad, by training and transferring knowledge and by creating better working conditions.
Finally, in many countries, corruption and bad governance prevent a large share of the money that is spent on health care from ending up with the poorest of the poor.
Studies have shown that in a country such as Chad, only 1% of government funds that are spent on health care actually arrive at their destination.
This brings me to my own report on corruption and development cooperation which will be discussed during tomorrow’s plenary.
Both donor and receiving countries should make an all-out effort to bring this about in the next few years.
In too many places people are still dying simply because of the absence of basic medical facilities that could have saved their lives at very little cost.
I will mention just one place: the equatorial region of the Democratic Republic of Congo, where the population is suffering a catastrophic death rate, not because of famine or even because of ongoing violence and insecurity, as is the case in the east of Congo, but simply because medical facilities are non-existent in that beautiful but inaccessible forest area.
We need to take a hard look at Commission spending on health and ask why such a low percentage of the EDF budget is earmarked for the health sector, as Mr van den Berg has just pointed out.
That is despite the fact that Parliament has asked for one fifth of overall development funds to go to basic healthcare and basic education.
I want to turn to the issue of health workers.
For example, the UK has the National Health Service code on recruitment of health workers, but it only applies to workers recruited by the NHS directly.
The result is devastating.
Member States must close the loopholes in their codes on health worker recruitment and put in place effective health workforce planning so that they are no longer tempted to poach trained personnel from the very countries where better healthcare is so desperately needed. &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if one has the opportunity to analyse the often transitory nature or the effectiveness of these world days devoted to some great cause or other, the conclusion is that it is an opportunity for us, on the one hand, to shed some light on a dramatic situation and on the shortage of healthcare personnel in the South, an issue to which we normally pay scant attention, and on the other hand table some proposals to implement in the short, medium or long term.
This shortage of healthcare personnel is in fact the result of so-called ‘structural adjustment' programmes which have been brutally pursued by the international financial institutions and which have led to the collapse of public healthcare and education services in a good many countries.
There is therefore ‘a fair bit’ of hypocrisy in stating in 2006 a determination to increase healthcare personnel over the next few years, while macroeconomic financial policies pursued elsewhere have had a detrimental effect on those same human resources for over ten years.
Nevertheless we welcome this awareness, however late it was in arriving, of the pressing need to invest in human resources, without which no development policy, however virtuous, can be implemented.
Secondly, putting an end to the budgetary restriction measures imposed by the international financial institutions.
Such recruitment, which happens in a fair number of our countries, must be combated, and the country of origin principle must be scrapped.
To conclude, we trust that these generous statements of intent will actually be followed up, thanks to the very firm commitment of the EU institutions and of Parliament in particular, and thanks to the campaign started by the NGOs and European civil society. &#160;&#160; . – Access to healthcare is recognised as a fundamental human right.
The UN’s Millennium Development Goals include reducing by two thirds the mortality rate among children under five, reducing by three quarters the maternal mortality rate, halting and beginning to reverse the spread of AIDS and halting and beginning to reverse the incidence of malaria and other major diseases.
We therefore feel it is vitally important to provide active support for training doctors in developing countries and access to medical training for students from rural and remote regions.
In this regard, I wish to highlight the remarkable example of Cuba in training, free of charge, thousands of doctors and other healthcare personnel to work in Africa and Latin America.
It is similarly crucial to deliver access to high-quality, free, public healthcare services for all throughout the EU, which is not the case as things stand, due to the macroeconomic approach of the Stability and Growth Pact.
Population-ageing, increases in the incidence of disease and increases in the treatments for them mean a greater demand for workers in the health sector.
Their first need is to be safe.
It is almost a tradition to overwork doctors and nurses, but tired, stressed staff are far more prone to dangers.
When we – as we inevitably do – experience shortfalls in services, we solve the problem by hiring people from other countries.
We can now afford to do this and these excellent professionals are a boost to our health service.
Our hospitals and our health services are staffed by health workers from India, the Philippines, South Africa and many other countries.
I am referring to the US-Mexico City policy of requiring that NGOs agree, as a condition of receiving US funds, that they should neither perform nor promote abortion as a method of family planning in other nations.
In condemning the way the US is spending its foreign aid, Amendment 5 presumes a mandate that this House and this Union simply do not have. &#160;&#160; Every year on 7 April, we commemorate World Health Day.
Following accession to the EU, the ten new Member States have been experiencing a ‘brain drain’ in the form of a massive migration of doctors and nurses to Western Europe.
As a result, there is a shortage of doctors in the new Member States.
We have chiefly lost young multilingual people, who have decided to work in the western part of the European Union, attracted there by better conditions.
The motivation for this strike arises from the intolerable working conditions which our doctors and nurses have to endure.
A doctor in Slovakia is paid anywhere between EUR 350 to EUR 500 a month, while a nurse brings home EUR 250 to 300 EUR.
Under these circumstances, it comes as something of a surprise that our highly qualified personnel are willing to remain in their home country at all.
On the one hand, I believe that we in Europe have been implementing a very self-centred policy of in the majority of universities and nursing schools, in order to guarantee employment for our students, without taking account of the fact that the prospects and needs of Europe were going to exceed our capacity to provide care; that is why doctors and nurses from other countries are needed.
At the same time, however, I believe that, in the development aid strategy, universities should be created alongside hospitals.
The investment policy must not be restricted to roads, but must also consider hospitals and human resources training.
Within this context, I believe that, in its programmes, Europe must allocate more money to training, but at the same time control the distribution of aid much more effectively and prevent that corruption, which is a permanent obstacle, thereby putting to an end to the frustration of the people treating the sick. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is an interesting statistic that there are more nurses from Malawi living in Manchester, in the United Kingdom, than there are living in Malawi; and there are more doctors from Ethiopia living in Chicago than there are in Ethiopia.
Obviously human resources are a central part of all human healthcare systems, but the reality is that the recruitment of health professionals and the scourge of HIV/Aids are continuing to prolong the crisis already afflicting very fragile healthcare systems in developing countries.
Last year Kenya lost 3000 graduate nurses to other countries, mostly to the United States and the United Kingdom.
I am concerned by Commissioner Frattini’s recent proposal to promote the recruitment of highly educated immigrants, including the creation of a ‘green card’ for researchers, engineers and doctors.
Parliament must call for an active end to the recruitment of health workers.
It rightly calls for the European Union to press for a global code of conduct on ethical recruitment.
Commissioner, would you subscribe to the view that this is something that the Commission should do in order to try to deal with this crisis, which is what this evening’s debate is all about?
We are therefore trying to suck in the health workers from other countries in order to deal with our own problems.
In relation to the financial perspectives we are now discussing, we really do not have the options to deliver on the debates and on the commitments that you have discussed this evening. &#160;&#160; Mr President, good health is invaluable and it is thus not surprising that in the developed world we invest so much in healthcare and we expect to receive the best treatment whenever the need arises.
However, the case with the developing world regarding health is, unfortunately, completely and shamefully different.
One index figure that can be used to assess health provision in a country is, as has already been mentioned, the infant mortality rate.
The infant mortality rate in a country like Sweden, Germany or France – in fact most EU States – is around five deaths per 1000 live births.
The corresponding figure in countries like Mozambique, Sierra Leone and Liberia is about 140 deaths per 1000 live births, and in Angola it is about 200 deaths per 1000 live births.
In other words, the chance of an infant dying in Angola is about 4000% more than it is in an EU country.
In many Third World countries basic healthcare is almost totally lacking and the few brave health workers who find themselves in those countries have to battle against all the odds to save life and limb.
These people deserve not just our admiration and respect but our active support, and we must do our utmost to provide them with all the help they need.
We have heard dramatic, affecting figures today; figures that should make us feel ashamed, as they make it clear that Europe is faced with a crisis in the health sector that it is not tackling at the roots – here in Europe – but is trying to solve by means of the brain drain from these countries.
At the same time, we know that demographic developments will only intensify the problem.
We have spoken a good deal about African countries today, but I have the impression that, particularly in development policy, resources are being poured into other countries.
The Commission has also been silent on the subject of the disputes over patents for AIDS drugs in Africa.
I hope that the Commissioner’s words are followed by action.
What we need is not fine words because World Health Day is approaching, but a strategy, a real solution to the problem.
After all, we were all in agreement on the objective: that what we need is real action to tackle the problem. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ‘Working together for health’ is a lovely motto for World Health Day, as long as it is also taken seriously by all those making speeches, producing press releases or conveying messages on the occasion of 7&#160;April.
This is all the more applicable when it comes to health workers, to whom World Health Day 2007 is devoted.
In my view, therefore, Parliament also needs to address the problem that ‘Working together for health’ and the improvement of working conditions for health workers in the EU are not really being taken seriously.
The access of millions of people to health services is being restricted or complicated, and is by no means being improved or safeguarded.
My second remark is that, despite the enlargement of the EU and the growing health problems, the health and consumer protection appropriations in the budget adopted by the European Council in December&#160;2005 have been cut in comparison with the present period.
My third remark is that, even though the Spring Summit of the Heads of State or Government on the Lisbon Strategy is being held just a few days before the annual World Health Day, health issues play only a secondary role there.
In this context, however, I should also like to draw attention to the growing importance of military aspects in development policy, whose principal purpose is actually supposed to be the improvement of public health in poor countries.
From my point of view, there is enough cause – and also material – here for a discussion aiming at improving the health of people living in the EU and boosting the EU’s contribution to improving global health.
The matter of primary importance is not cost, capital or dubious productivity, therefore, but the qualified, responsible commitment of health workers, because their personalities, their professional and social competence, and also their opinions and suggestions should count.
In your opinion, what needs to be changed about the political framework to enable you to work better and improve public health?
The health of each and every one of its citizens should be a top priority for every state.
For these individuals, devotion to the health sector is both a service and a calling.
This means that financial, business and economic interests have free rein, to the detriment of the life and health of human beings.
The huge economic divide between the new Member States and the older ones, where salaries are exponentially higher and working conditions are outstanding, has resulted in the emigration of well-qualified medical workers.
I am concerned about the nature of a potential proposal on the introduction of an ethical recruitment code.
I very much hope any such criteria would not be content-related, so that poor countries do not lose even more outstanding specialists. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, as has been brought to our attention today, European health services are in a most unsatisfactory state, but things are far worse in Africa.
The latter are certainly much cheaper, but they are still too expensive for Africans.
What needs to be done in Europe is to increase the mobility of both patients and medical services.
In general, Europe lacks a common health strategy and policy.
Finally, I would like to mention the issue of additional investment in research programmes, for instance those working on cancer.
The money ought to be coming instead from national budgets or perhaps European programmes.
We proved capable of mobilising ourselves to respond to the sudden threat of avian influenza, but we do not seem able to overcome deadly diseases that have been with us for a very long time. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the right to health is a universal value.
The right to health is a universal value, as I said.
The consequence of the well-documented shortage in the training of medical staff – doctors, nurses, and so forth – in the EU is that Member States turn to doctors from developing countries, thereby exacerbating the shortage in those countries.
I should like to make three main points.
Secondly, over several decades there have been some terrible pandemics in the world.
Developing countries are the most vulnerable because they have neither the resources for information and awareness raising, nor sufficient medicines to stem diseases such as AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.
Given that we are aware of the difficulty of carrying out such distribution in countries where there is a shortage of infrastructure and qualified personnel and where there is sometimes a complete lack of political will, the inescapable conclusion is that the EU must do all it can to support these measures and in fact must go further.
This is a good opportunity to call for fair, good working conditions for these workers and draw attention to the existing shortage of such workers.
It has also been discussed in great detail how developing countries, in particular – African countries being the worst example – suffer as a result of the brain drain: of rich countries’ recruitment measures.
Health services in developing countries have also suffered as a result of the drastic budget cuts in the social sector arising from macroeconomic reforms such as structural adjustment programmes.
The international financial institutions need to reconsider policies such as continuously putting emphasis on the privatisation of public-sector activities in developing countries.
Amendment&#160;7 reveals another key reason for the shortage of health workers and for inadequate health spending by developing countries, African countries in particular.
I certainly do not wish to play down the reasons such as corruption or the lack of political will that have been given, but it is also true that these countries’ external debts significantly reduce their scope for adequate spending in the social sector and on health.
Three of the eight Millennium Development Goals relate to health: reducing child mortality, improving maternal health and tackling HIV/AIDS.
The international community, including the EU, must ensure that sufficient financial resources are available for tackling HIV/AIDS.
We know that only some of the financial commitments entered into at the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development have in fact been honoured.
In addition, Mrs&#160;Hall has already pointed out how this HIV/AIDS pandemic is neutralising the investments of many African countries. &#160;&#160; Mr President, World Health Day reminds us that access to health is the single most desirable goal that all humans wish to reach.
Yet the range of challenges to global health today is wide and the prospects of achieving the international goals are daunting.
These problems are outrageous in the context of global wealth in the 21st century.
Yet there are new challenges to health associated with the accelerated globalisation of the markets, such as SARS and avian flu.
The world has also witnessed unprecedented progress in science and knowledge and today we know how to address the great majority of the world’s disease burden.
Health is at the very heart of the Millennium Development Goals and it must be recognised by all that health is central to development and to the fight to reduce poverty, as well as an important measure of human wellbeing.
The clear message coming out of 2005 and the Millennium Development Goals is that of health systems.
Central to each and every health system are the people working in it and for it; having the right workers with the right skills in the right place doing the right things is fundamental to being able to address the full range of health challenges in a country.
While the lack of health workers is of particular urgency, the overall task is to improve all these aspects simultaneously. &#160;&#160; According to a saying – also used in my country – ‘money can buy everything except good health'.
At the same time, we know fully well that, unfortunately, health is often a matter of money.
This is the problem we are facing, when the World Health Day this year draws our attention to the shortage of health workers throughout the world.
According to WHO, the shortage is caused by the fact that the training, remuneration, working conditions and management systems of health workers have been underfinanced for several decades.
Moreover, due to demographic changes, there will probably be an increasing demand for doctors in Europe.
The absolute lack of money is only one part of the problem faced by public health.
The other is the lack of appreciation for health workers in society and the lack of prestige of the profession.
The number of those training to be doctors and nurses is constantly decreasing, because their average remuneration and social perception are not proportional with the difficulties and importance of their vocation.
The migration of health workers is already a considerable problem.
It is obvious that the concerns are more serious in developing countries, but there is much to be done in Europe, too.
Another aspect of the concerns experienced in the area of remuneration is the widespread gratuity system in certain Member States.
Therefore this should be eliminated as soon as possible.
I hope that the World Health Day will draw our attention even more to this important area, and will bring the solution closer. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I shall focus on three points, because a great deal has been said with which I agree.
The first point is that we need to concentrate our attention today, as we debate World Health Day, on prevention.
Finally, the third point is the inequalities which exist today in the sector of the supply of health services.
With these three points, and agreeing with everything said by my honourable friends, I too should like to pay homage to the people who work with the sick and offer these excellent services. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this year, World Health Day is devoted to health workers.
What is indispensable, however, is an increase in human resources – in both Europe and the developing world.
Given the short time available, I should like to discuss just the conditions in Europe.
Secondly, an improvement in the skills and quality of the health professions in Europe is needed if we are to meet the excellence criteria we set ourselves.
A dramatic increase in the training figures in all fields of the health service is needed if we are to meet these demands.
Thirdly, we need to enhance our cooperation within the Union.
Health policy must not be reduced to monetary aspects – even if these words are sure to make the ears of my colleagues in Berlin burn.
In this connection, I would appeal to the Commission to adopt Parliament’s position on the Working Time Directive. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the theme of World Health Day, which takes place the day after tomorrow, is employees in the healthcare sector.
This year’s subject is very pertinent, since we are facing the threat of a worldwide pandemic.
The problems associated with availability of healthcare staff and working conditions affect both the developing and the industrialised countries.
Focusing attention on the status of healthcare staff is the right way to get to grips with the causes of health problems and to try and prevent them.
A possible global pandemic would also mean that staff would be confronted with difficult ethical questions.
With the threat of pandemics, the developing countries are in a particularly difficult situation, as malaria and HIV are already causing untold havoc.
I strongly agree with the calls in the resolution to improve the focus for development cooperation so that it is used for human and social development. &#160;&#160; On the occasion of the World Health Day, please allow me to call your attention to another significant day, the International Roma Day, celebrated on 8 April.
I would have gladly joined in this topic, too, but unfortunately I cannot do it.) We celebrate the International Roma Day on 8 April all over the world, and in connection with this we accepted a resolution in the European Parliament last year, in which we called attention to the worrying health situation of the Roma.
In the year that has passed, neither the European Commission nor the Member State governments have taken any corrective measures in the public health sector, or in order to eliminate the unemployment affecting the Roma or their exclusion from the economic, housing and education sector.
We are asking the European Commission to release a Green Paper as soon as possible on the intolerable situation of the Roma, in order to eliminate their exclusion from public health, and to ensure that the extremely poor quality healthcare services provided to them are brought up to European standards. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is perhaps one of the most important debates we have had in this House.
I witnessed what one of my colleagues has already spoken about: the lack of nurses – who are now in Manchester – and the appalling effects this is having in that country.
It was asked how we can compensate the developing world for having taken their best.
We are moving on to a debate on avian influenza and market support measures.
The process that the Commission is leading to develop an EU response to the human resources crisis demonstrates the strength of greater European coordination.
The collective commitment of Member States and of the Commission is likely to have a much greater impact than the Commission or Member States working alone.
But it is the coordinated efforts of the European Community that will ensure that the increased resources are more efficiently spent, providing coordinated, coherent backing for country-led and developed plans.
We believe that better coordinated and more coherent implementation of our common European policy, reflecting the commitments made in the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, provides the best means for a drastic increase in human and social development spending.
That needs to be prioritised by the Member States and reflected in our common policy.
That is why the Commission has proposed a package of concrete measures on aid effectiveness.
At the Paris aid effectiveness meeting, the European Union made a commitment to increase the proportion of aid it provides as budget support.
Delegations making programming decisions for the 10th EDF therefore have a choice of aid instruments with which to respond to nationally defined priorities.
I should just like to answer some of the more specific questions that have been raised.
On the question of a code of conduct, I can confirm that the Commission is willing to consider how to develop and implement a European code of conduct for the ethical recruitment of health workers.
On the question of tailored medicine, which was raised by two Members, we are currently supporting a study on the potential of trying to make better use of the available efforts as part of our partnership with the African Union.
Tomorrow we will have plenty of time to have a more in-depth discussion, when we discuss Mr&#160;van den Berg’s excellent report on the issue.
Several Members have mentioned the question of the proportion of development funds that is allocated to human and social development.
Most Commission financing is allocated through country programming.
In addition, general budget support financing includes linkage to progress measured against health indicators and is therefore a mechanism for supporting and reinforcing country-level prioritisation of the Millennium Development Goals.
The Commission will be increasing the proportion of development assistance given as budget support and will seek to increase the link between budget support and progress towards the Millennium Development Goals.
The decision on the proportion of financing allocated by countries to human and social development is ultimately a question for national governments.
The Commission will continue in its policy dialogue with governments to emphasise the importance of human and social development for economic growth and for poverty reduction. &#160;&#160; – To wind up the debate, I have received six motions for resolutions, pursuant to Rule 103(2)(1).
The debate is closed.
I would therefore, first of all, like to thank the European Parliament for having accepted the Commission’s request for urgent procedure.
Even though mainly wild birds have been the victims of avian flu, it has already had a strong negative impact on European consumption of poultry in many Member States.
The impact on prices has varied from country to country, but in general prices have been under pressure and have in some cases fallen significantly.
As a result, the poultry meat market faces an exceptionally serious situation and many in the poultry sector are in severe difficulties.
Since the beginning of the crisis last autumn, the Commission has made use of export refunds in order to support the market.
But the effects of those measures have been limited, not least as we have been faced with import restrictions on our exports into many third countries.
Member States have also announced or taken initiatives with regard to the possibility of using state aid.
We will, in the light of the crisis, examine any proposal as quickly as possible, taking into account both the need for rapid help and the need to avoid distortion of competition.
Our current CMO provides for measures that would allow special market support in cases where veterinary restrictions have been imposed.
The current scope of our CMO, however, does not allow the Commission to act in response to a crisis that is sparked by a lack of consumer confidence.
We are therefore proposing to extend the existing exceptional market support as laid down in Article&#160;14 of the CMO in order to include support measures in cases where serious market disturbances are caused by consumer reaction to public health or animal health risks.
Thanks to the European Parliament’s constructive stance and the rapid procedure it has chosen via which to consider this proposal, we should now be able to ensure a final adoption in the Council in the coming weeks.
We have some five billion chickens in the EU.
In some Member States we have seen that consumption drop up to 70%.
I do not believe that export refunds are the answer to this crisis.
I believe the way forward is to reduce the supply and then try to increase demand to get the industry back on its feet.
At the end of the day I agree with you, Commissioner, that 50% co-financing between Member States and the Commission must be the way forward.
I believe that will be the way forward for a lot of agriculture in the future. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to start by emphasising that the way in which the Commission dealt with bird 'flu was methodical, controlled and efficient.
The results of the bird crisis, as my honourable friend Mr&#160;Parish said, are also important for the cereal sector.
That is why, in addition to amending Article&#160;14 of the regulations on the operating regime of the poultry and egg market, we propose: - firstly, 50% financing of emergency measures linked directly to sanitary and veterinary measures; - secondly, 100% financing from Community resources in cases in which the fall in consumption is due to the blow to consumer confidence; - thirdly, promoting market measures, such as granting aid for warehouses, for a period required to stabilise the market and - finally, aid for the withdrawal of stocks and compensation for the destruction of eggs and poultry.
These measures will balance out market supply and demand.
We have also proposed funding for the removal of poultry while the market is inactive, in order to offset the costs of refrigeration.
A long-term information campaign must also be launched throughout the EU in order to regain consumer confidence.
The theatrical way in which the matter is being handled is creating an atmosphere of hysteria, and the EU has played its part in that by holding well-publicised, international summits to discuss the bird flu crisis.
There is even what appears to be an open-ended commitment for more funds in 2011.
It seems to me that the EU and some national governments are guilty of creating a massive public scare that has severely damaged the poultry industry, with little or no justification.
Forgive me for being cynical, but it also appears to be a handy way for the EU to promote itself as a caring organisation.
Whatever we are actually dealing with here is a virulent outbreak of public hysteria, generated by a highly contagious burst of over-the-top publicity from the national governments and the European Union.
In short, everyone needs to stop flapping around like headless chickens and start examining this matter with a degree of objectivity.
Mr&#160;President, from the medical point of view we seem to be winning the war against avian influenza, because very few outbreaks of the disease have occurred and only isolated cases involving human beings have been reported.
It is therefore entirely appropriate to act in support of the market.
This move deserves our full support, and I have in mind also the amendments aimed at increasing the degree of support.
In particular, I would like to draw attention to the amendment tabled by the Union for Europe of the Nations&#160;Group aimed at increasing the level of support in the new Member States where farmers and breeders are in a particularly difficult situation, as they are only in receipt of partial direct payments.
The best way to support the poultry sector is to provide reliable information and calm the market down.
It is best for this to be done by the European Commission, because the latter probably inspires greater confidence than national authorities in crisis situations of this nature.
Should similar situations arise in the future, reliable information must be made available to the citizens at a much earlier stage. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, to try and save time, I shall be very quick this evening.
I should simply like to thank the Commission for acting so quickly last week on the Council’s proposal.
Parliament demonstrated that it was also effective and, if all the institutions put their minds to it, it is clear that we can make the right decisions in eight days to respond to natural disasters, and come to the aid of the victims.
In any event, Commissioner, I also wished to congratulate the Commission on its rapid reaction to the problems being suffered by the poultry and egg market.
It is also the case that we have reacted with the urgency asked of us so that these two Regulations could be amended and the Commission would be provided with the legal basis to act.
And on both occasions, Commissioner, market support measures were taken at Community level and funded at 100%.
My group has therefore presented two amendments to the Commission’s proposal in this regard.
Commissioner, as I have said, we believe that this co-funding mechanism — contributions from Member States for measures that have always been of an exclusively Community nature — would set a serious precedent within the CAP and could jeopardise the principle of the single market. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the European Union has a wealth of experience in overcoming crisis situations.
It has applied exceptional measures to support the market on a number of occasions in the past, notably in connection with mad cow disease and foot and mouth disease.
The importance of poultry as part of the food sector must not be underestimated.
The regulation before us today also provides for significant support to the poultry sector.
That is why I believe a principle should be adopted whereby Member States receiving 100% of farm payments receive a 50% refund of the costs incurred, and countries not in receipt of full payments that are funding farming from their own budgets should receive at least 75%.
If we are to create a Europe of solidarity, it must manifest itself in social and economic terms.
It is often said that a person’s worth is best assessed in terms of the extent to which he or she is prepared to share with others.
A way of providing aid for the poultry sector in crisis situations must therefore be found.
A broader approach is called for, encompassing consideration of the special characteristics of farming and the need for intervention in certain agricultural markets in specific situations when intervention and outside aid are patently necessary.
We need to find a way of providing special support instruments within the common agricultural policy, in order to help this sector. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should also like to welcome the measures proposed this evening, which will hopefully be carried in tomorrow’s vote.
Furthermore, it strikes me that the time has come for Europe to reflect on the manner in which we apply the precautionary principle when it comes to all health problems, or any other problems that may affect our individual countries and the continent as a whole.
I believe in fact that unless Europe applies the precautionary principle, there is a major risk that, due to a succession of problems, and the fact that not all States have all the information or deal with information in the most appropriate fashion, as has been the case in recent months, there will be crises affecting entire sectors, both industrial and agricultural.
Unfortunately we have had other experiences of loss of consumer confidence in other food products.
I believe that Members of this House can play a role in communicating effectively and without panic what is happening throughout the European Union and why we are taking action.
Part of that response has to be accurate, clear, panic-free information to consumers. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I was delighted to endorse the Commission initiative on exceptional support measures for the poultry and egg sector, and I am sure many other Members felt likewise.
Initially, only wild birds were affected, and when the first cases of infection amongst farmed birds were confirmed, the demand for poultry went into free fall.
The main problem is the media and the panic arising as a result of the lack of cohesive information on the subject from the European Union.
I welcome the fact that the Commission has proposed exceptional market support measures for the avian sector to deal with the loss of consumer confidence in this sector.
Nonetheless, the proposal to cofinance 50% of the costs may have a negative impact on competition within the European Union and amount to a step towards renationalisation of the common agricultural policy.
They do not guarantee the stability of the markets in exceptional situations in the long term.
A new cohesive insurance system is therefore needed, as has been repeatedly stated in the House. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for being here tonight and in particular I would like to express my great satisfaction with the speed with which the Commission has dealt with this issue, which I believe to be important for everybody, for consumers and producers, in the European Union.
I am delighted, because consumers are losing confidence in the face of the possibility of being infected with a disease that we all know cannot be caught in this way.
Nevertheless, loss of confidence can lead them to stop consuming products such as eggs or chicken, and that would be very bad news, of course.
If it is 50%, in many cases certain governments would take a long time to do so.
Against this backdrop, the Commission has proposed changes to the regulations as regards the application of exceptional market support measures.
Yet to seek to increase the volume of exports to address the current shortfall in internal consumption runs counter to the principle of food sovereignty.
In this regard, is it reasonable to advocate, as some Member States have done, the destruction of healthy poultry stocks in order to regulate supply?
Lastly, mindful of previous crises that have seriously affected the agricultural world, such as bovine spongiform encephalopathy in 1997 and dioxin in 1999 – not forgetting that these problems were entirely different from avian influenza – would it not be opportune to set up a special commission, this time pre-emptively, tasked with detecting the causes of crises, in order to prevent them rather than trying to cure them? &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to endorse what Mr Daul, the chairman of our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, had to say, and warmly congratulate the Commissioner on the speed with which she has come up not only with an action plan, but also with unorthodox proposals to tackle the problem that is currently afflicting the poultry industry.
Indeed, the spreading of bird flu by migratory birds and the threat of the virus for people show that society has every reason to bring this disease to a standstill and ensure that the poultry sector does not go under.
It is, in fact, too crazy for words that, despite the threat to public health and the uncertain spread via birds living in the wild, vaccination against bird flu to protect man and animal is still a taboo subject.
Turning to the proposal itself, I would like to say that so far, market measures have always been taken, and funded, by the European Commission, with good reason, because in that way, the common market was strengthened and distortion of competition prevented.
I have to say, also on behalf of my party, the CDA, that the Commission in this matter, given its limited financial scope, has probably gone for the best option by plumping for cofinancing.
Nevertheless, I should like to call on the Commission to make firm pledges so as to avoid distortion of competition among Member States.
I fully agree with the proposal of the Commission.
In Amendments 1, 2 and 22 you asked for a list of the different support measures to be put into the Council regulation.
Therefore, I believe that some of the other measures proposed deserve to be looked into further.
Once again, I must underline that the purpose of this change of regulation is to try to fill in the legal gap that we have experienced and then allow the Member States to suggest the different possibilities that they consider to be the most efficient for them.
Therefore, while I have some sympathy for some of the measures you have proposed, I cannot accept or introduce them into the regulation as has been suggested.
Some of you mentioned co-financing, which is proposed in 11 of your amendments.
We have had the possibility of discussing this issue on several occasions when we amended our regulation on exceptional market measures.
The Commission considers that co-financing on market support measures is an important way to ensure that Member States assume their share of the responsibility for the handling of different crises linked to health issues.
We use this type of co-financing in relation to our veterinary measures, and we have had more than ten years’ experience in the co-financing of related exceptional market measures.
It is not the time for changing this approach and I am therefore not in a position to accept those amendments.
On the information campaign you asked for in Amendments 1, 2, 16, 17 and 22, it is not the kind of measure that fits into this proposal.
However, there is a Council regulation on internal promotion for European agricultural products, and I have asked my services to prepare an amendment to the existing Commission regulation so that generic promotion of poultry meat would be eligible for European funding.
It would be a waste of money to start a promotion campaign at this stage, but I can assure you that when the time is right, then all the legal aspects will be settled so that we can act immediately.
The slaughter of animals is not a priority in the intended measures and the Commission will propose action in line with the different animal welfare standards.
The Commission uses the export refund instrument in a prudent way, taking into account our different responsibilities within our international commitments regarding this instrument.
That is quite clear, and I can promise – as is already the case – that I will act as quickly as possible on any proposal put on my desk from the different Member States.
Trade problems created by vaccination cannot, in my view, justify the use of exceptional market support measures based on the new Article&#160;14.
Let me turn to Article&#160;14 in the existing Council legislative text, which was the subject of a question: Member States shall ensure that where producers contribute to the expenditure borne by Member States, this does not result in distortion of competition between producers in different Member States.
I would like simply to underline that this was the wording we put into the discussion we had last year on co-financing.
Finally, on procedure: the European Union’s swift handling of this proposal is another sign of its credibility as a valuable partner in tackling the problems that might arise within the agricultural sector.
Once again, it has been a great pleasure for me to do business with you. &#160;&#160; – The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 12&#160;noon.
