&#160;&#160; Written Declaration No 52/2005, by David Martin, Neil Parish, Peter Skinner, Terence Wynn and Robert Evans, on rising international concern over the farming of bear bile in China, has been signed by the majority of Members of this Parliament.
In accordance with Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure, it will be forwarded to the institutions named therein and will be published, indicating the names of the signatories, together with the texts approved on 17 January 2006. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I rise on behalf of all the authors to thank everybody in this Chamber who has signed this declaration.
It has received cross-party, cross-nationality support and it will now go forward to the Commission and the Council.
I think it is something the Chinese Government will really take notice of, because I believe bear farming in China must be brought to an end.
Finally, I would like to wish you all a happy Christmas. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I am asking for the floor under Rule&#160;145 on personal statements, which allows me to speak for up to three minutes; I will not take that much time.
The president of the sitting also saw fit to make a comment following one of my colleagues’ speeches, even though it contained no personal attacks and no insulting comments.
In all of my considerable parliamentary experience, I have never seen a sitting president act as arrogantly as Mr&#160;McMillan Scott and I find it deeply regrettable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I was indeed in the Chair when Mr Gollnisch made an explanation of vote.
My thanks go to all of you too, beginning with Mr&#160;Borrell, who closely followed all the stages of the procedure, and in addition, of course, to all my fellow Members, who made their own contributions via ideas and proposals, and who I hope today will also use their vote to contribute to a positive outcome, honouring me with their trust.
Where that is not the case, we call on the Commission to put forward a proposal for a virement as soon as possible.
The lines in question are 02 01 04 04; 04 01 04 05; 04 05 01; 04 05 02; 04 05 03; 09 03 01; 11 07 01; and 24 02 02.
Secondly, the section of Amendment 209 relating to line 19 08 02 01 – on the MEDA Programme – is approved in the sum of EUR&#160;25&#160;056&#160;550.
I also have one technical correction, which concerns Amendment 193 of Part 11, in connection with the European Court of Justice.
We shall therefore continue voting on other things and we shall return to it later.
That will be in the interests of the European Union and its relationship with the people of Europe.
The Committee on Development had adopted this amendment unanimously and I am very grateful to the members of that committee for their clear-sightedness and their support.
However, in order to send a message to the ACP countries that some of us here have not forgotten them, I request that my name be deleted from the text, and I have a proposal for my fellow members of the Committee on Development, and for them alone: make a final, symbolic gesture by voting ‘no’. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I would just like to request a purely formal correction to paragraph&#160;6 of the draft compromise resolution, reinstating the final phrase of the final clause starting ‘in order to’ at the end of the first part, in other words after ‘Association Council’, in order to reproduce the text on which we reached agreement.
I must stress how important this resolution is now that the Sakharov Prize has been awarded and given that we in this House emphasised yesterday that freedom of expression – a fundamental right – and freedom of the press must be a part of all our activities, particularly when we have agreements with partner countries. &#160;&#160; . – () Before we proceed to the vote, I would like to propose two more or less technical amendments.
I would also like to propose another amendment to the paragraph, or to Amendment 31, which is essentially of a technical nature as well, but I will probably do this when we vote on this paragraph. &#160;&#160; . – () In the last line, or in the last sentence of this paragraph, I would like to change the words ‘too brutal’ (‘príliš brutálne’ in Slovak) to the words ‘very significant’ (‘veľmi významné’).
Bearing in mind the nature of the report, we ought to have it in English. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I should like to propose, through an oral amendment, a merger of Amendments&#160;14, 12 and 5.
We want to propose to the Romanian Government that it settle a number of cases that are still pending, as a consequence of a moratorium on international adoption, proposed in the past by this Parliament.
I assume that, in this way, the objections to the original text would be removed. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I have no desire to hold up proceedings, but, as this is the last vote at which Members will be present in large numbers, I would like, on behalf of my group – and, I take it, also on behalf of all Members of the House – to thank the services most warmly for preparing the difficult votes that we have had over the past year.
The EU budget must primarily be used to create full employment in Europe and to help bring about sustainable social, economic and environmental development.
It believes that each EU budget should be limited to 1.00%.
In spite of all this, Parliament chooses again to propose new increases in expenditure in the run-up to the second reading.
However, we urge more radical reform of the overall budget. &#160;&#160; Regarding letter of amendment No 1, the Danish Liberal Party does not believe that the destruction of foodstuffs is appropriate.
Regarding letter of amendment No 2, the Danish Liberal Party wishes to solve the problems of famine in developing countries, but believes that doing so requires a far more serious and coordinated effort than that indicated in this proposal.
Regarding letter of amendment No 3, the Danish Liberal Party is opposed to aid for the export of live animals, but the amendment will not solve this problem.
Regarding letter of amendment No 6, the Danish Liberal Party supports reform of the reimbursement of travel expenses, so that all reasonable and necessary travel expenses are refunded.
It does not matter how much Parliament glosses over its complicity in the systematic reduction in the Community budget in recent years – surely this reflects the commitments made by the right-wing and social-democrat forces in the Commission, the Council and in every EU Member State – but the (cold) figures are there for all to see.
Overlooking its previous proposals, and throwing consistency out of the window, Parliament’s proposal for 2006 is virtually equivalent to what the Luxembourg Presidency proposed for 2007-2013.
If the perspective is not adopted before the end of the British Presidency, it will be the 2006 budget that will act as the basis for negotiations on the next annual budget, using the so-called ‘duodecimal’ system. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur again for an excellent report, while also pointing out that I believe that an error has crept in to the vote, since we should have voted on Amendment 24, moved by Mrs Lichtenberger from the Group of the Greens/Free Democratic Alliance, which would have included the automatic 60% mark-up on the infrastructure charges.
We also believe that environmental problems are cross-border in character and that there is thus added value in dealing with these issues at EU level. &#160;&#160; – () The reason I voted for the report is that it improves on the Commission’s proposal whilst also eliminating discrimination and ensuring equal rights for all people travelling by air.
I appreciate the fact that the single market in the area of air traffic services will serve all citizens equally and ensure that passengers are not refused air transport on the grounds of reduced mobility.
The regulation before us establishes rules to protect and to provide assistance to disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility travelling by air.
Disabled persons and persons whose mobility is restricted due to disability or other conditions, such as old age, still have the same rights as other citizens.
However, we reject the notion that improvements should be carried out under the competence of the Commission. &#160;&#160; . – The objective that the Council and the European Parliament have set themselves in this field, namely the principle of an integrated service to help passengers with disabilities and reduced mobility to access air transport, is not only laudable but indispensable, because there was an urgent need for action.
Many of our citizens think that disability issues have been resolved because legislation in many of our countries has been in place for years.
The smaller producers, on the other hand, could suffer from the 31% reduction in the guaranteed price. 2 - Above all, though, this reform is unfair to the poor sugar-producing countries.
European producers can count on a package of EUR&#160;1.5&#160;billion in compensation and EUR&#160;4.2&#160;billion for restructuring the sector, while the ACP countries currently have only the prospect of EUR&#160;40&#160;million.
The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament must, however, express regret about the fact that the agreement on the 2006 budget, entered into between the budget authorities, does not make it possible to increase the aid to the Sugar Protocol countries, as the proposed level of support has to be regarded as inadequate. &#160;&#160; The June List welcomes the reform of the EU’s sugar regime and finds it encouraging that this sector is being adapted to the market to a greater degree.
The new organisation of the market for sugar will thus have consequences for certain ACP countries.
The change to the organisation of the market is, however, necessary and is in the long-term interests of all the parties.
The European Parliament’s rapporteur recommends that significant economic adjustment aid be paid to the ACP countries.
The 18 ACP countries, signatories to the Sugar Protocol, export 1.6&#160;million tonnes of cane sugar a year to the European Union at the EU price.
As the ACP countries have quite rightly said, the reform is too fast and too extensive.
Such a move will contribute towards responsible fishing in the third country concerned, and ensures fishing opportunities for the EU’s distant fishing fleet.
The agreement in question safeguards fishing opportunities for around 52 Community vessels, including five Portuguese surface longliners.
I welcome the fact that this agreement is an instrument that will protect fisheries activities and jobs in fishing fleets, and the fact that it upholds the general principles for preserving fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy. &#160;&#160; The June List believes that the EU should immediately cease concluding fisheries agreements with third countries.
The report as a whole emphasises, however, that the agreements are of benefit both to the EU and to third countries.
A case in point is Portugal, where the number of vessels has dwindled year on year.
I voted against this report because the Fisheries Agreements in practice merely export our own disastrous fisheries policy to the rest of the world.
More so, in our Union of 25 it will collapse under the weight of its own contradictions.
This agreement is an opportunity for all and beneficial to everyone: - It will give Community vessels transparent and managed access to the fishery resources of the Seychelles; - In return, the financial compensation paid by the EU will be a great support to coastal populations, by assisting in the development of certain vital economic sectors, such as the processing industry and port services. - I would add that the agreement allows for the option of increasing the financial compensation paid by the EC depending on catch volumes.
The only fly in the ointment now is the lack of consideration given to the European Parliament.
I hope that, in future, the European Parliament will be more involved in monitoring this agreement throughout its lifetime.
I also agree with the rapporteur, however, that a more stable solution needs to be found than the one in the Commission’s proposal, a solution that would preclude the need to use a range of provisional procedures that cause problems for Community operators and the fisheries sector in the third country.
The overwhelming support for Regional Advisory Councils (RACs) sends a clear signal to the European Commission that these organisations require funding after the transitional period.
We must now call on the Commission to come forward with clear proposals to help RACs.
The Caucasus countries are working hard to rebuild themselves and the EU can, must, play a role in their reconstruction and expand our area of peace and prosperity to cover them also.
However, we are concerned that there are continued attempts to facilitate the rapid adoption of the EU Constitution and implement legislation for an "Area of Freedom, Security and Justice" which we do not support. &#160;&#160; . – The Commission’s legislative programme for 2006 illustrates a concept of Europe that is now obsolete: - an antidemocratic Europe, following an underhand ‘plan D’ to force on us a constitution that the French and Dutch rejected; - a Europe without borders, open to worldwide immigration, allowing, in particular, the hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants regularised in Spain and Italy to settle in other Member States; - an antisocial Europe, which, by implementing the ultraliberal Lisbon Strategy, causes our businesses to relocate and dismantles our employment law (the Bolkestein directive, which Mr&#160;Chirac promised in April was dead and buried, will once again be put to a vote here in Parliament); - a Europe with no identity, which, by opening accession negotiations with Turkey, an Asiatic, Muslim country, will soon be European only in name; - an antinational Europe, dissolving our nations into a bureaucratic superstate.
The Tunisian Government is quite happy engaging in backroom diplomacy to brush under the carpet the increasingly worrying situation of the 401 political prisoners, the five political parties not permitted to speak freely to the Tunisian citizens, and the large number of associations that cannot operate freely.
We therefore feel it is only right that the new Member States should fully enjoy the same support for their activities and that high levels of consumer protection should be promoted in all EU Member States.
Nowadays, the focus has shifted towards ‘selling’ that value and towards promoting the kind of consumerism that fuels the contradictions inherent in capitalism. &#160;&#160; According to the rapporteur, the general public and businesses in the ten new Member States are unaware of the rights and opportunities offered by the harmonised EU legislation on consumer protection.
We regret that the European Parliament is again using a very important political issue to introduce new budget headings and unduly far-reaching EU measures. &#160;&#160; – () I voted in favour of this report because I regard it as very important for all regions that are unable to initiate their own development measures without financial support.
In connection with this report, I would like to express my doubts regarding the British proposal for the Financial Perspective, as it disregards one of the basic objectives of the EU – the levelling of regional differences. &#160;&#160; This report addresses the issue of state aid to enable neglected regions to develop.
We welcome the fact that, despite the Commission’s original proposal with regard to regional state aid, those regions affected by what is known as the ‘statistical effect’ will retain the same regional state aid status as the convergence regions until 2013, without any review period.
Let us be clear that the Commission’s proposed new reform of state aid provides for substantial reductions to the scope in which state aid can be granted.
No one can yet be convicted in Europe of illegal activity, but the weight of evidence suggests that European law has almost certainly been breached in a number of Member States and applicant countries.
Rather, we need a wider investigation that looks at causes rather than symptoms; an investigation that looks at protecting democracy at home and abroad that looks at how we can fight terrorism protect human rights. &#160;&#160; We share the view that it is very important to make EU aid effective and that coordination of the existing aid efforts is needed.
All Member States and political parties are unanimous in recognising that there has been no tangible result.
The negotiations on the 2007-2013 financial perspective are a telling example of the way in which the United Kingdom has conducted its Presidency.
Jack Straw showed tremendous insensitivity when he described the British proposal as disciplined, fair and geared towards enlargement and greater economic competitiveness, while vehemently criticising the Luxembourg proposal as unrealistic and unbalanced.
The Luxembourg proposal could have lasted the pace, having enjoyed the support of 22 of the Member States, whereas the British one has been rejected by every Member State and every political group in Parliament.
The European Project and the citizens who believe in it have no truck with the kind of national self-interest thus far demonstrated by this Presidency. - The CIA and the illegal transportation of prisoners (RC-B6-0649/2005) &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, we abstained on the joint resolution on the covert transport of prisoners suspected of Islamist terrorism by the CIA.
The law exists, and it also protects those who break it in the most shameless way, by which I mean terrorists.
I fully support my Socialist Group's demand that this whole matter be investigated by a European Parliament Committee of Inquiry.
I hope that all MEPs endorse the demand now being made by Socialist MEPs and agree to the Committee of Inquiry being established immediately. &#160;&#160; The resolution addresses a serious issue; but what, in this situation, are speculation and loose assertions, and what are facts?
The EU, in the security political arena and precisely as far as the so-called struggle against terrorism is concerned, has agreed on a close cooperation with NATO and the USA.
There are other areas that I could mention, but I think these are enough to show the EU ‘at its best’. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to highlight the fact that we voted in favour of the compromise amendment presented last night by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament – to which I personally contributed – even though I believe that this amendment is weaker than the text in Article 21, which we had contributed to defining.
We do not expect this to happen before Christmas, but we do still hope that it happens so that these children – whose right to a family is a priority, as is decreed by all the legislation in force at international level – can be reunited with their parents.
The rapporteur expresses his concern at persistent delays in a number of areas, such as improving administrative capacity, combating corruption and implementing the ‘acquis communautaire’ in certain areas of agriculture, public contracts and the environment.
As regards this particular report, I am in favour of the proposals put forward to the Commission aimed at fair treatment between the sexes and equal rights at work.
Against this backdrop, we support the setting up of women’s networks and associations in the fisheries sector at both local and national level.
This report gives recognition to women in the fisheries sector and should be wholeheartedly supported. &#160;&#160; That concludes the explanations of vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to express my gratitude to the House for the endorsement given to this written statement by some 400 Members.
There has been support across all party and national boundaries for the idea that there should be one telephone number in Europe that children can call in order to express their worries and needs.
I hope that we will not leave it at that, but that the worries and needs of the weakest members of our society will continue to spur us into action.
My warm thanks to all those who have made this commitment and will continue to do so in future. &#160;&#160; The next item is five motions for resolutions on the human rights situation in Tibet and Hong Kong(1). &#160;&#160; . – Mr President, my group has serious concerns about human rights in China.
Those concerns are particularly true in Tibet, where we continue to receive many reports of violations in particular against Buddhist monks and people who follow the Buddhist faith.
As for Hong Kong, we strongly support demands for the provision of universal suffrage within the territory.
I would note, however, that in far too many countries in the world the demonstration on 4&#160;December of tens of thousands of people in favour of such universal suffrage would not have been permitted.
Again and again, we come up against the problem that the Dalai Lama is treated as a separatist, even though he has always explicitly supported the ‘one China’ policy, does not support any secessionist movements, and even though his own requests for negotiations on autonomy are couched in the most pacific terms.
Public education began as a tool of repression in 1996 in China, but it has escalated since 2005.
The Chinese Government is attempting to brainwash the people.
The Chinese Government must listen to our calls for respect for human rights.
Over 10&#160;000 monks and nuns in Tibet have been obliged to undergo brainwashing since 1996, something that constitutes a flagrant breach of freedom of opinion and religion.
The intention is that threats, periods of detention, and torture should induce the inhabitants of monasteries to denounce the Dalai Lama, in writing as an enemy of the state and a separatist.
Mrs Lynn has already described how, on 23 November, Chinese security forces occupied the Drepung monastery near the capital, Lhasa.
When they arrested five senior monastics, 400 monks mounted a peaceful demonstration for their release.
The effect of the Chinese system of re-education through work is that people can be sent, without a court having passed sentence upon them, to a camp for up to three years.
That is a manifest offence against their personal integrity and against the dignity of every human being. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, in October&#160;2005 the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the Chinese authorities’ unjust imprisonment of the Lama Tenzin Delek Rinpoche.
It merely demonstrated the extent to which human rights are violated in China.
The Chinese authorities are currently implementing a policy of ‘patriotic education’, and forcing Tibetans to sign declarations in which they reject the Dalai Lama as their spiritual leader and acknowledge that Tibet is part of China.
These extraordinary ‘patriotic education’ sessions have already resulted in the death of one monk in unknown circumstances and the arrest of five others.
In view of the situation in Tibet, it is clear that the international community must continue to exert pressure on China to improve the conditions in which prisoners are held and to abolish the use of torture and the death penalty.
In addition, the Tibetan people must be supported in their fight for life and a continued national identity.
It is also worth mentioning in passing that only a dozen or so of the over 3&#160;000&#160;Buddhist monasteries that were once found in Tibet are still in existence.
I cannot recall the European Parliament passing any resolutions at that time condemning Britain for imposing such an undemocratic system on the people of Hong Kong.
More seriously, faced with a dictatorial regime which restricts, imprisons, tortures and kills its people, how can we express our indignation beyond our little debate this afternoon?
When Hong Kong was handed back to China, the formula of two systems in one country was devised.
People laboured under the illusion that, for Hong Kong, this would mean that, unlike in the rest of China, a parliamentary democracy on the basis of universal suffrage and a multi-party system could exist.
We now know what those two systems come down to: capitalism under the control of the governing party in the largest part of China, and capitalism without that control in Hong Kong.
The situation in Hong Kong, where a small selected group has been given the responsibility of self-government, is of course preferable by far to the situation in Tibet, where violence, intimidation and re-education are the instruments employed by the central authority.
A policy of ‘patriotic education’, which amounts to indoctrination, has been introduced in the country in order to boost support for the Chinese Government among the Tibetan monks, and to combat the influence of the exiled Dalai Lama.
Tibet has been brutally occupied by China since 1950.
The Tibetans have not given up their peaceful fight for freedom, however, even though at least one fifth of the country’s inhabitants have died of hunger, been tortured to death or been executed.
The Government of the People’s Republic of China, however, even imposes strict controls on religious practices and places of worship.
The situation in China in recent times can be described as a highly explosive mixture of Communism and capitalism.
While it may well be the case that those in power are responsible for human rights violations in individual countries, we should not forget that the moral relativism of the Western world is also partly responsible.
The European Union and most Member States are more interested in China’s economic potential than in having human rights respected.
I was also embarrassed when I heard a while ago that the Belgian Government had denied the Dalai Lama access to its territory, because this could be harmful to our contacts with Communist China.
We are currently debating the situations in Tibet and Hong Kong, but we could also debate the threats to Taiwan or the existence of the lao gai concentration camps in China.
These issues are very high on the agenda of our dialogue with China.
On 12&#160;December, the General Affairs and External Relations Council also approved the Commission’s negotiating mandate for a new partnership and cooperation agreement with China.
It supports early and substantial progress towards the ultimate goal of universal suffrage in Hong Kong, as set out in the basic law, in line with the wishes of the people of Hong Kong.
As regards the situation in Tibet, the European Union has put Tibet very high on its agenda with China.
We are worried to see that the local authorities have imposed a strict framework setting limits on the exercise of this freedom, and we deplore the recent cases of detention of monks and, in particular, the blockade of the monastery of Drepung in Lhasa.
In our view, the opening of a direct dialogue should not be made subject to any precondition.
We fully agree with Russia’s human rights ombudsman Vladimir Lukin that the draft law goes against Russia’s own constitution.
The freedom of NGOs to operate is an essential part of democracy and stable civil society, which the Russian leadership had said it supports.
Parliament is worried about recent developments in Russia, and now the Duma has an excellent opportunity to contribute to the development of democracy.
Khodorkovsky and Lebedev are being held, contrary to Russian law, in prison camps in Siberia, a long way from Moscow and north of the Arctic Circle, in temperatures of -&#160;50°.
Their defence counsel, Yevgeni Baro and Yuri Schmit, are themselves facing trial next week on a charge of defamation.
It is a well accepted fact that NGOs and non-profit-making organisations are often key to developing a strong and well functioning civil society.
Although this may be understandable under certain circumstances, it is not acceptable in terms of proper respect of human rights.
The discrepancies between rich and poor that have come about as a result are now more pronounced than in the European Union.
In the areas of democracy and human rights, the situation is certainly no better than it was in the final years of the Soviet Union under Mr Gorbachev’s leadership, and the oppression in Chechnya outstrips the crimes of Stalin.
Where democracy and human rights are concerned, Russia is continuing a bad tradition.
It is not so much Russia that has changed, as the perception of that nation in the countries of the European Union.
The return to a blemished past is hastened by a law that places non-commercial organisations of citizens under government control and that has the power to suspend their funding and to dissolve them.
It is often the case in these debates that we take up the cudgels against small-time dictators and neglect to address the human rights situation in major states that are of strategic and economic importance to us.
This is particularly significant in view of the forthcoming presidential elections, which will be held in 2008 and which will determine the future of democracy in Russia.
The European Union should waive the requirement for Russian citizens to hold visas before they can enter EU Member States.
It will give people like Mrs Alexejeva and Mr Gari Kasparov a shot in the arm and will also give a boost to the many who are active in NGOs, like Mr Nikitin at Bellona, and to NGOs like Immemorial, Greenpeace, Social Verdict and the Civil Society Contact Group.
The resolution before us deserves our overwhelming support. &#160;&#160; .&#160;&#160;&#160;Ladies and gentlemen, democracy and freedom are under threat in Russia.
The second reason for the resolution is the influence exerted by the government over the majority of media outlets.
In Italy, Prime&#160;Minister&#160;Berlusconi controls a decisive share of the television market, and indeed of the media market in general.
Foreign owners clearly dominate the media in the Czech Republic, where 80% of the press is in the hands of two German groups.
Unless, of course, Members of this House have drafted a motion for a resolution condemning media monopolies in EU Member States. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, it is a shame that we are discussing human rights violations in Russia on a Thursday afternoon.
Yet it is an unfortunate fact that laws are being adopted in Russia which are alien and incomprehensible to us in Europe.
Russia is moving ever further away from democratic standards, and we cannot stand idly by and watch fundamental rights being denied in a country that has a privileged relationship with the EU.
The new law prohibits the activities carried out in line with the rules previously in force by Russian branches and representations of foreign and international organisations.
Certain Russian politicians have claimed that NGOs are a tool used by third countries to conduct foreign policy in Russia, but these arguments are absurd and make a mockery of the concept of democracy.
The European Union should make known its strong opposition to such a reprehensible attitude, which is symptomatic of the increase in xenophobia among Russia’s political elite.
The existence of 450&#160;000&#160;NGOs in Russia, and the fact that they are so active, testify to the popularity of this aspect of public and social life in Russia.
The European Union should support this manifestation of civil society. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although I fully support the proposed resolution, I would just like to point out that the Council and the Commission are applying double standards in respect of the Eastern States.
We have to help Russia become a confident nation which sees that there is no conflict between strength and a democratic, thriving civil society.
We cannot have a good Christmas, we cannot have a good conscience, if we do not see what is happening to our near neighbour. &#160;&#160; – Thank you Mr President.
It is an undeniable fact that organisations known as NGOs and MPOs have a vital role in our civil society, both in large countries such as Russia, as well as in small countries such as where I come from.
There are a number of issues which give us cause for concern and which we raise regularly with Russia within the framework of the existing strategic partnership.
We have been concerned that it could make the operations of many NGOs, especially foreign ones, more difficult, and could therefore potentially jeopardise the Commission’s efforts to help build up civil society in Russia, as well as our humanitarian aid programme in Chechnya.
Finally, let me say that we want to address these issues in a spirit of cooperation with Russia.
How can Mr Blair, the British Prime Minister and President-in-Office of the European Council, continue to allow in his Commission for Africa Mr Meles Zenawi, who is keeping imprisoned and threatening with the death penalty the elected opposition leaders, journalists, human rights and development campaigners and even the Ethiopian representatives of the Global Call to Action against Poverty?
We cannot therefore remain on the sidelines in view of the events that are taking place in that country, particularly following the brutal and entirely unjustified policy of human rights abuses and mass imprisonment of opposition leaders, human rights activists and NGO workers implemented by the Ethiopian authorities.
This morning the First Secretary at the Ethiopian Mission to the EU told me that Ethiopia wanted the situation resolved but needed channels of discussion on the process of implementing the boundary commission decision.
This may be the political equivalent of a cheque in the post, but I understand that the Council and Commission are committed to pursing a robust discussion on democracy and human rights issues under Article&#160;8 of the Cotonou Agreement.
The fear of a new war is now real and the devastating hostilities of the recent past may once again become a nightmare reality of the present.
We now hear that some eighteen thousand youths have been arrested in Addis Ababa and have been taken to an open field by the Dedesa River and imprisoned.
This motion for a resolution has a number of ideas as to how, but I would be grateful for your update, Mr Commissioner, on what your plans are and what action you will be taking.
The government must disclose how many, particularly how many young people, have been imprisoned and how many killed.
I say this because a not insignificant number of Ethiopians are Christian, and Ethiopia, which is one of the two largest countries in Africa, has Christian roots.
I hope that Mr&#160;Verheugen will speak boldly about the will and determination of the European Commission and of the EU authorities to stand up for human rights in a country in which such rights are indeed being violated, whatever anyone may say.
The Commission condemns the killings of innocent civilians by the security forces on the streets of Addis Ababa and in other cities of the country in July and November.
The Ethiopian authorities have been duly notified of our concerns but have not yet reacted in a constructive manner.
On the political front, the European Union Heads of Mission will launch a structured political dialogue with the Ethiopian Government, according to Article 8 of the Cotonou Agreement.
These indicators mainly relate to progress in the democratisation process, the respect for human rights and the rule of law, as well as issues of regional peace and stability.
Furthermore, the initiative is with the United Nations Security Council because the United Nations is the guarantor of the Algiers Peace Agreement and can enforce international law. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Since then the human rights situation in Ethiopia has remained dire, while in Eritrea it has deteriorated from adequate to very poor.
