Has Mr&#160;Turmes just proposed to vote in favour of the urgent procedure or against?
Since that date, this first step towards the opening of the rail network in the fifteen EU Member States, which effectively covers 90% of the main rail corridors, has presented rail operators, irrespective of their national origins, with an equal opportunity to use the European rail network for international freight traffic in a way that best suits the needs of customers.
Secondly, Parliament agrees with the Council regarding the opening of the remaining lines in the rail network to international freight traffic on 1&#160;January&#160;2006.
That, however, is by no means a huge leap forward, since, as I just mentioned, practically 90% of total track mileage was opened to international freight traffic on 15&#160;March of this year.
Consequently, Parliament continues to call for the rail networks to be fully opened to national as well as international freight operators on 1&#160;January&#160;2006 so that the entire EU rail network will be open to all freight services, be they national or international, on that date.
In this way we can truly achieve the aim set down in the Commission White Paper – and I am grateful, Commissioner, that we have always followed the same line here – to restore rail transport to its former market position by 2010 and to transfer as much freight as possible to the railways.
The aim is more comprehensive than this, however.
If you consider the increase in the number of private cars on the motorways and the growth in the volume of air traffic, you will appreciate that our motorways and air corridors are coming close to saturation point.
And this is why we in this House want the rail networks to be opened to operators of passenger trains on 1&#160;January&#160;2008.
Unless we take that step, the shift from road to rail and air to rail that is envisaged for the year 2010 will leave passenger traffic untouched.
In short, we want to ensure that the aim of rebalancing the transport market by 2010 applies to passenger transport too.
Some people have repeatedly stressed that the Commission has announced the presentation of a third rail package by the end of the year, a package that will include passenger transport.
That is all very honourable, Commissioner, but it does not help us in any way, because, as you know, if the Commission failed to present this package by December of this year, we could no longer adopt the package, or even give it a first reading, before the end of the current legislative term.
We want them to have time to anticipate the needs of the travelling public so that we are actually able to effect the transfer of a substantial volume of long-distance traffic from road and air to the railways by 2010.
Lastly, the committee proposed that the existing options allowing Member States to permit companies other than railway undertakings to apply for train paths should be scrapped in favour of a provision enabling consignors, forwarders and the like to apply for the use of train paths alongside railway undertakings in all Member States.
In other words, we must enable more players in the market to apply for and use the available train paths if we want to maximise the volume of freight carried by rail.
Allow me, as the spokesman for my group, to say a few words in anticipation of the other two reports, because it would make no sense for me to sit down and then stand straight back up again.
I should like to begin these remarks on behalf of my group by expressing my sincere thanks to the rapporteurs from the other groups.
You will be aware that the Council has already tried to find compromises that will enable us to conclude the legislative process quickly.
Allow me to make two or three remarks on the Sterckx report.
I believe it is very important that we cooperate with the Commission in order to find a mechanism that prevents the introduction of allegedly essential safety provisions that are actually designed to discriminate against other rail operators.
My group also attaches importance to the proper training of train crews and all other personnel on whom the safety of rail travel depends.
We still have a problem here, Commissioner, that being that one directive devoted purely to the training of engine drivers might not suffice.
The main point in the Savary report – and we are right behind the rapporteur on this – is the imbalance in the Council’s proposal for the composition of the Administrative Board.
The amended proposal made by the Commission is for an Administrative Board comprising six representatives of the Council, four representatives of the Commission, and six non-voting representatives of the industry, in other words of the relevant railway undertakings, and rail users.
The Council is now proposing that all Member States be represented on the Board.
I extend my thanks to many of my fellow Members, therefore, for their valuable contribution to the debate on safety, and also to many people from the railway community, who have made a fair few suggestions, improved the texts, pointed out difficulties and so on.
I should also like to stress the importance of the agreement reached by the social partners (the trade unions and the European railway companies).
There are two significant points on which we disagree with the Council, however.
The European Parliament wants to proceed more quickly, and I think that we should stand firm on that view.
Hence the importance of Article&#160;8: the role of the Commission as supervisor of the system.
We must enter into the conciliation procedure on those four directives simultaneously.
The Council does not yet go as far as this: much less far than the Commission and Parliament.
We must negotiate hard in the conciliation procedure in order to bring the Council a long way towards our position.
There is a small increase in passenger transport, but the situation regarding freight has taken another turn for the worse.
The railways must become more efficient, much more dynamic, than is now the case.
They must focus on their customers, those who use their services, and they must focus on their service – ensure that they are giving their customers the best possible service – so that those customers stay with them, or come back to them.
Indeed, my request that the agreement between the social partners be ratified took its inspiration from the social sphere.
This package gives the railways the opportunity of ‘recapturing’ the transport market.
Consequently, the proposals contained in my report seek to support the development of the railways.
One such reason is the failure to take account of the environmental costs of road transport, which is the main competitor of rail transport.
The decline of the railways is also linked to problems concerning finance.
On this issue, I am bound to refer back to what I said previously and I can only reiterate that this aspect is far from satisfactory.
Lastly, our rapporteur will understand that I do not agree with amending our objectives, including opening up the sector to competition and considering this action to be as important as safety.
This second rail package has several dimensions.
I believe safety cannot be sacrificed in the interests of freedom.
Both the Sterckx and the Ainardi reports uphold the principle of the primacy of social dialogue in the legislative processes of the European&#160;Union.
The Commission is also fully aware that this position has been maintained in the vote in the Committee&#160;on&#160;Regional&#160;Policy, Transport&#160;and&#160;Tourism.
One of the main prerequisites for an entirely effective and safe trans-European high-speed rail network is a functioning system of communication, especially between those who conduct operations and those who oversee them.
I refer to the proposed regulation on the ecopoints system for HGVs travelling through Austria, which was the subject of the Caveri report and which has now gone to conciliation, although the conciliation process has not yet begun in earnest.
As far as freight transport is concerned, there are no differences between us; we agree on the need for liberalisation or opening of the market in freight transport, because, over the past few years, and indeed decades, the percentage of freight transported by rail has steadily fallen.
The domain of road haulage has experienced the very liberalisation that we actually want to see in the realm of rail transport.
The primacy of road over rail cannot be regarded as the triumph of free enterprise over nationalised industries, because road transport could not have flourished without public investment.
My group will vote for the Jarzembowski report, but I should like to say very clearly on its behalf that attempts to liberalise freight transport will only succeed if they are accompanied by greater flexibility on passenger transport.
The successful liberalisation of rail transport will also depend on measures such as the harmonisation of technical specifications and safety standards.
Thirdly, liberalisation will only work if more funds are invested in the infrastructure.
I am somewhat saddened by the fact that, following a very good submission or submissions to the Council by the Commission, no clear statement has emerged on investments in the trans-European networks, particularly on additional incentives, in other words the 30% that the Commission is seeking for cross-border projects.
As I have already mentioned, one of the many reasons why road transport has established its supremacy is that road users do not pay the external costs, in other words the environmental costs.
I do find it alarming, however, to read about what has been happening in the Council, to learn how little approval and support there is for the position adopted by the Commission.
I hope that this House will support the Commission more strongly on this issue, and I should like to express my thanks once again to the rapporteurs for their efforts in this direction.
I visited a private company in Rotterdam that now transports half of its containers by rail: that means a 50%&#160;market share compared to the old monopolists that are stuck in their ways.
The entry of private entrepreneurs into the market has therefore contributed towards halting the comparative loss of a mode of transport.
We must therefore encourage more private players to invest in the use of the railways, so as to secure their future as an alternative mode of transport.
I should also like to warn, however, that in so doing we must not hinder a number of countries from liberalising freight transport.
Here, I am referring in particular to countries such as France and Belgium: although their organisations are investing abroad, they do not permit foreign undertakings to develop activities on their railways.
Safety and interoperability go hand in hand, and are also the most important reason why the railways have the potential to be a good, quick and competitive mode of transport compared to road transport.
I have observed that a train travelling from the Netherlands to southern Germany – through two countries and three – has seven changes of locomotive.
It is absolutely ridiculous that this is supposed to be the alternative to road transport.
I think that this represents a step that is of considerable importance to freight transport throughout Europe. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, rail transport was once started by private companies who anticipated making a profit by doing so.
Many of those companies went bankrupt or were notable for their poor-quality, frequently interrupted service.
We have now reached a phase in which a large-scale uniform European model is aspired to on the one hand, but at the same time a return to the nineteenth century model of individual private companies is being propagated.
The champions of this model hold up transport companies that have undergone prolific growth in the free market, such as airlines and HGV companies, as an example to the railways, which they see as outmoded.
They all have in common that they envisage an important role for rail transport again in the future, too; and that represents progress in relation to the time when the railways were consigned to the museum of nineteenth century curiosities.
The Jarzembowski report is one of an endless succession of attempts at greater and faster liberalisation, not only for cross-border freight transport, but even for domestic passenger transport.
Although I am not a supporter of great power on the part of the Council, I hope that, if a majority in this Parliament supports the rapporteur, the Council will restrict such an attempt this time, too.
The Sterckx report places rather less emphasis on a free market, but takes a fairly centralistic view, such that it leaves insufficient scope for national and regional measures.
The Ainardi and Savary reports are aimed at quality for society, users and staff, and thus have my support. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, along with the entire communications infrastructure and the media, the rail network is crucial to turning the European Union into a political entity without frontiers.
This is as much the case now as it has been in the development of modern states over the last 200&#160;years.
These services are needed for economic progress and modernisation, just as the measure of extending the high speed network is also required, at present, in order to dynamise and revitalise productive activity.
My group rejects Mr&#160;Jarzembowski’s report, since his approach runs counter to the one outlined above, but will vote in favour of the Sterckx report on safety, the Ainardi report on interoperability, and the Savary report on the European Railway Agency, which are compatible with it.
For me, as a Galician, and for all inhabitants of nations located far from the geographical centre of Europe, these European Parliament decisions should, of course, be a way for us to gain access to high-speed communication with the whole of Europe.
The only question is how it should be done.
If we give entrepreneurs this scope, it is important that we lay down clear rules on use and safety.
All in all, we have here a solid package that will hopefully enable us to create some scope for the sector to develop. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the treatment of these reports as a single unit named ‘rail package’, whereby various part-aspects of the railways issue are covered – for example safety on the Community’s railways, the development of high-speed lines, the granting of licences to railway undertakings, and the levying of charges and the allocation of railway infrastructure – presents me with the opportunity of drawing Parliament’s attention today, in the course of the discussion on the trans-European rail system, to the continuing blocking of the ‘Iron Rhine’ dossier.
The Iron Rhine is an outstanding example of a European transport line that is useful to an open economy.
After all, the Iron Rhine in the Ruhr area of the German hinterland opens up not only the port of Antwerp, but also the ports of Ghent, Zeebrugge and Ostend.
The Iron Rhine already exists, and has proved its usefulness in the past, but it fell into disuse some decades ago because the costs of environmental adjustment, such as tunnelling in certain places, became much too high for the line to be made profitable in a short space of time.
Nowadays, however, Flanders feels the need to reactivate this railway line, in view of the growing problems with container traffic in Flanders, the Netherlands and Germany, which is growing at an exponential rate.
Unfortunately, however, the Netherlands is conducting a policy of obstruction in this matter, one that is dictated by its own plans to provide the port of Rotterdam with a modern connection to the Ruhr area via the extortionate and environmentally damaging Betuwe Line, from which, however, not a single European country stands to derive any economic benefit.
Our Rules of Procedure are perfectly clear on that point. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, I should like to congratulate the four rapporteurs on the work they have done and to wish them continuing success, because it is obvious that the conciliation procedure with the Council is going to follow.
Road transport in Europe has been liberalised for a number of years now.
The same applies to air transport.
There is no justification for why the railways in particular should be shackled and why there should not be a single network and free competition at European level.
All the more so in that all the political powers of Europe want, theoretically at least, to promote the railways, because they are an environmentally-friendly means of transport.
Consequently, it is vital that we proceed with courageous steps in the field of liberalisation and I would honestly say to you that, if I personally had to decide what needed to be done on the railway market, I would liberalise it tomorrow morning.
Parliament, for years at the vanguard of the liberalisation of the railways, is quite right to insist on the amendments made at first reading and I hope that, within the framework of the conciliation which will follow, we shall be able, with the Italian Presidency, to find the best possible result by December.
I hope that the Commissioner will help us with the statement she has made and which may be used as a final refuge so that, immediately afterwards, we can proceed to liberalise the railway market as far as passengers are concerned.
Thereafter, the permanent concern of Parliament, and obviously of our group, is safety.
That is why we talk in the Sterckx report of black boxes, as used on ships and in aeroplanes.
We shall proceed in this spirit, hoping that, by the end of the Italian Presidency at the end of December, we shall have the best possible result on the criterion of the liberalisation of the railway market, not because we consider it an end in itself, but because we believe that it is the best way of serving the European economy, European consumers and the workers themselves, in that more jobs will be created. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to thank all our rapporteurs for their work on a complicated yet important area within the transport brief, namely our railways and the future of our railways.
So I start this morning with a friendly warning to the railway industry that unless it gets its act together, and unless we all work together in the area of rail freight, it will disappear in 20 years or so.
The result of that 'boldness' was a botched privatisation that caused absolute chaos in the railway industry and has caused the present government to spend a lot more money on the railways than was planned.
I would like to thank him for his work and, in particular, for his efforts to get a compromise solution that is acceptable to us all.
I just want to say that everybody supports safety.
They have done excellent work with respect to this important matter.
We have dawdled far too long in the development of the railways.
Developing the railways means we can ease congestion on the roads and encourage environmentally friendly transport.
A workable railway system and moderately priced and competitive services are important both for congested areas and also the export industry in more remote regions.
The opening up of competition in freight and passenger transport will encourage the development of rail transport.
The role of the Member States in their adoption of national rules will also be important.
The main task of the Railway Agency will be to promote best practice and facilitate cooperation between the players in the railway sector.
The various players in the railway sector must be involved in the work of the Agency but not every Member State can be represented on the Administrative Board.
The first principle is that rail transport is a public service.
Following the decisions of the Council after the first reading, and the recent votes in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, we will again oppose liberalisation of freight transport by 2006 and of passenger transport by 2007.
We will establish our final position on the Sterckx&#160;report on the basis of the results of the vote on the amendments in plenary.
The Sterckx, Ainardi and Savary reports are more in tune with the needs of today.
We are already seeing in a few countries the damage this can do to regional cross-border passenger rail transport.
Surely it cannot be the case that, in a United Europe, non-TGV cross-border rail traffic, of all things, becomes much more expensive or even disappears.
I have already drawn the Commission’s attention to this, in a parliamentary question, and, in its reply, it shares my opinion, calling this ‘an anomaly in the internal market’.
I hope that the European Agency carries out a clear evaluation of this, and that we include this aspect in the debate on trans-European networks.
We propose awaiting the proposals that the Commission is going to make at the end of this year with regard to liberalisation.
Let us first concentrate on freight transport, however, as that surging flow needs to be put on the railways urgently. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the radical reform of the railways is based on a noble idea.
The European&#160;Parliament made a higher bid and declared its support for opening up rail passenger transport to competition at the first reading.
Faced with the opposition of the Council, we are now witnessing an attempt to force this through at the second reading.
The concept of rail transport is that of a precious public service that contributes to social cohesion and to harmonious national and regional development.
The common position of the Council is 1&#160;January&#160;2006 for opening up international freight services and 1&#160;January&#160;2008 for national freight services.
It has been very important because the maintenance, safety and development of our railway system throughout Europe have to be encouraged and not discouraged.
Taking traffic straight off roads and on to the railway can only be good for the future.
The development of high-speed trains has to be welcomed; it should not be stopped.
Indeed, they are even trying to close the important link between Belfast and the port of Larne.
This is a part of our problem.
The first is the serious situation European transport finds itself in at present, bearing in mind too the forecasts provided by all the studies received.
In this context, I would like to draw your attention to the untenable situation of the Italian railway line between Savona and the border with France; a rail link connecting western Liguria with the Cote d’Azur.
The single track also increases safety risks and such a shortfall in the rail system has repercussions on road traffic, with serious congestion problems and pollution in an area that is heavily geared towards tourism.
There has been talk of laying a second track since the 1950s, when I was still a small boy.
Since then, the situation has not changed and increases in the volume of traffic make it even more critical, almost unsustainable, due to the continual delays that are building up and also affecting the adjoining French section of the line.
Relatively recent works have moved further inland some sections of the railway line&#160;–&#160;also single track&#160;–&#160;that runs right along the coast and is therefore subject to coastal erosion.
I will conclude with the hope that, as part of revitalising the international networks in the European Union, a speedy solution will be found by 1&#160;January 2006, the date set for opening the rail networks to all types of rail freight services. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I shall not get into the argument between the European Parliament and the Council about the pace at which rail transport is being liberalised, because, for everyone concerned, the objectives are the same, namely to turn Europe’s railways into a commodity providing large profits for predatory capitalist businesses such as BASF, Ikea and Connex, which is a subsidiary of Vivendi.
Far from learning the lessons of the liberalisation in Great Britain, Germany and elsewhere, the reports by Mr Jarzembowski and Mr Sterckx in fact propose only that liberalisation be speeded up and made the norm.
Not only international and national freight but also passenger traffic is from now on to be exposed to the laws of the jungle prevailing in the market.
The proposed standardisation will take place only on the basis of the lowest common denominator, to the detriment of high safety standards and in such a way as to encourage social dumping, as in the case of road transport.
This ultra-liberal position must therefore be rejected.
I should mainly like to focus on the development of rail transport rather than safety, interoperability and suchlike.
The importance of this development of the railways to the environment and to safety is of course abundantly clear.
In my opinion, Parliament is going two steps too far: firstly, in going ahead and talking about liberalisation of countries at internal level, and, secondly, as regards the liberalisation of passenger transport, in particular.
In my view, however, we should drop it immediately and wait until the Commission makes a proposal following a detailed evaluation of the situation in a number of countries, particularly in the UK (privatisation), the Netherlands and several other countries.
We should have an evaluation first, and then a debate on how to proceed with this kind of liberalisation.
I wholeheartedly support the position of the Council in this connection. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the proposal before us is to complete the liberalisation of rail freight services, increasing competition in those Member States that have yet to liberalise their markets.
In principle, some might view this as a positive development, since it could provide the UK with new market opportunities in other Member States.
However, even my limited experience has taught me to be cynical.
So out of the window goes any possibility of introducing urgent Member States' legislation if national rail safety so requires.
This, in my view, is yet another example of the nanny super-state, where Brussels supposedly knows best.
Try telling that to our fishermen and farmers! &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to take the opportunity to congratulate the rapporteurs on the substantive, good work that they have done.
The rail package makes a contribution to the liberalisation and modernisation of rail transport in Europe, even though work on this is not yet finished.
Nevertheless, this sector needs to develop its own economic strength if it is to contribute to solving Europe’s traffic and transport problems.
As regards the European railway sector, there is still no genuine internal market in spite of efforts in the context of the common transport policy.
The railways directive has not led to a complete opening-up of the market.
The amendment of the Directive on the development of the Community’s railways would, in my view, contribute to a positive development in this regard.
The present rail package holds out the possibility of a genuine European rail transport market.
For example, granting what are known as ‘authorised applicants’ (consignors and forwarders) the right to use the services of the railways is a step in the right direction towards a more efficient use of the infrastructure.
The recent reports of forthcoming cooperation between the German, French and Italian operators of high-speed trains on the construction of train units are a signal that European cooperation is getting up steam; and now on electricity, too.
The momentum currently existing with regard to the rail package is not unconditional, however.
The European Council makes a more definite distinction than the European Parliament here between the liberalisation of freight transport on the one hand, and the liberalisation of passenger transport on the other.
It is of the utmost importance that we have a complete rail package by the end of the year.
Having said that, we have a population of 4 million people, and we export 90% of our production.
For that reason, I am quite keen on the idea the Commission recently mentioned – and perhaps the Commissioner might listen to what I have to say – in relation to 'motorways of the sea'.
This is why I am quite keen on the idea of the European Rail Agency proposed in the Savary report, because there are a lot of other aspects in this rail debate which need to be addressed, both in terms of the commercial life of Europe, but also its spatial development and the development of cohesion.
In the majority of European countries, the rail infrastructure has in large part been put in place with state money, that is to say with taxpayers’ money.
Apart from the fact that it is a case of fraud and of collective funds being misappropriated and directed towards private groups, it also constitutes a danger for the future.
The British experience has shown that, in order to increase their profits, private companies cut back on staff and make savings on infrastructure and maintenance, so putting passenger safety seriously at risk.
This also leads to stations being closed and unprofitable lines being done away with, even if they are essential to the population to which they provide a service and which then has no choice but to use the roads.
We reiterate our total opposition to the privatisations and to competition in rail transport.
Public transport must remain a public service, the objective of which is to provide the best possible service to our populations. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis in the realm of rail transport will not be solved by liberalisation but only by removing the obstacles to fair competition that are stacked up against the railways.
In this context, I feel that rapid liberalisation of the rail sector in all the Member States would favour this mode of transport as a credible alternative to rail and road transport, and as a means of combating the explosion in these sectors, which have disastrous effects on the environment and on regional planning.
To my mind, this liberalisation can only be understood in the broad sense of greater competition in both the freight and passenger transport sectors, at both national and international levels.
This liberalisation will mean that any Community rail transport company will have fair and equal access to infrastructure in all the Member States for commercial ends.
As I have already had occasion to emphasise, however, we need to fight against a very widely-held prejudice: liberalising rail transport does not mean that safety standards cannot be stepped up.
With a view to stimulating economic growth in Europe through large-scale projects, the Commission has drawn up a list of 13&#160;initiatives, seven of them linked to rail transport.
It is regrettable that the list only benefits transport networks in the centre of the European Union, failing to include the Iberian TGV links between Lisbon and Madrid. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, although it breaks with customary rail practice in Europe, we have accepted the idea of dividing the use of the railways between, on the one hand, those who run the rail network and, on the other, those who use the railways for transport purposes.
We have accepted this as a worthwhile experiment, partly because it is not beyond the bounds of possibility – although this is by no means proven – that it will help increase the amount of goods transported, and partly because it will enable a more detailed comparison to be made between rail and road transport, with the latter having, from the start, been familiar with the dual approach being introduced by the Community to the railways.
The same reasons have led us to oppose the ceaseless efforts on the part of the right to anticipate the possible parameters of passenger transport, the Commission’s proposal, the current wishes of the Council of Ministers and, above all, the Commission’s evaluation of experience, included by Parliament at first reading in the draft directive.
Acceptance of this notion is all the more dangerous in as much as, once it has taken root in the railway sector, it will spread like a cancer to the other means of transport.
We all believe that we need to work to ensure that there is the necessary shift of demand for and burden on certain means of transport, road and air in particular, to avoid congestion and problems caused by excessive use, and subsequent overloading.
On certain conditions, of course: without a doubt, all aspects of safety, professionalism and the social protection that have to be provided for in the processes of opening up the markets and competition, are indispensable, precisely to avoid competition being achieved to the detriment of these factors and guarantees; in the same way, it is also necessary to increase the provision of universal services and services of public interest in order, once again, to prevent competition from concentrating investment and management interests solely in strong market areas where demand is high, disregarding the situations where the supply of services is crucial, rather, for encouraging and driving forward development processes, in other words to respond to what are actually inalienable needs for both freight and passenger transport services.
Otherwise, they could be destined to be delayed because of the chronic difficulties that we have, as we know, in raising the necessary public funds to complete these processes.
We need to guarantee the principle of reciprocity in this context, as stated in the amendments tabled before Parliament, because we believe that this will avoid distortion of the market, which has already occurred in other liberalisation processes.
I hope that adequate solutions can be found which take into consideration these principles and choices in our negotiations with the Council too. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, whenever we speak of the railways, we are compelled to refer time and again to the relationship between service provision and liberalisation.
I must once more express my regret that we in Parliament have never managed to engage in a comprehensive discussion of this subject instead of focusing our deliberations on one mode of transport at a time, on the basis of the project under consideration.
Had we been able to have such a discussion, I believe we could have broken down certain prejudices that rear their heads in every debate.
As I see it, liberalisation is something that can only take place – and road transport, I believe, illustrates this very well – if we accompany it with supporting regulatory measures.
These measures relate to safety, working conditions, the right to practise a trade and other factors, including technical interoperability.
What we have tabled here relates to the very thing that was not done in Britain, namely proper preparation of the liberalisation process.
And let me say to the Members from Belgium and France that jobs are already being lost at the present time.
Anyone who warns us that jobs will be lost and forgets that they are already being lost now, when the railways are still in the public sector, has not, to my mind, assessed the situation fairly and objectively.
We have to grasp the nettle in our own countries too and acknowledge that our governments have been underfunding the railways and that we have not provided our rail operators with the resources they would need to organise tomorrow’s large-scale rail network.
We must also recognise that the wage bills these institutions have to meet are far too high and that national governments must intervene here too in the first instance.
I have no wish to become obsessed with dates, but I should like to point out that it would be bad for the railways and for our countries if we in this House did not set any deadlines, because we are convinced that tomorrow’s transport map will cover the whole of Europe, and this development must not be stopped in its tracks by special measures and special rules in the small countries. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and the entire committee for their work.
This infrastructure is needed to preserve the quality of life enjoyed by the population of those areas and to ensure that they remain favourably disposed to enlargement.
One word on a topical issue: we all know that every Member State has its own particular set of circumstances and its own problems.
and resumed at 11.35 a.m.) &#160;&#160; The next item is the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, one undoubted reason why Members are so attentive is that they know that this report deals, among other things, with Eurostat, though not with the secret bank accounts but with the quite respectable matter of a proposal for a regulation which would require the Member States to submit quarterly data to Eurostat concerning financial transactions and financial assets and liabilities for all units classified in the general government sector.
In the context of the Stability and Growth Pact, these are crucial data, because they are the basis of a stable euro.
In the budgetary situation in which several Member States find themselves at the present time and in view of chronic deficits in excess of the 3% ceiling, these data assume even greater importance as a means of accurately measuring the extent of the problems with a view to taking appropriate remedial action.
My report contains an amendment with which we seek to alter two points in the Commission’s proposal.
This extension was requested in the Council by various Member States, and particularly by the countries that will be acceding to the Union next year, since these States would find it difficult, pending adaptation of their national statistical systems, to deliver reliable data on time.
Such an extension, however, is without prejudice to the aim of full transmission of all data by 30 June&#160;2005.
I move that this amendment be adopted, so that we can dispense with a second reading of this proposal for a regulation, otherwise the regulation, which is already overdue, could not enter into force in good time.
There is, of course, the possibility that some people here might prefer to continue working with nebulous data in order to conceal their country’s true financial position.
The main amendment aims to put back the first transmission of data to 31&#160;December&#160;2003, to allow for the delay in approving this proposal.
It also ensures a derogation of two years for any government whose ‘national statistical system requires major adaptations’.
That philosophy seeks to gather statistical information in order to ascertain the best way of controlling and coordinating economic policies, a concept linked, over and above economic and monetary union (EMU), to the issue of the Stability Pact.
In itself, however, having more statistical information is no bad thing.
The French Government cannot, at one and the same time, conduct a merciless anti-smoking campaign and ask for the prolongation, in Corsica, of a privilege that helps promote nicotine addiction, particularly among young people.
Nor do metropolitan tobacconists understand this schizophrenic attitude at a time when they are having serious difficulties surviving.
In seeking to save 53 jobs, the French Government is making itself a party to the serious consequences of tobacco for our fellow citizens’ health.
That is why I shall not follow the rapporteur who, in only taking account of the interests of the internal market and in deliberately ignoring the problems linked to island status, is proposing tax arrangements totally inappropriate to the situation. &#160;&#160; . – On the whole, I support the derogations that are being put to the vote in favour of the so-called ‘outermost regions’.
What is necessary to protect the Azores or Martinique is much less relevant in the case of Corsica, which is less remote.
The&#160;32% tax is nearly half the rate applied in France, and also lower than the 57%&#160;minimum rate laid down for the EU as a whole.
I voted simply on a point of procedure: I believe that the European Commission’s original proposal should have been considered first, since it is, of course, the result of proper deliberations in the course of negotiations with local businesspeople and representatives of the sector.
I feel that, as in other cases such as this, the specific requirements of the tobacco industry in the area in question – Corsica, in this case – should be taken into account, without losing sight of the general principles as a result.
Following the summer of fires that we have experienced, particularly in Portugal, I think it would have been the last straw – and no doubt a disgrace – if the European Parliament had not shown its solidarity with all of Europe’s foresters who are subject to these risks of fire.
I should like therefore to thank all of our fellow MEPs.
Unfortunately, there was no way around these disasters or of avoiding a resolution by voting in favour of which all MEPs have agreed to join with the representatives of the Southern countries with a view to saving this budget line.
I hope that, beyond 2006, we shall be able to have a still more generous policy, for these EUR 9 million – although not to be sneezed at, especially when these credits are underconsumed – are probably not enough, given the formidable challenge of preventing fires in the Mediterranean forests and in those of southern Europe. &#160;&#160; We chose to vote in favour of compromise Amendments Nos 22 to 33 in the report concerning monitoring of forests and environmental interactions in the Community (Forest Focus).
We believe that the basic conditions within the EU are so different that it is questionable what added value such a Community policy would have.
Nor should we ideally like to see fire prevention measures mentioned at all in this regulation, since such measures are out of place in this environmental monitoring programme.
Fire prevention is instead a part of the EU regulation on rural development and should remain so in the future. &#160;&#160; The EU has no competence in the area of forestry policy.
In spite of this, the programme adopted by the European Parliament means that the monitoring of forestry, biodiversity and forest fires is being centralised.
In Sweden and Finland, forestry is the most important industry economically and cannot be a European matter.
In these countries, we have a long tradition of looking after our forests in an economically and ecologically sustainable way.
Our forests do not present the same biodiversity as the forests in southern Europe.
We are, however, able to support fire prevention activity.
Now, after the vote in plenary, the compromise has diminished the overall report, which contained deeper and more wide-ranging amendments on monitoring and developing forest fire prevention measures.
As we know, the aim of the compromise adopted is to ensure fruitful negotiations with the Commission and the Council, but the fact is that the funding for the programme has now been slashed by EUR&#160;6&#160;million, whereas an increase of EUR&#160;15&#160;million was originally proposed.
This compromise is a far cry from the position adopted by the European Parliament in its resolution of 4&#160;September&#160;2003, on the effects of the summer heat wave. &#160;&#160; Fires have ravaged the dry regions of Spain, Portugal and the South of France, which have been the victims of this summer’s extremely low rainfall.
I am therefore in favour of including fire prevention in Forest Focus, even if, in my opinion, the best firefighting tool is still the regulation on sustainable development.
An entire section of the regulation deals with forestry, involving an annual subsidy of EUR 450 million.
In comparison, the Forest Focus budget seems very low.
Fire prevention had actually been incorporated into the regulation on rural development in 1999 (see the chapter on forestry).
Our group, the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, rightly supports the rapporteur’s desire to include fire-fighting and fire prevention under the umbrella of Forest Focus, and to increase the relevant budget significantly.
Although some Member States, especially in northern Europe, where the climatic conditions largely preclude the fire problem, have indicated their opposition to this reinsertion, the horrifying spectacle of last summer’s fires imposes on Members the duty of voting for this increase in appropriations and for a ‘fire capacity’.
That process began at first reading, which took place in February.
I also welcome the great progress made in the positions of the Council and the Commission, progress which has allowed us to achieve a satisfactory compromise based on draft amendments supported by my group, the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, among others.
Those draft amendments will leave their mark on the final text of the regulation.
Recalling the issues we have fought for hardest in the process of adopting this Forest Focus programme, they are: greater budgetary openness, respect for the principle of subsidiarity, and above all inclusion of the line on forest fire prevention.
It would, of course, be incomprehensible if, after so many years of positive steps under the previous regulation, Forest Focus were now to neglect the field of forest fire prevention.
I wanted this regulation to go further, but, all things considered, and taking into account the need to avoid wasting the whole of 2003 on the delays and uncertainties of a conciliation procedure, I welcome the fact that the Council and the Commission have heeded Parliament’s reiterated demands in the most important areas. &#160;&#160; I have voted against the report because, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the EU really does not have, or should not have, its own forestry policy.
The purpose of the report is, therefore, in the first place to appropriate EU funds (EUR&#160;67&#160;million or slightly more than SEK 600 million) to Portugal and Spain in connection with the forest fires by which these countries are often hit.
We also believe that human activities carried on in our forests need to be considered a public service of general interest and that, given their non-profitability, they therefore need to be supported financially.
This programme is an essential instrument for exchange and cooperation in the field of higher education.
Any measure enabling it to be effectively implemented, therefore, deserves our support.
Erasmus Mundus Masters Courses should be synonymous with quality.
One of the principal objectives of this programme is to promote linguistic diversity.
The financial framework for implementing the programme is essential to its success.
The Council agreed on a budget of EUR&#160;180&#160;million.
This amount, however, is insufficient and that is why we support the request for appropriations totalling EUR&#160;230&#160;million. &#160;&#160; In proposing 250 inter-university European Masters with a quality label (‘Erasmus Mundus Masters Courses’) and with the support of the European Union; in awarding scholarships for 4&#160;200 postgraduate students from third countries; or, again, in offering scholarships for 1&#160;000 scholars invited from third countries to Europe, the stakes have been set high, and the budget should be commensurate with these.
If, clearly, the budget made available for this new instrument must not in any way put a strain on the budgets for the existing programmes, it remains no less the case that the budgets initially provided for by the Commission (EUR 200 million) and by the Council (EUR 180 million) are far too niggardly to give full scope to this new instrument of exchange and cooperation within the field of higher education.
It should be noted that this programme goes beyond the standard Erasmus scheme, since it covers Europe and the rest of the world, as well as Masters and postgraduate courses.
On the other hand, we already know from our experience of other projects, particularly the traditional Erasmus programme, that less well-off students tend to be doubly discriminated against and alienated by these schemes, which fail to reimburse all the costs.
My point is that the difficulties encountered in increasing the amount of funding for this programme prove that there is no intention of fighting such discrimination and that a set of conditions to which we object is going to be retained.
The importance of the Union’s linguistic diversity will be reflected in the need for third-country students to be familiar with at least two European Union languages.
The proposal to increase the programme’s financial framework so that it can achieve its aims deserves particular support.
Erasmus Mundus really does offer ‘a new vision of higher education in Europe’, by allowing foreign students to undertake a ‘European tour’.
When existing exchange programmes come up for review, it is important that this new dimension of European higher education be taken into account. &#160;&#160; By adopting today a new instrument of exchange and cooperation in the field of higher education, we are sending out a positive signal to students and teachers in third countries in the rest of the world that we are outward-looking and welcoming.
This Erasmus Mundus programme offers a new vision of higher education in Europe, enabling foreign students to make a ‘tour of Europe’ in two or three different universities, including those entered by competitive examination.
The promotion of linguistic ability, before and during the periods spent here by students and academics from third countries, must be strongly encouraged.
We sincerely hope that the Council will put its weight behind the budget of EUR&#160;230&#160;million proposed for this programme, a budget that should be equal to the ambitions of the latter.
Indeed, almost 4&#160;000 students from third countries and almost a thousand academics should benefit from this programme between now and 2008.
The overall budget of EUR&#160;33&#160;million proposed for the programme by the Council, however, is not satisfactory.
This amount is reasonable and adequate, bearing in mind the aims we want to achieve.
The overall aim is to encourage the integration of the new information and communication technologies into European education and training systems, thereby enabling: - greater intercultural dialogue; - awareness of languages; - development of lifelong learning; - exchanges of good practice.
While the European institutions set great store, however, by programmes presented as being at the forefront of progress, the education of working class children, even at elementary level, is in decline everywhere in Europe.
The reasons are simple: a shortage of funds and a lack of teachers, teaching assistants and various teaching support staff.
There, the companies that provide such goods and services are more experienced and have already accumulated considerable economic weight and cultural influence.
This report’s support for measures that destructure modes of formal education, and in particular education, comes to the fore at various points.
I fully support this resolution, particularly regarding the need to encourage the integration of new information and communication technologies in education and training systems in Europe, thereby improving the quality of those systems and access to them.
I would also like to emphasise that I believe the European Parliament’s efforts to increase the overall budget for this multiannual programme to be totally justified.
The effective enhancement of goods and services, guarantees of effective dissemination and exchanges of good practice are reasons to support the rapporteur’s proposal to amend the quantity of budget appropriations for the multiannual programme, and will also make it possible to promote genuine integration of the new information and communication technologies in education and training systems in Europe.
More than political declarations or legal and institutional constructs devised behind the backs of nations and Member States, these measures will assist with the gradual construction of a truly pluralist European spirit.
When the outcome of the vote was not as we had wished where these important points were concerned, we chose to vote against the proposal for a directive in the final vote. &#160;&#160; Water quality is an important environmental issue, and it was therefore important and commendable that the EU should have adopted a framework directive on water, 2000/60/EC.
The framework directive establishes the general framework for protecting all types of water (water in rivers and lakes, together with coastal and groundwater).
It is not, however, important that the EU should have a directive regulating the quality of bathing water.
That is an example of the EU’s being unnecessarily detailed in regulating matters that are not even cross-border in nature.
We would instead emphasise the autonomy of local authorities and the Member States in this area. &#160;&#160; I abstained from voting on the proposal for a directive concerning the quality of bathing water.
That became clear earlier, in the course of the voting on my proposals regarding substances harmful to health, such as asbestos and solvents in paint.
EU involvement is limited to exerting pressure for a reduction in the costs of health care, and to implementing the Stability and Growth Pact that is to support the value of the euro.
It is notable that the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is proposing to reject the report on this by the ELDR rapporteur, and thus also, of course, the Directive aimed at protecting the quality of the environment and human health against chemical and microbiological contamination.
In addition, more amendments aimed at lowering the standards for contamination are being kept in reserve in case that fails.
These results prove the high degree of quality and commitment shown by local authorities in their management of the coastline, particularly with regard to basic sanitation, water supply and pollution.
In the Algarve, these sports are becoming more popular all the time among young people.
Although these new activities are practised further out from shore, I feel that they ought to be protected under the new regime.
Finally, I would like to draw attention to one more fact, gleaned from my own experience as a mayor.
Health and water quality are important enough to justify a public information campaign.
This, however, is the joint responsibility of the EU, its Member States, the regions and local authorities.
That burden includes the financial losses suffered in areas where water quality temporarily falls below the required standard. &#160;&#160; .
In particular, I agree with public information on standards of water quality, to be delivered via a simple and universal system of signalling, involving symbols.
I also voted in favour of draft Amendment&#160;No&#160;19, on the question of transitory contamination.
Together with the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I have voted ‘no’ in the final vote and supported Amendment&#160;No&#160;59 about rejecting the Commission’s proposal in its entirety.
With a view to limiting the directive’s administrative and economic consequences for the Swedish local authorities, I have signed Amendment&#160;No&#160;76, which was voted down: in order to be defined as such, the bathing areas concerned must have ‘more than 100 bathers a day for at least 20 days a year’ and ‘have been designated as bathing water by the competent authorities’. &#160;&#160; This morning, I flew to Strasbourg on the plane that leaves Milan Malpensa at 7&#160;a.m.
I saw that we were in Europe in 2050: there were beautiful flowers everywhere, every colour under the sun, so much green; kind people, with kind hearts, there were no more wars; everyone lived happily amongst the flowers.
The European Parliament is acting, yet again, to stall these plans, ensuring that Member States retain their prerogatives in this area and in respect of their international obligations.
In conclusion, no solution to the grave threat of air pollution can be envisaged without the necessary research into other sources of energy, such as renewable ones. &#160;&#160; This new debate on the monitoring mechanism of Community greenhouse gas emissions and the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol is in danger of being nothing but a further series of pious hopes if a proactive approach with an element of compulsion is not adopted on this issue.
We need, on the contrary, to make these issues the subject of a genuine choice reflecting the view of society as a whole and, therefore, to give some thought to an alternative transport policy in Europe, edging out road transport, which produces a lot of greenhouse gases.
From now on, moreover, adopting the mechanism appears a more realistic possibility, and more workable in practical terms.
In this way, these types of transport will become even more firmly established as the most beneficial and appealing of all.
Finally, as the rapporteur suggests, I believe it is absolutely crucial to understand that we need more than just stricter limit-values if we are to achieve our air quality targets.
Such rules are the only way to avoid distortions of competition, and they will come into force through the creation of an internal market based on genuinely sustainable growth.
Secondly, we have been saying that we want to do something about stimulating economic growth, in not only the new, but also the existing, Member States.
We have taken an important initiative as regards the development of SMEs in the new, and also in the existing, Member States.
The third point is that we have to facilitate the integration of the new Member States with the existing ones as much as possible.
We are to present a budget for 25&#160;countries now, when we all know that we shall not have a European Union of 25&#160;Member States until 1&#160;May next year.
We shall then vote on a supplementary budget for those ten new Member States during next year.
By and large, we have voted in favour of an economical budget.
The payment appropriations have been increased, including other payment appropriations, but, on the whole, I think that this result is suitable for presentation, even at a time when the whole of Europe is economising.
It will also undoubtedly become clear then what impact the more expensive euro has had on agricultural policy.
In addition, the Committee on Budgets has voted in favour of a number of further points: we want more research into animal welfare, and we want more alternatives to tobacco-growing in the EU, among other things.
As regards Chapter&#160;2, the Structural Funds, we have increased payment appropriations in line with the figure the Council considered reasonable.
Firstly, the Member States think that they can spend a great deal more than the Commission proposes each year, and we wanted to accommodate the Member States.
We think that increasing the payment appropriations will enable us to make improvements there.
With EUR&#160;33&#160;million more than in the Council’s budget, and with an attendant multiplier effect of the order of&#160;20&#160;to&#160;30, we can provide SMEs in Eastern Europe with a good deal more guarantees that they will be able to develop.
This year, we also paid a great deal of attention to the agencies.
We want better parliamentary control over these agencies.
We also want to pay more attention to the organigram of the agencies, in the same way as we take an interest in the organigram of the Commission itself.
In our opinion, the Council must take a decision as soon as possible regarding the seat of the agencies.
The Info-Points Europe are a matter of great concern for Parliament.
Owing to the new Financial Regulation, there is a possibility that some of these Info-Points will go bankrupt – will have to close their doors – and this whilst virtually everyone in Parliament is convinced that they play a very useful role.
Finally, we are all familiar with the Eurostat problems.
In addition, the Committee on Budgets has adopted an amendment that envisages making EUR&#160;500&#160;million available for Iraq.
The prevailing view is that, whichever programme is brought in for Iraq, it must not be at the expense of the existing programmes in Chapter&#160;4: namely Afghanistan, the fight against poverty and so on.
I should like to discuss one last point in connection with the budget, namely administrative expenditure.
Before we say a definitive ‘yes’, however, we attach a number of conditions: the ones set out in the budgetary resolutions and in the resolution by Parliament itself.
I can give you some examples: the number of vacant posts in the Commission must not exceed&#160;4%, the new posts are to be allocated exclusively to citizens of the new Member States, the Commissioners must respect the code of conduct that they agreed at the beginning of their term of office – particularly with regard to ‘parachutage’, as we always call it&#160;– and, last but not least, the Commission must, in our opinion, give its full attention to the implementation of the budget.
That last point still leaves something to be desired, however, especially regarding the pilot projects and the preparatory actions.
Finally, I should like to thank my fellow MEPs, the Council and the Commission on this occasion, too, for the pleasant cooperation I have enjoyed up to now.
This particular budget is for an historic year, 2004, which will see not only enlargement of the European Union to 25 Member States, but also European elections.
My main aim for this budget has been to equip all the other institutions to meet the challenges of enlargement and to ensure proper functioning after accession takes place.
I believe that enlargement has been used in some cases as an excuse by some institutions to create posts for which there is little justification.
As I have said before, the Council has been quite generous to all the institutions in its draft budget and, as a consequence, Parliament has had to correct this position.
One of my objectives for this budget was to improve transparency and to achieve greater accountability.
It is therefore important that every institution ensures that it has best practice and sound financial management procedures in place.
I believe that all the other institutions need to follow suit, to ensure greater transparency and accountability.
Let me give you just one example from Parliament.
This sort of example of piecemeal decision-making does not really give a very good impression of Parliament and it is very damaging to the public standing of this House.
President, when I spoke in March, I expressed my reservations about the funding of political parties being included in Parliament's budget.
I want to take this opportunity to remind colleagues that the principle behind the statute for political parties was to enhance transparency, something which appears to have been forgotten by some groups in this House.
I would urge them to withdraw these proposals so that we can put a clear set of rules in place and make the statute operational.
Now I just want to say a couple of words about some of the other amendments which have been tabled, beginning with the WTO.
What this amendment is proposing is to extend funding from Parliament's budget to other participants at the WTO.
We need to do more to make citizens aware of our work, to increase their interest in it and to increase their participation. &#160;&#160; .
Parliament will then have 732 Members, and it will be the last budget to be prepared by the Prodi Commission, which will by then comprise 30 members.
The discussion of the 2005 budget could coincide with the debates on the financial programming for the period after 2006.
The draft general budget before you today reflects the enormity of this challenge.
The budget has been drawn up for a fifteen-member EU for the first four months of 2004 and for an EU with twenty-five members from 1&#160;May onwards.
Under the present parliamentary proposal, the budget for 2004 would allow for financial commitments amounting to EUR&#160;112.3&#160;billion, as against the figure of EUR&#160;111.9&#160;billion set by the Council and the EUR&#160;112.2 billion proposed by the Commission.
Of the aforementioned amounts, a sum of EUR&#160;12&#160;billion is to be earmarked for the ten new Member States.
Of the commitment appropriations made in the 2004 budget, 79% cover the domains of agricultural policy, including support for rural areas, and of the Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund.
Since the allocation to the Structural Funds is laid down in the financial programming for the 15-member EU and in the Accession Treaty for the new Member States, there are no differences between the Council, Parliament and the Commission with regard to the Structural Funds and Cohesion Fund.
In the domain of support for rural areas, however, you will be voting on Thursday to determine whether you propose that the amount laid down in the financial programming should be exceeded.
I do not intend to anticipate the content of that letter, since it still has to be confirmed by the Commission, but I can indicate that most of the proposals made by the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Mulder, which have been the subject of intensive discussion, will be adopted, particularly the proposals that additional funds be allocated to finance a study examining whether and how farmers throughout Europe could be at least partly insured against losses arising from epizootic diseases and that funds be earmarked for the production of environmental indicators, which are playing an increasingly important role, as you know, in the context of the agricultural reform process, and for examination of the possibility of introducing a European quality label.
I should certainly like to add my own plea to the Council not to reject these proposals out of hand simply because they relate to compulsory expenditure.
This expenditure will be included in the EU budget for the first time, now that the legal basis for its inclusion has, I am glad to say, finally been adopted.
My second point concerns the new Financial Regulation.
Parliament has made painstaking efforts to discuss the Commission’s proposals on the budget headings under chapter A-30, which have been on the table since May.
I ask the Council to approach the implementation of the Financial Regulation with the same enthusiasm that it invested in its reformulation.
As was the case last year, the Commission will inform Parliament in writing, in the first half of November, of its assessment of the feasibility of your proposed measures, especially the new pilot projects and preparatory measures.
I shall ensure that due consideration is given in this assessment to the importance that your House attaches to these activities.
There is another important respect in which conditions are set fair for the budget of the European Union, namely the fact that the budgetary authority is due to take a joint decision in November on the adjustment of the various support programmes, the so-called internal policies, in preparation for enlargement.
With regard to foreign aid, we face a new challenge in the 2004 budget in that it is our duty and our desire to make European aid available to the people of Iraq.
The Commission is proposing a further injection of EUR 200 million between now and the end of next year, over and above our humanitarian aid.
But this aid cannot actually be disbursed unless the security situation improves, and the umbrella of the United Nations must be available for the implementation of projects.
There are still various different opinions in this House on the appropriate amount of aid for Iraq.
The Commission’s proposal has been carefully weighed up, and I should like to remind you that you are due to vote on this matter on Thursday, the day before the donors’ conference in Madrid.
Let me close with a few figures on the volume of next year’s general budget.
The Commission had proposed expenditure of EUR&#160;100.6&#160;billion, the Council has proposed EUR 100.1&#160;billion, and you, in Parliament, will probably propose a volume of EUR&#160;103.5 billion.
The European expenditure-to-GDP ratio in this domain would therefore lie somewhere between 0.09% and 1.01%.
Nonetheless, these modest figures for the increase of payment appropriations should become a threshold for Parliament.
As regards the Mulder&#160;report, however, we retain the amendments consequent upon our group’s position.
Thursday’s vote will be on a real margin, not on a virtual one.
Let me give as an example our desire to use more funds for the prevention of crises rather than for trouble-shooting.
This Budget reflects our desire to strengthen and support Eurojust and Europol.
In other areas, too, we want to ensure the targeted use of the money at our disposal, but also that we keep to what we have promised.
We will also make sure that the Structural Funds contain sufficient payment appropriations for the candidate countries, to whom it will have to be made plain that this means that, next year or right through the period we have negotiated with them, they will get not one euro extra; there is only the possibility of certain obligations being discharged earlier.
Commissioner Schreyer has said that there has never before been such a small difference between your and our proposals.
The biggest problem is with category 4.
No administrative structures are in place, and there is nobody on the ground who can put the money to proper use.
The money must, however, be properly applied, as we have to demand it of our taxpayers, who know that it must also be found within the framework of the Financial Perspective, and that the framework of the Financial Perspective will not come up with the money.
We will be in favour of sufficient funding being made available, in which respect the Commission proposal is a very good one that deserves to be taken seriously, and we unreservedly endorse it.
We will insist that these funds be used in accordance with a UN mandate.
For that we particularly want to thank the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, with whom we reached political agreement on the matter at the start of this parliamentary term.
Next year’s is a historic budget, because for the first time it is being drafted for a Union of 25 Member States.
Formally it is being made legally binding on 15 Member States, but politically the budget is to be agreed this year to apply to a Union of 25 Member States.
The proposal in the wake of the debate by the Committee on Budgets contains many important areas of focus.
Up till now the European Union has worked on the principle that, for example, animals should not be vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease, as this way one cannot tell whether immunity is due to the infection spreading the disease or the vaccines.
Appropriations for rural development exceed the finance ceiling.
Our group cannot support this amendment proposed by the PSE Group, as it does not accord with good administration.
It is furthermore questionable whether these funds could be used because equivalent regulations on the subject of finance are already in force.
We think it inevitable that Structural Funds payment appropriations will have to be adequately increased, to prevent outstanding commitments, or RALs, from growing out of control, as they have up till now.
The biggest problem with the draft budget concerns the reconstruction of Iraq.
Our group cannot support the proposal by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to spend EUR 500 million on assisting the reconstruction of Iraq.
It is our opinion, however, that the main share of this – EUR 100 million approximately – should be financed out of the flexibility instrument, as otherwise Parliament’s priorities would run into trouble.
I want to thank them for their diligence and the transparent way in which they have worked, even though our conclusions for next year’s budget are not the same in all respects.
Many in our group feel that support for European parties will only restrict democracy, not increase it.
That way the big parties in the big countries could subjugate the small parties in the small countries.
I would focus your attention on the fact that the Council deleted the clause in the regulations governing the parties which said that a European party could not provide funds for national parties in national elections.
Most of all our group criticises the EUR 500 million appropriation in next year’s budget for the reconstruction of Iraq passed in the committee by a vote by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
It wants to share in the costs of the US oil war in a way that greatly exceeds the need for aid set at EUR 200 million, as proposed by the Commission.
Our group is prepared to discuss the Commission’s proposals to assist Iraq, but we reject the PPE-DE Group’s political gesture to President Bush and his war coalition.
Other representatives of our group will adopt a position on problems relating to the Structural Funds in their speeches. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I too should like to start by addressing the rapporteurs on behalf of my group.
Of course, I am prone to consider this a sign of openness and rationality, for the very reason that a great number of our proposals have actually been adopted.
On Thursday we are voting on the budget.
But the PPE seems above all to want to play symbol politics, I really cannot interpret their proposal for 500&#160;million for Iraq in any other way.
The European Commission has investigated how much money the European Union can effectively set aside in Iraq.
But the Afghans will be receiving as much as EUR 35 million less if the Commission fails to curb the drugs trade and to bring about a changeover to the cultivation of other crops.
What is interesting is that the PPE, which usually harbours a somewhat natural suspicion of the European Commission, is now suddenly convinced that the European Commission can succeed where the United States has failed with the war on drugs in other countries.
A moment ago, rapporteur Gill gave her support to my amendment for a few bicycles, so that parliamentarians can cover short distances cheaply and sustainably.
I said yesterday in the Committee on Budgets that in return for the support of this House for this amendment I would be glad to take the Chairman of the Committee on Budgets on the back for a test ride.
The solutions that we found apply to everything and everyone.
I want to stress this point because we could have serious problems, irrespective of the political line-up.
We have provided over EUR 1 billion for Palestine, we have provided over EUR 1 billion for the Balkans, we have also provided a lot of money, EUR 1 billion, for Afghanistan.
I do not believe that appropriating EUR&#160;200 million, and then asking the day after to increase this figure to EUR&#160;500 million, is outrageous, unless we want to treat international crises differently according to our political assessments, which would not affect us politically but would affect the people in question.
I would, therefore, like to thank you for supporting this amendment, but I would call, at this point, for even more resources to try to make TENs become a political instrument across Europe and not just a technical decision.
We are going to vote for the amendment and I would ask everyone to raise awareness on this matter.
We will be proud of it and we will do ourselves credit, both now and in the future. &#160;&#160; Thank you, Mr President.
I have taken note of Commissioner Schreyer’s commitment to give us a practical answer right away, so that the 2004 financial year may be an historic one in this respect too, in other words so that there may, at last, be some similarity between what the budgetary authorities decide and what is then actually implemented with regard to the 2004 budget.
In addition, we have read in the newspapers that the German Government will not even be represented in Madrid, as, indeed, it was not at the European Council meeting.
I believe that we cannot stand still and send Commissioner Schreyer to the Conference with this tiny and, quite frankly, laughable sum for what I consider an important proposal, which, although it will wreck the Financial Perspective, is, at least, an attempt to achieve unity and a common policy, requiring support from the budget.
I thank the rapporteur for having accepted this amendment aimed at strengthening the on-line information policy and arranging for all our debates to be transmitted to the citizens over the Internet from next year. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to raise two amendments that were tabled by the PPE-DE Group but rejected in committee, which we have retabled for the plenary.
We would point out that far from there allegedly being no code of conduct, there will certainly be measures to secure separation between types of expenditure – between information and political expenditure – and a code of conduct on the use of appropriations entered under this heading.
It is evident that there will be no spending before June of next year, that is until after the elections take place.
Again this afternoon we have heard several speakers who really are not particularly in favour of good relations between the European Parliament and the US Administration.
In Amendment No 4 we are calling for the adoption of specific measures by the Bureau and 'the evaluation of the report by the Committee on Budgets on the basis of a working document drafted by its rapporteur'.
My final point concerns taking account of the extended multilingualism of the new Parliament.
We need to make sure that we have proper, concrete measures introduced to help the accession countries find their way around more easily than we were able to a few years ago. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in the light of some of the matters that have been discussed in this debate, I have to keep reminding myself that this is the first reading.
However, if it did secure a qualified majority, let us not forget that this is the first reading and the question could be resolved in due course.
Then again, after the vote in the plenary, it is my job also to reflect that position.
At the Brussels summit last week, which I followed with great interest, not one Member State asked for any amount above the EUR 200 million.
I also heard this morning – whether it is true I do not know – that the US congress had rejected President Bush's amount for aid for Iraq.
If we do not vote the EUR 500 million, and EUR 200 million is the final figure that the Commission settles upon, Commissioner Patten has also said that should that funding be spent rapidly and efficiently, then the Commission would come back with a supplementary and amending budget.
It is essential to know – before the vote on Thursday – whether, if the EUR 200 million is agreed by Parliament and then spent quickly, the Commission will come back and provide more money next year, based on needs.
Let us not forget that if the EUR 500 million is rejected then our position is EUR 30 million.
I would hope that all the political groups opt for the maximum of EUR 200 million, albeit spread over two years.
It is of course important, among other things, that we see the agencies’ – the decentralised agencies’ – budgets in the context of the political priorities.
I should like, where this year’s budget is concerned, to emphasise that, in connection with enlargement, we have appropriated more money to guarantees for loans.
This may strengthen the European Investment Bank’s and the European Development Bank’s work on developing the banking sector in the new Member States, and I believe that, in return for very few resources, we shall obtain a very large dispersal effect and shall be able to obtain considerable economic growth, in the way we have heard about during the hearings in the Committee on Budgets on the work of the two banks.
Last but not least, I hope we can find a solution to the problem of the information offices, or what are known as Info-Points and Carrefour centres, which, as from next year, have had their subsidies cut back because of problems with the Financial Regulation.
I hope that we can find a solution and that the Commission will help us find a solution. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, the 2004 budget will be the first budget for the enlarged Europe.
It is a good opportunity to welcome the ten new Member States, even if it remains the case that the drastic conditions of membership have imposed shock treatment upon their populations.
One amendment by my group therefore requests the Commission to assess the growing needs of the Palestinian population and to create a specific budget line for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of the territories administered by the National Palestinian Authority.
In the same spirit, my group is pleased about the introduction of an amendment by the Committee on Development and Cooperation, designed to guarantee aid to the people of the Western Sahara and to make sure that it is not interrupted.
Aid to Iraq will constitute one of the important points of the budget.
The issue of credits for the country’s reconstruction enables us, once again, to send out a strong political signal.
The Bush administration’s desire is, firstly, to open the door to the US enterprises that, as announced at a recent meeting, are already poised to do business in Iraq.
The vote on the last resolution, 1511, of the Security Council witnesses to a symbolic Franco-German climb-down on this subject, symbolic of European nervousness in the face of American pressure.
The EU would, however, benefit by speaking up more clearly in favour of strict respect for the interests of the Iraqi people, so that they might regain their dignity as quickly as possible, and in favour, at a budgetary level, of a multilateral fund of special allocations in which the United Nations would finally have its rightful place.
The Iraqi people must, as quickly as possible, play a part in the reconstruction and democratisation of their country.
On agriculture and rural development, I support the idea of increasing aid to less-favoured areas where agricultural production faces very serious and particular challenges in economic terms.
I would like to encourage, in general, moves to boost rural development to get a more appropriate targeting of available resources in rural areas from EU funding, while ensuring that the incentives are there in order to encourage the rearing of livestock and the growing of crops by the most natural methods possible.
On fisheries, I am very disappointed that the Council seemed so unwilling to fund adequately its own CFP reform programme.
I am particularly disappointed that Parliament's proposal to provide an additional EUR 150&#160;million to address some of the serious economic and social consequences of the current crisis in white-fish- dependent areas has been blocked by Member States, in particular the UK Government.
I do not see how that particular idea is going to help the reputation of this establishment or make a contribution to activity-based budgeting. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would like to address one particular aspect of the draft general budget for 2004 in so far as it relates to the work of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, of which I am a member.
Our consumers expect European agriculture to deliver on these multifunctional aspects, and our farmers are prepared to do this.
I am as interested in animal welfare as the next man, as indeed are all farmers, and all those involved in the live export trade.
If we in Europe do not take up market opportunities in the Middle East and elsewhere, our competitors from Australia and New Zealand will ship their animals half way around the world to meet that particular demand. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, since I only have very little time, I shall concentrate on three points: subsidies for tobacco cultivation, the administrative expenses of the Environment DG, and Natura 2000.
In my opinion, the draft budget anticipates the reform of the common organisation of the market in tobacco, planned for 2005.
Tobacco cultivation remains a distinctive sector of activity, affecting 110&#160;000 families and generating 400&#160;000 seasonal jobs.
As for the administrative expenses of DG&#160;11, these are increasing exponentially, rising from EUR&#160;58&#160;million in 2002 to EUR&#160;83&#160;million in 2004.
That is a huge rise of 43% in two years.
All that to increase the number of civil servants responsible for noting breaches of environmental legislation.
As in the case of Natura 2000, they are contrary to the will of the people, as France pointed out at the Environmental Council in June 2003.
That being said, is it necessary to create a technical assistance department endowed with EUR&#160;3&#160;million, which would sort out neither the difficulty of implementation nor the funding after 2006?
Because of all these issues, we shall not vote in favour of this budget. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, changes, or new features, have clearly been added to the European budget for 2004: it has been described as a budget for a Europe of twenty-five, with a new nomenclature, based on activities, objectives and targets.
This does not necessarily make the budget easier reading when, for example, we have 215 activities instead of the distinction previously made between administrative and operational expenditure.
The budget contains a perversion of solidarity, which in turn reveals a fourth deficit; a deficit of coherence.
This is a Europe of Erasmus&#160;Mundus, which wants to be a global university, a Europe of major works Pericles, a Europe of universal external policy, a Shiva with one thousand arms, in Cotonou or Mercosur, in Asia, in South Africa, ‘everything but arms’, for the poor and even for the rich.
And yet, this Europe of global dimensions has a truly provincial budget of EUR&#160;100&#160;billion, in other words, one&#160;per&#160;cent of its GDP, and this percentage is not increasing.
The answer is to be found in the budgets: year after year, Europe churns out impressive-sounding speeches which, in reality, fall considerably short of what is needed. &#160;&#160; Madam President, we have indeed been set challenges by our two rapporteurs, but I would like to focus on three issues in particular: enlargement, Commission reform and, last but not least, Iraq.
One of our main conditions is that an assessment be carried out of the changes that have occurred and the action that still needs to be taken.
The Eurostat affair and the issues concerning whistleblowers and the position of OLAF show that the Commission is slow to tackle things.
We would like to see the latter issue raised as a separate discussion on the basis of an oral question in the November part-session in Strasbourg.
As other speakers have highlighted in this afternoon's debate, it seems to our Group that Iraq is the major issue for our budget in 2004.
I thank those who have had the courage to speak in favour of our amendment.
There are three reasons for this: first, for us, this is a major political signal to the outside world that Europe is prepared to play a significant role in humanitarian and reconstruction efforts in Iraq.
Although Iraq is different from Afghanistan, we have given EUR 1 billion to Afghanistan over a five-year period, and, if we take into account the Commission proposal, we have given EUR 200 million to Iraq over an indefinite period.
Second, in the light of last week's unanimous vote in the UN and 's revelation that the US has agreed to allow a joint UN Development Programme/World Bank agency to administer the funds, it is now easier for us in Europe to think of allocating more funds for Iraq's reconstruction.
Lastly, we believe that this particular amendment is not incompatible with financing other areas, and will not affect existing funding – the amendment itself mentions this.
We should actually be able to vote our amendment quite within the bounds of the financial perspective and should our amendment fall, we as a Group will, of course, reserve our right to consider whether the Commission's proposal is the right one.
We would like just to focus on positive aspects, such as the improvements in the budgetary procedure, the functioning of our own Committee on Budgets and the achievement of the first review of the financial perspectives since 1993.
I believe it is the duty of both the Commission and Parliament to express its opinion on the future financial perspectives so that the next Commission and the next Parliament can use them as a basis for their considerations.
Despite its miserly size, the Union’s budget appears all-encompassing and I thank the general rapporteur for his cooperation in fitting in all our various requests.
Nevertheless, in an almost unprecedented display of frivolity and political demagoguery, some people have tried to cast a shadow over this central objective of the budget by presenting an unjustified amendment which would add EUR 500 million to the appropriations already planned for Iraq.
I can guarantee that many millions of European citizens who opposed this illegal war, which did not have the support of United Nations, do not understand why the European Union has to provide anything other than humanitarian aid in Iraq.
The conditions laid down by the European Union for a financial contribution for reconstruction are a .
Whatever, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy does not wish to see funds for the reconstruction of Iraq being at the expense of other commitments of the Union, such as those with regard to Afghanistan, the Middle East and Latin America.
Failing to make good on agreements made would seriously harm the credibility and the reliability of our foreign policy and for me that is far more important than the political rearguard actions in this Parliament. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the 2004 budget is an expression of the anti-grass roots, autocratic policy of the European Union.
For yet another year, a budget is being presented which strengthens big business and the expansionist imperialist policy of the European Union.
The restriction on the budget items to less than 1% of Community GDP, especially in a year in which it is being called upon to fund not 15 but 25 countries, with enhanced convergence requirements, throws into relief the picture of the promotion of plans to restructure, privatise and liberalise the markets and of the indifference towards the needs of the workers, the poor and the small and medium-sized urban and rural classes, who are being called on to pay the price of the crisis.
The general guidelines for the European Union budget for 2004 consist of cutting spending for the Structural Funds and limiting funding for the CAP so that the repressive and aggressive European defence and security policy can be funded on the pretext of fighting terrorism and addressing immigration and creating and funding repressive mechanisms, such as the European army, police and border guards, the central personal records system and so on.
The budget is funding the extermination of small and medium-sized farming.
The MEPs of the Communist Party of Greece will be voting against this budget because, instead of resolving, it will create new problems for the workers, farmers and small enterprises in the regions and instead of contributing to peace in the world, it promotes war and the imperialist hegemony. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to draw Parliament’s attention, as the budgetary authority, to two lines of financial aid which are different to those mentioned recently.
The Treaty of Maastricht gave the Community the task of contributing to the creation and development of trans-European infrastructure networks for transport, telecommunications and energy.
It is a very ambitious proposal, but it does not have the necessary resources.
I am therefore proposing in an amendment that priority must be given to sea and river transport, rail and cross-border connection projects, but, above all, to those projects to which the Member States are already committing significant resources.
For the latter, please refer to the Van Miert report, presented on 30 June 2003, because there are many other projects which have been on the table since the Essen European Council in 1994 and today, nine years later, they have yet to be dealt with.
Secondly, tourism will soon be the European Union's most important service industry.
I trust that, in the future, the Constitutional Treaty will consider this activity as a Community objective, because it affects all of us, service providers and users. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, there are just a couple of points arising from the Budget for 2004 that I would like to single out.
I find myself wondering even now whether the Commission really thinks it has such a good image in the eyes of Europe’s people that it can afford to do without the few who are working for Europe in these areas.
The fact is that we, not only in our capacities as MEPs, never stop trying to advance these things and to motivate them, yet the Commission does nothing about making immediate arrangements for the funding of these bodies to be continued.
This, I think, is where it should do something as soon as possible to enable us to fund – let me say it again – the Euro Info Centres, the network of Carrefours, and also town twinning arrangements.
Let me take up another issue, that of the agencies.
There are already over ten agencies in this area, and I really am slowly losing the desire to fund more and more administration using the parts of the Budget that are actually meant to be for political activities.
Last November, we expended a great deal of effort, between first and second reading, on negotiations towards extending Parliament’s right to be consulted on the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
I would also like to point out that our group has always called for funding for this Police Mission.
To this end, the Commission presented seven basic instruments which are currently under discussion in five parliamentary committees.
The initial objective was that they would be approved for the action programmes to enter into force from 2004.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets for the seven proposals, I can only deplore the Commission's delay in presenting them, because this means that the various Parliamentary committees involved are also working behind schedule and against the clock, and this makes it difficult for us to respect the strengthened cooperation between committees which is applicable for this procedure.
In addition, if we bear in mind that the various competent working groups in the Council are also significantly behind schedule, as well as the difficulties we are expecting in terms of reaching a consensus between Council and Parliament – four of the proposals involve the codecision procedure – we must recognise, as realists, that the outlook is not very encouraging and that it may, therefore, be very difficult to fulfil the compromise which Parliament and the Council reached in the conciliation of 16 July so that these legal bases could be adopted before the end of 2003.
The Committee on Budgets, by means of the Mulder report, requests, Commissioner, that the European Commission provide for the implementation of exceptional transitional measures which allow subsidies to be allocated during 2004, as laid down in the presentation of its proposals.
Regardless of the final result, therefore, in the basic instruments relating to the issue of pre-allocations, at first reading the Committee on Budgets has maintained the pre-allocation in the corresponding lines for the 2004 budget, as was done in previous years.
All this will allow the various associations to be able to benefit from subsidies in 2004 under the same conditions applicable until now.
Moreover, this Parliament, Mr Colom i Naval, will decide democratically on the amount it wishes to allocate to this priority, and the Committee on Budgets has already decided on it.
Our political group believes that this contribution must be as ambitious as possible, but also that it should not prejudice other geographical areas.
Further to that, I would like to point out that the plan to reduce other policies does not originate from this Parliament, which has increased external action, but was the niche prepared by the Commission precisely in order to fund this priority of Iraq.
Madam President, I would simply like to make a clear demand and draw the Commission’s attention to the fact that this Parliament wishes to fully exercise its budgetary competences, and I would like to refer specifically to a decision which has been taken by the Committee on Budgets in relation to a fund for regional solidarity between Europe and Latin America.
It should be noted in this regard that some agencies have done very well out of this, whilst the reinstatement of the preliminary draft budget has meant that others have not received the funding they need in order to successfully complete the tasks allocated to them.
Secondly, when recruiting specialised staff, who can only be allocated to higher grades, approval must be sought from the budgetary authority in each individual case.
As the Member States have already announced their intention to set up even more agencies, we can see even today that this will go beyond the scope of category 3.
The 2004 budget is very much a continuation of the 2003 structure.
The main objective for next year is to provide sufficient funds and a sufficiently well-structured system to cope with not only the challenge of enlargement but also the new responsibilities that an enlarged Europe will have to take on on the world stage.
I therefore feel it is essential to ensure that the Tacis, LRRD and MEDA programmes are preserved, and I see a need for a new instrument to update the policy of proximity and to put it into practice.
Lastly, I would mention the protection and promotion of children, especially those who are victims of wars and natural disasters.
Finally, I should also like to thank the Commission, which has, once again, been extremely open to working with the Committee on Budgets, and I hope that, by next year, we will have succeeded in this challenge. &#160;&#160; – Madam President, Commissioner, members of the Council Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the Budget resolutions are about setting down in figures the policy that one wants to implement; it is about turning one’s own political priorities into a proper structure of figures that will stand up.
We know that small and medium-sized enterprises employ over half the EU’s workers, that they produce something like half the total turnover in the European Union, and that they are innovative and geared towards growth.
In all this, we have to pay particular attention to the very small firms, the micro-enterprises, even though the Commission is proving to be a bit clumsy about this.
The fact is that they make up the majority of our businesses.
It is essential to dedicate more resources to this political priority.
Madam President, I believe it is very appropriate in this debate to stress, as other Members have done, that the 2004 budget creates a line intended to introduce elements of European solidarity into assistance for the victims of terrorism.
This pilot project recognises in a special manner this group of European citizens and sends the political message that the Union is listening to them and is showing solidarity from a budgetary point of view as well.
Finally, Madam President, the draft 2004 budget takes the Council's traditional approach of austerity and expenditure control.
We agree that this budgetary policy must contribute to healthy and stable growth.
This has enabled us to vote on a budget for twenty-five countries, taking up the traditional budgetary priorities and Parliament’s constant concerns, relating specifically to our core traditional policies, but also to the concerns that we have been expressing for years on the subject of micro-enterprises, citizens’ information and policies of justice, security and solidarity.
Having said that, the problems raised by the draft budget that the Council submitted to us do not bode well for the future, in particular the historically low level of payment appropriations: less than 1% of GDP, the likes of which we have to go back more than seventeen years to see.
The Council, which is obsessed with the health of national economies, is acting like an accountant but certainly not like a manager and even less as if it had a vision for the European Union’s future.
This year, two headings fail to comply with the financial perspective.
First, EUR&#160;83&#160;million too much has been earmarked for rural development, which highlights the needs created by the CAP’s new approach.
The serious incident between the Commission and Europe’s information bodies weakens this policy and demonstrates the difficulties that the Commission has in respecting the priorities set by Parliament.
It is therefore obvious that a solution must be found to ensure that their work can continue.
Secondly, I would like to mention that our committee wishes to maintain all its amendments at this stage, especially those relating to Eurostat.
I would also like to welcome the PPE-DE Group's proposal for an oral question to the Commission for the November Strasbourg part-session about the appalling information flow in Eurostat, the problems involving whistleblowers, the audits that lay untouched in Eurostat and the lack of political responsibility in the Commission.
We would also like to ensure that our amendments on the Committee of the Regions are maintained in the light of what we have just read in the OLAF report in the confidential reading room.
As regards the Financial Controller, the most threatening aspect for the Committee on the Regions seems to be the endemic culture of unprofessionalism and improvisation, where lack of transparency is preferred to openness, for instance in reporting facts to OLAF.
The Committee of the Regions will have to answer some serious questions.
If we had known those facts when the amendments concerning it were tabled, my committee would have made them more forceful, not only cutting some of the Committee of the Regions' budget, but putting a substantial additional amount into the reserve.
What I would like to say to you is this: we have on the table the last budget to be adopted in this Parliamentary term, and our minds are turning more and more towards the multiannual financial framework which will guide our budgetary policy in the medium and long term.
The report ordered on this issue by President&#160;Prodi gives us some cause for concern, as, of course, does the crucial question of economic and social cohesion.
In a democratic, politically coherent and socially responsible Europe, such redistribution can only be achieved if economic and social cohesion is the central aim.
The Sapir report is based on the premise that there is a conflict between cohesion and growth.
Good cohesion policies are, by their nature, good economic growth policies, just as bad cohesion policies are also, by their nature, bad economic growth policies.
What is worrying about the way the Community budget works at present is precisely that budgetary redistribution sometimes redounds to the benefit of more central countries or regions, and even large companies or multinationals.
That tendency can be seen in product sale subsidies and export refunds.
These are the areas which should be reviewed more thoroughly; these are the mechanisms and distortions which the next financial framework must tackle, and which must continue to act as the ultimate guiding principle of the Community budget. &#160;&#160; Madam President, I would also like to offer the rapporteurs my heartfelt thanks and with regard to social policy I would say that a number of problems do still remain.
It is of course very bad that we say to a country that is in such difficulty, a country that in theory could be one of the richest countries in the world and that perhaps one day will be again, that we say to it: ‘No, we can give you 200 million,’ – although money is always given back by the European Commission at the end of the year – ‘More is out of the question and anyone who asks for more is behaving irresponsibly.’ Then it seems we are concerned with bookkeeping and not really with the resolution of problems.
Sure enough, we can also put up EUR 10, then we are being even more responsible and then perhaps everything will be fine.
However, I believe that we are then failing in our duty, that we are then acting as bookkeepers and not as politicians.
However, we are meeting here in this Chamber as politicians and therefore we must also talk about the actual problems.
I would very much like to hear what it is. &#160;&#160; Madam President, unfortunately, I could not resolve the problems of the Structural Funds with EUR 10.
However, in all events, I must say, Commissioner, to start with this issue, that we in the Committee on Regional Policy and Transport consider that the Committee on Budgets has moved in the right direction as regards category II, the budget for the Structural Funds, by basically replacing the amounts set out in the preliminary draft budget and sometimes going higher.
This was also our position when we gave our opinion on the budget and consequently there is no need for me to refer to this further.
As far as transport is concerned, while I welcome the fact that the amounts in the preliminary draft budget for transport safety have been replaced –&#160;and for us the question of transport safety is a matter of absolute priority – I wish to say that we disagree with Amendment No 553 by the Committee on Budgets, which refers to the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA).
Here, in an effort to limit appropriations horizontally as far as personnel are concerned, I think that problems are being created for the ‘take-off’ of this agency, which needs to operate efficiently and quickly at European level, so that there is one contact for these issues with the Federal Aviation Administration (FΑΑ) in the United States.
We welcome the fact that the levels of the preliminary draft budget have been increased by 5 million for commitment appropriations and 52 million for payment appropriations.
We would also like to believe that the Member States will honour the undertakings they have made, including recently at the last European Council in Brussels, to make the question of the European networks an absolute priority. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy proposed a number of amendments to the budget.
One main concern was with regard to the resources allocated to the various agencies and institutions that carry out statutory duties on our behalf or provide data and statistical information.
We cannot demand that, for example, the European Environment Agency provide environmental indicators to enable us to link common agricultural policy reforms to the achievement of environmental goals if their budget is not adequate.
Last year Parliament voted to allocate resources to help address the continuing health problems in the Republic of Belarus as a direct result of the Chernobyl incident of April 1986.
They do not have access to the iridium sources needed for this equipment to work.
We are not satisfied in every regard, but we have made good progress.
Add to this that the food safety, animal welfare and the environmental requirements in the European Union for the producer are the highest in the world, then we must have all hands on deck to structure the 2004 budget so that allowance is made for both the consumer and the farmer.
Madam President, as rapporteur for the agriculture budget I have on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development submitted the following change proposals for the treatment of this first reading.
The same goes for the SAPAR programme, extremely important for our new Member States.
We would also appreciate the introduction of a new budget line for the LEADER EAST programme.
And in the area of animal diseases in particular we would like EUR 12 million extra to be set aside for veterinary measures and animal welfare and public health measures.
We would also like EUR 18&#160;million extra to be set aside for the animal diseases emergency fund. &#160;&#160; Madam President, when the previous budget debate was held in plenary at the end of September, I expressed concern about the reports on the irregularities at Eurostat.
It is essential, in this connection, to emphasise the important role played by Eurostat in monetary union.
The European Central Bank depends upon reliable statistics in order to be able to take its decisions on monetary policy.
I should like to draw attention to some of the recommendations presented in what is known as the Sapir report, which observes very correctly that the EU budget is out-of-date.
The report proposes, among other things, that the costs of agricultural and regional policy must be considerably reduced and that funds must be set aside from the budget in cases where they can create basic conditions for employment and growth.
Both the issue of Eurostat and that of how the EU budget is to look in the future are about credibility.
I think I am the last speaker from Parliament before the rapporteur and the Commission and I just want to make three fundamental points.
I hope that come the end of the year we do not find ourselves in a situation in which we have serious difficulties about how to continue funding these projects.
It seems to me that the Commission would be wise to reflect as soon as possible on the possibility of a transitional period, so that we can in any event continue with the funding of those projects that we have funded in the past.
As regards the issues touched upon by various speakers, I would wish, as rapporteur, to adhere to the maintenance of the financial perspectives as they have been agreed.
I do of course agree with Terry Wynn, who says that this is only the first reading.
Two points about these agencies, on which a decision will probably be made on Thursday: putting 10% in the reserve and talking about the organisational charts of the agencies.
I hope that everything can be worked out in close cooperation with both him and the agencies, so that we can resolve this whole issue before the second reading.
Mr Bartho Pronk, he is no longer in the Chamber, but I can confirm that the guarantee funds for small and medium-sized businesses will also apply to those small and medium-sized businesses that are concerned with health and safety at work.
The other question will be dealt with by a group of Commissioners in preparation for the next meeting of the Inter-Institutional Group on Information.
If an intermediate solution were now to be decided on, only for the Council to say, ‘marvellous, now we don’t need to do anything’, then we would very soon be facing a situation in which Parliament would be meeting for the last time before the European elections without there being a new legal basis in place.
It is also, quite obviously, in the interests of the Member States that the grants to such bodies as the Institutes in Florence and Bruges – to name but two – should be secured.
To do so is, after all, in the common European interest, and that is why it is also in the common interest that these legal bases should be established as soon as possible.
Let me conclude by returning to the very important issue of aid for Iraq.
The splitting of the European Union into two camps over whether or not there should be military intervention put us in a difficult position.
We are agreed, though, that we want to help the people there not only with humanitarian aid, as we have done this year, but that we who belong to the European Union also want to play a part in reconstruction.
Our commitment to Afghanistan, Mr Elles, was for five years.
If you do not want to make cuts in category 4, the money would soon end up having to come out of an expanded flexibility reserve, and that requires a joint decision.
Mr Wynn, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, asked me a specific question about the possibility of a supplementary budget.
I would therefore ask you to consider whether it might not be possible for Parliament, at the present first reading stage, to make, by means of a motion, a declaration on the 2004 Budget in which it calls upon the Commission to present a report on the implementation and evaluation of this aid halfway through next year.
If a different security situation and the resolution of other political issues then makes it possible for aid to be provided on the ground, it will be possible to consider adopting a different resolution on the amount of money involved.
The debate is closed.
Whatever it ends up being, I want to make it very clear here that the funds for development aid must not be drawn on for this!
As rapporteur I have made out the case for the modification of the nomenclature of the budget lines for development cooperation with Asia and Latin America.
The majority of the people living below the poverty line of 1 dollar still live in these two regions.
These budget lines must come under development cooperation and not under external relations.
If the level can be boosted here through training and extra investments, not only will we achieve the target figure of 35% for the social infrastructure in developing countries, but we can also ensure that at least 20% of this can be spent on primary education and health care. &#160;&#160; The next item is Question Time (B5-0279/2003).
In the light of this new development, can the Commission state whether the working party in its current form (comprising representatives of the Commission, the Federal German Government, the road haulage sector and Toll Collect) will continue its work, so that, should a new date be set for the introduction of the toll, a comprehensive report on the difficulties affecting the operation of the system and opinions on a possible breach of the Treaty can be made available.
On 6 March, Germany notified the Commission of its intention to introduce a system of reimbursement of tolls – reimbursement, partial at least, or payment – based on special charges, which could allow payment of up to a sum of 15 cents on average.
The Commission must assess whether the notified measure is compatible with the common market and conforms to the applicable Community legislation.
Given the doubts raised by this measure, on 23 July 2003, the Commission decided to begin a formal investigation, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 88(2) of the EC Treaty, so that Germany and other interested parties could make their observations.
On 27 August 2003 the text was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and the Commission is scheduled to make the final decision by the end of the year.
The Commission believes that the system of tolls could be discriminatory if certain technical problems are not resolved before it is introduced.
The Commission and the German Government, therefore, created a working group intended to examine the technical problems raised by the introduction of the system of tolls, and this group is demonstrating that it works well.
I would also like to point out that the Commission has asked the German Government to ensure that the installation of tolls hinders the free movement of traffic in Europe as little as possible and that, if problems arise once it is in operation, the Commission would take the appropriate measures.
In any event, however, I would like to say that we in the Commission have acted in defence of the Treaties, and that, since the end of August and the beginning of September, we have established channels of cooperation with the German Government which are operating in a more than satisfactory way. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, I also emphasised in the various questions that the Commission acted appropriately on this matter.
My concerns merely lie in the fact that the toll has been postponed indefinitely and that this working group, which you have already put in place, has also helped us to show that shortcomings have arisen and that this has also led to discrimination between various Member States.
Therefore, Mr Rübig, I believe it is essential that we preserve what is laid out in this proposal: to link that income to the use of the infrastructure, to the maintenance of infrastructures and the transport sector, and not to link this income to public income, the income of administrations, because in that case, I would repeat, we would have to opt for a different legal basis and we would have to approve it unanimously, and I do not know if that would be the best approach if we really want to achieve a modification in the Eurovignette Directive.
The Commission has had regular and in-depth discussions with the Bulgarian Government about these issues and has pressed for measures aimed at resolving them.
In my view, the problem of corruption at a border crossing or in transit is a question that, as well as being considered in terms of the rule of law, must also be considered in terms of fighting corruption.
In its cooperation with Bulgaria, the Commission gave particular priority to both of these questions.
It was difficult to achieve this and it has not yet been fully achieved because to do so required a change in the constitution, which has been blocked for many years.
The Bulgarian Government has pledged to ensure that all citizens have access to an efficient complaints procedure.
The Commission will continue to follow future development in this area and make full use of the instruments that we have available in order to make sure Bulgaria adheres to international standards and to help Bulgaria to do so. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner erheugen, I would like to mention that the Bulgarian authorities have in the meantime apologised to me, as I myself experienced this with my German passport.
Nevertheless, the supply of medicines to private individuals, in other words the sale to the public by a pharmacist, is not regulated at Community level under pharmaceutical legislation.
The Commission does not, therefore, have accurate figures on the scale of legal electronic sales of medicines in the European Union.
Nor does it have figures for the total quantity of medicines supplied through the Internet within the European Union and beyond its borders, with or without an electronic prescription.
These provisions include, should this prove necessary, banning the marketing on their territory, by means of a remote contract, of certain goods or services, in particular medicines, in compliance with the Treaty.
The issue of the compatibility of national measures with the Treaty, in other words Articles&#160;28 to 30, is currently the subject of the DocMorris&#160;NV and Jacques Waterval case, which is pending in the Court of Justice.
The issue mainly concerns looking at the proportionality of national measures of this nature and the justification for them, in order to protect human health and life.
By the way, the Commission intends to set up a European health portal which could address these issues.
It should, however, be noted that it is primarily the responsibility of the Member States to inform consumers about the dangers of buying over the Internet and to monitor these activities.
Inquiries conducted into the matter have shown that they are people engaged in criminal activities.
Similarly, we do not know the place of origin of the pharmaceutical products, because they often do not come from places such as the USA or Canada, but from India or Brazil, with the result that the composition and content of the pharmaceutical product are very harmful and bear no relation to the indications.
So they concern very young ages.
As you know, the Irish and UK authorities have revealed fraudulent practices designed to artificially increase the weight of poultry-meat by adding water and protein to other ingredients.
The process is used to retain a large quantity of water, up to 40% or indeed, even as high as 50%.
In line with the proposal made by the UK authorities, my services have been working on a Commission directive in order to highlight, on the label, the presence of added water in such products.
However, I remain of the opinion that labelling products to which water has been added is only the second best solution if water has been added only to increase artificially the weight and therefore to mislead the consumer.
The practice of adding water to food in order to cheat the consumer is despicable.
Therefore there is continuing concern in Member States and at Commission level.
I have also asked my services to conduct a detailed legal analysis of the current legislation in place dealing with this kind of situation.
In particular, I have asked for an analysis of Council Directive 71/18/EEC: the belief is that piece of legislation bans the inclusion of water and hydrolysed protein for the purpose of retaining the water.
It is rather early, at this stage, to give you further detail on the ongoing investigation and analysis of the legal position and the legislation already in place, but I hope to be in a position to do so in the relatively near future, and to present a communication that will be available for discussion in Parliament in due course. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I would like to ask the Commissioner whether, in connection with the study dealing with the evolution of rules pertaining to meat products, it is also possible to investigate the restrictions which relate to the mechanical separation of meat and bone matter.
In relation to the other issue you raised, all I can say is that we currently consider all issues relevant to food safety.
I cannot give you an answer at the moment as to whether the particular point you raised is one of those issues, but it is something that I can deal with.
On the question of whether this protein can be disguised or not, this is also part of the ongoing work.
This issue is bound to be considered in the context of implementation of the Tobacco Products Directive.
Article 5 of this directive requires that the content of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide yields should be printed on the cigarette packet and each unit packet of cigarettes must carry general and additional health warnings covering at least 30% of the front and 40% of the back surface, aimed at informing the consumer about the risks of tobacco use.
One of the main purposes of the Tobacco Products Directive is to alert consumers to the health effects of tobacco use through clear and visible health warnings.
In this respect, the directive provides that these texts must in no way be hidden, obscured or interrupted by other written or pictorial matter or by the opening of the packet.
If the cigarette packet and the cardboard cover are sold separately, it could be argued that this is not in direct contradiction with the provisions of the directive which concerns the sale of tobacco and not the sale of cardboard.
So, in this context the purpose of the directive of informing the consumer about the health effects of tobacco use has been met.
The Commission is aware, for instance, that in some cases these cardboard covers are on sale at government-licensed tobacco shops, and brochures advertising them are sent to the tobacco shops by the same distribution companies that bring the tobacco.
It is up to the Member States to take all necessary measures to ensure the correct implementation of the directive.
The Community has a powerful legal instrument which needs to be implemented correctly.
The Commission will analyse all practical issues emerging from the implementation of the directive and will report to Parliament before the end of 2004. &#160;&#160; If I have understood the Commissioner correctly, there are two key aspects to this matter, of which one is the potential desire to provide this free packaging when tobacco is sold.
I believe – I am not speaking in my personal capacity but on behalf of several Members, who have waged this fight side by side with the Commissioner throughout the work carried out on this proactive and important directive – that we are talking here about vital issues, and this is something that needs to be said!
Not all being legal specialists but not, equally, being naive, we are fully aware that a legal solution – and we hope that one exists – will be extremely difficult to find.
In my question I refer to twelve States, but the problem certainly occurs in all the Member States and the candidate countries.
We must find a solution, all the more because the Commission proposes, and we support it in this battle, to go further by including photographs.
The extent to which these products may be sold or given free of charge in conjunction with the sale of tobacco is an issue that must be addressed and resolved, particularly in the context of the implementation of the legislation which comes within the powers of the Member States themselves.
However, if there were two completely separate and distinct transactions, one the purchase of cigarettes and the other, in a different shop in another area, the purchase of a package such as this, where an individual is free to do as he wishes with his packet of cigarettes, it seems to me that in such cases, we are reaching the point where regulation becomes more difficult.
But, as I said earlier, the fact remains that the purchaser of the cigarette package will have been aware, and it will have been brought to his notice, that this information is contained on the packet of cigarettes.
The Commission is aware that Parliament and some Member States had called for a limitation on journeys of eight hours or 500 kilometres.
The Commission’s proposal takes full account of the opinion of the Scientific Committee and a full range of consultations that took place with stakeholders.
The Commission decided that the best means to give effect to the outcome of this process was to propose travel times that would coincide with the travel and rest rules applicable to drivers.
Consequently, one of my principal aims – the effective enforcement of enhanced animal protection rules – could be achieved in a much more straightforward way.
I am looking forward to Parliament’s views on our proposal, as well as speedy progress in the Council.
It would be inappropriate to enter into speculation about any particular scenario in view of the respective roles of our institutions as set out in the Treaty. &#160;&#160; I am actually somewhat disappointed, because there seems to be a big difference between the rules for drivers of trucks transporting animals all the way to the Middle East, and the conditions that the animals themselves are kept in.
As you mentioned, Commissioner, Parliament's position was eight hours.
The issue will be presented to the House for discussion, and whatever amendments are tabled will be addressed by the Commission in the usual way.
Finally, I have noted the point that you have made and no doubt we will discuss it at a later time. &#160;&#160; I also have concerns about the proposal on animal transport.
I have asked my services to look at this particular point to try and achieve an outcome that you might like, while at the same time ensuring that the rules of the operation of the internal market are not damaged.
At the present time, we are witnessing increasing regular consumption of alcohol and an increasing amount of 'binge-drinking' among young people in certain Member States.
I should like to assure you that the Commission, in further developing the Community public health strategy, will also focus on reducing alcohol-related harm.
One major step in preparing these documents was the Stockholm Conference on Alcohol and Young People in February 2001.
It has to be emphasised that, besides being an important health policy issue, alcohol is also a controversial and politically sensitive issue both at the Community level and in the Member States.
A Community strategy must be carefully planned in co-operation with the Member States.
Hence we have to assess the different measures as well as the different situations in the Member States.
The adoption of the new public health programme has provided the Commission with an efficient instrument in preparing the strategy.
First, a report on alcohol is going to be completed by the end of 2004 under the health information part of the new programme.
This report will deal with the economic and social costs of alcohol, including issues of promotion of alcohol, protection of children and young people.
Second, hopefully from the beginning of next year, we will create a network of expert organisations to support the implementation of the Council recommendation on the drinking of alcohol by young people, and to develop further a Community strategy on alcohol foreseen in the Council conclusion referred to by the honourable Member.
The Commission has recently created a working party on alcohol and health, where the Member States' representatives discuss different aspects of alcohol policy in the Community and, specifically, how the Member States are implementing the Council recommendation on alcohol and young people.
The working party will also allow us to monitor the situation in the new Member States.
This report will consider the extent to which the proposed measures are working effectively and the need for revision or further action.
The Commission is also exploring with the WHO euro-region and the Member States the possibility of holding a conference on alcohol and health in 2005 as a follow up to the Stockholm Conference in 2001.
The results of this conference, together with the report on the application of the Council recommendation on young people and alcohol, will allow us to define the strategy, which will reflect the situation of the larger European Union.
In making progress at Community level, we should not forget the central role of our Member States in tackling these phenomena.
Effective enforcement of existing national legislation on issues ranging from drink-driving to age limits could make a significant difference. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I wish to thank the Commissioner for his answer.
I interpret this as indicating that this work will now be entering a more intensive phase and that it will result in a good many practical measures.
As I have indicated to you, the measures that are being undertaken by my Directorate-General and by others in the Commission, seek to achieve a situation whereby there will be a reduction of binge drinking in particular, especially among young people.
We can only act in the light of the competences that are available to us at European Union level: this issue is the primary responsibility of each individual Member State, and some Member States have a bigger problem than others.
Those Member States that have a bigger problem should ensure that they put in place policies at national level to try to resolve this situation. &#160;&#160; Although we have exceeded the 30 minutes of questions, we will put a final one, if the Commissioner will allow us.
This report was adopted in December 1998 and covers a wide range of issues including : the origins and distribution of foie gras production; the practice of rearing and force-feeding: the behaviour of ducks and geese; the consequences of force-feeding, in particular welfare indicators; socio-economic aspects of improving the welfare of animals used in the foie gras industry; and research.
The scientists did not look at the issue of force-feeding in isolation, but as part of the full range of factors involved in producing foie gras.
The main aim of the recommendations is to improve production practices so that avoidable suffering can be mitigated.
The report makes clear that it is very important for the further development of foie gras production to introduce alternative techniques that do not require force-feeding in an intensive way.
My services have drawn the attention of the industry to this report.
These recommendations provide for welfare considerations for the breeding of ducks and geese and, in particular, for the phasing out of small individual cages for ducks.
The recommendations reflect the necessity to reduce the most intensive form of farming, as recommended in the report of the Scientific Committee to which I have already referred.
The Community, all Member States, and most of the acceding countries are party to this Convention and, as such, are expected to give effect to the recommendations.
In particular, parties to the Convention will have to report the status of the implementation of these particular recommendations to the Council of Europe after 1 January 2005.
The Commission will closely follow the implementation of these recommendations, which provide for significant welfare improvements. &#160;&#160; Commissioner, thank you for that response.
Directive 98/58/EC also allows for Community measures to ensure the uniform application of Council of Europe recommendations.
The European Union should do the same.
The real issue for concern, and the focus of attention of all the scientific evaluation on this issue, has been related to the intensive farming, intensive production and the intensive force-feeding of the birds in that way.
What we are considering here is the question of animal welfare and the treatment of animals and birds in these circumstances.
This is an issue that will be discussed at a future time. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much for your cooperation with Parliament this afternoon, Mr Byrne.
In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Questions Nos 42, 43 and 44 will be replied to in writing.
There is an American law which requires airlines flying to or from the United States to provide access to their passenger name records.
February's joint statement brought with it a US commitment to work with the Commission towards achieving a so-called adequacy finding regarding the level of data protection provided by the United States.
The Commission, as I told Parliament's relevant committee on 9 September 2003, is working to a deadline of Christmas 2003. &#160;&#160; I fear that the Commissioner's ‘understandable’ is worse than an agreement.
In other words, what we have here are tolerance and the concealed assent of the Commission, and Commissioner Bolkestein in particular, to an infringement of the legislation of the European Union, especially the directives on data protection.
Consequently, Commissioner, my question is: have you taken account of the resolution passed by the European Parliament's plenary a few weeks ago on combating this situation?
The legislation of the United States requires all passengers going to the United States to have their personal data sent on before their arrival.
Anyway, it is a directive and should be policed by Member States, not by the Commission.
We need to decide whether there is adequate protection of the data in the United States, that is the so-called 'adequacy finding'.
The situation is of doubtful legality, but the Commission is in discussions with the American Government to try and rectify.
I said to Parliament that I set a deadline of Christmas to resolve this situation.
It is also subject to the derogations regarding the protection of human health and life and also the protection of industrial and commercial property, provided by Article 30 of the Treaty.
The specific point of a trademark is, in particular, to guarantee to the owner that he has the exclusive right to use that trademark for the purpose of putting a product on the market for the first time.
Accordingly, Member State legislation protecting industrial and commercial property rights may not be used to oppose the importation of a product that has already been lawfully placed on the market in another Member State by, or with the consent of, the proprietor of that right.
In certain circumstances parallel importers are forced to relabel parallel imported medicinal products in order to have effective access to the market of the importing Member State, especially when the use of different trademarks by the proprietor contributes to the artificial partitioning of the markets between Member States.
It is for the national courts to determine in each specific case whether it is objectively necessary for the parallel importer to use the trademark used in the Member State of import to enable the imported products to have effective access to the market.
As regards the national measures mentioned in the question, should more information on the specific circumstances become available to the Commission, these special circumstances will be assessed in the light of the jurisprudence of the court. &#160;&#160; My understanding of what you said is that, if I can obtain more information on this specific case, I can come to you to resolve it or refer the matter to a national court.
The Commission therefore takes the view that the provisions of the public service contract directives are applicable to this entity when it awards a contract falling within the scope of these directives and that the environmental impact assessment contract referred to by the honourable Member should have been published in the Official Journal of the European Union.
The Commission wishes to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that the Trasagua case must be placed in the broader context of the compatibility of the Spanish provisions for the implementation of the community concept of public law body.
The Court of Justice for example recently found Spain guilty of the incorrect application of the directive on working on the construction of a prison.
Another case relating to the more general problem of the incorrect implementation of the personnel scope of the directives concerning the coordination of the procedures for the award of public works contracts and of public supply contracts has still to come before the Court.
In addition, on 11 July of this year the Commission decided to declare Spain in default on the same grounds in relation to Directive 92/50/EEC concerning the coordination of procedures for the award of public service contracts. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to thank Commissioner Bolkestein for his clear response.
I am also pleased with the reply he has given, namely that the Commission has declared Spain to be in default by reason of inadequate compliance with the directive on government spending.
The fact is that this plan is enormous and requires a great deal of government funds, also government funds from the Commission, for which an application has been submitted but which, fortunately, has not yet been granted.
The Commission services are preparing a proposal for a directive on the capital adequacy of banks and investment firms.
The Commission's proposal should be made very shortly thereafter.
Implementation at the end of 2006 remains a challenging but achievable task.
First, with regard to his question on retail loans, the draft directive should indeed allow a wide use of comitology procedures to make necessary changes in the light of market developments, including inflation adjustments.
With respect to questions 3, 7 and 8 on banks' internal rating systems, the draft proposals do not spell out how banks should develop their rating systems and which risk factors they should take into account.
As is currently the case, banks are only required to take into account all relevant available information when they assess the credit quality of their borrowers, including any investments and research activities a potential borrower has undertaken or plans to make.
Irrespective of that, the Commission services have started a project to examine ways of promoting the use of rating systems that include technology risk assessments – in other words, technology ratings – to enable potential investors to appraise the specific risks and rewards associated with investments in technology-based SMEs.
But, if a bank wants to use its internal ratings for regulatory capital purposes, its supervisor will need in future to check the reliability of the bank's rating system.
Work in Basel and Brussels reflects this in numerous areas, for example by allowing a partial use of methodologies to avoid unnecessary burdens for small credit institutions.
I apologise for having been so detailed, Mr President, but the questions were also detailed and I wanted to reply in a similar vein. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner&#160;Bolkestein, I would like to thank you for your detailed reply.
This means that the Commission will not finalise its proposal until around the middle of next year.
The Commission is not a Member of the Basel Committee; it is an observer and therefore in the hands of the Basel Committee as far as progress in that matter is concerned.
We had already considered something to this effect in the Committee on Budgets and earmarked EUR&#160;6 million in the budget for training related to Basel&#160;II.
Furthermore, we have a pilot project&#160;–&#160;which we hope to be able to vote in favour of on Thursday&#160;–&#160;of EUR&#160;91 million for building up collateral, because ultimately collateral must be built up in order to obtain a credit rating.
I would be interested in knowing if it would still be possible for us to incorporate into the Commission study how we can best equip the training programme and how we could optimise the preparations for the introduction of Basel&#160;II in the pilot project together with the European Investment Bank and other European banks. &#160;&#160; .
But certainly the Commission is more than willing to cooperate by giving Mr Rübig the benefit of its experience in carrying out training activities and if he would care to send a letter me along those lines, then I shall be at pains to see to it that the matter is dealt with in an adequate fashion. &#160;&#160; If you will allow us, Commissioner, we will put a final question.
Concerning the specific question of certain public works studies, the Commission can confirm that, in the course of a regularly scheduled on-the-spot control mission concerning the Egnatia project, which is co-financed by the EU, in particular through the Trans-European Network – TEN-T – and the Structural Funds, some issues have been identified which show that the practices in Greece for the award of study contracts may not be compatible with public procurement rules and thus require further clarification.
The Commission is in close contact with the Greek authorities in order to assess these issues.
Should the competent Greek authorities not provide sufficient evidence of the compatibility of national rules or practices with the Community legislation on public procurement, the Commission will have to open an infringement procedure and thus all the EU funds concerned will have to be suspended.
As for the last question, the Commission is not currently examining any case related to the concession of public works, nor have there been any complaints on this specific issue to date. &#160;&#160; I thank the Commissioner for the detailed reply which he has given to my question.
But that does not mean that no cases are being looked into – they have simply not been brought to my notice. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your excellent cooperation beyond the agreed time limit.
Let me furthermore stress that the area of motor insurance is a very good example of efficient co-operation between Parliament and the Commission.
The proposal for a Fifth Motor Insurance Directive aims at introducing legislation which would affect millions of European citizens: drivers and potential victims of accidents and, of course, insurers.
Some aspects of the directives adopted in the 1970s and the 1980s need to be updated, in particular concerning the minimum amount of insurance cover.
Furthermore, the procedure set up in the Fourth Motor Insurance Directive for an efficient and quick settlement of accidents taking place outside the victim's Member&#160;State of residence should be extended to any motor accident.
In this area of insurance law and protection for victims of accidents there is in fact excellent cooperation between the Commission and Parliament and I thank you for that.
After the Fourth Directive was passed there was, on 22 December 2000, the regulation onjurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters.
This was made possible for accidents in another country in the Fourth Directive and with the fifth this applies to all accidents.
This means that it will not only be possible to settle out of court in one’s own country a claim arising in another, but it will also be possible to begin a legal battle in one’s own.
There is a somewhat piecemeal system in the European Union in this area and everybody agrees that, after twenty years, a new provision is needed.
Everything in me rebels against the idea that a 20-year-old, paralysed after an accident, is left dependent on social security after 20 years, and in the meantime the injuring party, who is infinitely liable, is also financially ruined.
On the whole&#160;–&#160;and I am coming back to where I began&#160;–&#160;the cooperation between Parliament and the Commission has been so excellent because we held a European dialogue at European level on all of these issues, between insurers, automobile associations, Parliament, and associations of accident victims&#160;–&#160;I am referring here to the European Transport Law Seminars in Trier.
On the whole, it all helps to take us forward and above all: it encourages us to have a European dialogue because when we do have such a dialogue then solutions are easier. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in actual fact, I am taking the floor as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market to acknowledge the work done by the vice-chairman, Mr Rothley.
As a result, it will be simpler to purchase a car in any country in the Union where the best terms are available.
The most sensitive part of the report – it has already been underlined, but I should like to reiterate it – concerns the higher levels of cover laid down by the Member States.
The Commission had set a sum of EUR 1 million per victim in cases of personal injury and EUR 500&#160;000 per accident for damage to property.
Even if it takes twenty years before the fourth directive is followed by a fifth one, we will get there in the end.
Insurance law is also complex in this case.
I would like to state once again, therefore, that this proposal is closer to reality than the extremely high amounts initially formulated.
It will receive my unqualified support. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, it is a sad fact, but we must face up to the reality that there are far too many drivers on our roads without sufficient insurance.
I commend the rapporteur for his work on this technical subject and agree fully that an appropriate level of insurance cover should also meet the cost of legal proceedings.
Accident victims with very severe injuries such as paraplegia would not receive sufficient cover with a maximum sum of EUR 1 million.
I agree that it makes sense not only to provide cover for the severest cases at EUR 10 million but to limit cover to that amount for each accident.
It ought to be extremely rare for two or more cases of severe injuries to occur in a single accident.
The fact that accidents in different countries can now be dealt with in the country of the injured person is a huge plus, and I congratulate the rapporteur once again. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner&#160;Bolkestein, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that this directive is important because it is important for European motorists and victims of accidents.
I contributed to the 2001 report and am delighted to say that a number of the ideas that flowed from that are now incorporated in this very welcome Fifth proposal from the Commission.
It underlines the fact that in the internal market, citizens expect to be able to have these rights delivered across borders without inconvenience – that is really what this proposal is all about.
In my own country, the United Kingdom, that cuts across national provisions.
It is no coincidence that the European Parliament has called on the Commission to submit a proposal to bring motor insurance rules up to date so that the right of European Union citizens to live, travel and work in any Member State of the Union without any problem may become a reality.
Lastly, the directive allows citizens to obtain a statement from their current insurers regarding the accidents in which they have been involved so that they can negotiate a new contract with another insurer.
It is essential to avoid setting the minimum cover at levels that are too high and beyond any reasonable need.
The effects would be felt especially badly in certain countries, including Italy, where increased premiums are already giving rise to a particularly heated debate.
It is often said that the distance between the European Union and the citizens of the Member States is too wide.
This is an issue which is to the direct benefit of the citizens of Europe and it goes to show that the distances are not as great as is sometimes stated.
That is another reason why the Commission is extremely happy with this report.
The various speakers have also thanked the Commission.
The Commission is extremely happy with the way things are proceeding and intends to continue the excellent cooperation between the Commission and Parliament which has marked out this dossier since its inception. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
Murder or mutilation for reasons of honour are seen as a way of maintaining peace within society, and the public stoning or chastising of women is condoned in the context of maintaining the social order.
Fortunately, the international community is increasingly showing its dissatisfaction with this situation, as is illustrated by the reaction to the stoning of Amina Lawal, the admittedly late reaction to the Taliban regime and the persistent questions about the death of photo journalist Zahra Kazemi in Iran.
At the same time, campaigns for women’s rights are receiving recognition.
President Wade made express reference to his fight against the genital mutilation of women.
The question we have to ask ourselves is whether Europe, via the various channels that the EU has at its disposal, is indeed adopting a structured policy with regard to serious violations of women’s rights.
The Cotonou Agreement with the ACP countries makes specific mention of genital mutilation.
There could, of course, also be positive aspects, though.
There is, for example, the systematic inclusion in development aid programmes of projects aimed at fighting violence against women or pressing for, and taking account of, the fact that partner countries ratify the Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), as well as the additional protocol.
This document must, in our view, make express reference to actions to counter violence against women, to women’s rights and also to the CEDAW.
Another possibility is for the Commission to provide staff trained to examine agreements with third countries from the gender perspective, in which local women’s organisations in the developing countries must also be involved.
The EU Member States, and Europe too, could demand legislation against genital mutilation.
In addition, when refugee status is granted, consideration should be given to the fact that some women flee the violence in their countries.
I should like to ask the Commission to what extent it is prepared to adopt a far more structured approach to policy in connection with this problem.
I have received a positive response to a number of questions I have raised, but they are all ad hoc actions.
Her political commitment to the cause of women's rights is well known in both the Commission and the Council.
This own-initiative report raises a wide range of issues.
It is an extremely valuable contribution in placing women nearer the centre of the European Union's foreign policy.
The violation of women's rights in international affairs is an extremely serious issue.
Secondly, we have issued a call for tender for the setting-up of a very large training programme for staff, both in our headquarters in Brussels and in delegations, including also the staff of beneficiary countries.
Thirdly, we have launched a call for proposals to support non-governmental organisation projects.
The Commission has also been very active in contributing to EU efforts to promote the human rights of women in international fora, such as the UN Commission on Human Rights, the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly, and the Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the OSCE.
It was tabled, as the House will know, by Canada, and we issued a strong statement on the human rights of women which highlighted, among other things, the growing problem of trafficking in human beings and the advantages of gender mainstreaming.
However, what I would like to underline today is that it is our belief that women’s rights are an integral part of human rights as a whole.
And for this reason, I would like to express the reservations of the Commission over certain recommendations within the report.
The item of principle concern to us is the call for the 'Council and Commission to include in future trade and development agreements, irrespective of and in addition to the essential elements clause, a specific clause providing for the imposition of sanctions and ultimately the suspension of the agreement in cases of serious and repeated violations of women’s rights'.
It is also worth noting that a separate clause on women’s rights would also imply the need to include various other human rights issues as individual clauses in subsequent trade and co-operation agreements; that is to say for example, a clause for the rights of the child, or a clause for the rights of indigenous peoples and minorities.
The human rights clause is a dynamic instrument through which we can advance human rights in a positive manner.
The measure of its success is not found in the frequency with which it results in punitive measures or suspension of agreements but rather in the structured exchanges on human rights which result in a more realistic way of realising the goals of the human rights clause.
By separating women’s rights from the overall human rights agenda, Parliament would not necessarily, whatever its admirable intentions, be serving the cause of human rights.
Central to the human rights dialogue with Iran – and I think I can say that I played a prominent part in getting it started – is the issue of discrimination against women and Iran’s non-ratification of the Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women.
Another important human rights instrument with regard to women’s rights is the European Initiative for Human Rights and Democratisation.
The instrument is very active in involving local women’s organisations in third countries.
And although gender equality is a horizontal issue under this European initiative, many specific gender projects have also been supported.
For example, we are currently funding a project in Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon West Bank and Gaza for legal aid and literacy, for counselling for women victims of violence and for awareness campaigns and research.
I first learnt that lesson 20 odd years ago in Pakistan, and I have continued learning it ever since. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, culture and tradition serve as pretexts for the ongoing suffering of women as victims of violence in many parts of the world.
All this is unacceptable for two reasons: these practices constitute violations of fundamental human rights and are out-and-out attacks on democracy.
The European Union, therefore, must use every means at its disposal to fight these iniquities.
The European Union has indeed written a clause on respect for human rights and democracy into every agreement concluded with third countries.
By way of a carrot, countries pursuing policies that yield effective results in combating violence against women must be rewarded via the establishment of incentives and more favourable commercial agreements.
Lastly, it must be ensured that development aid programmes include projects specially geared towards women’s rights and combating violence.
Such projects must include active participation by local women.
It is easy to hear political leaders saying that women’s rights are human rights and that, as such, they must be protected and defended.
The human rights of women are always relative.
The United Nations High Commission for Refugees has already approved guidelines aimed at persuading governments to make decisions on asylum requests in a way which guarantees adequate attention for women within the procedures for determining refugee status, and that applications for reasons of gender should be recognised as such.
For some reason, it is much easier to obtain refugee status when a person is persecuted for political reasons than when a person is persecuted a result of their sex.
Women at risk of genital mutilation do not know that they may have international protection, because we do not tell them, because we never take the step forward necessary to really use the legal protection instruments available to us to protect women.
These are the cases which should really be studied if we are to realise that our statements must become specific actions, because – and I would insist – in letters, in statements, in Constitutions, even in many documents from this Parliament and from the Commission, we have recognised that it is essential to protect the women suffering this persecution.
The reason is that we are prepared to recognise these aggressions as serious violations of human rights, but we are not prepared to offer them the solutions that we offer in other similar situations.
I should also like to thank Commissioner Patten for his speech, even if I have to say that I felt myself to be far more in agreement with a long list of other speeches than I actually did with this one.
I could also talk for hours about the way in which, above all, the deportation of asylum seekers – when they have had their requests rejected and are to be kicked out of our Member States – contravenes everything that goes under the name of the dignified treatment of human beings.
It may escape many of us that, in the context of international relations, and particularly where development cooperation is concerned, it was not so long ago that discussion of human rights was absolutely taboo.
We often hear that human rights are women’s rights.
It should be self-evident that women’s rights are a vital component in development cooperation.
In every culture across the world, women play a specific and decisive role in social, economic and cultural development and in social progress.
And that in the context of women’s rights in 2003!
You will have to forgive me for being sarcastic, but I can only deplore the fact that it is apparently deemed politically incorrect to call a spade a spade and to penetrate through to the heart of the matter, even when we are dealing with a very complex problem, namely that of the fundamental failure to respect women’s rights in a large part of the world.
The cultural relativism that is so prevalent in Europe these days stands in the way of a correct prognosis of the problems and, as such, constitutes more of a barrier to any fundamental solution.
Reality, though, indicates that the oppression of women has, unfortunately, become the norm in Islamic states and in countries where Muslims make up the majority of the population.
The seriousness of the situation may differ from country to country or from region to region, but discrimination against women is mainstream in the Islamic world and is, as such, not related in any way to the existence of fundamentalist, so-called minorities.
I realise that this is not a comforting thought, but, on the contrary, a reason to implement the measures mentioned in the report with even more determination.
These sanctions must also actually be imposed when violations of women’s rights are established and if the local government condones, tolerates or even imposes them.
The report very rightly points out that the European Member States must ensure that all forms of violence against women must be recognised and punished within their own legal systems.
Genital mutilations take place even on our own soil, and in that connection, there is a related form of the problem that deserves our attention, namely surgery to restore the hymen.
It is regrettable that the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities has apparently decided to give the issue of headscarves, the very symbol of women’s oppression in Islam, a wide berth.
You only need to jump on the metro in Brussels, Paris, or take the underground in London, to realise how popular the headscarf is compared to some ten years ago.
The radicalisation of Islam is not simply something that is taking place in Pakistan or in Egypt, but also in our own large cities.
They should be integrated into trade and development agreements with third countries, or bilaterally or multilaterally within the framework of the WTO.
This applies to countries such as Afghanistan, where for years the Taliban demoted women to second-class citizens, as well as Iran, where there are serious offences against women.
To obtain more information about this the Commission should establish contacts with institutions and non-governmental organisations at national, regional and local level.
In our Member States case law must be changed on this issue, genital mutilation must be banned and trafficking of women must be fought more determinedly with the cooperation of Europol and Eurojust.
In the European Union we say that human rights should come before any custom or social philosophy.
The instruments mentioned in the report are proof of the outstanding pragmatism of women in general, and in particular of Mrs Smet, who I would like to congratulate on her work.
Let us stop talking and writing about this and try to be as pragmatic as women in general can be. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this text expresses many good intentions against violence towards women.
However good intentions are all the report contains, and the annexes on the cases of half a dozen countries where these types of practices take place speak for themselves.
Despite the fact that respect for women’s rights has been included in various political and trade agreements, not only has nothing happened in the countries concerned, but the European Union has not suspended the agreements binding it to those countries.
Moreover, if the European Union wants to claim to be a champion of women’s rights and be credible, it first needs to show that it is capable of making all of its Member States recognise the fundamental right of women to control their own bodies, including the right to abortion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome the opportunity this evening to debate the violation of women's rights in EU international relations.
Historically, the very concept of international relations has really excluded women.
Women worldwide still earn less than men even here in the European Union where the gender pay gap still cuts across all sectors, have less access to healthcare, education and employment opportunities and are often denied full political and economic rights.
Women should be entitled to the right to life; the right not to be subjected to torture; the right to equal protection in times of international or internal armed conflict; the right to liberty and security of the person; the right to equal protection under the law; the right to equality in the family; the right to the highest standard of physical and mental health and the right to just and favourable conditions of work.
Even in European Union countries we still see that violence against women is treated unfairly.
The initiative to include a clause in the 2003 budget which states that the lack of action to prevent and combat severe violence against women, such as stoning, public castigation, genital mutilation, burning and rape will constitute a reason to suspend EU assistance must be taken into consideration.
We have responsibilities in the European Union to uphold women's rights across the globe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I suppose it is true to say that a lot of what needs to be said has already been said in this debate but I think it is important that as many people as possible should participate in this debate.
I think, in particular, men should participate in this debate because this is an issue which concerns not only the women in our society but the whole of society.
I have to say I disagree with Commissioner Patten in relation to the trade agreements.
We are quite fortunate that we have a person of the calibre of Commissioner Mr Patten doing this task, and it is clear that he has a commitment to women's rights and human rights generally.
But where there are persistent violations of human rights in relation to women's rights and children's rights, we have to demonstrate that we are serious about our commitments. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The problem is the outstanding commitments, this gap that is still too wide between commitments and payments, as regards both the Structural Funds and other fields, too.
The risk is not just the loss of Structural Funds by the regions to which they are assigned; a greater risk is the loss of credibility for cohesion policy within the European Union.
Moreover, the work of monitoring the new Member States, something that is already being done by the Commission, urgently needs to be stepped up.
It is true, however, as Commissioner Barnier has pointed out, that in many situations regions and national governments have adopted a number of devices in order to certify 100% expenditure and avoid losing the funds.
We call on Commissioner Barnier to exercise the strictest surveillance on this issue and we invite him in the meantime to prevent resources released through so-called ‘side projects’ from being spent on anything other than the regional and national programmes.
I would also like to thank you, Mr Pittella, for the quality of the dialogue that you have established – again uncompromisingly, with each person in their role – not only with the Commissioner responsible for regional policy but also with my colleagues.
The report that you have just presented is the fruit of that dialogue, which took place both in the context of the Committee on Budgets and of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, both of which I am always happy to attend, as you kindly said.
I was very pleased to hear you presenting your report from a dual perspective, both historical – I will say a few words about settling the past – and looking forward.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that at the end of 2003 we are at a crossroads where we need to firstly settle the previous period, 1994-1999, using certain methods and regulations, secondly manage the current 2000-2006 period in the best way possible, using other methods and regulations, and thirdly prepare for the future period based on the proposals that the Commission makes at the end of this year in the third report on cohesion, using other methods and regulations.
This is why, Mr Pittella, what you are suggesting and recommending will, I promise you, be very useful for this report on cohesion and for preparing for the new period.
In the text that you presented, you stress two important issues.
The first question is: why is there an under-execution of payments under the Structural Funds this year and what will be the payment appropriations requirements for 2004?
You mentioned the second question earlier: what are the foreseeable effects of the n+2 rule and what measures should be implemented to simplify it in the future cohesion policy after 2006?
Budget execution worked correctly in 2003 despite some unforeseen events.
It has been possible to make the payments more quickly than before: EUR&#160;12&#160;billion at the end of August, compared with only 9.6 billion in August 2002, which represents real progress from one year to the next.
The Member States sent their files at the very last minute, in January, February and often even in March, with the last deadline being on 31&#160;March, and I am sorry to say that it is taking longer than foreseen to examine all of these files, of which there are several thousand.
This issue of the closure of programmes for the 1994-1999 period is therefore essential for what we call the ‘outstanding commitments’ or RAL.
Nevertheless, if the payment appropriations were insufficient due to a faster execution than foreseen for the 2000-2006 period and a legacy from the 1994-1999 period, the Commission would naturally suffer the consequences.
I noted in passing your particular concern regarding good execution of appropriations in the new Member States for 2004-2006, a concern that I entirely share.
Mr Pittella, like you, I am very concerned that this good planning should succeed and that appropriations should be well utilised in the new Member States in 2004-2006, which is a very small period: two and a half years.
I am even going to add something very important to prove that I am in full agreement with you.
I think that the accession of these countries, and therefore the success of enlargement, is currently based on rules, laws and regulations that are still a little restrictive.
However, in most people’s minds, the success of the accession in the first few years is based on the success of the cohesion policy, on the fact that we will be capable, with the authorities of those countries, of using the money available, which is significant because we are talking about EUR&#160;22 billion for cohesion.
In the immediate future, we need to maintain and even improve the circulation of information between us.
Mr&#160;Pittella, I am absolutely in favour of the that you propose, although there are some arrangements that we need to discuss.
This is why you will be regularly informed, with updates several times per year, of the progress of three parameters: forecasts regarding the application of the n+2 rule, which I hope to maintain for the next period, forecasts for execution by the Member States, and finally, the progress of closure of the 1994-1999 programmes.
To go a little further in my answer, over and above the comments that you made, which I will probably largely repeat in the draft regulations, the idea that we have of the future cohesion policy is that it should be more focused on the objective of convergence and competitiveness for Objective&#160;1 and the Cohesion Funds and entirely focused on the ambitions of Lisbon and Gotenborg for Objectives 2 and 3, in other words more generally qualitative and decentralised for the other regions that are not the most behind in development.
I was glad to see that the report takes a very similar line to that of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism with regard to the problem of outstanding commitments in respect of the Structural Funds.
Many of the issues contained in our committee’s opinion have also been included in the report.
The main procedure for controlling this trend in the current term is the n+2 rule.
The rapporteur has found a sufficiently rigid and balanced approach to its application.
In a system that is decentralised in the way it operates, Member States have an important responsibility for seeing to it that the system works as a whole.
In regional policy it is time we switched from the debate on payments to one on the quality and effectiveness of measures.
More reports and less bureaucracy serve as a guiding principle for better regional policy. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to say something about the nonsensical procedure that we are going through at this witching hour, but then I saw all the young people who have been listening attentively and with great concentration, and whom, in the meantime, we seem to have lost again.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats endorses his report.
Although national co-financing creates great problems for some Member States, we have good reasons for wanting to hold fast to the principle of it; we should, on the other hand, abandon excessively complicated and extensive, even sometimes unnecessary requirements in the procedure as a whole.
This becomes stranger still in view of the fact that the first objective of structural policy is the sustainable development of the Union.
It is quite true that the persistence of high and rising levels of outstanding financial commitments does not necessarily mean that none of the final objectives of cohesion policy can ever be reached.
In any case, those objectives must be reached – and fast – so that the lion’s share, at least, of the outstanding commitments does not become lost through the bureaucracy of the institutions or through the political and administrative incompetence of the governments of the Member States.
That is a logical consequence of the disparities in the breakdown of executions between the countries of the Union, and between the different Structural Funds.
Commissioner Barnier, you said that you expect the position with regard to 2003 to turn out better.
The Member States’ budgetary discipline, as demanded by the Stability and Growth Pact, is pro-cyclical in its effects.
Thirdly, just like the rapporteur, I regard it as necessary to simplify the implementing regulations and those on the transfer of responsibility for the monitoring of funds and their use in an appropriate and flexible way.
Fourthly, I should like to say what I expect the Commission’s mid-term assessment to include, particularly with a view to a detailed analysis with reference to those countries, regions and programmes that contribute to the problem with unspent funds.
If we fail to do so, we will have lost some of the justification for our own existence. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, the problem of the ever growing reservoir of commitments outstanding in the framework of Structural Funds policy seems to have become a permanent feature now.
The content of the reservoir is no less than EUR 92 billion and therefore approximately equivalent to the whole of the EU budget for a year.
The Commission has tabled a number of proposals which should deal with the problems involved in implementing the policy and make it more effective.
A first requirement seems to be to reduce the complexity and cut back on the endless decision-making procedures.
I would like to mention the fact that an important share of aid still ends up in relatively prosperous regions.
In 2002, the Central Planning Office in the Netherlands presented a study identifying the possible causes of the ineffectiveness of Structural Funds policy.
European policy that aims to promote economic growth in poor regions and narrow the prosperity gap should be more coherent.
What also happens regularly is that national or regional authorities submit their least effective projects for application for European aid.
We should put a stop to the recycling, or transfer, of European funds between the rich Member States.
Finally, the Member States will also be able to submit a reliable estimate prior to the drafting of the budget.
After all, the reservoir of payment appropriations is mainly the result of excessive levels of commitment appropriations.
My sole consolation is the knowledge that, of all the Member States, Portugal is one of the best at implementing the Funds.
In fact, for Community support framework II (QSF II), for which complete data have only recently become available, Portugal’s implementation rates are exemplary: 99.6% for the ERDF, 98.3% for the European Social Fund (ESF), 100% for the European Agriculture Guidance and Guarantee Fund(EAGGF) and 90% for the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG).
Finally, as a citizen of Portugal and a native of the Algarve, I am hopeful that the forthcoming QSF-IV for 2007-2013 will continue to allow the Algarve region to benefit from structural operations, even in the context of an enlarged Europe.
If that does not happen, I feel it would be legitimate to call for a fair solution permitting regions such as this, which are ineligible simply due to the effects of the statistical impoverishment of the enlarged European Union, to be assisted in their quest for convergence. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, I too regret the fact that Structural Funds appropriations have been underused to the tune of EUR&#160;22&#160;billion.
My concern deepens given that, as we know, outstanding payments for the years 2000-2006 have now risen to more than EUR&#160;76&#160;billion, thus running the risk of decommitment under the n+2 rule.
This is deplorable in view of the high levels of unemployment and poverty pertaining in some Member States, such as Portugal, and the lack of social services and infrastructure, which are essential for social inclusion.
Economic and social cohesion is a central aim of the European Union.
That pact must be reviewed, not forgetting that the Structural Funds are even more important in the run-up to the enlargement of the European Union.
The moment of truth will be at the end of 2003, as many of the regionalised programmes were signed in 2001.
It is a rule of good management.
I have sought to use all the margins for flexibility in these regulations and I have found some, which you were informed of last year when I met with the Ministers to propose them: we are already seeing some effects of these simplification and flexibility measures.
The reason why I have moved the debate forward for the future period and why at the end of 2003 the Commission is proposing its guidelines and new policies for cohesion and its plans for regulation for 2004, is in order to move the whole process forward, and, as long as the governments, the Council and Parliament give their views on the future Agenda, the Financial Perspectives and these policies as soon as possible, we will then be able to use the last year of this 2000-2006 period, 2006, for consultation rather than waiting for the start of the next period.
The hope that I have – I am again being very cautious – what I am working for, Mr Pittella, ladies and gentlemen, is for us to have clear ideas as to the amount of money available, on the new cohesion policies and the new regulations quite soon in order to be able to devote the whole of 2006 to consultation regarding future programmes and for us to thus be able to undertake programmes and projects from the start of the future period and not two years after the start.
At the same time, along with my colleagues I have endeavoured to gradually reduce this RAL: for example, for the ERDF, the outstanding commitments for the 1994-1999 period were EUR&#160;7 billion at the end of 2002; they will probably be EUR&#160;3.8 billion at the end of&#160;2003.
Mr Markov, I was surprised by one of your comments regarding making the n+2 rule more flexible: you talked about the possibility of n+3.
Yes, Mr van&#160;Dam, I am working on simplification for the next period: I want to reduce the number of instruments, I want to reduce the number of planning decisions.
I do not think that it is possible to create a map of bad management as rapidly as you did: I know of cases of bad management in countries that have been members of the European Union for a long time and not only in the new countries in the South.
I do not think that Europe can be indifferent, that the Union can be indifferent to these problems in the fifteen countries of the current Union, because if the Union is indifferent, if it has to concentrate all of its budget on the new countries plus a few regions in the South, we should not be surprised if the people themselves become indifferent to the European Union.
In any case, Mr van&#160;Dam, I can tell you very clearly that personally, I am in favour of a real reform, sometimes even a radical reform: I will never be in favour of the re-nationalisation of this cohesion policy.
Probably, in the spirit of what is written in the new European Constitution, we will be able to move towards a better sharing of responsibility and therefore towards a greater decentralisation.
The Commission undertaking to re-evaluate all sweeteners in the near future is also a decision that is in line with our objectives, as we are aware that we need consistent statistics and that we need to regularly re-examine our positions in the light of the new data.
However, in this respect we need to take into account the recent evaluations that have taken place both in France and the United Kingdom, and consider that perhaps there is no reason for singling out aspartame, as we know, of course, that it is going to be evaluated on a more global level anyway.
They are essential for treating certain diseases and on this subject, I have received many letters from people suffering from diabetes and other illnesses, saying how pleased they were to be able to vary their diet thanks to an increasing number of products containing sweeteners.
However, this serious public health problem should not be solved by sweeteners but by preventing the disease.
Moreover, some studies have shown that the power of sweeteners led to nutritional behaviour involving an increase in the consumption of sugar or sweet products.
We are all aware here that the multitude of increasingly sweet and increasingly varied products aimed at children is not an insignificant factor in this public health problem.
I know that the Commissioner is particularly aware of this public health problem.
In conclusion, I will say that we can consider sweeteners as useful, which is why, through this legislation, we are authorising two new products to be placed on the market.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has refused this, but your rapporteur pointed out that the Commission proposal should be re-considered when the framework legislation on food additives is considered for amendment.
In the spirit of compromise, the Commission can accept this amendment and will, as suggested by your rapporteur, retable its request in the context of the amendment of the framework legislation on food additives.
The second amendment requires the Commission to present a progress report on the re-evaluation of additives in general and, in particular, on the two newly authorised sweeteners.
A similar amendment has already been accepted in the context of the amendment of another directive on food additives.
The third amendment concerns the transposition of the directive.
For this, a time limit of 24 months after entry into force of the directive, is set.
The Commission can accept such a clause and welcomes the fact that it is limited in time.
This limitation in time creates legal certainty and facilitates the enforcement of such a clause.
As regards labelling, the presence of aspartame in a foodstuff must be labelled, as for any other additive.
Furthermore, the labelling of a foodstuff containing aspartame must bear a particular warning to protect consumers that do not tolerate this sweetener due to a specific metabolic disorder.
That leaves Stevia and the sweetener extracted from this plant, stevioside, which has also been thoroughly examined by the Scientific Committee on Food.
The Commission, therefore, has never proposed this sweetener for authorisation.
However – and I am also addressing this to the Commissioner, for I have also had a run-in about this with your officials – the Commission does not get off completely scot-free on this score either.
My thanks, once again, to the rapporteur. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I am delighted that this debate has taken the form it has.
I think that shows that in this debate at least, sweeteners can be a '' as well!
What we are talking about here is improving welfare by authorising tomorrow the sale of two new sweeteners throughout the Union: sucralose and salt of aspartame-acesulfame, which have at least three characteristics in common: they have no safety problems (it has been confirmed and reconfirmed that they are harmless, as has already been said), they are easier to apply (they dissolve more quickly and can better withstand higher temperatures) and also they have a far superior sweetening capacity than traditional sugar.
These substances can therefore be useful for day-to-day foods, in particular for diabetics and those suffering from obesity.
Regarding the three amendments adopted in Committee, although we have been forced to water down our position, we should welcome the compromise, which was reached between the three institutions and therefore means that we can avoid the conciliation procedure.
As there are nevertheless some reports of problems following over consumption of aspartame, we wish to remain vigilant and our rapporteur has explained how we can do so.
I am also pleased to note that the common position has established an obligation to label salt of aspartame-acesulfame, thus relieving the concerns that were expressed by some of us at first reading.
The Commission justifies change in terms of the state of the art in technology and science.
Turning specifically to the subject of the recommendation adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, there are two comments I would like to make.
I endorse Amendment No 1a to the effect that all sweeteners should be re-evaluated within as short a time as possible before the directive enters into force.
I endorse Amendment No 3 because setting a definite deadline for the distribution of stocks of products that are no longer permitted can prevent these products from being got over the counter quickly. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wish firstly to say that I really appreciate Mrs Ferreira’s work.
In our Amendment&#160;No&#160;4, we want the Commission to present a report regarding a re-evaluation of the authorisation granted in respect of the sweetener aspartame.
According to the criticism, the Scientific Committee has ignored critical and independent investigations and perhaps let itself be influenced by the food industry or the aspartame manufacturers.
Now people throughout Europe are being sore tried by the amateurish approach adopted in Germany, and so the European People’s Party has supported the Liberal group’s request to have this oral question put on Parliament’s agenda.
Commissioner Bolkestein was right to reveal on television that those of us who live in Germany are currently in a state of chaos as a result of the deposit imposed on cans.
Article 28 obliges every Member State to guarantee free trade, and this article is being quite openly breached.
The Commission has received masses of complaints, especially from small and medium-sized businesses, and, in particular, from those based in the Benelux countries, Italy, France and Austria.
Quite apart from these complaints, there has also been a great deal of disruption in Germany.
It is estimated that German consumers have lost some EUR&#160;500 million through having had to pay a deposit somewhere or other, but not having had the opportunity to cash in their deposit tokens at the same place later on and thus get their deposit back.
All this leads us to welcome the Commission’s decision to commence, today, proceedings against the Federal Republic of Germany for infringement of the Treaties.
This question is intended, above all, to support the Commission in its efforts at finally sorting out the chaos that this has brought to Germany. &#160;&#160; .
This provision in German law induces major retail chains to force European producers to modify the packaging of their products and the European Court of Justice holds that, when EU producers are obliged to modify their packaging in order to market their products, that fact alone amounts to a barrier to intra-Community trade.
Furthermore, as far as the interoperability between VFV and Lekkerland-Tobaccoland is concerned, it appears that a number of technical issues have not yet been settled.
For example, it is still not clear how a financial clearing of the deposits between several systems will work.
Fourth, delisting persists and one-way products that are not an individual solution are not to be found on the shelves of certain stores.
Importers from other European countries are particularly affected by this, as they sell their drinks almost exclusively in one-way packaging for reasons mainly related to long-distance deliveries.
Perhaps in the case of a number of existing individual solutions, some well-established importers do not necessarily suffer in their protected arrangements, but this does not compensate for the major losses incurred through the substantial decline in imports from other Member States as a result of this fragmentation of the German market for these products.
The Commissioner has given a clear analysis on this and I think we should all be pleased that a solution to the problem now seems to be in sight.
On 1 July, we asked questions on this matter during the debate on packaging waste and, Mr Bolkestein, Commissioner Wallström then answered on your behalf that an enquiry would be launched.
The real question is this: why have we had to wait so long, from 1 July to 21 October, for formal infringement proceedings?
Secondly, when I look at my region, the Brabant and Limburg region, I notice that particularly in areas where there is a lot of cross-border movement, even smaller businesses that supply soft drinks, water or beer, often in non-reusable packaging, have suffered a loss in turnover of more than 30 to 40%.
The Commissioner claims that, strictly speaking, it is possible, even under current procedures, for these businesses to claim damages.
The Dutch market, the Austrians, the Belgians and the French rely on this German market to a large extent.
In any event, I believe that the German Government has taken the bull by the horns and is trying to resolve a problem which today affects the whole of the European Union.
I have the feeling, Mr President, that at the moment, and despite the fact that I think it is right for the Commission to try to harmonise measures, we must remember Articles 174 and 176 of the European Union Treaty – which are in place – which, on the one hand, empower the States to adopt measures to better protect the environment, but on the other, encourage the Community institutions to adopt general measures, so that a problem as serious as the one we have today with the accumulation of solid waste can be resolved in the only rational way, which is the Community way.
If we want a deposit system, it would perhaps be helpful within one internal market if we were to introduce a harmonised Community system, as a result of which all businesses and all consumers within one Europe would know where they stand.
If this were possible, then I hope that after these ten months of being deprived of these enjoyable European products, the European market will once again be open and that it can help complete the internal market. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, Commissioner, Parliament made it quite clear when we debated the Sixth Environmental Action Programme that our advocacy of reusable packaging is based on considerations of environmental policy.
I am no more satisfied than you are with these individual solutions; we would all have preferred a standardised system.
Now we see individual solutions in Spain and Portugal too.
I would like to ask you, Commissioner, why you allow individual solutions in two Member States but not in another.
All these countries have been affected by this decision.
Markets and jobs have been lost and consumers are the losers, whether as a result of the import blockade or the inability to recover their deposits.
There is virtually no gain for the environment in this scheme.
However, before I do this, I should like to emphasise how important it is to take courageous decisions, political decisions, with which consumers can clearly identify.
For months, we have been droning on about the Packaging Directive, about whether the objective should be 55% or 60% and whether the system should be introduced in 2008 or 2007.
Of course, one or two things are up for criticism, and there is room for improvement in terms of the way in which it has been introduced, but I would also like to point out that those who have submitted this question are now shedding crocodile tears.
In these, it was proposed only to permit deposit systems if the environment were to gain from this in a demonstrable manner.
This amendment did not make it because the Liberals and the Group of the European People’s Party voted against it.
In my view, this would still be justifiable if an environmental goal were to be served by it, but this is not the case.
The German deposit system can also result in a legal conflict, which is always undesirable politically speaking.
This would be difficult to explain to consumers lugging their tin cans or to workers losing their jobs.
To solve political failure, the Commission, Parliament and the Council must come up with a solution of their own that is structural.
The problems with the German deposit system do not stand in isolation.
We have had major problems in the past.
The Commission is not summoning Spain and Portugal before a European court.
The Commission has been put under pressure by campaigns from businesses and from elements in this House.
This shows once again that the Commission sets greater store by the internal market than by the environment.
In ten states and in some fifteen large cities in the United States too, ‘island’ solutions have been provided in the form of local and regional deposit systems.
Germany will eventually make it easier to get the deposit money refunded in different places.
This deposit system will then become very common.
The Commission should, in fact, propose the introduction of deposit systems throughout Europe.
The answer is that the Commission wanted to give the German Government every opportunity to explain its actions and to redress the situation.
This depends on the German Government.
At this moment the Commission can do no more than it has already done.
In my view, the subsidiarity principle provides that, in this case, since it is not really a cross-border situation, it is up to Member States to take the requisite action.
That is precisely what the Commission has asked the German Government to do.
Until now, the German Government has not wanted to do so and that is why the Commission has now decided to start infringement proceedings.
That depends on the law of the Member States concerned – in this case German law.
She also mentioned Spain and Portugal in this connection.
Mrs Corbey said that the Commission should see to it that the German legislation is transparent.
The result of the Commission's infringement proceedings should indeed be that German legislation becomes clearer.
The Commission would like nothing more than to see a final solution to this problem. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. (1) The Commission is able to accept the following amendments: Nos&#160;1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 11 and 12.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: Nos&#160;2, 7, 8 and 13 The Commission is able to accept the following amendments, provided they are somewhat reworded: Nos&#160;1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 12, 24, 25, 39, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49 and 50.
The Commission is able to accept the following amendments, provided they are somewhat reworded: Nos&#160;1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 and 32.
The Commission cannot accept the following amendments: Nos&#160;3, 6, 8, 9 and 12.
The Commission is able to accept the ten amendments tabled by the European Parliament.
The Commission can fully accept Amendments Nos 5 and 20, as well as Amendments Nos 7, 14, 18 and 21 in their spirit, with some wording adaptations.
The Commission believes these amendments will improve the text of the proposal.
This is the case of Amendments Nos 4 and 19 on the harmonisation of the prescription deadline of the direct right of action, as well as of Amendments Nos 8 and 24 aimed at creating a central office in each Member State which would collect police reports of accidents.
Amendments Nos 3, 13, 25, 27 and 28 – which deals with the minimum amounts of insurance cover – provide for a global amount per accident for personal injuries, which the Commission believes is too low to cover accidents involving several victims.
These amounts, however, seem too high where there only one or few victims are involved in an accident.
For this reason the Commission proposal does not provide for global amounts per accident with regard to personal injuries and introduces new minimum amounts which substantially increase the protection of the victims of accidents without disregarding the situation of the market and the current level of protection in the Member States.
While in some countries lawyers are allowed to perceive a percentage of the compensation granted by the court to the victim, in others this system of percentages is forbidden.
Furthermore, this insurance cover would overlap with the voluntary insurance regulated in Directive 87/344/EEC on legal expenses insurance.
The Commission is also not in a position to accept Amendments Nos 1, 6, 9 and 23 as the real effect of these amendments is not clear.
Trailers, independently of their weight, are already expressly covered by the insurance directives within the definition of vehicles and are therefore subject to compulsory insurance.
Any problem relating to the identification or registration of vehicles cannot be solved within the framework of an insurance directive.
Amendments Nos 11 and 26, aimed at maintaining the current derogation for certain special vehicles in the insurance directives – only applied by very few Member States – are not acceptable unless they are accompanied by a guarantee that any victim of accidents caused by these vehicles is duly compensated.
Amendment No 10 allows, in any circumstance, insurance checks of vehicles based in another Member State.
This could adversely affect the free circulation of vehicles.
The proposal aims to ensure that the insurance is maintained for the agreed term of the contract without prejudice to the obligation to register the vehicle, which is based on national tax law and remains untouched.
Amendment No 17 provides for an optional derogation of the criterion of localisation of risks which may lead to administrative confusion with regard to the authorities responsible to control the obligation of insuring a vehicle.
Amendment No 15 aims to delete the provision contained in the Commission proposal improving the protection of pedestrians.
It would be regrettable for the European Parliament not to support the Commission on a matter which affects the most vulnerable road users. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great pleasure today to welcome His Excellency Dr&#160;Wade, President of the Republic of Senegal.
Through all of those years, at no time did you lose faith in the parliamentary system and your determination to implement democratic principles never wavered.
As President of the Republic of Senegal, you have worked tirelessly to achieve democracy and peace in Africa.
The commitment that you have shown, Mr President, to regional integration and to establishing closer economic and political links between the countries of Africa, through the African Union, in order to improve the quality of life of the men and women who live on your continent, reflects the aspirations that led to the creation of the European Union itself.
I am fully aware of the significance of this honour and the citizens of Senegal and of Africa will I am sure, understand that this honour is intended for their entire continent, which is often ignored, but is today invited to express itself through my humble person.
I also wish to thank you, however, for having contributed, on more than one occasion in the past, to calling for my freedom, which had been denied me when, during the twenty-six years I spent as a member of the opposition, I had at times to deal with an authority that had little respect for democracy and human rights and which interrogated me, arrested me or threw me into prison according to its whim.
The Parliament in Strasbourg adopted numerous threatening resolutions demanding my release.
This somewhat strange experience has led me, as Senegal’s Head of State, to ensure that a number of provisions were adopted, not least in the Constitution, concerning the protection of religious minorities, – making it compulsory for the State itself to protect them – women’s rights, including for example access to land for women, because that was a problematic issue, equal rights to employment for men and women and many other provisions, such as criminal penalties for sexual mutilation.
I wish to tell you, furthermore, that the Liberal International will be holding its meeting in Dakar and that, of course, the opposition has taken this opportunity to hold a demonstration.
I therefore wish briefly to address the issue of cooperation between the European Union and Senegal, the set of problems relating to international trade, cooperation between the European Union and the African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) countries, the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), relations between the European Union and the African Union, peace and security.
I will simply add that this cooperation with the European Union and with some countries such as France, together with international aid enabled us to achieve annual growth of 5.6% in 2001, unfortunately countered by the disastrous consequences of unseasonable rains affecting the north of our country.
We nevertheless managed to control the situation and, in 2002, we doubled the volume of private investment.
I have actually pursued a free market policy – as they say, only by putting the theory into practice will we see whether it works – to show that, in fact, development policy must be geared towards a massive appeal for private capital to help our development.
Thank God, however, this liberal and proactive policy has borne fruit.
I am enough of a realist to know that European or US political leaders cannot simply tell their farmers tomorrow that they have given an international commitment and subsidies have been abolished.
In 2001, exporters from sub-Saharan African countries lost USD&#160;302&#160;million, of which two-thirds or EUR&#160;191&#160;million came from the West African countries of Benin, Burkina&#160;Faso, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Chad, Côte d'Ivoire, Mali and Togo.
As a result, my position is simply to advocate financial compensation until these subsidies are in fact abolished, since everyone claims to be in favour of abolishing them.
I believe that things are now happening at such a widespread, global level, that attempting to find points on which everyone can agree is simply wishful thinking.
This is why what I recommend instead is direct competition between continents or sub-continents, like the competition between the European Union and the ACP countries or between the European Union and Africa.
I am not saying that the results would be particularly spectacular, but I do have faith in this type of mechanism.
As to the results, they are the results that we have achieved.
Having said that, however, I still make a distinction between principles and money, etc.
NEPAD raises the principle of mass development in Africa, so as to bridge the gulf that separates us from the developed countries and we believe that this can be done.
NEPAD bases its approach on three fundamental options that I shall call the long-term parameters.
In this regard, I must say that whatever efforts are made, among other things, to provide aid and to cooperate, resources will never be sufficient, but on the other hand, if we offer the private sector the right conditions in which to invest in Africa, its actions will have the same influence as on the development of the developed countries, such as France, the United States, Canada, Japan and others.
In support of these three fundamental options, NEPAD selected eight sectors – infrastructure, education and training, health, agriculture, the new information and communication technologies, the environment, energy and, lastly, access to the markets of the developed countries.
Each of these sectors is considered to be a priority and we have drawn up all projects at regional, interregional or continental level.
I am not going to focus on the health or education sectors, but I must say that I share the view that education and training constitute the key sector for development.
Incidentally, Asian countries such as Japan, Taiwan and others are living proof of this, directing almost 70% of their budget towards education and training.
Since the change of government, Senegal has increased its budget for education, which now stands at almost 35%.
What would happen is that – on a voluntary basis, because this is not a tax – between 2 and 5 dollars would go towards purchasing a computer or 4 or 5 dollars towards creating a web site.
I should like to conclude by saying that our action in Africa should be seen in the context of achieving peace and security, without which nothing can be done.
We have managed to control the conflicts in Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, in Côte d'Ivoire, where the situation remains tense and in Sierra Leone.
It is therefore the entire issue of the interdependence of basic needs that must today be addressed through global relationships.
In order to achieve all of this, I believe that we must appeal to the private sector, which has bolstered the development of Europe, the United States and Japan.
Countries must not be left completely unregulated, but we must, by means of national regulations, which everyone must respect, establish good governance and create security, or ‘profitability’ which is the free transfer of profits.
Personally, I have faith in the free market, not a completely unbridled market, but free nonetheless, which sets me apart from some liberals who perhaps share some of the principles that I hold dear, such as political liberalism, the protection of human rights, and so on, … … without approving of State intervention.
This is the message that I wanted to leave with you; a somewhat provocative one perhaps, because I was led to believe that in the European Union, many people did not share my view of the free market.
I was given the opportunity to explain my point of view to you and thereby open the debate on an issue that is extremely important: that of the choice of strategy for the development of a country, and even of an entire continent. &#160;&#160; Mr President, you are not only a president but also a wise African.
Moreover, you have kept to the speaking time given by the European Parliament.
