Results of the European Council meeting of 13 and 14 December 2007 in Brussels - Report on the six months of the Portuguese Presidency (debate) The next item is the statements from the Council and the Commission on the results of the European Council of 13 and 14 December and the report on the six months of the Portuguese Presidency.
I should first of all like to thank the Portuguese President sincerely and to recognise how very successful the Portuguese Presidency has been.
I should also like, even though I cannot name them all, to mention a few representative people: the President-in-Office, Prime Minister José Sócrates, Foreign Minister Luís Amado, Secretary of State Manuel Lobo Antunes and also, of course, Ambassador Álvaro Mendonça e Moura.
I should also like to say here once again (I have already said this briefly to the European Council) that the fact that we have been able to reach a result on the important issue of the Galileo Project is also due to the fact that the European Commission and the European Parliament have cooperated so well together and we have in the end been able to achieve a good result together with the Portuguese Presidency.
Mr President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese Presidency and I myself have reached the point of reporting on our Presidency to Parliament with the feeling that we have done our duty.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are well of the three priorities of the Portuguese Presidency.
I am very pleased to tell you that we have achieved all the goals we set ourselves for these six months.
But let us begin with the goal that was the most important of all: the Treaty.
This challenge was also addressed by the Treaty of Lisbon.
We now have a policy with BRIC - Brazil, Russia, India and China - that serves a Europe that wants to be a global political player.
This summit with Brazil and the strategic partnership that we established has enhanced Europe's external policy and established better conditions to bolster the European economy, and also to endorse the values and aims of the European project.
I am in no doubt that Europe's external policy is better and richer since the Africa summit and I am therefore pleased to tell you that over these six months we have succeeded in overcoming obstacles and deadlocks, and that we have also succeeded in overcoming prejudices so that we can claim today, at the end of the Portuguese Presidency, that Europe has become stronger not only internally but also in its external policy.
I would also like you to know that it was during the Portuguese Presidency, at the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly, that a moratorium on the death penalty was agreed and that vote came as a result of a European proposal that honours European traditions and values.
On 21 and 22 December, with the President of the Commission, and a number of ministers, I will have the opportunity to be present at the borders where controls are to be abolished, with nine countries entering the Schengen area, thereby fulfilling the greatest aspiration of those citizens who want to be part of Europe, to have freedom of movement while at the same time belonging to an area that safeguards their security.
SISone4all is a nice story, because it was at Portuguese insistence that on 31 December 2007 these internal border controls will be abolished, because it was a Portuguese minister who would not accept the idea that it was technically impossible to connect the databases of the new countries to the databases of the Schengen system, and because it was a Portuguese firm that proposed a technical solution to the problem.
On 21 and 22 December we will be in those countries telling them that Portugal is very proud to have been able to contribute with Portuguese technology and Portuguese political will to enable those countries to give their citizens full freedom of movement, because that is the highest aspiration of the European peoples.
We did leave our mark on the freedom agenda, but also on the social agenda.
I would like to remind everyone that it was during the Portuguese Presidency that an agreement was reached between European trade unions and employers' associations, and it is a very important agreement that underlines the challenges for the European labour market, but it was also during this Presidency that all the countries agreed on the common principles of flexicurity, so acting as a driving force, moving ahead with this European model designed to make the flexibility that is indispensable to competitiveness compatible with security for workers, which is peculiar to the European social model.
I would also like to point to the Bali agreement, achieved under the Portuguese Presidency, which provides us today with a clear roadmap for negotiations so that in 2009 we can again reach a global agreement to respond to the challenges of climate change.
The Treaty, Brazil, Africa, but also the marks we made in the economic agenda, the social agenda, the freedom agenda and the agenda for the future.
This Presidency, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is a Presidency of a pro-European country, a country that clearly understands that it is defending its own interests through the European project, in a country committed to European ideals, in a country led by European politicians who clearly understand that what Europe needs is to develop the European project and that this European project is probably the most generous, most critical and most important project of modern times, that this European project is important for Europeans, for the European economy, and also important for the world.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we began this Presidency with the motto: 'A stronger Europe for a better world' and we have reached the end of these six months convinced that we have honoured that motto, that we gave of our best as a country so that Europe might present itself as a stronger Europe, a Europe that better serves its citizens and a Europe that is better equipped to play its role in the world.
I would like to thank all the Parliamentary groups that gave us so much support over this period; I would like to thank the Commission for its support and I would like to thank the President of the European Parliament for his constant help that he never refused the Portuguese Presidency.
I am very proud of and very pleased about the Presidency and so I would like to share my happiness with you which is a happiness for Europe. (Applause) Many thanks, President-in-Office, for this speech and once again for your great dedication.
Commissioner. - (PT) Mr President, President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, over the past six months we have had an excellent illustration of what we have championed as the two ways of making progress in Europe.
It is also only right to acknowledge the important contribution of the German Presidency and Chancellor Merkel when the mandate was obtained that enabled positive progress to be made on this agreement that is so important for Europe.
That political achievement now has to be put into practice.
The Member States have agreed on and signed the Treaty and also agreed to ratify it, so that it enters into force on 1 January 2009.
The Treaty was ratified with an overwhelming majority: 385 'yes' votes and only five 'no' votes. (Applause) I think it is a very symbolic fact and a very positive political signal that one of the new Member States is the first country to ratify the Lisbon Treaty.
I could, of course, agree with everything he said: the importance of the European Union-Africa Summit, the first summit with Brazil on the strategic relationship with that very important country, the agreement it was possible to reach on Galileo, and the very important agreement by the social partners on the principles of flexicurity.
For instance, the general political agreement reached with the European Parliament on the creation of the European Institute of Innovation and Technology - a very concrete project and a real flagship for innovation in Europe - and also the launch of an integrated maritime policy for the Union.
This brings to fruition extensive work begun by the Commission almost three years ago, in March 2005.
Central to this has been the effective cooperation between the three core institutions: Parliament, the Commission and the Council of Ministers have been able to work together to develop a real consensus across a wide range of the European Union's work.
We are winning the trust of European citizens; now we must show that we deserve that trust.
If we manage the issue of migration well, everyone can benefit: Europe, the European Union Member States, but also the countries of origin and the migrants themselves, because, as the President-in-Office of the Council has just reminded us, this is also a social issue.
I am proud that the European Union and our 27 Member States spoke with one voice at the Bali Conference.
Just a few days after Bali, there is a palpable sense that the wind of change is blowing in our direction.
The group can count on the support of the Commission when the full team starts its work later next year.
The European Commission encourages the Member States to keep a united and coherent approach regarding the Kosovo issue.
The declaration that I have the honour of signing after this sitting with President Pöttering and Prime Minister Sócrates is a wide-ranging policy statement about our objectives, principles and good practice approaches to humanitarian aid, delivered both bilaterally by Member States and by the European Community.
The overall message from 2007 is one of great hope, and no little expectation.
Yes, the Treaty of Lisbon gives our Union greater cohesion.
The European Union and the Member States are united.
Good governance of Europe also has a medium- and long-term vision, however, and we support the European Council's decision to set up a Reflection Group to measure the future impact of decisions taken today, here, at the heart of our democracy, which will seek solutions to the challenges that a united Europe will have to face in the next 10, 20 or 30 years, which will reflect on EU development strategies.
Mr President, President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, we have built 50 years of peace, we have managed to create a single market, we have abolished internal borders, we have a Central Bank and a European currency, since Amsterdam we have been working on a common foreign policy, and we have Europol and Eurojust.
In this new globalised world, there is no place for 'everyone for himself'.
Thank you to the President, thank you to the President-in-Office of the Council, thank you to the President of the Commission, season's greetings to us all and above all our best wishes for the adoption of the Treaty in 2008 by the other 26 countries. (Applause) on behalf of the PSE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese Presidency has been a success and I congratulate you, Mr Sócrates, and your entire government, on this success.
Portugal's reputation has grown with this Presidency, specifically thanks to three things, which you yourself have mentioned.
The fact that you have organised a summit with Brazil shows that policy on Latin America has to be given greater attention in European policy because it is in fact based on common traditions (Portugal, Brazil, Spain, South America, Central America), but also today specifically on common values as well, which we share above all with a region of the world - Latin America.
You referred here to Schengen.
We need ratification to be successful in 2008.
The point you rightly raise yourself with regard to the issues of how Europe can move forward and face the challenges that are before us is one that has been hindered or retarded because of the lack of efficient decision-making within the Union institutions.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the Portuguese Presidency for its honest and openly pro-European effort over these six months, and I also think that probably not all but some of the deficiencies that were also pointed out by Mr Watson are more the responsibility of the team than of the Presidency in that, since you cannot get blood out of a stone with the Council we have, it is rather difficult to achieve much more important results.
I think that what Prime Minister Gordon Brown did was a scandal, and the way he treated all of you and also all of us I think was equally scandalous.
I think that we should no longer extend patience towards them and I also think that the way the United Kingdom, but also the other Member States, have got practically everything they wanted in relation to the Treaty of Lisbon, which represents a step backwards with respect to the Constitution or the Constitutional Treaty, should be something that should really make us reflect on the future of Europe.
I say this because my group agrees with Spinelli, the only wise man, the only sage of the European institution and the European Parliament; it also suits me that this group of wise men cannot do much, though I do not really know what the Chairman, Felipe González, can do with his mandate, but we will obviously read his work with great interest.
Finally, Mr President, I wanted to thank the Presidency, but also the Commission, for the work done in Bali, but I think that the hardest part will come now, with the translation of all the commitments we made on climate change into laws and regulations.
Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, we have just heard much self-congratulation.
For once we are hearing the truth from a leader writer at the Financial Times, Martin Wolf. 'What is happening ...
Europe claims to be at the forefront of this battle, and in fact the targets set by the 27 Member States for reducing emissions are on the right lines.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, can I say how much I enjoyed watching you signing the 2008 budget for the European Union earlier this afternoon and - who knows? - perhaps this year the auditors might sign the accounts as well.
Mr Sócrates, I have no doubt you are delighted with your Presidency and the fact that last Thursday you got this Treaty signed in that magnificent monastery in Lisbon.
It is deliberately this complicated so that no-one can get their head around what it contains.
That was the case in 1992 with Mr Cavaco Silva and the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, João de Deus Pinheiro; it was the case in 2000, with Prime Minister António Guterres; and it has been the case in 2007, for our third Presidency of the Council, with José Sócrates and Minister Luís Amado.
The European Presidency was a Presidency with results, but 2008 will be a quite different year - the sceptic in me would be surprised if the Portuguese do not demand results in national politics too.
I am among those who believe that he is a better President of the Council than Prime Minister of Portugal. (PT) Mr President, how was it possible to do so much in so little time?
Therefore we should be pleased, congratulate ourselves and above all thank the President of the Council and his whole team, the Portuguese diplomatic corps, the Foreign Affairs Minister, the Secretary of State and the whole Government, and also the President of the European Commission and the Commission itself for their contribution, because it has been a great Presidency and I am very proud of that.
Mr President, the negotiations in Bali on climate change were a success, but we have to think further.
Mr President, 2008 is set to be a decisive year for us in the European Union and, indeed, the Lisbon Treaty will potentially shape the Union's future irrevocably.
President, I gave my apologies in writing for the events last Wednesday when I became aware that a member of my Group had pushed an usher.
The new Treaty was negotiated behind the most closed doors I have observed in my 29 years in this Parliament.
I am pleased that the European Council remains committed to action on climate change.
Perhaps the Prime Minister can help me. - (DE) Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, alongside all the successes of the last six months, the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon is certainly the absolute highlight of the Portuguese Presidency.
After the Nice Summit in December 2000, therefore exactly seven years ago, this Parliament showed a great deal of energy and commitment in achieving an improved European treaty and I believe the entire Parliament will thank you for the fact that it can now become a reality seven years on.
It is also the basis for European political foundations and therefore for many platforms for setting up a European debate and publicity for Europe.
Many thanks for your Presidency.
Obrigado. (SK) Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today our sitting closes one of the most important EU presidencies of the last decade.
As in the past, when Portugal entered the history books as a founder and discoverer of a new land, European modern history will remember Portugal as the founder of a new history within the framework of the European Union.
There will be no Treaty until all 27 Member States have ratified the Treaty.
There is a danger, in the way we speak here and in the language we use and in the tense of our verbs, that there is an assumption that this Treaty is going to be ratified by all 27 Member States.
We need to remind our Irish electorate that it is only since we joined the European Union that Ireland has become truly independent, culturally and psychologically.
Ms Doyle, when you refer to the size of the country which has the Presidency, did you mean that the Irish Presidency could have been even better? (Laughter) (PL) Mr President, first of all I would like to acknowledge the work of the Portuguese Presidency, and that of Prime Minister José Sócrates in bringing about the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I have no hesitation in saying that those who today view the institution of referendums with cynicism do not do so in good faith.
We witnessed this in Strasbourg a week ago, when various extremists from the European political scene raised the slogan of referendum, something that is of value in itself, against the European Treaty, and thus in fact against the European system of liberal democracy.
It approved it after many debates, by 496 votes to 161.
President-in-Office of the Council. - (PT) Mr President, I will begin by saying that this has been a Presidency in the service of Europe and a pro-European project.
It has not been a Presidency to please everyone, but a Presidency for dividing the waters, receiving the praise of those who are in favour of Europe, but also suffering the protests of those who are against Europe.
In my country the Portuguese Presidency is taken very seriously and all our Prime Ministers, myself included, have had the good sense to regard its work as crucial and a priority whenever the Portuguese Presidency has come round, because the European project is also an internal political issue for Portugal, not just about foreigners and Europe.
We have made progress, if we look at Europe at the beginning of the year and we look at Europe at the end of this year, we will see that we have made progress, and we have made progress too in relation to the programme jointly defined by the three Presidencies, and that helped.
Brazil today is a new international partner of major and vital importance and that is why I judge that the EU's external policy is better, more coherent and more comprehensive with a partnership with Brazil.
I remember well, a year and a half ago when we talked about the Africa summit, no one really believed we could pull it off.
I also wanted to tell you how proud and honoured my country feels to have had the opportunity to serve Europe over the past six months.
Commissioner. - (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude a very interesting debate, I would like very quickly to highlight a point that Prime Minister José Sócrates also mentioned just now, which I think is an important lesson for the future.
I believe that it is important to reflect on these conclusions of the President-in-Office of the Council, the Prime Minister of Portugal, because, as Mrs Doyle rightly said, we have yet to ratify the Treaty.
In this Parliament, we have several political families, but after hearing some speeches, I had the impression that certain people think that we can now polarise the European debate again.
It is natural and legitimate that various paths for the future of Europe should be expressed, and that the various political families should submit proposals that are often contradictory.
As the Portuguese Prime Minister, the President-in-Office, rightly said, there is a time and a place for everything; there is the national place and the European place.
If we now split the pro-European camp, which ranges from left to right via the centre, but which is sincerely in favour of European progress, in my view that would be a very grave error.
That is what I wanted to say, at Christmas time, in response to some speeches rather less in the Christmas spirit, to say that we at the Commission will continue our work fully committed, endeavouring to complete what has been an extraordinary project, that the work of the Portuguese Presidency - and I once again congratulate Prime Minister Sócrates and all his team - has left in a much better state than we have had for some time.
Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to say just one thing: we have rightly complimented the Portuguese Presidency, we have commended the Commission, but without the European Parliament, this Treaty would no longer even be on the table and therefore we also have cause to be proud that we have always held our course with the great majority of the European Parliament.
in writing. - (PT) In this debate on the Portuguese Presidency, the President of the Council of the European Union placed special emphasis on the Treaty that takes up the essence of the so-called European Constitution, and to which he wishes to associate the name of Lisbon.
A year ago there was not much to celebrate, as the European Commission was advising at that time that the date of the enlargement of the borderless area be deferred to 2009.
