Ecodesign requirements for energy-related products (debate) The next item is the report by Mr Csibi, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy related products (recast) - C6-0277/2008 -.
That is the equivalent of a saving of 55 000 gigawatt hours, which represents a saving of 27 megatonnes of CO2, or the output of two to three nuclear power stations.
The Commission intends to continue its on-going work on the approximately 25 implementation measures for the eco-design directive that were set out in its working plan for the 2009-2011 period.
In addition, after consulting the Eco-design Consultation Forum pursuant to Article 16 of the directive, it will lay down what products are to be included in the second working plan by 21 October 2011.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (NL) Mr President, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur.
Many of these requirements can hardly be met by these enterprises as it is, and what we are doing today will saddle them with further burdens, the practical consequences of which I have the feeling we have not sufficiently thought out.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (DE) Honourable Members, the controversy in this debate does not relate to energy efficiency.
May I also point out that, in terms of implementation measures, Annex 1 to the directive already covers all environmentally relevant properties for the entire life cycle of a product - thus including resource efficiency rather than merely energy efficiency - and that the Commission takes such factors into account when it lays down, with the aid of a specifically developed methodology, which eco-design parameters are to be regulated in the implementing measures for the eco-design of energy-using products.
From my point of view I think that we have succeeded in finding a good middle way in this proposal and in finding a way of dealing with this package which will not overburden European industry but also will help us attain a more energy-efficient and resource-efficient European industry.
