We would also like to ask the Commission, represented here today, to propose a rapid, considerable increase in European Union financial resources for Somalia, particularly on the occasion of the intermediate review of the 10th European Development Fund, and also an increase in its physical presence in that country.
Thirdly, pressure must be exerted on the UN Security Council to proceed urgently with the implementation of its unanimous decision of 15 May 2008 to deploy a sufficiently strong UN peacekeeping force in the region - making sure, of course, that such peace-keepers are not of the same quality as those who recently were accused of committing crimes against the local population they were supposed to protect.
We appeal to Kenya to allow Somali refugees to have access to the El Wak border and the right to assistance in that country.
And, of course, we welcome the UN Security Council's resolution of May calling for the deployment of 28 000 troops as a peacekeeping force; more realistically, perhaps, we urge that AMISOM be mandated to take protective action.
author. - (NL) Mr President, the violence in Somalia has everything to do with the fact that since 1991 there has no longer been a generally recognised government there.
In a previous urgent debate on Somalia on 15 November 2007, this Parliament adopted a resolution calling for an end to foreign military intervention and for dialogue and reconciliation within the country.
We now have to see whether the agreement reached last week to end the violence within 30 days and to replace the Ethiopian intervention force with a United Nations peacekeeping force has a real chance of success.
author. - (PL) Mr President, the recent resumption of fighting in Somalia between units of the Transitional Federal Government and insurgents has claimed the lives of more than a hundred people and has led to the mass exodus of the civilian population from the Somali capital Mogadishu.
The international community cannot remain indifferent towards these glaring acts of violence in Somalia.
Bringing in UN peacekeepers until the political situation improves would also be a step in the right direction, as would renewing UN embargoes on the supply of arms to Somalia.
In a conflict that is as hopeless as the one in Somalia, any agreement between the parties should be given due attention.
United Nations statistics for 2007 show that there are approximately 457 000 Somali refugees in the world.
We must do everything that is in Europe's power to help Somalia to take a course toward peace.
On 7 June Nasteh Dahir Farah, vice-president of the National Union of Somali Journalists, was brutally murdered.
We call on the UN Security Council to reinforce the contingent of peacekeepers in Somalia in accordance with the resolution passed on 15 May and also to reinforce the embargo on the supply of arms to Somalia. (DE) Mr President, rarely has a resolution in this House ever had such a gruesome title as 'Routine killing of civilians'.
Since January alone, over 300 000 people have fled their homes.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, unfortunately my colleague Louis Michel is not here today, so on his behalf I wish to share with you some remarks about this issue in Somalia.
We are now examining - together with other donors - the appropriate ways and means to better assist Somalis to effectively implement the Djibouti Agreement reached on 9 June.
In 2007 our Humanitarian Aid Department managed to provide EUR 18 million in humanitarian assistance.
In response to the worsening humanitarian situation and to the increase in food prices, the level of assistance should reach a total of EUR 27 million for this year.
At the development level, the EU is already the main aid donor for Somalia, providing medium- to long-term support for establishing a peaceful and self-sustainable society.
