Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members, we now turn from such fundamentally demanding issues as energy and climate change to discuss another very important matter that has, in the past, demanded your attention here in the European Parliament, and also that of the European Union as a whole not merely on one occasion but repeatedly, and the issue to which I refer is that of the sharing of airline passengers' personal data.
At the beginning of January 2007, the Commission made a recommendation to the Council to the effect that it should approve the commencement of negotiations with the USA on a new passenger data agreement that should replace the present interim one.
It is likely that the negotiations on a new passenger name record agreement will prove to be extremely difficult, since there is no evidence of any interest on the part of the United States in improving data protection.
In the remainder of this speech, I shall be endeavouring, on behalf of the Council, to answer the various questions put to me by Members of your House, although all the matters to which I can refer are still subject to the Council's inquiries.
The Council has no knowledge of whether or not the Commission is considering submitting any proposal for the amendment of this Regulation, but I am sure that we will learn that when the Commission makes its statement.
As the Presidency of the Council just said, the Commission has recommended to the Council that it authorise the Presidency, assisted by the Commission, to open negotiations on the basis of a set of negotiation directives.
I have said on a number of occasions that the right to privacy is for me non-negotiable.
However, it is up to you to decide. (IT) I shall now refer, ladies and gentlemen, to the SWIFT matter, which has also been addressed by the Presidency.
You will recall that a few weeks ago, before the Christmas holidays, I informed the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs that the SWIFT case needed to be addressed from a European perspective, and I said on that occasion that we would begin an exploratory dialogue with the US authorities in order to address both the general issue of data protection and the specific issues raised by the use of SWIFT data by the US Treasury.
You will probably be aware that these informal, yet important, discussions have already begun.
In other words, the two points at stake are, as ever, legal protection for personal data that are transferred and legal certainty for all parties concerned and, I must say, legal certainty for banks, too, for, as the Presidency has clearly highlighted, SWIFT is not a bank.
However, it has emerged - but you already knew this - that, in many cases, central banks had been informed precisely by the US Treasury of the transfer of data from SWIFT Europe to SWIFT United States and from SWIFT United States to the US Treasury.
Clearly, as soon as I have some information in this regard, I will pass it on to you, as I have done in the past.
I have no information on that, and so I cannot answer that question.
There is no doubt, however, that, while the fight against the funding of terrorism is a vital instrument for preventing terrorism, this fight cannot undermine or limit a fundamental right, such as that of customers to have their personal financial data protected.
Secondly, we must also point out to our American friends that it is in everyone's interests for fundamental rights and the protection of personal data to be scrupulously adhered to.
If, by virtue of having a European instrument, we succeed in doing the same thing that we are trying to do with the PNR - even though the two issues are very different, the principle is the same - and find a European solution that prevents differences in treatment between one EU Member State and another in relation to the United States, I believe that it will be possible to strengthen the European Union's negotiating power and to demonstrate at the same time that our aim is to strengthen the Euro-Atlantic link, not to weaken it.
To put it simply, after September 11 the nature of relations between SWIFT and the US authorities changed beyond all recognition, and we are now seeing the consequences not only in terms of data protection for the EU but also in terms of the balance that should be struck between data protection, the fight against terrorism, the security of payment systems and protection against economic espionage.
The key point here, following the hearing held jointly by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs last October, is the briefing of the 'Article 29' working group which, on 22 November 2006, clearly confirmed our concerns, namely that, in the SWIFT case, data that should manifestly not have been concealed from the US authorities had in fact been concealed and that, accordingly, the 1995 Directive had not been complied with.
Everything leads me to think that the task facing us in this area is a tough one, but you can count on Parliament's unwavering support.
As SWIFT is a Belgian company, we are always being referred back to the Belgian State.
That being said, the fact that SWIFT is a Belgian company is because we are in a legal vacuum.
I believe that in this area too, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you need to proceed on the basis of new information.
Frankly, Mr Gloser, without wishing to underestimate you, the least we can say is that your position on this matter is extremely disappointing.
This is not the case with the agreement in force, however, even though this assessment is required by the protocol to Convention 108 of the Council of Europe, which is binding on the Member States and hence directly, or at least indirectly, on the European institutions.
This second issue is even more delicate and it concerns the American authorities' access to data relating to financial transfers.
Second, do the US authorities have access to all the transactions carried out in SWIFT branches in the USA, and can they, through these or other SWIFT branches, also gain access to transactions carried out outside the USA?
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, the controversy surrounding the transmission of personal and banking data by SWIFT to the US law enforcement authorities and the judgment on the EU/US agreement regarding PNR data have demonstrated the urgent need to draw up a global framework for the transmission and protection of personal data within the context of trans-Atlantic relations.
We are in favour of reaching a new PNR agreement, but it must be respectful of fundamental rights and provide guarantees on the protection of European citizens' privacy.
The European institutions must ensure that the payment system in the European Union, provided by SWIFT, complies with the Community legislation on data protection.
An agreement pursuant to Articles 24 and 38 of the European Union Treaty would not be an appropriate solution.
With regard to PNR, SWIFT and ATS, I will not repeat here all the expectations that we have of the PNR negotiating mandate.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this extensive legal-political debate involves the fundamental issue of European sovereignty, as the chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs has also rightly pointed out.
The ECB had been informed about the issue right from the start, and it played a leading role in this instrument - I shall not go into the matter of its transparency.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs in 't Veld may be unwell physically, she is still in excellent form verbally.
This also means, though, that you are entitled to know what your friends are getting up to.
According to the Council, it is hard to conclude a fresh agreement, because the United States is not so keen on this data protection.
There is, however, a limit to the level of blackmail we are willing to accept.
That being said, I want to state very clearly that assurances of this kind are not enough for me.
However, individuals' fundamental rights must be safeguarded.
Incidentally, the people responsible at SWIFT either knew, or at least suspected and feared, this from the beginning, and they have indirectly informed us that they did so.
You should show people that you are not kow-towing to the United States but take the European Union seriously as a community of values and courageously defend it in relation to major partners too, and precisely because they are friends rather than enemies. (PL) Mr President, the European Parliament was quite right to become fully involved in monitoring the routine transfer of European Union citizens' personal data to the United States.
The future agreement must also be given full democratic legitimacy, a process that should involve the European Parliament and, if appropriate, the national parliaments.
The national financial transfers contain such delicate information that this is really an issue which should be taken seriously by the Commission and by the Council, this Parliament and the US Congress. (DE) Mr President, Mr Gloser, Commissioner, the Presidency-in-Office of the Council should, in my view, observe the following guidelines in its current negotiations with the United States on the transfer of airline passenger data.
Mr Gloser, you rightly said that we need legal certainty as quickly as possible for European airlines.
I know that these will not be a simple matter. (DE) Mr President, Mr Gloser, Commissioner, the fact that you have heard the same refrain right across the political groups should, I believe, give you pause for thought.
We are on your side, so involve us instead of just fobbing us off. (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the SWIFT debate very clearly fits within the wider discussion on the high-wire balancing act between the fight against terrorism on the one hand and the protection of fundamental human rights and privacy on the other.
The Commissioner has indicated on this platform how he would like to develop a European instrument for the future that would meet these requirements, but that is something that cannot, of course, be done overnight.
The lack of clear answers is undermining trust, and I think that we are owed those clear answers as to the Commission's legal evaluation. (NL) Mr President, Commissioner Frattini, you did not beat about the bush when you made your commitment to the negotiations known.
There is, then, little point in 780 MEPs sitting where the negotiators should be; it would not work.
The suggestion mooted by Mr Radwan to place this in a wider G7 context is something I am happy to endorse. (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, none us in this House disputes the fact that there needs to be enhanced prevention of terrorism in the future.
There should also in future be a duty to provide travellers with information in this connection.
However, the really useful items are probably those 19 that have been mentioned: that is to say, a much smaller number.
Mrs Roure asked me whether we can give Parliament our information on the negotiating mandate.
The SWIFT case is typical: out of 27 Member States, only seven have given me a reply.
