Thank you, Mr Rübig.
The President has very clearly ruled out the possibility of a debate this morning.
Secondly, and most importantly, they all began their sporting careers in an amateur club or at a school.
More and more men and women, whatever their age and their circumstances, are taking part in a sport.
In June 1997, the sports ministers met at the Stade de France in Paris, and this was followed by meetings in Germany, Finland and Portugal.
Then, at Feira in Portugal, on the occasion of the Council meeting in June 2000, a clear call was made for the specific characteristics of sport to be taken into account in the application of Community policies.
It is the wish of the French Presidency that we should succeed in defining precisely what these specific characteristics are and what their recognition implies.
This approach is the basis on which my counterparts in the other fourteen Member States and I have been working, in close collaboration with Commissioner Viviane Reding.
The first question concerns the protection of under-age sportspeople.
I am very hopeful that, having regard to the 1994 Directive on the protection of young people at work, we shall be able to offer the prospect of precise recommendations on this point.
Secondly, I also wish to see measures taken to maintain the development policies of sports clubs.
Sports federations and governments should be able, if they so wish, to take appropriate measures to protect the clubs that develop young talent.
At the same time, the international sports authorities have a responsibility to take action to control club management in order to avoid excesses, especially in relation to transfers.
Thirdly, in the wider context, it seems to me that there is an urgent need to recognise the unique central role played by the federations.
I believe it is necessary to acknowledge the key role of the sports federations in organising sports competitions, in formulating the rules of their respective sports and in awarding titles.
I believe we are caught up in a race against the clock.
Mr President, Parliament has asked me to make a statement on the transfer system and on the whole panic which has gripped the world of sport and which the press has been echoing.
Mr President, I shall respond to the report on doping in sport and sport in society at the end of the debate, if I may.
For the moment I shall confine myself to a statement on the transfer issue.
This report invites the sporting community, the Member States and the European Union to pool their efforts in order to ensure that sport, in its new economic environment, will continue to act as an instrument of education and integration on the basis of its values of fair play, equal opportunities and the pursuit of merit.
It goes without saying that the provisions of Community law, especially those based on the principles of non-discrimination and free movement of persons, as well as the rules of competition, are applicable to sport.
This is the context, ladies and gentlemen, in which the Commission, under the direct responsibility of my colleague Mario Monti, has been examining several aspects of competition as they relate to sport.
The Commission recognises that the sporting community is free to determine the rules that will ensure the proper administration of their respective sports.
The Commission recognises the specific nature of sport in the sense that some degree of equality is needed in competition between players and clubs so as to guarantee the uncertainty of results, which is the very essence of sport, as the Minister has just emphasised.
The Commission is investigating only those aspects of sport with a Community dimension and an economic dimension.
Regarding the matter of current FIFA rules governing transfers, I must remind you that, back in 1998, following a number of complaints, the Commission questioned the compatibility of the FIFA transfer rules with the rules of competition and sent FIFA a list of grievances.
The Commission believes that the FIFA rules on transfers unfairly obstruct freedom of movement.
This is especially true of the rules which lay down conditions of transfer on expiry of a player's contract, even though the contract has been duly terminated in accordance with national employment legislation and with its own terms and the contractually agreed financial indemnity has been determined and paid.
Contrary to what some press articles have been suggesting, the Commission has no intention of simply abolishing the transfer system or of creating a situation in which players would be able to terminate their contracts on a sudden impulse.
The Commission, as the Guardian of the Treaties, wishes FIFA to apply a transfer system which complies with the principles of Community law as well as respecting the unique nature of sport.
The present system, however, satisfies neither of these criteria.
For many years, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has been waiting 'patiently' for FIFA to present a formula that could replace the present system, to offer a basis on which we could work together in search of a universally satisfactory and equitable solution.
Mario Monti and I have established contacts with the footballing world.
We have made the point that, under national codes of employment legislation, some form of compensation is warranted when a player breaks his contract with one club in order to join another.
The French Presidency, as I said at the start of my speech, has testified to this same attachment to sport and its values on behalf of the Council.
The Commission is acting in the interests of sport to preserve the beautiful game, and I am convinced that, if we all pull our weight, a satisfactory solution will soon be in sight for the good of sport, for the good of football and for the good of Europe.
In fact, the first death from doping took place in 1896, when a cyclist took drugs.
In fact, we have already heard this morning that it is a priority for the French Presidency, the Council and also for the Commission.
We have to assess why this problem exists and why doping has increased so much in recent years.
On the one hand, it is worth mentioning the over-commercialisation that is affecting sport, as well as the saturation of sporting calendars and greater demands on sportsmen and women, both physical and mental.
On the other hand, we should not forget that, these days, an increasing number of tests are being done, many of them outside competitions, and this also means that, logically, more cases of doping are being discovered.
However, it is very important to distinguish between the two types of doping: on the one hand, there is intentional or planned doping, that is, a team plans which substances the sportsman or woman needs to take, and when, in order to improve his or her physical performance.
On the other hand, there is accidental doping, which often does not even improve the sportsman or woman' s physical performance.
Combating intentional or planned doping is much more difficult.
Overall, we need to fight doping globally.
Combating accidental doping is much easier.
Thus, when buying a drug, sportsmen and women will be able to clearly see the red traffic light indicating the risk of testing positive, or the green light which indicates that there is no risk, or the amber light indicating that there may be a risk and that they should contact their doctor or a specialist for advice.
However, even though the types of doping are different, sportsmen and women receive the same treatment and from the moment that they have a positive result they are considered to be guilty, with no right to prove their innocence and without an assessment of whether the doping was intentional or not, as occurs with other things in life.
We also call on the European Commission to request that the Fifth Framework Programme carry out research into doping substances and their impact on the health of sportsmen and women, detection methods and the natural limits of hormones that can be produced by the human body.
With regard to laboratories, it is very important that they comply with ISO standards on uniform methods for collecting and analysing samples, and also that there should be protection and confidentiality, both in collection and in dealing with the case, in order to preserve sportsmen and women' s right to honour and privacy.
Sport needs a new definition: indeed, it should be considered as an activity that is an integral part of the education and training of young people, free time and the integration of socially excluded and disabled people.
In short, sport must be an essential factor in promoting the education and integration of all social classes.
The central committee has stated several times that it can no longer guarantee the pyramid structure on the basis of which sporting organisations and the social function of sport are currently organised.
Europe must be more forceful in the fight against doping, a phenomenon which, unfortunately, is growing very rapidly and is no longer confined to the world of sport: the spread of this scourge has led to an increase in highly lucrative illegal activities, in which many criminal organisations have been involved, and we need to recognise that entrusting the fight against doping solely to sporting organisations has been a complete failure.
Europe should therefore look into the possibility of promulgating Community criminal legislation which would be valid in all the Member States, and should consider setting up an independent, transparent, European anti-doping agency.
We need to try to improve the role played by sport and the role of the teaching of physical education in the curricula of schools.
Moreover, we need to ensure that the statutes of national and international sporting federations lay down mission statements and contain clear, precise rules.
I therefore regret all the more that it has become evident over the last few days that many people in positions of authority in football and other sporting associations are unable to learn lessons and enter into a dialogue.
Mr President, ten days before the start of the Olympic Games, the spectre of doping is hovering over Sidney.
Minister Buffet, who has addressed us so eloquently here today, stated in Le Monde on 4 August that the basic ingredient missing in the fight against doping was strong political will.
Mr President, sport is a popular activity.
The PPE-DE is entirely behind this objective and has tabled amendments to give this initiative a boost.
The Bosman ruling has mainly hit the smaller clubs, as the Commissioner has already pointed out, especially in the smaller countries, such as the Netherlands where I am from.
We therefore hope that the Commission, in tandem with the sports organisations, will produce proposals which will make amends in the short term.
The sports federations, such as UEFA and FIFA, have also submitted proposals to this effect.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, the Group of the Party of European Socialists asked the Commission to make a statement on the topical subject of football transfers and for it to be added to this joint debate.
The subject of transfers is perhaps an example that sums up the current situation of sport.
A major club in my native city made the biggest transfer in football history - EUR 70 million.
The person involved has said that it is absurd, and the chairman of the club has said that it is in a very grave economic situation.
In the United States in the 1940s, under anti-trust legislation, the same measures were applied in Hollywood as those that the Commission is proposing.
Unfortunately, UK athletes - Linford Christie, Dougie Walker and Gary Cadogan - were not presumed to be innocent by the International Athletics Association.
The specific status of sport derives primarily from the sports system, from the social pyramid which is reflected in the structure of small clubs in our towns and rural areas as well as in major sporting events.
As far as the system and its focal point, the sportsperson, are concerned, what the reports are calling for is the rationalisation of the specific nature of sport in our European Union.
The Commission was right to remind us that one of the first causes of the increased prevalence of doping lies in the commercial implications of modern sport.
Finally, the reason why sport has assumed an important and indeed a central place in our contemporary societies is perhaps because it has become the only means open to a nation to demonstrate its greatness.
Mr President, on the eve of the Sydney Games, what remains of the Olympic ideal and the exalted principles of Pierre de Coubertin?
Others, especially the sprinters, are proclaiming loud and long that they are only running to promote their particular brand of footwear.
Some football clubs are already listed on the stock market.
Doping seriously damages athletes' health as well as the essential virtues of sport, namely honesty, fair play, respect for one's opponent, friendship, etc.
Europe must show its trust in the voluntary bodies by accepting the proposals from the federations and from other Olympic committees.
The Bosman decision, for example, which was taken in the name of high principles, has destabilised professional clubs and has exacerbated the impact of money on European football.
The latest transfer record, set when Figo moved to Real Madrid, is a case in point.
Clubs in certain countries now build their teams almost exclusively with foreign players.
This is particularly true of Barcelona, where they are able to field a team without a single Spanish player, which effectively makes it impossible for young nationals to play at the highest level in their country.
Let us work for a good solution that we can defend rather than working for a solution this afternoon, or this week, or this month.
Come up with a good solution and you will have the backing of this House and the backing of football supporters across Europe.
For this reason, I believe it is merely a commercial activity which should be distributed evenly.
I would like to know whether you have a response to this.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, no sportsman or woman takes drugs unless he or she has a financial interest in doing so.
The combination of enormous and disproportionate financial, media and sponsoring interests surrounding sportsmen and women puts so much pressure on them, and the intensity of sport is so great, that in order to maintain their level of competitiveness and the pace imposed on them by sporting calendars, sportsmen and women tend to use prohibited substances.
In this sense, I think that we can avert what is happening in the basketball federation today and what we can see will happen in all the other sports tomorrow, and maintain the unity of sport and its contact with society.
I think we all agree on the role and importance of sport which, at both competitive and amateur level, is an excellent tool for the education and social integration of both players and spectators.
Precisely to avoid sport being reduced to nothing more than a business, we must call, loud and clear, upon the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference at Nice to expressly insert a significant reference to the institutional recognition of sport into Article 151 of the Treaty.
If FIFA had done its job, the Commission would not have needed to get involved in this.
I hope that FIFA recognises that and will now finally come up with something that the Commission can include in its proposals, as long as they do not run counter to the Bosman judgment.
Mr President, after congratulating our colleagues Mrs Zabell and Mr Mennea on their reports and the suggestions they contain, of which I very largely approve, I shall make do with two observations.
Firstly, I should like to stress the need for Community participation in the World Anti-Doping Agency, which would enable the European Union to make a vigorous and coherent contribution to the struggle against doping.
Secondly, as I did yesterday, I plead again today for the inclusion in the Treaty of a legal basis relating specifically to sport.
Despite acknowledging that the main reason for the increase in doping is excessive commercialisation, the Commission is doing nothing to combat it.
Proven cases of doping in sporting competitions have diminished the reputation of many sports in the eyes of the public.
At last, the International Olympic Committee has faced up to its obligations to combat the widespread use of drugs in sport.
I welcome the IOC's announcement that heavy penalties will be imposed on sportsmen and women caught using drugs in Sydney this month and in the future.
The Union must continue to work through the World Anti-Doping Agency to ensure that uniform and structured guidelines are implemented for all sporting activities.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate and the reports are both a step in the right direction.
The Council Presidency has said that sport is education for life.
This means that insufficient account has been taken of the special hallmarks of sport and its 700 000 clubs, and of voluntary work done in areas like youth work and training for children and young people.
It is therefore both a logical and desirable consequence of all this that sport should be given a legal basis in the Treaty.
However, we are also aware that sport can sometimes be accompanied by horrific acts of violence, abominable racist outbursts and unacceptable strident nationalism.
And for all of these reasons, we cannot accept the idea that sport should be considered in its economic dimension alone.
Voluntary organisations and individual volunteers are every bit a part of the sporting world, and it is surely thanks to them that sport is alive in our countries and that mass sport will be able to survive in future.
The protection of young sportspeople is a priority of the French Presidency.
The financial and political commitment of all the countries of the European Union to the World Anti-Doping Agency is imperative, but it is not enough.
France has marked out the path, and I should be interested to know how the President of the Council sees the interaction between the Agency and national initiatives.
We must also combat the excesses of the transfer system, especially the trade in young professional sportsmen.
Young people must be the main target in the rehabilitation of sport.
The time has come for politicians and sporting authorities to exercise their responsibility.
I wish, first of all, to express my thanks and congratulations to the two rapporteurs for their excellent work, and I should also like to highlight the action of our colleague Doris Pack, who paved the way for the negotiation of the protocol on sport which is annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I am personally shocked by the ease with which young sportsmen and women can supply themselves with performance-enhancing drugs, without being checked at all, through the Internet or in certain countries of the European Union.
The European Commission is questioning the system of transfers between clubs, believing it to be contrary to players' freedom of movement.
The abolition of transfers will induce agents to break their clients' contracts several times in the course of a year in order to earn new commission each time a new contract is signed.
The system of agents must be brought under control by the Union, or perhaps even scrapped.
The importance of sport and exercise both for societies and for individuals must not, however, get buried under professionalism and commercialism.
Finally, I would like to turn your attention to the need to improve levels of gender equality in sport and exercise.
The European Woman and Sport network conference held in June in Helsinki made recommendations which I hope will be taken into consideration at both national and Union level.
It is incomprehensible why sport lacks a legal base in the European Union.
We have to find a balance in the question of televising the most important sports events, one between the economic power of the organisers on the one hand, and the so-called public service principle on the other.
Because we are all concerned about the excesses that occur in sport, it is very understandable that we have been focusing on those excesses, but it must also be stressed that the vast majority of the men and women who are involved in sport - participants and voluntary officials in local sports clubs and in sports associations - are men and women with a high regard for the values of sport, advocates of the sporting ethic who want sport to be a means of individual and collective development.
Setting aside the excesses, we should also be aware that, in the world of association football for example, only one per cent of all players registered with the International Federation of Football Associations are professionals.
So, the underlying causes have to be tackled, and without delay; I believe the accent must be placed on controls, on sporting sanctions and on action against the supply chains.
Concerning the specific question that was asked, I believe it is absolutely essential that each Member State and the European Union as a whole should work on a sort of convention which would be signed between the States and WADA, the World Anti-Doping Agency, to facilitate the work of WADA in all countries, whatever their current legislation.
On the question of transfers, allow me to give my position and the position of the French Presidency.
I am not in favour of maintaining the status quo, because we are familiar with the huge excesses which it has created and which have no economic, social or sporting justification.
In the past 48 hours, FIFA has made some extremely constructive and interesting proposals, which, if adopted, would serve to protect the youth-development system and individual rights, as well as satisfying the clubs' need to build and train teams.
Finally, you may rest assured that the French Presidency, having listened to you, will proceed with great determination towards the establishment of a solid basis for the recognition of the specific status of sport and in the fight against doping.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking all the political groups for the support they have expressed for the action of the Commission on the issue of the transfer rules.
We shall enter into dialogue now with a view to finding, along with the European football chiefs, a negotiated solution in the form of a new transfer system which is in the interests of football and is consistent with the European Treaties.
I am also gratified, Mr President, to note that the two communications issued in December 1999 have generated very lively interest and very broad support.
The concerns expressed by the President of the Council are also those of Parliament and are the same concerns which the Commission has expressed in its two communications.
These are common lines of action; each of us in our respective spheres and all of us together must pursue our efforts to ensure that concrete action is taken in each of those areas.
I hope that the declaration planned by the French Presidency for the meeting of the European Council in Nice can help to define more clearly the specific character of sport.
Doping in sport is not simply an ethical problem.
The support plan you have been examining is more or less the outcome of this work - a provisional outcome, admittedly, because it is only one stage in a longer process.
Firstly, with regard to the initial objective, the Commission requested the opinion of the European Group on Ethics, which was delivered on 11 November 1999; the group proposed a number of measures, and the Commission will take these into consideration in its future actions.
I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the efforts currently being undertaken by the French Presidency will lead to the creation of this unanimity and that the Community will be able to participate in the work of the Agency, not only in a financial sense but also, and especially, in the formulation of ideas and political inputs.
Lastly, the Commission has to mobilise the resources at its disposal for the fight against doping.
It is essential, for instance, to ensure maximum coordination of policies and regulatory measures.
The adoption of a recommendation on sport and doping is also planned for this autumn.
Moreover, the Commission is funding a research project which ought to lead to the standardisation of procedures in the European laboratories that specialise in the fight against doping.
Contacts have also been established with the new Commission departments devoted to justice and home affairs, since, as your report rightly indicates, new opportunities are arising to deal with the doping issue in the framework of legislation for the suppression of drug trafficking.
Finally, you will easily understand that, in the departments under my responsibility, namely education, vocational training and youth, the programmes that have been prepared will play a significant part in informing young people, raising their awareness of the issues and enlisting their aid in the fight against doping.
I believe that all of this is only one stage in a process, that more is expected of us, and I am convinced that the Zabell report will serve the Commission as a signpost and a landmark, both in its present activities and in its future initiatives.
Mr President, allow me now to highlight the Helsinki report and the social dimension of sport.
In that respect, the report is fundamental, and I thank Parliament for having played a crucial role in its development.
In 1997, in fact, Parliament called on the Commission to prepare a Community initiative in the domain of sport, and in that same year a declaration on sport was annexed to the Treaty, calling on the European institutions to consult with the sports associations before proceeding to deal with any major sports issue.
Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, sport is in good health, maybe even in very good health.
If we consider the revenue from television rights or from the sale of sportswear and sports equipment, we have to conclude that sport has never been on a sounder economic footing.
Since 1989, the Commission has been regularly proclaiming its belief in respect for the autonomy of the sports organisations.
And as long as the principles of solidarity and the social function, on which the European Parliament has laid emphasis, are clearly respected, we can provide for derogation in specific instances from the rules of competition, for example in connection with the collective sale of television rights.
It must be perfectly clear, however, that a blanket exemption from these rules can never be warranted.
The second level is that of the national authorities.
The Feira European Council asked the Commission to take account of the specific characteristics of sport and of its social dimension.
There are nearly 600 000 sports clubs in Europe and 60% of young people who are members of an association belong to a sports club.
And among the aspects I think are of major interest, I believe that the role and quality of physical education in schools come top of the list.
And I am convinced that we must make a special effort to protect young athletes more effectively.
To that end, the Commission has sent the Member States a questionnaire, asking them about methods to protect the health and education of young athletes, and I intend to submit a draft recommendation to the Member States on improving the protection of the education and health of young sportsmen and women.
As I have often told you, I am involved in performing high-wire acrobatics right now, without a safety net, and an article could provide the safety net I dream of.
Neither an article nor a protocol could, in themselves, resolve all the problems of sport.
But as your rapporteurs and many speakers have pointed out, the kind of article you are envisaging, similar to the one on education and culture that fully respected the subsidiarity principle, is, in my view, worth serious consideration.
I intend to submit a communication to the Commission on proclaiming the year 2004 the European Year of Sport. (Applause) Why 2004?
It would also show that Europe is a real force in terms of fair play, sport for all, and sport for the citizen.
It is with that in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that, like your rapporteurs, Olympic champions that they are, I hope that those men and women who will be making superhuman efforts in Sydney in a few days' time will all be winners, because true sport, fair play in sport, is not a question of coming first but of surpassing one' s own limitations.
The debate is closed.
Secondly, this act occurred on the same day that the majority of Heads of State and Government were meeting in New York at the Millennium Summit organised by the United Nations itself, which demonstrates the weakness of this organisation and of the instruments at its disposal to protect men and women far from their own countries who were simply endeavouring to defend human rights and the rights of refugees.
We understand the difficulty of the situation in Indonesia, but it is essential to demand that the Indonesian Government should exercise its authority on its own territory.
Mr President, I would like to associate myself with the comments made by my fellow Portuguese Members on the situation in Timor and to call on the Commission, the Council and the President of the European Parliament to do everything in their power to make Indonesia respect the resolutions which have been adopted on this subject and to respect the commitments it has made to defend the people of East Timor and the refugees in West Timor.
I know that Viviane Reding is a very robust parliamentarian, as well as now a Commissioner and I am sure she managed to cope with it, but I take the point.
Explanations of vote- Lienemann report (A5-0214/2000) This report has some positive aspects, in particular the restatement of the binding nature of the proposed measures to protect water quality.
That time-limit is equivalent to authorising undertakings to discharge their toxic substances for another 20 years.
This Directive provides a framework for consolidating legislation which has been in existence at national and European level concerning the whole area of the safety of surface water and ground water.
The European Council, which represents the fifteen Governments of the EU, originally did not include any provisions relating to the elimination of hazardous substances in this new Water Directive.
As a result of the implementation of this Directive, the safety of water quality standards in Europe will substantially improve. . (DE) With its communication "Pricing policies for enhancing the sustainability of water resources", the European Commission is seeking to harmonise and give practical form to the economic provisions of the EC framework directive on water resources.
Furthermore, the provisions on the charging of environmental and resource costs associated with water use are aimed at those Member States that still make excessive use of and pollute their water resources, and therefore not at Germany, where exceptional efforts are already being made in this respect.
Ever since 1997 the European Parliament has been calling for the piecemeal nature of water legislation in Europe to be brought to an end.
The conciliation between Parliament and the Council of Ministers, the final stage in the legislative procedure, has enabled what I consider a balanced and satisfactory compromise to be reached.
The PPE/DE Group has always taken an ambitious and realistic stance.
The objective is gradually to eliminate discharges of hazardous substances, within 20 years of their identification.
That kind of project complies with the principle of regional cohesion and solidarity that we have always upheld.
The binding commitment the European Union has made to its Member States to eliminate discharges of hazardous substances into water within 20 years is certainly a step forward, even if 3 years are enough for certain chemical products.
In that specific case, priority should be given to water management and the water savings that can be made, before massive projects to transfer water from one hydrographic basin to another are proposed.
This directive represents a step in the right direction, but there will have to be more precise rules to reduce water pollution upstream.
Florenz report (A5-0212/2000) Mr President, I voted in favour of the Conciliation Committee' s definitive decision on the directive on end-of-life vehicles.
All vehicles within the European Union must now be fully recyclable by the year 2015.
There is an obligation on manufacturers to bear the whole or a large part of the cost of implementing these measures and for them to take back end-of-life vehicles at no charge to the last owner.
It was agreed at conciliation between the European Parliament and the fifteen Governments of the EU that this provision should now apply from 1 January 2007.
The proposal for a directive on end-of-life vehicles, submitted in 1997, is aimed at preventing the creation of scrap from vehicles and promoting the re-use, recycling and recovery of vehicles and their components, so as to reduce the amount of scrap produced by end-of-life vehicles that are dumped or incinerated without any energy recovery.
The European Commission' s strategy is based on measures such as increasing the percentage of re-usable components, ensuring an adequate number of collection points for end-of-life vehicles, achieving a number of objectives regarding the re-use and recovery of end-of-life vehicles, checks on the use of certain heavy metals in vehicle manufacture and ensuring that the cost of disposing of end-of-life vehicles is not borne by the last owner.
On the question of heavy metals, the Council and Parliament have agreed that vehicles put on the market after 1 July 2003 should no longer contain heavy metals such as cadmium, lead or hexavalent chromium.
The Council of Ministers has, in fact, remained inflexible about allowing the owner to return his end-of-life vehicle free of charge.
The amendment I tabled and supported has, in fact, been fully incorporated into the final text.
But are we really sure that less noisy tyres are really in everyone' s best interests?
We are aware of the progress made in road holding, in resistance to wear and tear, in reducing fuel consumption, but for known technical reasons the investments in research and technology do not yet allow all the rapporteur' s demands to be reconciled.
The reason people die in Africa, as in many poor countries, of malaria, bilharzia, tuberculosis or even just measles is not because of religious obstacles but because the people who are ill can afford neither medicines or care.
This resolution, in fact, does away with any idea of public service in considering that this sector, like others, should be based on 'an open market economy with competition' .
Human cloning: Mr President, the majority of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has voted in favour of this resolution.
In the debate in the Chamber yesterday on cloning, I heard a number of people more or less clearly defending cloning for the purposes of medical treatment, on the grounds that this would be quite different from cloning for reproductive purposes.
Researchers throughout the world have said that Parkinson' s disease and other serious illnesses can perfectly well be cured by other methods.
We also heard Emma Bonino say that politicians must take risks, but we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believe that it is our absolute duty as elected representatives to identify the risks and to be careful.
We must observe the precautionary principle, in this case more so than ever.
I was one of the 237 MEPs who voted for the resolution tabled by the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats on human cloning.
Mr President, this morning our group discussed our attitude to paragraph 5 of the motion for a resolution on cloning, which states that there can be no difference made between cloning for reproductive purposes and any other sort.
In either case it is being used as a tool, as something to use, and not as a living being with intrinsic value.
We believe that, without wasting any time, what we can do today on such a complicated and difficult issue is to set up a temporary parliamentary committee on bioethics to give us the basis for a substantiated, in-depth discussion of the problem of medical embryonic research resulting from human cloning.
The cloning of embryos for research purposes, or even the mere use of surplus embryos for these purposes, would amount to crossing an invisible boundary beyond which the exploitation of human life would become acceptable.
One solution to this dilemma would be to speed up research into the possibility of obtaining stem cells from adult organs, which could be clearly earmarked for therapeutic purposes, as called for in the resolution tabled by our fellow Members, Elisabeth Montfort and Nicole Thomas-Mauro.
Article 3 of the draft, as it stands, confines itself to prohibiting 'the reproductive cloning of human beings' , i.e.
Given the present state of our knowledge and of the ethical debate, and in view of the UK Government' s unacceptable authorisation of human cloning, the first thing we must seek is a total and absolute moratorium on all experiments in human cloning.
The Socialist Group is not calling strongly enough for an immediate stop to all human cloning.
The PPE Group seems to be making a final judgment on such sensitive points of discussion as the distinction between reproductive and other cloning.
It was a good thing that our Parliament took a clear stance on these abuses and thus, even if against the wishes of some of its Members, opted for life. - (DE) I abstained in the vote on the PPE/Greens/EFA motion for a resolution on human cloning.
The biggest risk is not inherent in the power of science but in the erroneous and uncontrolled exploitation and application of science.
We could make serious progress if we implemented the Commission' s proposal to apply the principle of 'reward the best and punish the worst' to air transport in Europe, drawing a clearer line of demarcation between the various activities on the basis of their quality in environmental terms.
Nor are there enough practical measures to encourage aviation to pay more respect to the environment.
According to a study conducted under the EU' s fifth environmental action programme, 80 million people in Europe are exposed to noise levels that scientists regard as intolerable, while another 170 million are exposed to disturbing noise levels.
The ICAO has initiated a process of revising noise levels.
According to forecasts, these emissions will rise by 3% a year over the period 1992 to 2015.
Europe' s measures to reduce greenhouse gases are being blocked by the fact that it has excluded air transport, a major CO2 producer, from the Kyoto Protocol and the plans to reduce pollutants.
For this reason alone, aviation can win the unfair competitive battle against the railways, which have lost a large part of their share of international passenger transport to other modes of long-distance travel, especially aviation.
We share most of the points of view presented in this about the need for a more vigorous policy to combat the negative effects of aircraft upon the environment.
As a result, it fails to deal with immediate priorities and, more importantly, only addresses in vague and general terms the problem of permissible limits on emissions of greenhouse gases and the definition of new, or at least improved, standards and rules which need to be applied at local and regional level and promoted at international level.
The Commission proposal is mainly money-driven.
Zabell report (A5-0203/2000) Mr President, this report refers to the fight against doping in sport.
Unfortunately, the international sporting authorities have not been able to halt or even combat this extremely serious scourge.
It is a shame that Europe has not understood this, and that today and over the coming years it will find itself involved in a very tough fight, where it will have to use much more incisive, firm and hard-hitting means.
Accordingly, the involvement of the Community in fighting the use of doping should be low-key.
The sports sector is organised in its own unique way and national federations and unions still play a key role in this.
Consequently, I do not agree with the request to include a reference to sport in Article 151 of the EU Treaty.
Doping in sport runs totally counter to that ideal.
I therefore support the inclusion of a legal basis in the Treaty that would allow for Community action in the field of sport.
I know that this issue is giving rise to much discussion, which will in fact help fuel the debate to be held in the European Sports Forum in Lille on 26 and 27 October.
I think it is also vital to launch information campaigns on the risks associated with doping products.
Mennea report (A5-0208/2000) Mr President, I voted for the Mennea report on sport because it contains a large number of positive elements and, in particular, because it highlights the importance of continuing the current practice of organising sporting events for disabled people.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Members who voted for my report.
Nor did high-level sport produce dozens of cases of rape and sexual attacks in the Olympic village in Atlanta; and French tennis champion, Nathalie Tauziat, who wrote a book criticising the very emotionally charged atmosphere behind the scenes of the tennis courts, was obviously eliminated from the French team selection in Sydney in the name of the team spirit and significant social values fostered by sport, according to Mr Mennea, the rapporteur for the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport.
Mrs Maes, Iran is to be covered in the debate on human rights, as is the Temelín nuclear power station.
This awareness-raising process has been set in motion, not least thanks to - and I would like to stress this here - those directly involved: Russian citizens and social organisations with a sense of responsibility.
The nuclear contamination of the village Muslyumovo, in the southern Ural, with plutonium - and this is as long ago as 1949 - is a poignant example of this utterly reprehensible behaviour.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is deeply touched by the recent disaster involving the Kursk submarine and shares in the grief of those left behind and the Russian people.
Mr President, our prayers and sympathy go to the 118 sailors and their families.
The most important point is to educate and support all democratic forces, all the independent media, the administration, the judiciary, and young politicians, especially those in local government, so that Russia becomes a partner with whom we can safely live together in Eurasia.
Mr President, as other Members have already said, the Kursk accident demonstrates that even ten years after the end of the Cold War, military objectives are still considered more important than human life.
In order to show that it is not all one-sided, I am bound to refer to the situation of the British submarine which broke down on 12 May in Sicily and has been in Gibraltar, the only British colony in the Mediterranean, since 19 May.
The situation is causing a great deal of alarm among the population, because, according to the Royal Navy' s own regulations, within a radius of 10 kilometres there is danger, within 100 kilometres there is still potential danger, and the submarine may only be repaired in category 'X' docks.
The docks in Gibraltar are type 'Z' .
In my opinion, the fact that the GUE Group is now tabling amendments which attempt to divert the attention away from this disaster by introducing a regional problem of a completely different nature displays very little taste indeed.
However, we must add immediately that, in order to gain credibility, the European Parliament and the European Union in general cannot ignore the fact that within its own territory there is a situation of serious nuclear risk as the result of a submarine accident, even though it is not, of course, of the tragic nature of the case of the Kursk.
But this is not a matter of domestic policy, but one of European security, it is a matter of European decency and I am raising it here in order to provoke a reaction from this Parliament and from the authorities of the Union in general in order to remedy this intolerable situation.
We would also like to express our concern - as other speakers have done - because, unfortunately, the matter that we were to discuss, that of the very serious, terrible and fatal accident of the submarine Kursk has led us to deal with the problem of a nuclear submarine in Mediterranean waters, in European Union territory, in a British colony.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, a British nuclear submarine has been moored at its Gibraltar base since 19 May.
Moreover, the United Kingdom has knowingly failed to comply with Community regulations in terms of radiation protection, exposing its citizens in Gibraltar and those in Algeciras Bay to a very high probability of contamination, as it is now, and not last May, that it is recognising the extent of the breakdown.
In this case, there has been a violation of Community law.
I suppose that the booing that we received from some British Members when we criticised the situation in this House was also directed at the citizens of Gibraltar.
In this House we criticised the lack of information for the population in the area and of reliable and official news from the United Kingdom.
In the same way, we criticise something which is a reality: the United Kingdom, faced with considerable social pressures in the country, has decided to transfer its base for nuclear submarine operations and repairs to Algeciras Bay, without respecting its own standards, which do not allow it to have this type of base in highly populated areas.
Equally, we deplore the contemplative attitude of the Spanish Government, which only reacted when the pressure and concern reached a maximum.
The Commission considers that the international community should offer the necessary assistance to Russia.
Improved radioactive waste management in north-west Russia is one of the explicit priorities included in the new TACIS regulation covering the next seven years.
The Commission welcomes any action that would increase the budget funding to be used to reduce the ideological threat in north-west Russia and in particular to enable laid-up nuclear submarines to be dismantled more quickly than 10 of the North Fleet's 100 disused nuclear submarines moored at various based in north-west Russia have been dismantled so far.
The lack of storage capacity for spent nuclear fuel remains one of the major bottlenecks in dismantling operations as a whole.
The Commission is also involved in a number of studies aiming to improve radioactive-waste management in north-west Russia.
It has been raised by five Members in this House and he has not said anything about it.
Discussion of other subjects would have to be covered by other means and under a different agenda item.
The Conference of Presidents decided to also include the subject of the submarine in Gibraltar in the agenda.
The vote will take place today, at 5.30 p.m.
As soon as the cease-fire is achieved, the Burundi refugees must be able to count on help from the international community to provide them with a safe shelter in Burundi.
On a final note, for lasting peace in Burundi, it is crucial that peace in the Congo region is established.
Finally, Mr President, I do believe that Europe should resume the provision of semi-structural aid, especially in the areas of education and health care.
Without even going back to the responsibility of the former Belgian colonial power deliberately sustaining and exacerbating the hostilities between the two ethnic groups in the two countries, today the part that both French and British interests played in the civil war is public knowledge, just as it is public knowledge that the French army was directly responsible for mobilising and arming the Hutu extreme right, which was responsible for real genocide.
Mr President, over one hundred years ago, European colonial powers divided tribal lands in Africa to establish national boundaries.
The EU must insist that neighbouring countries do not interfere in Burundi and EU aid to them should be conditional on their cooperation.
This Parliament and the European Commission can help Burundi and this resolution is a very good step in that direction.
The Commission welcomes the signature of the peace accord as an important preliminary step in the long and difficult process of negotiations to end the conflict between Burundi's majority Hutu and minority Tutsi population.
However, as has been said in this discussion, some very important questions are still open, such as that of the cease-fire, which is the main gap in the agreement, the amnesty, the composition of the national assembly, the duration of the agreement and the transitory government leadership - no minor issues.
Two Tutsi parties added their signature to the agreement on the following day.
Cease-fire talks are organised for 20 September in Nairobi.
The regional presidents Moi and Thabo Mbeki stress their importance.
Beyond a EUR 48 million rehabilitation programme whose implementation has started, the EC is finalising the procedures for the release of EUR 50 million STABEX funds to relaunch the rural economy.
Finally, the Commission is going to hold an informal donor meeting at technical level in Brussels on 15 September.
Coordination is extremely important because we are still in a situation where the right balance and the right kind of signals to the parties in the process in Burundi are as important as the euros we are mobilising.
The vote will take place today, at 5.30 p.m.
But the people in those camps would prefer to be re-settled back in their homelands and not have that money.
That is what we are doing here today.
This was clearly demonstrated to us during our visit to the region, and our resolve to continue to encourage an agreement now between Bhutan and Nepal is as strong as ever.
The influx of Bhutanese refugees into Nepal began in late 1991 and the fear of diminishing international attention, therefore, is always present.
In New York, the United Nations Millennium Summit is taking place as we speak and it offers the Prime Ministers of Bhutan and Nepal an opportunity to come together and to demonstrate their commitment to the ideas of peace and tolerance by agreeing to an early solution to the problem of Bhutanese refugees in Nepal.
Aside from this question, I want to draw attention to a matter that concerns us all and concerns our future.
Yesterday we voted for the Galeote Quecedo report on a common Community diplomacy, which in the end was reduced to a report on a future college of common diplomacy.
The assistance from the European Union and the international organisations is quite respectable, but no one can guarantee long-term financial aid at that level.
Bhutan and Nepal are not neighbours, but they are close to each other in spirit.
Both are aware that lasting conflict will paralyse their national and economic progress.
The undertakings given by the Bhutanese Foreign Minister when he visited us in Brussels on 8 June have been honoured, as crucial negotiations began mid-year.
Nevertheless, the largest democracy in the world does have the greatest influence in the region and bears some humanitarian responsibility here.
Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance can only lend its firm support to this resolution which, as the Members who have direct experience of this tragic situation have said, shows our institution's concern for a region which may well be far away but whose human tragedies cut us to the very heart.
The European Parliament has been calling for this for a long time and we must continue to urge it.
ASEAN is simply a grouping of totally different countries, with widely diverging interests and no prospect of integration.
We must encourage forms of integration based on democracy - which is absolutely not the case with this kind of country - and therefore promote and encourage our bilateral relations with the countries that respect democracy and want to strengthen democracy and the rule of law, and pursue an extremely tough policy towards countries like Burma.
The People' s Republic of China is currently encircling India: that is a real fact, an actual fact.
The explosion will hit not just Asia, but in the end will also affect Europe and the European Union.
All these people are in an unacceptable situation.
Therefore, the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party supports the proposals of the corresponding resolution and, in particular, I would like to draw attention to paragraph 8, which asks that both the United States and the Commission and the Council impose the appropriate political and economic sanctions as long as there is no process of democratisation in Burma.
Mr President, we are once again debating the difficult situation in which Burma' s elected President finds herself, as well as the aggression displayed by that country' s military regime.
People elsewhere have commented: look at Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi.
Aung San Suu Kyi has asked for sanctions but we have done absolutely nothing about this.
In September 1999, James Mawdsley, from the north-east of England was sentenced to 17 years' solitary confinement in a Burmese prison.
British Government ministers and staff have been making constant efforts to draw the attention of the Burmese authorities to his plight, but with no success.
Mr President, I would like to make it clear that the fact that Iran has been replaced by Burma in the debate on human rights does not mean that my group is not deeply concerned about the human rights situation in Iran.
We are certainly still pinning our hopes in San Suu Kyi.
Her continuing campaigns show that her voice cannot be silenced and that we in Europe, therefore, also have a duty to do everything to ensure that her voice is heard not only here in Europe, but also in America and above all in Asia.
We must call on our partners, the ASEAN States, but also other states in Asia to do everything to bring about a change in this 'transitional government' as it so cynically still calls itself.
Brendan Forde Mr President, this Parliament has discussed the situation in Colombia many times.
The situation in Colombia is that of a latent civil war in which, over several decades, the violence has taken on a structural nature.
In that situation, there are various groups who use violence.
I am referring not only to the paramilitary organisations and the guerrillas, but also to the drug trafficking organisations.
At times, even military units use violence and violate human rights.
In a situation of this kind, the attempt to establish peace zones, for example through the peace communities established in the rural region of Urabá, has faced great difficulties.
But the fact is that, since 1997, there have been three murders, the most recent on 8 July of this year, and the Peace Community of La Unión and the Intercongregational Committee for Justice and Peace, including the Irish Franciscan priest Brendan Forde, have had repeated death threats, despite their position of remaining neutral and contributing to bringing peace to the area.
We think that this situation again requires the strongest possible action on the part of the European institutions.
We urge the Commission, obviously in cooperation with Parliament, to provide the Colombian Government with all our political force and capacity for pressure so that finally the desired peace can come to Colombia and these tragic situations of assassinations, deaths and murders do not happen again.
This year we have heard in Ireland, as is obvious from the concern expressed by Irish colleagues here today, of the danger facing Father Brendan Forde, a Franciscan working in the small village of La Ùnion who has chosen to remain with his parishioners at considerable danger to his own life.
They do not cover a number of serious issues like Plan Colombia and the grave human rights abuses that are taking place in the country.
It has been stated by many human rights organisations that human rights abuses by paramilitaries have the support of the armed forces and that the murder of the poor people in rural areas is as a result of this.
The only group that wanted to address Plan Colombia and the whole human rights situation in Colombia was our own group.
Mr President, when President Pastrana appeared before this Parliament he committed himself to working for peace in his country, but he forgot to mention three quite important issues.
Secondly, that such serious problems as cocaine growing and violence can only be solved through peace talks with the FAR and the ELN.
And thirdly, that he was preparing Plan Colombia for military intervention in the area with the United States, going behind the backs of European and world opinion.
Secondly, that the European Union must condemn Plan Colombia and demand that the solution to the conflict be a negotiated and peaceful one, in order to avoid this escalation of military action.
And thirdly, the European Union must demand that President Pastrana puts an end to all violations of human rights by paramilitary groups in his country, and that the sad world records of thousands of victims that are reached each year should come to an end.
Therefore, allow me to also add - as has already been said, but I think that it is worth saying it specifically - that the European Union should establish a human rights observatory in Latin America, associated with the United Nations observatory that already exists.
Because there are so many countries, but above all Colombia, that fail to guarantee respect for democracy and human rights, it is our responsibility to give adequate help to the region, which has such importance for us and for the world.
Mr President, could I say directly to Commissioner Nielson that I wrote to you on 18 August expressing my concern about the life and the plight of Father Brendan Forde, the Irish priest whose life is currently under threat in the complex political circumstances that pertain in Colombia.
Could I add to that the name of one young man born and raised in Ireland, Tristan James Murray, whose mother comes from my part of Ireland in Wexford, and his Colombian colleague, Javier Nova, young environmentalists missing since July.
We all have concerns that Plan Colombia might escalate the conflict and increase the influence of the guerrillas out there.
We have to raise the international profile of all the people, including the communities whose lives are under threat and we trust Commissioner Nielsen you will do all you can for us.
In my opinion, Parliament must now find the courage to make its voice heard, for, to make reference to Amnesty International once again, all the parties taking part in the conflict are responsible for the violations of human rights in Columbia, but one of them - the paramilitaries - has a greater responsibility.
As has been pointed out, President Pastrana appeared before this House and offered to make a substantial effort to bring all the parties to dialogue.
Mr President, as Manolo Medina said, once again we are talking about Colombia.
However, the last time a human rights defender was assassinated in Colombia was in May.
Luis Guillermo Pérez, also a human rights defender, insists that there is a plan, called the Hundred plan, to assassinate up to one hundred human rights defenders.
The European Union, Mr President, should, in my opinion, do something more than expressing its concern, demanding the safety of its citizens and reiterating its support for the peace negotiation efforts initiated by President Pastrana with the paramilitary groups.
I would like to recall the words of President Pastrana in this Parliament: "I believe that a decent and democratic future is not possible without a culture of respect for fundamental rights.
That is why we cannot just stop at words of condemnation, but we must move on to action and also demand that the Lomé Peace Agreements are complied with and that all the militias are disarmed.
However, as long as poverty continues to rule in Sierra Leone, until the trafficking of diamonds is put to an end once and for all and the arms trade is ended, there will be no chance of peace for this tortured country.
The European Union must therefore use every means within its power, not only in order to help fund the peace process, but also, above all, in order to make it possible to establish living conditions that make peace irreversible.
But, above all, we need decisive action on the part of the European Union, the Member States and the whole of the international community in order to put an end to diamond trafficking in the area.
As long as a country' s natural wealth is only benefiting warlords, that is, as long as diamonds enable the paramilitaries to have sufficient capital to provide themselves with arms and continue their activities, peace will be nothing more than an impossible dream.
On 5 July, the Security Council instituted an embargo on diamonds from Sierra Leone.
I believe that, for this reason, it is not sufficient to curb the diamond trade in Sierra Leone.
We should also continue to support the Government, but I also believe that support for the war tribunal is absolutely necessary.
These armed gangs, including the RUF, certainly do not represent the interests of the people of Sierra Leone, in terms either of their methods or their objectives.
Mr President, the situation in Sierra Leone has been the subject of our urgent debates on several occasions, and we have always dealt with it by encouraging peace talks, national reconciliation and aid for the displaced population, and by calling for an international criminal justice system that can try those responsible for the genocide that is being committed in that country.
We are talking about a kidnapping carried out by criminals who have no political links, either with the members of the former military junta or with any of the groups that signed the peace agreement in July 1999.
The international presence in Sierra Leone is a good example of the perseverance on the part of the international community in seeking world peace.
Therefore, taking on that responsibility, we are in support of the European Parliament addressing the Government of Sierra Leone today and calling for the immediate and unconditional release of the British soldiers who have been taken hostage.
Possibly the most important founding principle of the European Union was peace and those who seek to join the Union must try to conduct their domestic and their foreign affairs in as peaceable a fashion as possible.
Turkey's membership of NATO presents many of our Member States with a special responsibility in this respect.
The development of a common European Security and Defence Policy should be seen as a pretext, and also as a bridge, for us to reach common positions on ways to combat terrorism while respecting fundamental rights.
Over 32 people were killed and 40 were injured in the bombing of Kurdish villages by the Turkish military in Kendakor on 15 August.
It is a sign of the Turkish Government's attitude towards peace and towards the Kurds at a time when the Kurds had made a peaceful gesture.
I welcome the MEDA programme, which states that all state, legal, political, cultural and social discrimination against the Kurdish population by the Turkish Government should cease.
This will have given me an opportunity to address a number of points that I will be taking up in the report this Assembly has asked me to draw up on enlargement to Turkey and its accession to the EU.
If it turns out that the bombardment of Kendakor on 15 August was carried out by the Turkish army, we will have to encourage the Turkish Government gradually to reduce the role its armed forces continue to play, on the pretext of combating terrorism, in areas likely to cast serious doubt on the credibility of Turkey' s wish to join the European Union.
Mr President, as my colleague Mrs Uca said, it is unacceptable for a country that wishes to become a member of the European Union to bombard defenceless people, kill more than 30 civilians and injure more than 40 people.
And of course, we also must condemn the hypocrisy of some Member States which, breaking the code of conduct for exporting arms to countries that could use them in the way that Turkey did in this particular case, export arms there.
We also feel that the European Union should monitor each of the candidate countries primarily with regard to human rights.
They also seem determined to find a solution.
The EC is a major donor of humanitarian aid to the refugees and to date has spent more than EUR 11 million.
The Commission has used every opportunity to urge both sides to achieve tangible results.
A number of EU Member States have made the same commitment.
We also condemned the restrictions on the freedom of movement of Aung San Suu Kyi and other members of the National League for Democracy and the routine practice of arbitrary arrests.
At the same time, the Commission expressed its support for the common EU position on Burma and for the decision of the April 2000 General Affairs Council to strengthen this common position.
The aim must be to arrive at a mutually agreed solution to the present situation, re-establishing respect for international standards of human rights in Burma.
The EU has already clearly expressed its support for Aung San Suu Kyi's call on people from all civilised countries to refrain from tourist visits to Burma.
This was a simple exercise in thuggery by an administration acting in panic.
The Commission deeply deplores and condemns this situation and calls all parties in the conflict to respect humanitarian law and principles.
The Commission fully shares Parliament's concerns over the recent kidnapping of eleven British soldiers in Sierra Leone.
We would like to express our solidarity with the soldiers and their families.
We would welcome any decision by the United Nations Security Council to strengthen the UN force in Sierra Leone.
The Security Council's resolution of 5 July this year banning the illicit trade in diamonds from Sierra Leone has now been transposed into Community law.
The Commission remains supportive of the Government's attempts to restore peace to the country and to implement programmes of economic recovery.
Economic recovery is being assisted through a EUR 8.2 million programme of budgetary support and a technical assistance programme supporting improved public financial management.
As regards humanitarian assistance, the Commission, through ECHO, is continuing to finance programmes in support of displaced and refugee communities through international NGOs and the UN.
This is especially important, given the terrible situation for child soldiers and children in general in Sierra Leone.
What is needed for a return to normal life in the area is stability, peace and support for economic development.
I realise that this is perhaps not the time to discuss this, but I would like the Commission to answer us, even if it is in writing.
The European Union with the support of this Parliament has already done much to raise the technical and operational safety of Soviet-type nuclear reactors and to create independent regulators.
Mr President, many EU Member States have a very friendly relationship with the Czech Republic, and even one based on family ties.
Nuclear power stations in the European Union have the highest safety standards in the world, and a candidate country that wants to commission a new nuclear power station must, of course, comply with those standards.
Now, all of a sudden, trial operation is to start at Temelín, with undue haste and in a few days' time, before Germany and Austria, which are neighbouring countries, have received the information requested and before the deeply concerned population of the neighbouring countries has had an opportunity to consider the position and make their objections known to the Czech authorities.
I call on the Czech Government, indeed I implore it, to take seriously the fears not only of people in neighbouring countries, but also within its own borders.
I appeal once again to the Czech Government to act voluntarily now in just the same way as they would have to act if they already belonged to the European Union and were a member of our great European family.
Mr President, I would first like to thank my colleagues for their constructive and objective cooperation, which has resulted in this joint motion for a resolution.
In the course of 13 project modifications, environmental impact assessment has been simply disregarded.
During the last bilateral meetings between Czech, Austrian and German experts on 2 and 5 September this year, it was once again stated that Temelín does not meet German safety standards and would not, therefore, receive an operating licence in Germany.
The safety of Europe's citizens and, thus, confidence in the Community should be a priority for us all.
Although I signed the joint motion as instructed by my political group, I intend to vote against this resolution.
My group is supporting this motion for a resolution on Temelín for reasons of principle, because we take the people's concerns seriously and because many of us have, for a long time, been actively fighting against nuclear energy in the East and in the West.
Mr President, I shall also be voting for this resolution, which I consider to be reasonable.
The responsibility for licensing nuclear installations lies with the Czech nuclear regulatory authority.
The Czech authorities have ensured that the operating licence for Unit 1 of the Temelín nuclear power plant will not be issued until all outstanding problems are solved to the satisfaction of the nuclear regulatory authority.
The Commission expects this provision to be enforced by the Czech authorities.
The answer is 'yes' .
Southern Europe has been set alight more and more frequently over recent years.
In my country, Greece, more than 500 fires broke out this year, most of which were dealt with minimal disruption.
They could use the Interreg Community initiative, for example.
Mr President, indeed, like a chronic recurrent disease, the summer of 2000 will once again have suffered the ravages of fires raging through millions of hectares in our country and our continent and even causing the tragic death of a number of firemen and local residents.
Mr President, this year, the fires in the Mediterranean, and in Greece in particular, broke all previous records.
Mr President, Portugal has also been affected by these tragic forest fires which have been the result either of natural causes or of criminal acts motivated by base economic interests.
We know that this matter is primarily the responsibility of the Member States, which need to organise themselves and build up their own control and prevention resources.
It is also necessary, however, to back a European forest strategy with technical and financial resources in order to strengthen and complement national resources.
This will aim to improve the mutual assistance between Member States.
The Commission is also encouraging Member States to reinforce their intervention capacities.
The national authorities should provide for the necessary financial resources to consolidate this action for the period 2000-06.
Thank you very much, Mr Morillon, we will pass on that request.
I would like to emphasise - and I am now speaking on behalf of my group also - that we consider the Council Declaration on this subject to be very important, and I request you to forward it to the Conference of Presidents.
Situation in Fiji following the coup d'état The next item is the Commission statement on the situation in Fiji following the coup d'état.
First and foremost, the use of violence by certain ethnic groupings to impose their rule on other communities is unacceptable.
Secondly, a democratic government must be re-established.
The time-frame currently being proposed, two or three years, is far too long.
The international community and the donors of aid to Fiji agree on these principles.
As far as the EU is concerned, the Council has informed the Fijians of its request to begin consultations under Article 366 of the Lomé Convention, which calls for a thorough examination of the situation on the basis of information to be supplied by the Fijians.
But the Fiji story is more complicated than that.
Be that as it may, Speight' s undemocratic behaviour has plunged a whole country into a deep political and economic crisis.
I do hope that the Commission will stick to its principles and will not succumb to political or economic pressure.
I had the opportunity last week, along with a number of colleagues from various parties and groups here, to meet with Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry who reported to us that violence against the Indo-Fijians is still continuing in Fiji.
I welcome the fact that Article 366 of the Lomé Convention has been invoked.
The police and the military singularly failed to protect and defend the government.
Alongside George Speight and his gang, when the people's coalition government were taken hostage on 19 May, were members of the armed forces' counter-revolutionary warfare unit.
Third, there should be a denial of all economic and military assistance to and through the present government.
What concerns me more than anything is that this conflict could spread to other islands with similar problems and similar tensions.
This is, in fact, the opposite of what we have in mind and to which reference has already been made: the establishment of a great Pacific Regional Trade Agreement between 14 nations.
If we are not careful, this will be the first major conflict in the Pacific and this may well affect the situation in the region for a few decades to come.
The Kotonu conventions provide for a partnership for development and peace, and the Lomé conventions also provide for procedures, especially Article 366, which has already been referred to.
We invite the Commission to come back before the end of the year to report on the developments in Fiji and the region as a whole and on the efforts which the European Union has made.
The original Fijian population has never had a say in the matter but has meanwhile been faced with the reality that the composition of the population has changed beyond recognition.
In these countries, there have often been harsh clashes between these peoples.
In South Africa, this situation even led to an atrocious system of inequality and oppression, referred to as apartheid.
Those who use racism to their advantage must be punished and at least be excluded from political power, the refugees must be able to return home, and violence must come to an end.
The multi-racial constitution of 1997, which came about following a previous coup d' état after lengthy negotiations, must be restored without delay.
The Australian Government wants them banned.
It is a very useful exercise in analysing the extent of our principles and whether or not there are human activities that should be quite independent.
We are actively drawing into this debate the regional ACP partners and giving the authorities in the country in question a say in the discussion.
It is not easy to find out what the right thing to do is but we are doing everything to mobilise pressure for a rapid, irreversible return to democracy.
We have partners in the ACP Group who are part of the process of convincing and putting pressure on Fiji to do the right thing.
I prefer to have my partners in the south well on board in the process, also taking into consideration the risk of the negative spill-over in the region.
The debate is closed.
