Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 15 May 2003.
I have a number of announcements which I would like to make to the House As regards the calendar of part-sessions for next year, I have received from the Conference of Presidents a proposal to hold an eleventh part-session from Monday 3 May to Thursday 6 May 2004.
Mr President, I know you are respecting Parliament's wishes concerning the number of part-sessions and our votes at previous plenary sessions on where they should be held, but could you confirm where we are going to have the meeting on 1 May 2004?
Their vote will determine whether we meet in Brussels or in Strasbourg on that particular day.
There is a precedent for us to meet in Brussels because the part-session on Saturday, 2 May 1998, when Parliament gave its verdict on the Ecofin decision on which Member States should join the euro, was held in Brussels.
If we were to deal with legislative matters then the question you raise would be unavoidable.
I ask you to repeat Parliament's request that the Council participate in this debate.
Mr President, I wish to raise another matter, although I leave it to your wise judgement as to whether, if it gains majority support in this House, it should be dealt with on Wednesday or during the short sitting on Thursday.
I refer to the need for information from the Commission concerning the events surrounding Eurostat.
Our group requests that we should have a communication from the Commission, on the basis of which we could discuss the Eurostat problem, either on Wednesday, or during the short sitting on Thursday.
When preparing the Conference of Presidents for this week, could the groups please consult the Committee on Budgetary Control and see whether there is a consensus to move forward with regard to Mr Poettering's suggestion.
My group therefore felt it was important that we should hold a preliminary debate on the outcome of the Convention, maybe inviting the Chairman, Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, to be present.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having considered this matter, our group supports this proposal.
Mr President, quite frankly, I believe it is the European Parliament's duty to be the first to hold a public debate on this subject.
I would stress that it is not so much a question of deciding our position on the Convention as carrying out an initial assessment of the outcome of the Convention as soon as its work is finished and before the governments can do so.
I do not know whether an official summons or invitation was issued, or whether it was declined.
For colleagues who are not aware of it, there is yet another general strike in France tomorrow, so the trains will not be able to get here.
My question is as follows: around 600 refugees in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia have been turned out of a reception centre.
Morgan Tsvangirai has been arrested as has his deputy Welshman Ncube.
When you write to the Council perhaps you could also point out how hopelessly ineffective the Council's own sanctions have been in respect of Zimbabwe and how they need to be toughened up.
I would like to say a word about the situation in Cyprus.
For a long time many of us who have wanted reconciliation in Cyprus with due regard to the interests and concerns of both communities have called for some serious confidence-building measures on the part of the international community in relation to Turkish northern Cyprus.
Mr President, following on from the comment made by my honourable friend on Cyprus, I should like to say that we must not forget that the northern part of Cyprus has been under Turkish occupation as a result of the invasion in 1974.
The United States Congress has in fact given its approval for research into so-called mini nuclear weapons and for new nuclear weapons that penetrate the ground, causing ten times as much damage.
I also wonder to what extent those who called American agents in Cuba human rights activists will articulate even one word in protest against the new escalation of aggression against the island of the revolution.
We set standards all the time which we expect other people to live up to, but the standards in these premises are not adequate.
I hope we can get something done to make the email system work as it is intended to do - for effective communication and not for that sort of fearful junk!
Mr President, on Wednesday 21 May 2003, I was sent as a European Parliament delegate to the United Nations in New York to speak at the Permanent Forum of indigenous peoples from all over the world, which meets once a year in the UN headquarters.
I hope that you, Mr President, will listen to me personally when I pass on to you the requests made by these peoples to the European Parliament.
I am astonished (I address these remarks to chairmen of groups, and of course also to you, Mr President) that the question of a report by President Prodi and the Council on Chechnya, and on European Union-Russian relations in general, is not on the agenda either for this part-session or for the Brussels mini-session.
Mr President, I would like to point out that the Andalusian fisherman Agustín García has been held in prison in Faro by the Portuguese authorities since 8 May last.
Mr President, I am pleased that Commissioner de Palacio is here, because this will perhaps be of interest to her.
I should like to draw attention to a series of serious accidents involving lorries that have occurred in Belgium on the E17, that is, the motorway from Antwerp to Lille, in recent weeks.
The balance sheet for the last 7 weeks shows 6 dead and 13 seriously injured, indicating that this is very bad technology.
This, in my view, amounts to a trade policy pursued at the expense of the poorest, and that is to be repudiated!
Mr President, the rich and powerful of the world gathered in Evian in order to discuss international security, development and economic stability.
The Presidency and the Commission must make a statement to the House both on the content of the discussions in which they participated and on the repressive measures taken against the protestors, the same and perhaps worse measures that are also being taken for the European Council in Thessaloniki.
I understand the feelings of some of my fellow Members on Zimbabwe.
We have always shown our solidarity with those fellow Members over this problem, which is very serious and which we have already discussed four or five times in Parliament.
It is important for us to remember, however, that Zimbabwe is not the only country with problems: other countries have them too, and we must find time to discuss them.
Mr President, respect for human rights has proven to be the most effective mechanism for democracy anywhere.
It is incredible that you are able to speak in this House following the assassination of two members of the national police force, carried out by the terrorist group that you are unable to condemn.
I hope we can see those elections held very soon.
The debate is closed.
The two problems that remain to be resolved are taxes and primary law, and - as far as taxes are concerned - the Council thinks it can leave it to each individual Member State to decide whether or not it wants to levy an additional national tax.
It so happens that, in 2000, the three legal services - those of Parliament, the Council, and the Commission - met to discuss this issue.
In that year, Charles de Gaulle beat Mitterrand to win the French presidential elections, and it was in that year that the first contraceptive pill was put on the market. (Laughter) And now the Council - it is apparently the Council, although I am unsure, as it used to be only the Permanent Representatives who dealt with these matters - is trying to tell us that it is these rules by which Parliament should continue to be governed in the future, almost a quarter of a century after it was first directly elected.
It is clear that the Council sees this as a long-term solution, and of course Parliament cannot accept that.
That is why it is no bad idea to say that the Statute should enter into force at the same time as the European Union's new constitution.
Many thanks for that, and many thanks to you all! (Applause) . (ES) Mr President, I shall be very brief.
Our objective is to cooperate actively so that, ultimately, we achieve an agreement that might be accepted by the Council, because otherwise we all know that it will serve little purpose.
In view of this, we have now also created a budgetary structure for this purpose, a new Chapter l02 ('Reserve for the Statute for Members').
Until now, of course, the idea has been already to begin entering the appropriations for the Statute in the 2004 budget in order at least to cover expenditure for a second half-year.
All that has really caused us concern up until now is the point concerning everyone's right to direct interpretation which, strictly construed, could have entailed unreasonable costs.
I appreciate, however, that a compromise with the rapporteur is on the way, meaning that the proposal is now in accordance with the estimates for the European Parliament's budget.
The conclusion of the Committee on Budgets is therefore that the possible consequences of the aforementioned decision for the budget are compatible with the ceiling of heading 5 ('Administrative expenditure') of the financial perspective, without this needing to entail any restrictions on other contributions to the policy under heading 5.
I also believe that the statute, as it has emerged, is a very balanced piece of work.
A total of 36 amendments have been tabled in plenary.
Colleagues, I believe this is our last chance to reach the stage where we are no longer the story, but our work is.
This is our last chance.
I hope sufficient numbers of us will have the courage to bend a little and vote for this package and the amendments by the ELDR and other groups.
Quite frankly, colleagues, although I pay absolute tribute to the work of our rapporteur, I do not want to listen to him in committee meetings on this subject for another five years.
His very considerable talents and our time could be much better employed on other legislative work which directly benefits all Europe's citizens.
Mr President, I only partly agree with Mr Krarup.
This Parliament is in a crisis because we come under permanent attack by many of the public media in all the Member States for the indefensible state in which we are made to work at the moment.
Putting it quite simply, I would like to see to it that we have a system that can be understood, that pays people the costs they incur and that pays us all a fair day's wage for a fair day's work.
Finally, with great respect to everybody here, I do not regard myself here as an employee of the European Union: I am a representative of my constituents.
I do not ever wish to pay tax on my income at a different level or on a different basis from my constituents.
The permissive Belgian compromise that would let Member States bring a Member's taxation liability to the level of his constituents is a good one.
Mr President, the debate on a Statute for Members has now been running for five years, since the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Before the European Parliament elections in 1999, Parliament and Council seemed unable to agree.
Why is he putting the matter on the line, however, by describing not only the position regarding primary and secondary law, but also the privileges and immunities, because the latter constitute primary law.
As far as we are concerned, reimbursing travel costs on the basis of the costs actually incurred is even more important.
What do we see, however, but amendments proposing waiting for a new Treaty, or until 2009.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you are all aware, the issue of the Members' Statute has been on Parliament's agenda for countless years now, and, like other Members, I am doubtful whether, despite tomorrow's vote, we will succeed in resolving the matter completely under your presidency, President Cox - which is not to say that I do not hope it will be possible.
As you can see from the speeches, we have worked together harmoniously, never losing sight of two important things: on the one hand, our desire to support the constituent process which is to give shape to a Parliament, its rights, responsibilities and privileges, and, on the other, the fact that the provisions of the Treaty are antiquated and obsolete, as Mr Rothley explained clearly, dating from the sixties, when Parliament was just a consultative assembly.
As far back as 15 years ago, this report stressed that the European Parliament was an institution destined to play a crucial role in the Community's activity and in the process of producing Community documents, and that there could therefore be no opposition to changes deemed to be necessary for the Community bodies.
As regards the possibility of genuinely equal conditions of immunity for all the Members of Parliament, the author of the report wondered whether it would not be possible to define a position of genuine autonomy and immunity for Members of the European Parliament as such, for as long as the current distinction made in Article 10 of the Protocol - which we are now attempting to amend - was preserved.
This protection concerns our work and the image we want to give Europe of MEPs who, after many years, first and foremost after this Parliamentary term, through and under your presidency, are establishing a firm point of reference, which, not least, can only benefit enlargement by giving MEPs the effective role they should have.
Mr President, this report is all about bringing respect back to this House.
We should not forget that this is only the halfway stage, because when this report leaves here it has to be approved by the Council.
The principle behind this report is good: equal pay for equal work.
However, I have to ask whether we are all equal.
According to some of the amendments tabled, I do not think we are.
So when we set out the principle of equal pay for equal work, the 10 accession countries do not fit into that principle.
I congratulate the working group on coming up with a formula.
Mr President, our aim today is to remove all those rules that make our work ridiculous.
Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore appeal to you not now to permit the use of legal quibbles, hair-splitting and primary laws to prevent what in this case is most important, namely that everyone who votes in the European election in 2004 should do so with pride and that our work should be easy to understand and our rules transparent.
I cannot do other than agree with the rapporteur when he says that, politically speaking, the core issue is whether we are a parliamentary assembly or a Parliament.
I want briefly to discuss Article 20 of the Statute, which deals with old-age pensions.
I do not wish to intervene in the debate, but when that issue of the time allowance was discussed at great length in a working party, the idea was first commended to the working party by the Eminent Persons' Report to this House in June 2000.
We are enacting the Statute for Members of the European Parliament on the basis of a report produced by outside experts.
The public nature of this debate also means that we have to openly address the point that no member of a national parliament - exceptions prove the rule - travels as much as we do.
No national parliament is as consistent as we are in increasing the amount of work it does.
Mr President, it seems that this time we are genuinely making progress and we are going to take an important step in solving one of the most flagrant anomalies that characterise the functioning of this House, by achieving something as simple as each and every Member being subject to the same system.
Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, if in any parliament of any Member State you are subject to the rules to which we are subject in this Parliament or whether it would be acceptable for any parliament to be subject to the degree of control and monitoring - for example in areas as important as drawing up its own rules - to which we are subject with the intervention of the Council.
As a number of speakers have already said, we are not civil servants - we represent the citizens of the four corners of the European Union, here at its centre.
For obvious overriding political reasons the Council and Parliament must reach a political agreement about the two together.
The only way to break this impasse is to vote for the report as a whole, to take the process a step forward.
The draft Statute provides for a common salary for all MEPs, but the proposal also stipulates that MEPs will pay European income tax from now on.
Member States would be given the freedom to supplement European taxes with national taxation.
The proposal now before us contains a great deal of what we wished for, but it departs from what we want on one crucial point, namely when it comes to the possibility of paying national tax.
In the vote, we shall support an amendment aimed precisely at retaining the right to pay national tax.
Mr President, on behalf of the French socialist delegation, I offer our full support for the draft Statute for Members proposed in Mr Rothley's report.
The French socialist delegation has accordingly tabled an amendment to Article 16 of the draft Statute to this effect.
Please allow me to make an appeal to caution: democracy has a price, as we all know, and citizens must understand that.
In particular, I thank the rapporteur for his endless endeavour on behalf of the House in this regard.
The debate is closed.
I would particularly like to stress the extremely positive role the European Parliament has been playing throughout this procedure, in the quest for the result which I hope we will achieve during this part-session.
The European Parliament has always firmly supported the Commission in its efforts to create a competitive and integrated internal energy market, which furthermore means moving beyond national markets.
What is more, these proposals have subsequently been reinforced by a series of points following first reading by Parliament, particularly with regard to the public service aspects laid down in the Directives.
From a structural point of view, many of the obstacles to fair competition will be removed, in particular the lack of independence of system operators and the absence of effective rules.
At the same time, the public service requirements have been reinforced, largely, I would insist, at the request and on the initiative of this Parliament, with the universal service obligation in the electricity sector and strict protection measures for vulnerable consumers.
The range of measures includes an essential component relating to the internal electricity market, that is, the Regulation on cross-border electricity exchanges which lays down clear rules in order to facilitate trade in the European Union.
Although Parliament and the Commission would have liked to have made quicker progress with regard to a series of points, such as the opening up of the market and legal separation, I consider it essential that the directives establish unconditional dates and that the regulatory framework is clear for the industry.
It is of course the issue of the funds for decommissioning nuclear power stations.
On 30 January 2003, the Commission adopted two proposals for directives relating to a Community strategy and standards on the safety of nuclear power stations and the treatment of waste.
The first of them focuses specifically on the issue of funds for nuclear decommissioning.
I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that I committed myself to this before Parliament at the first reading of the legislative package, and that in January 2003 I gave the response I had committed myself to at that time.
Secondly, following our contacts during the tripartite dialogue, we have reached an agreement amongst the co-legislators on the basis of an interinstitutional declaration and a Commission declaration on control and transparency in the management of those funds.
Within this context, and within the limits of its responsibilities in accordance with the Euratom Treaty, the Commission intends to publish an annual report on the use of the funds for decommissioning and waste management.
In particular it will stress the need to guarantee the full application of the relevant provisions of Community law.
Therefore, the Commission will review the situation of the funds and their use in an annual report, which will be transparent and will be communicated to this House.
I would like to end by thanking Parliament once again and in particular the three rapporteurs and the delegation which has participated in the negotiations with the Council and the Commission within this informal tripartite dialogue which we have carried out and for the constructive work they have done with regard to all these measures.
Those who are sceptical about the process of liberalisation will have to admit that this second directive on electricity implies a much better regulatory environment than was the case with the first directive from 1996.
All these measures will not be enough, however, to ensure that small customers will receive the benefits of the liberalised market.
It is absolutely nonsensical to speak of a level playing field if we allow the EDF to use EUR 30 billion, Eon EUR 12 billion and RWE EUR 10 billion from the decommissioning funds in the market.
We have to make use of the efficiency gains arising from an integrated internal market and its capacity for bringing about political integration in order to achieve this goal, but also especially so that our small and medium-sized enterprises should benefit from this internal market, and so that other consumers benefit more than they have done in the past from its outcomes and from its positive effects.
They certainly brought about greater competitiveness, enhanced efficiency and reduced prices, but the unbalanced development of the opened markets and substantial deficiencies in the detailed rules mean that we now have to enact specific measures to speed up the process of opening up markets still further.
This means that we have to ensure equal conditions for all participants in the market, minimise the danger of the market being dominated, and, as far as possible, put a stop to predatory practices, for example those engaged in by the big players to the detriment of small enterprises.
My fourth point is that the access of third parties to the network - competition, in other words - has to be regulated, with transparency but without discrimination.
Let me again underline what Mr Turmes has just said, that the internal market in energy must be subject to Treaty competition law and must be evaluated by reference to it.
Amendment No 6 is not part of the compromise; indeed, as I see it, it is out of order.
This legislation hinges upon the question of how the remaining technical monopolies - the networks - are to be brought to market in such a way as to make competition possible.
If, after a number of years, Parliament or - Madam Vice-President - the Commission should find that this legislation has still not brought about a truly Europe-wide internal market in electricity and gas, then let nobody be surprised if the concept of a European regulator is mooted and then actually brought to fruition - which we are not doing right now - along with the unbundling of property rights over the networks, which we are not doing now either.
The same goes for the production of gas, where we should do everything possible to replace the old system of gas supply, with all its weaknesses, with indigenous biogas derived from non-food crops.
I hope and expect, therefore, Mr President, that you will instruct the services to ensure that we have the right package tomorrow.
Parliament has invested a great deal of effort in strengthening the position of the supervisory body.
We want the supervisory body to be independent not only of the industry, but also, as far as possible, of the national authorities, because we want to avoid the PET problem, as it was then known.
Only then will we be able to convince our citizens that liberalisation is a good thing.
I still do not understand why Member States do not dare to simply put down on paper, in legislation, that a decommissioning fund must be transparent, that it must be used for the intended purpose and that the normal competition rules are to be applied.
This seems to me to be another important point for the Commission to note.
In summary, I think that we have achieved an excellent result.
In Latin America, liberalisation has been marked by failure.
In the United Kingdom, the state is facing the bankruptcy of British Energy.
In Sweden, prices rose this winter by over 50% because of tensions between supply and demand.
In a number of our countries - my own, for example - the public electricity service means, in particular, equal pricing, access for all households, whatever their rate of consumption or geographical location, to low-cost electricity at the same prices.
We believe that the plan to open up the market in two stages, without even an assessment of the first stage - the 2004 stage applying to all non-residential customers - being carried out before the sector is then opened up to competition for all residential customers in 2007, is an approach to liberalisation that is more dogmatic than pragmatic.
We consider it to be absurd that total liberalisation is being forced on us when the debate on the Green Paper has just been opened and we have not even had time to examine the possibilities of creating a framework directive to safeguard public services.
We welcome strongly and fully support the compromise on labelling and unbundling and on the dates of market opening.
However, the principal point that the Liberal Group would like to make is about the funds for decommissioning in the nuclear sector.
Previously the Commission had told us that funds from the Euratom Treaty would be sufficient for the decommissioning.
However, as everybody knows, the Euratom funds are not subject to proper transparency and accountability.
Mr President, the liberalisation of the energy markets has been an ideological project.
The liberalisation of the markets determines prices in the short term, but will not solve the big problems of the future.
Our group would have liked to safeguard the public and universal energy sector services in connection with these directives relating to liberalisation and privatisation.
Mr President, I would like to warmly congratulate all who have been involved in the hard work of bringing these reports to a coherent, positive and even strong conclusion.
I particularly welcome the demands that nuclear decommissioning funds be fully subject to EU competition law.
Neither the Commission nor the Council has covered itself in glory in the past on this issue but we have a more consistent approach now.
In particular, although many Member States ring-fence these funds, France and Germany are allowed to set aside the funds for waste management and use them for acquisitions.
It would otherwise have had a very distorting effect on the energy market across Europe.
In particular, renewable energies need to be promoted throughout Europe.
For too long they have been the poor relation, particularly to the vast funds that the nuclear lobby has been able to access by fair means or foul, as I have already outlined.
I hope that more funds will be available for renewables in the future.
If we want to achieve our Lisbon goals of making Europe the most competitive economy in the world by 2020, we need a truly unified internal market in our major energy resources.
I am satisfied that the compromise adopted by the Council involves an important role for the national regulatory authorities.
In Ireland's case this will involve both north-south and east-west connectors and, in due course, a giant UK-Ireland market will be created, offering greater consumer choice and more competitive prices.
As in too many cases, the Commission is blindly following the dogma of the opening up of the markets to competition.
Indeed, the Commission does not have the courage to create a universal energy service at European level and to explain how it is to be funded.
Under the principle of subsidiarity, according to which measures are to be taken at the most effective level, only the Member States are capable of carrying out these missions to meet the demands of their citizens.
It is irresponsible of the majority of the Member States to have given way to the Commission's proposals in the end.
It is true that the primary responsibility lies with the Commission, which has sole right of initiative and is disregarding the negative economic, social and territorial consequences of its proposals in its endeavours to create a single market which is subject to competition alone.
In conclusion, in view of all these considerations, I confirm my opposition to these proposals seeking to finalise the opening up of the energy sector to competition.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the constructive cooperation of the European Parliament and the other European institutions, we are now on the threshold of the opening-up of the energy markets in Europe.
Besides, the chance of the average consumer seeing his or her electricity bill go down significantly as a result of the liberalisation of the electricity market is very small in some Member States.
On the other hand, account must also be taken of the fact that the scant connections between the various national networks are not designed for importing or exporting large quantities, but rather as mutual support in the event of the unexpected failure of generation units in one country.
There is still a considerable lack of commercial intercapacity, therefore.
Mr President, the energy reports up for discussion today must be understood as an integrated whole, which will have an important impact on the viability of the energy market in Europe.
Achieving this compromise has not been easy.
It has to be accepted that prices can sometimes also rise in a free market.
Consequently, the clear unbundling of network activity and the fact that the tasks of the regulatory authorities should be sufficiently harmonised are two of the most central elements in this package.
We are now establishing framework legislation, but its implementation must also be monitored.
Much as I respect him, the great majority of our group backs this resolution, this compromise that we have reached.
We will also have the important task of introducing elements of these into liberalisation, in that it will be a new task to make climate policy compatible with competition policy as embodied in these two directives.
In addition, control of national grids is being shifted from the Member States to the Commission, thereby cutting the potential for national energy planning in order to reduce energy dependency and ensure the needs of each Member State are satisfied.
However, the precondition for this is a policy of mutually beneficial cooperation between countries, quite unlike that being promoted by the regulation and the policy of the European Union in general.
May I congratulate all my colleagues on their hard work with the Commission and Council in achieving this compromise result.
My particular interest is in the interaction between market opening and liberalisation and the issue of security of supply.
We need to see more improvement throughout Europe before we can say that we have done enough.
We have learned over the past 15 years that progress in liberalisation cannot be achieved all at once and a step-by-step approach is more likely to lead to a better outcome in the end.
I would like to advise the Commissioner that the Kangaroo Group working party on energy liberalisation is presently discussing the next steps we need to take in order to address the shortcomings not fully addressed in the current proposals.
We have considerable experience with the original rather limited liberalisation directive in our Member States.
However, those earlier directives were inadequate.
We have seen that cross-subsidies will be prevented, particularly the quite scandalous use of decommissioning funds in the nuclear sector.
Indeed, fuel poverty has decreased thanks to liberalisation as carried out in the UK.
Amendment No 6 to the Mombaur report should not be admissible.
Mr President, we believe that the liberalisation of the energy markets illustrates once again the conflict between the European institutions and the peoples of Europe.
If it is to fully shoulder its responsibility to the citizens of Europe, Parliament must reject the directives on the energy sector and launch a genuine democratic debate on the actual effects of the policy which seems to be taking root in the European Union today.
Not only, as they did before, can they differentiate quantities, but now also in terms of quality and, in future, they will be able to do so as regards prices.
What that means is, quite simply, that I, the consumer, will in future - or at least after 1 July 2007 - have the right to choose an electricity company, 100% of whose electricity is generated from hydropower.
Lastly, access to energy for all citizens must be seen as a genuine right, which brings us back to the question of public services.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who know me will not be surprised to hear me confirm this evening that, not considering energy to be just another commodity, I and my group are firmly against the new proposals to liberalise the gas and electricity markets.
Despite the procedural precautions and despite the undeniable eloquence of our Commissioner and our rapporteurs, we believe that these proposals run counter to the need to save energy and, therefore, to environmental protection.
Thus, I dare to hope that, mindful of what is at stake, we will ultimately, one day, progress from a simple market logic to a political vision based on the concept of citizenship which is worthy of the heritage which we will leave our children in this field.
The electricity market in Europe has been concerned with linking markets but not with creating uniform conditions for access to generation, institutional systems and symmetry in fuel choices, with a view to establishing competing symmetrical conditions in the generation sector.
The nuclear issue would exacerbate the situation, creating the strange situation where some people are called upon to contribute to the cost of decommissioning in other countries when they are not actually in a position to benefit, because of the market-based mechanism provided for by the cross-border regulation, from energy produced by nuclear plant.
The old definition is national rather than European and hence contrary to the promotion of cross-border exchanges in electricity through the integration of the internal market in electricity.
What we are trying to do is create an internal market and, in this regard, I would like to say, as has already been pointed out, that we do not want uncontrolled liberalisation, but regulated liberalisation, as I said at the start.
I would like to thank the Greek Presidency once again, in particular, for the work carried out with regard to the liberalisation of gas and electricity in these two Directives and this Regulation.
I would also welcome the compromise achieved in this area by Parliament and the Council, which will enable us definitively to adopt trans-European networks in the energy sector, completing the entire framework.
Thank you very much, Commissioner de Palacio.
The debate is closed.
This accident highlighted, in particular, the urgent need to adopt the measures presented by the Commission following another similar accident involving the Erika.
Some weeks after the sinking of the Prestige, therefore, the Commission sent the European Parliament and the Council a new Regulation introducing three urgent measures into current legislation.
Secondly, a revision of the scheme for an accelerated phasing out of single-hull oil tankers, by reducing the maximum permitted age of vessels and bringing forward the deadlines for abolishment with regard to those originally proposed by the measures in the Erika I package, in order to increase protection of the marine environment, thereby incorporating the Commission's original proposals in the so-called Erika I package.
As you are well aware, in March the Ministers for Transport reached a unanimous policy agreement concerning these measures.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these are the key points of our proposal.
Single hull tankers in categories 2 and 3, built between 1982 and 1996, may be operated until 2010 at the latest.
Mr President, by and large the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy goes along with the Commission proposal and the amendments of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
The other was the question of the 600 to 5 000 tonne tankers which we were concerned would not be available.
The period will be more or less five years so we will go along with that.
The week before the Prestige accident, my party and I organised a conference on maritime safety in the Bay of Finland, that is to say on precisely those issues referred to by, for example, Mr Purvis.
We also support the proposal for having 2010 as the final phasing-out year, a proposal that the Council had come up with and that we are now prepared to agree upon.
We are now talking about 15 year-old vessels, but it is important for a vessel, irrespective of age, to be of a good class and standard and to be well maintained.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to thank the rapporteur and the Commission for making haste and bringing this proposal about so quickly, and also, in particular, for the soundness of the proposal on the accelerated phasing out of single hull tankers in European waters.
It is sad that the Prestige accident proved necessary for us to take action once more, and to finally convince the Council that we have to make policy together and that it was necessary to strengthen the Erika packages with the present measures.
I recognise that action is badly needed, preferably through the WTO, to put an end to the dumping of ships on the world market by countries in the Far East.
I firmly believe in the strength of the European shipbuilding sector, however.
My second amendment expresses the great responsibility that I feel regarding the consequences of the accelerated phasing out of single hull tankers by this EU policy.
I personally endorse, as does my Group, the Commission's aim in introducing this regulatory measure, which, in any event, we support.
In any case, we must be aware - and the blame lies with certain Member States of the European Union and with this House - that, over and above the proposals for double hulls, which we support, there are no political and legislative measures either in place or envisaged capable of preventing a fresh disaster if a new Prestige case were to occur.
Mr President, in its Resolution of November 2002 and following the sinking of the Prestige oil tanker off the Galician coast, Parliament called for the Council and the Member States to speed up the application of the measures adopted within the context of the Erika I and Erika II packages, such as the introduction of double hull vessels.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly and most importantly I wish to congratulate the rapporteur on the efficient, proper way in which he has proceeded with this report.
We rather have the feeling that the Erika I and Erika II packages have unfortunately come late, and that we must try to prevent being too late for a new Erika, a new Prestige or a new disaster.
But, in the end, within the International Maritime Organisation, we have managed to increase the FIPOL funds by 5, to some EUR 950 million (more than a billion dollars at the current exchange rate) compared to 170-180 million dollars previously.
Amendment No 6 requires the Commission to present a new proposal, in as short a time as possible, in relation to the fuel all ships carry for their own propulsion.
Amendment No 7 refers to the shipbuilding industry.
This support for our shipbuilders must clearly be provided by means of the World Trade Organisation and by means of certain types of specific action, but always guaranteeing compliance with the rules on state aid laid down in the Treaty.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take up some of the issues raised here today.
Unfortunately, replacing single hull oil tankers with double hull oil tankers will not guarantee that we do not have another sea disaster, either in Europe or anywhere else in the world.
These are elements which must be implemented with all the new requirements and standards we have demanded of both the port authorities and of the classification societies.
We must therefore promote the participation of our neighbours, of Russia firstly, but also of all the Mediterranean countries.
And this weekend at the European Union Summit with Russia, Russia has committed itself to supporting the case for double hulls, not only in its own territory, but also, like the Mediterranean countries, in the International Maritime Organisation, because it is of little use if the disaster is caused by a ship in transit.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are taking a very important step forward, but it is not enough; we must continue to move forward and a key element is the application of what we have already approved.
We have not only raised the issue of ice strengthening, in other words, specific safety measures for oil tankers in areas of ice formation, particularly, amongst others, the Baltic sea, with regard to a specific regulation in the European Union, but also within the International Maritime Organisation.
We have also raised the issue of sensitive areas within this forum, as requested by some of the ladies and gentlemen here present, as well as the issue of prohibiting the carriage of heavy oils in any single-hull ship, not simply, as is currently the case, with regard to our ports and anchorage areas, but also with regard to any other international port.
Thank you very much, Commissioner de Palacio.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, a parallel process of regional integration has almost always accompanied the multilateral liberalisation of trade in the post-war period.
Regionalism refers to the reaction by governments to liberalise or facilitate trade on a regional basis, sometimes through free trade areas or customs unions.
In a double WTO context, regional trade agreements have both a broader meaning and a more specific one.
Article 24 of GATT allows for the exceptional establishment of preferential regional trade initiatives, granted that they meet the following criteria: firstly, double WTO members should be notified of the details; secondly, duties and other trade barriers should be reduced or removed substantially on all sectors of trade in the group; and thirdly, barriers of trade to non-signatories should not be higher than they were previously.
Regional trade agreements are not uniform.
The Presidency Conclusions of the Amsterdam European Council of June 1997 outline the basis of the EU's policy on FTAs.
This was supplemented by the report to the European Council on the development of trade policy and the preferential agreements of the Community, which sets out the EU's objective of reflecting the nature of the relations with the partners concerned and a broader geopolitical environment.
In the same document, the Commission goes on to state that the trade policy - particularly the FTA aspect - allows for the simultaneous development of a relevant regulatory framework in a more comprehensive manner than that currently allowed by the relevant multilateral framework and timeframe of the WTO.
However, despite strong economic relations, the EU does not have a single FTA in Asia.
Regional leaders in ASEAN have indicated that agreements such as that proposed by Singapore to the EU would not endanger regional relations.
However, it has already signed an extensive political agreement with the ASEAN region.
The first is the issue of trade policy being used as a strategic tool within external relations, particularly where development policy is concerned.
The second concerns the relationship between the multilateral approach and the bilateral approach.
The Union's trade policy works on two complementary levels: the multilateral level first, that of the World Trade Organisation, and the bilateral level next, which is now increasingly regional.
These two levels are justified, firstly by the fact that unilateralism is not an option for the European Union, and this is something that we have known for a long time.
Secondly, since our priority is multilateralism, regionalism - or our bilateral agreements - complement this multilateral choice, the second level being as it were subordinate to the first.
Seen in this light, regionalism is not a kind of ersatz multilateralism, but complements a fundamental choice, which is that of the World Trade Organisation.
That is why an approach based on a multilateral trading system is our priority, as moreover is reflected by the agenda that was adopted in Doha.
For the time being then it is the multilateral approach that is our number one priority, and that is why we have postponed any decision to launch new negotiations on free trade areas until the round that we began in Doha is completed.
In addition to this time constraint, we think that any new initiative in this field should be duly justified and meet a number of conditions.
Secondly, a bilateral agreement should provide added value compared with the WTO, and when I say that I am thinking of the value of the WTO at the end of the Doha round.
The Union has been a major user of these regional negotiations.
Moreover, we are working very actively on a number of them, with Mercosur and with the Gulf Cooperation Council, and we recently concluded agreements with Chile and Egypt, amongst others.
These agreements, both the ones that we have concluded most recently and those that we are in the process of negotiating, have some characteristics that are rather new compared with the traditional concept of a free trade area.
Moves to liberalise trade in goods and services now increasingly go hand in hand with the adoption of new bilateral rules that go beyond multilateral rules.
A second characteristic of this new generation of agreements is that the Union is increasingly seeking to develop region-to-region relations.
This is also the approach that we have adopted in our relations with Canada and it underpins our work with the Andean Community and Latin America.
This is clearly explained by the priority that we have accorded to Doha, but also by our conviction that free trade areas in the traditional sense of the word are not really the right instrument for opening up trade in the twenty-first century and that we now need to modify this format.
Firstly, market access is necessary for developing countries, but it is clearly not enough on its own to bring direct benefits in terms of growth and employment.
Mr President, first of all I would also like to congratulate Mrs Mann on her report.
There is therefore a clear need to manage globalisation by means of multilateral standards drawn up from a policy perspective in order to make trade relations at world level a beneficial force for all, which contributes to the objective of eradicating poverty and achieving fair, sustainable development.
In fact, the right of access - including non-reciprocal access - of poorer countries to the markets of developed countries is vastly insufficient for guaranteeing genuine development of trade flow if - as you yourself pointed out, Commissioner - we do not simultaneously strengthen their capacity for industrial and agricultural development, respect for the rules in force in the importing countries and familiarity with trade circuits, as well as their administrative capacities and their financial institutions.
For precisely this reason, the Committee on Development and Cooperation fully supports the incorporation of the development aspect into the Doha agenda and welcomes the impetus provided to this end by the European Union, and specifically yourself, Commissioner Lamy, in order to promote this development aspect.
At the same time, however, it considers that it is vital to ensure coherence between multilateralism and regionalism, between the rules established by the World Trade Organisation on the liberalisation of regional trade and the development of areas of free trade, including the proliferation of agreements between countries and regions with very different levels of development, because it believes that only this way, with this coherence, will we be able to make trade relations a genuine factor in development for all peoples and finally eradicate poverty.
Our group works on the fundamental assumption that we are thereby able to build up free and fair global trade, and that those countries that have not so far had sufficient opportunity to engage in trade, have the chance, through the establishment of their own free trade areas, to share in this development.
I see this - not only in view of what Commissioner Lamy said - as an important guide to the timeframe within which, in the aftermath of Doha, a renaissance of regional trade agreements around the world may perhaps come about.
That is why we should be using the idea of cooperation with Singapore as the prelude to greater cooperation with ASEAN.
I agree with the rapporteur when she says that the European Union must also continue to support and promote regional cooperation and integration in the future, therefore.
In addition, the idea of using the establishment of free trade areas as instruments of development seems to me to be a very interesting train of thought, provided that they form part of a general package of reform measures.
The discussion on regionalism and multilateralism, as important as it is, must be postponed until then.
In particular, there is a need to recognise that taking decisions by a qualified majority in the Council may not always have the desired effect.
Let us take a topical example: the Convention on the Future of Europe is reflecting on the possibility of making our entire trade policy subject to the majority rule, thus doing away with the derogations recognised by the Treaty of Nice for certain essential services, in particular cultural services, that this Treaty states continue to require unanimity.
It is true today where cultural matters are concerned, as it is in other areas.
I did say that majority voting could be useful when safeguard measures were being taken, because in such cases all of the countries have to show solidarity.
The debate is closed.
The current arrangement is also ineffective in that disbursement of funds may take up to two years.
Article 181a would be the most logical option: economic, financial and technical cooperation with third countries.
Up to now, the development of Community macro-financial assistance has resembled budgetary support rather than balance of payments assistance, in terms of the modalities of preparation, implementation of decisions, monitoring of assistance, and accountability.
Macro-financial assistance as granted by the European institutions under the terms of the Constitutional Treaty would fall under the provisions of Article 28 on economic, financial and technical cooperation measures intended to confront economic, financial or social crises.
In addition, Community macro-financial assistance should be subject to parliamentary scrutiny.
Draft Article 28 provides for codecision within a normal legislative procedure, and so I do not have any further comments to make on this.
This opinion on the legal basis is widely held in the European Parliament.
Secondly, it is important to recognise that a solution must be found to the current ad hoc arrangement for the period until the Member States ratify the new Constitutional Treaty.
This would have to have a dual legal basis and would have to meet two criteria: a) macro-financial assistance is to be considered as assistance to third countries confronted by a crisis originating in economic, financial or social situations; b) decision-making procedure based on codecision.
The Council's conclusions of 8 October 2002 on macro-financial assistance, the so-called Genval criteria, are useful and proper.
In addition, measurable macro-economic criteria and reforms in the recipient country are crucial.
He is right to stress that these cumbersome procedures and this lack of flexibility are due to there being no specific legal base or framework regulation setting out the criteria and conditions for granting macro-financial assistance to third countries and that this gap forces us to have recourse to Article 308 of the Treaty on a case-by-case basis.
On several occasions we have explored the possibility of putting in place a framework regulation, as the report suggests, which would define the conditions for granting macro-financial assistance and as it were put this instrument on the same footing as other instruments for providing financial assistance to third countries.
Unfortunately, so far these attempts have failed because for this type of assistance - no doubt because it also implies having recourse to borrowing and lending - the vast majority of Member States wish to retain a decision-making process that requires unanimity on a case-by-case basis, which all sounds very familiar.
As far as voting by unanimity or by a qualified majority are concerned, our hopes are therefore in the hands of the Members of the Convention, once again.
This macro-economic aid must therefore only be given on an exceptional basis.
Mr President, we on the Committee on Budgets have been drawing people's attention to how the use of the Guarantee Fund mechanism is a very cheap way for the EU to provide external financial assistance.
The forms of financial assistance provided under the Guarantee Fund have in recent years been macro-financial assistance and blanket loan guarantees given to the European Investment Bank.
This measure would have the same impact on the use of the Guarantee Fund as reducing the provisioning rate.
The macro-financial assistance instrument - one of several - brings about reform efforts.
The 2001 report is an interesting one.
It looks at countries, mainly in the Balkans, but also Tajikstan, Georgia and Armenia.
The debate is closed.
I would remind you that the MEDA programme is the tool through which our Mediterranean policy, as formulated in the Barcelona process in 1995, is implemented.
The first phase was carried out by the MEDA I programme (1995-1999) and the second by the current MEDA II programme, which was shaped by my and Mr Valdivielso's reports in the year 2000.
This new regulation entered into force on 15 December 2000 and we have been able to analyse how it has worked up to the end of 2002.
The conclusions on MEDA I had given rise to numerous concerns, the overall payment-to-commitment ratio between 1995 and 1999 being only 26%.
MEDA II is not restricted to fostering the creation of a free trade area in the Mediterranean by 2010, but enhances the previous economic cooperation in the Mediterranean with a social, cultural and environmental strand.
Firstly, we note that MEDA II represents a marked improvement on MEDA I, thanks to the creation of the EuropeAid Cooperation Office in the External Relations DG.
Thus, we have moved from an overall payment-to-commitment ratio of 26% in MEDA I to 37.4% in 2000, 53% in 2001 and 92.9% in 2002, an overall ratio for MEDA II of 59%.
Thirdly, as we have recommended several times, Parliament is very mindful of the links that need to be established between the granting of aid and the respect of human rights by the various countries, and we ask for an annual report on this.
Fourthly, we want there to be regular monitoring of the observance of democratic principles when projects are chosen, not just through the bilateral negotiations between the Union and the countries concerned, but also involving civil society and NGOs in this process and ensuring that the gender criteria, in particular regarding the participation of women, are respected.
Finally, let us note that all of this work under MEDA is currently being done against the difficult background of the post-war situation in Iraq, the resolution of difficult problems in the Middle East, the peace process, in particular between Israel and Palestine, and the new balance established by the Treaty of Nice with enlargement to 25, and here we need to continue our efforts to ensure that this is not a pretext for sidelining Mediterranean cooperation.
I will first make two comments on the political issues he has just mentioned before moving on to more operational considerations.
Moreover, this communication also constitutes a partial response to the comments made in the Arab Human Development Report - a document that UNDP was brave enough to table last year - and proposes strengthening the political dialogue on this subject and drafting action plans on human rights and democratisation with our Mediterranean partners, the initiative as a whole being supported by the MEDA programme.
The MEDA programme at issue, MEDA II, has indeed greatly benefited from the reform begun by the Commission in 2000 in the external aid sector with the aim of improving the quality of our projects, their financing and the speed with which they are implemented.
Finally, concerning past commitments and amounts still to be paid, they had been reduced to EUR 200 million by the end of 2001.
At the end of 2002, the amount still to be paid had been reduced by a further 50%.
The first - and you have reassured us, Commissioner - was the need to ensure that the democracy clause in the association agreements is respected and the need to carry out regular and transparent checks on the impact of the MEDA programme on human rights, and this on the basis of an annual report provided by the Commission in accordance with clear criteria, a precise agenda and training in this field for European officials.
This was and still is Europe's vision of a transition towards more democracy in the countries of the Mediterranean, a transition supported by MEDA funding, by various different instruments, but also by a dialogue, in the form of a forum today and perhaps a Euro-Mediterranean parliamentary assembly tomorrow.
The report was presented in March 2003.
The two political points on which you based your speech are, firstly, the importance of the role of the Mediterranean as a European border and also as an area which is the focus of a substantial chunk of our Union's foreign policy, and, secondly, the fact that the Commission certainly made its measures very tangible and more timely in the transition from MEDA I to MEDA II.
I would like to focus on a number of political requirements which go hand in hand with the action programme.
The tense international situation provides further evidence every day that the economies and societies in the Mediterranean Basin need to evolve to become more prosperous, more socially cohesive and more democratic.
This is in fact the only way, we are convinced, that we can work effectively to increase the stability of these regions and combat terrorism in the long term.
The Barcelona process is also a project to create a vast free trade area.
Finally, we should not forget that it is in our interests for the funds to be distributed in such a way that they target in particular priority areas, such as social cohesion, the development of democracy, human rights, support for civil society, the specific situation of women, culture, youth and sustainable development.
In this regard, for example, I believe that for the first time we have distinguished terrorism as such, as an act that is distinct from government responses - which should also be condemned.
It is very interesting that the road map and other measures to support Iraqi integrity have been raised.
I am referring, for example, to the administration of the funds received, just as other funds might often also be misused or used to finance oppression.
The debate is closed.
