EIB Annual Report for 2000 The next item is the report (A5-0392/2001) by Olle Schmidt, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the EIB Annual Report for 2000 (C5-0541/2001 - 2001/2218(COS)).
From having been a rather closed institution, the EIB has begun to change its attitude to information and transparency.
Mr President, I should like to welcome the Commissioner to the House.
I am able to support Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4 and 6 from Mr Lipietz etc.
Small and medium-sized enterprises at present account for more than 60 per cent of EU jobs.
In February last year, I expressed the hope of turning the discussion of the annual report in this Parliament into an annual tradition, and this is what we are honouring now.
Moreover, I understand that, this coming Thursday, you also intend to present the plans for the future and the 2001 annual report to the press and the Council.
Last year, we met immediately after this presentation, whereas this year, our meeting immediately precedes it, and I hope that you will be able to lift the veil and give us some information about these plans for the future.
I will skim over other points, because these have already been dealt with by others.
Last year, this was the subject of an extensive debate here, and you noticed that we made it very clear this year in the report that it is desirable for the European Central Bank to play a role in this supervision.
You have probably seen the Financial Times of 29 January and ascertained that this is now also very much being considered in ECB circles.
Perhaps we could do this in a more coherent discussion some time in the future.
The EIB should not do what is also possible within the market, and I believe that it is important that it act in a transparent manner.
My colleague, Olle Schmidt, the rapporteur, has already expressed the opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs on the annual report of the EIB and has presented proposals which, according to our committee, would improve its operation and also meet the need to provide it with greater resources to fulfil its commitments.
In Laeken it was agreed that the EIB would carry out a study to create a financial instrument or institution which would guarantee that, in terms of the cooperation between the European Union and the third countries of the Mediterranean, the level of use of resources responds to the effectiveness and possibilities for development cooperation that the situation demands.
The current Presidency of the Council has also considered the issue of cooperation with the Mediterranean to be an urgent priority and we decisively support this initiative.
I hope that the EIB will continue in the same spirit.
The report could, however, have been more vigorous when it comes to environmental issues.
It would, however, be unfortunate if Amendment No 2 were not to be adopted.
With loans amounting to EUR 36 billion granted in the year 2000 and total capital of EUR 100 billion, it exercises significant influence through its policy.
The EU' s demand for environmental impact assessments must also be fulfilled when loans are granted to projects outside the European Union, and these assessments must be available in translation in the national languages of the countries to which the loans are granted.
The European Investment Bank should also comply with the Århus Convention, entailing an obligation of great openness towards the environmental movement.
SMEs ensure growth and employment in Europe.
It is therefore right, and indeed important in terms of Europe's development, that the EIB should step up its support for SMEs or carry on with it.
It is not acceptable for the EIB's own home page to list its activities in only two or three languages.
Mr President, Mr Maystadt, the Lisbon Process cannot be imagined without the European Investment Bank.
Support for SMEs and for entrepreneurship as sources of employment is becoming more important, as external finance other than through banks is becoming more expensive and bank finance for small and medium-sized enterprises is becoming more and more problematic.
When we consider what the European Investment Bank has achieved since 1968, in terms both of funds and of initial support for projects, I consider the outcome to be an impressive one.
So it is, of course, very encouraging that the European Investment Bank has a network of 130 active intermediaries and that activity in Italy has now resumed to an encouraging extent.
Firstly, I would like to thank Parliament for taking the initiative of holding a debate on the annual activities of the European Investment Bank.
Initiative 2000 is fully operational and continues to increase its actions in the funding of small and medium-sized businesses.
President Maystadt will make some subsequent comments, but I would like to congratulate the Bank on the good work it is doing in this particular sector and, above all, on the transformation which has taken place as a result of paying greater attention to risk capital.
In this respect, the European Investment Fund is turning risk capital into an important Community institution as a complement to the market forces which govern supply and demand.
I believe that we must be aware that each institution has its own function and the function of the Bank is basically financial.
Environmental issues are fundamental, of course, but each institution must play its corresponding role.
We only need to remember that, in 2000, Croatia was included in the CCEE contribution and the special option for the Customs Union with Turkey, and that in November 2001 the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was included.
It is true that the statutes of the European Central Bank open up this possibility, but it is also true that it has no authority whatsoever.
Furthermore, you also know that the Court of Auditors already carries out inspections of its activities when they involve European Union funding.
We do not believe that we should create other monitoring posts or institutions.
I will simply say that the Commission is working on the Laeken mandate in order to have a report as soon as possible.
Although the European Investment Bank has no formal obligation to report to the European Parliament, I think that it is natural, in a democracy, for all public institutions, including the financial institutions, to have to respond to questions and to take into account the priorities expressed by the representatives elected by the citizens.
The growing importance of the EIB' s activities in the candidate countries has also been mentioned and Mr Schmidt quite rightly emphasised this point.
The environment is another area on which the rapporteur and other speakers have focused in particular, and I think that it must be approached from two angles.
This is the first angle, but there is obviously a second angle - and your Committee has quite rightly paid this a great deal of attention - which is that the other projects, those that are not directly aimed at improving the environment, must also take into account the impact they have on the environment.
We must therefore put in place the resources to enable us to assess more systematically the environmental impact of these projects.
And we, of course, intend to further improve our resources dedicated to this task.
We are continuing to provide this support, not only through global loans but also through the European Investment Fund, which last year gave risk capital of EUR 800 million to small- and medium-sized businesses.
With regard to supervision, we should bear in mind, as Commissioner Solbes stressed, that the EIB is already supervised in various ways.
I regret this, but it depends on Member States.
The debate is closed.
Implementing the proposals contained in the Lamfalussy report in a fair and balanced way is of major importance to the European Union.
The aim is, of course, to build a strong, stable, pan-European capital market, a market which will benefit its citizens and businesses by improving future employment and growth prospects throughout Europe.
Thirdly, with a view to the longer term and the revision of the Treaties, the Commission wishes to see Article 202 amended and both its own future executive duties and the joint role of the two co-legislators clarified.
The delivery of the Financial Services Action Plan by the deadlines set by the European Council conclusions - 2005 for the entire Action Plan and 2003 for the measures relating to securities markets - is crucial to achieving this objective.
Ahead of the Barcelona European Council, which will take stock of the European Union' s economic reform process as mapped out in Lisbon, the Commission welcomes the close cooperation between the Community institutions and expresses confidence in its harmonious development when it comes to implementing the Commission' s proposals, in line with the recommendations of the Committee of Wise Men chaired by Baron Lamfalussy.
The Commission stated in its White Paper on European Governance that, in general, its executive responsibilities need to be more clearly defined and that the Council and the European Parliament should have an equal role in controlling the way in which the Commission carries out its executive role.
In the White Paper, it also announced its intention of launching a debate on this issue in the context of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference and indicated that it favours an amendment to Article 202 of the EC Treaty.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, it is an extraordinarily important debate that we are taking part in today.
The debate is though, also important to the European Union's citizens, as we are removing obstacles from the path of cross-border competition in the field of financial services, in the granting of credits and the negotiation of insurance policies.
Alexandre Lamfalussy and his Committee of Wise Men have made proposals as to how we can speed up the great legislative package needed to make this common market in financial services a reality.
Here, for example, the supervisory authorities and the experts should be involved, but at the same time the market participants, too, should be included in the structures as purely practical issues are under discussion.
This statement is peppered with 'constructive' ambiguities, and I hope that, on this basis, we will manage to complete the fruitful discussion that we started in this House, following the resolutions that Parliament adopted on 13 March and 5 April 2001, and the publication of the Lamfalussy report.
My first comment is that, as the rapporteur pointed out, following the introduction of the euro, it is crucially important that we put in place an action plan on financial services, especially if we want to reach the objectives that we set collectively at Lisbon, namely to make the European Union the most competitive economic area in the world.
I think that, from the Commission' s point of view, the fact that the two pillars of economic and monetary Union are working well means that the European Parliament is a full partner and this demonstrates the importance of the discussion that we have been holding with you for almost a year now.
We will all appreciate the outcome of this discussion, from our own perspective, both in economic and institutional terms.
Regarding the first point, I think you mentioned the notorious 'constructive' ambiguity of doing business on an equivalent basis.
In any case, this is how we are interpreting your statement and comments.
Behind this, however, there is the idea that this request, in addition to the formal statement that you have just made, must be used as a reference each time that we have to issue an opinion on a document within the framework of the financial services action plan.
As President of this institution, you will surely seize on the proposal that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has put forward: whenever the European Parliament suspects that the Commission is using more than its fair share of powers of implementation, you could negotiate an ad hoc scrutiny mechanism to prevent Parliament' s legislative powers from being watered down.
The Commission' s commitment to amending Article 202 of the Treaty in the very near future, which would restore Parliament' s legislative and supervisory powers, is to be welcomed with open arms.
Nevertheless, and I am addressing the public who are in the galleries, this is a very important debate for European citizens.
I also hope that this process will include other important decisions at the next European Council in Barcelona.
At a point when the euro and its implementation have been a great success, this Parliament, the Commission and the Council must demonstrate that they are fulfilling the obligations laid down for them in the Treaties.
Those who sometimes worry that in seeking such guarantees Parliament is trying to modify the interinstitutional equilibrium should remember that this substantial delegation of powers is itself a modification of the interinstitutional equilibrium as it exists and that in those circumstances it is quite legitimate for Parliament to seek to obtain certain guarantees.
First, the Commission recognises that Article 202 of the Treaty should be changed at the next revision of the Treaty - it supports Parliament's position on that.
No, it is obvious for us insiders that it means equivalence with the Council.
That is a guarantee to us and it will concentrate the minds of the Commission in between times, making it aware that it must exercise these implementing powers in a way that Parliament finds satisfactory if it wishes to have any hope of their renewal.
Mr President, for more than a year we in Parliament's negotiating teams, together with the Commission and the Council of Ministers, have been struggling with a puzzle.
One condition on which my group insisted was that this culture of secrecy must change fundamentally, opening up decision-making not only to us in Parliament, but to the world outside.
Here they are in the President's statement and in the letter that Commissioner Bolkestein addressed to the chairperson of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
The health of the European economy depends on this legislation.
It will give confidence that, whatever the challenges ahead for economic and monetary union, the European Union can surmount them, and it shows that Parliament is a serious and responsible legislature and partner in economic reform.
Mr President, what is interesting about this report is the expressed concern for Parliament's rights.
This is matched by the claim that the committee wants to enhance democratic control over this fast-moving area.
In this context, Parliament has two distinct aims, which could have been conflicting: on the one hand, the need to secure a more significant, effective role for Parliament in these matters, to secure, that is, greater democratic legitimisation of the rules we are debating; on the other hand, however, there is the urgent need to conclude the Financial Services Action Plan with all speed in order to implement the common market in this sector.
One example is the case of pension funds, which have long been constrained by protectionist rules in the different Member States.
The average size of European pension funds is one sixth of that of pension funds in the United States and the yield in Europe is 60% of the American figure.
The time factor is crucial.
We are lagging behind severely and we must therefore be responsible in our attitude and not neglect the need to give a vigorous boost to the construction of the internal market in our pursuit of the goal of securing a proper role for our institution.
He said that this is a good day for integration and offered congratulations to the rapporteur - congratulations which I should like to echo on behalf of the Commission.
Mr von Wogau started by referring to the ambition of the European Union as expressed by the European Council in Lisbon, which is, as is well known, that the European Union should become the most competitive place in the world.
The Lamfalussy report should be seen in that context.
The Commission agrees and also sees the need for equal standing for Parliament vis-à-vis the Council in the whole comitology procedure.
Unfortunately, from the point of view of Parliament - and the Commission recognises its feelings and opinions - this is not possible at the moment.
Article 202 is clear: the comitology procedure arrived at in June 1999 is also clear and, as much as the Commission sees the point of view of Parliament and has said so in its own White Paper on governance, it is at present unable to grant Parliament's wishes.
The Commission's view as laid down in the White Paper on governance is that Article 202 ought to be changed.
He went on to say that Parliament now has the possibility to object in substance.
Yes, indeed, the substance concerns us all and Parliament has the inherent right to put forward its positions and its arguments.
The Commission has said that it will take the fullest possible account of Parliament's position.
The sunset clause means that the delegation of executive measures to the Commission lasts for no longer than four years.
The same applies to another factor, mentioned by Mr von Wogau.
The Commission congratulates him.
Parliament's rapporteur is to be congratulated for securing those.
Mr von Wogau deserves much praise for drawing to a conclusion the lengthy negotiations that we have had on this important issue.
It is of vital importance that Parliament backs this compromise when it votes at 12 noon today, because without it we will not be in a position to deliver an integrated financial market - whether in 2004, 2005 or indeed ever.
Accepting this compromise will bring us considerably closer to achieving our goal of an integrated financial market and delivering those benefits to ordinary people right across the European Union. .
We all know how important it is that we catch up on the United States' integrated market in terms of the productivity of capital.
On the other hand, we are also aware that the European financial market has significance not only for enterprises but also for those who rely on proper provision for old age, in other words who are, as consumers, dependent on it in view of their small pensions.
Parliament therefore bears a heavy responsibility for coming to the right decisions in the co-decision procedure.
I wish to underline again that Parliament, which demands more and more rights of co-decision, will not refrain from doing so in the parliamentary legislative procedure and that today's compromise in the von Wogau report is without prejudice to the possibility of Parliament giving up this legal position.
Now we also have to achieve a successful conclusion to the next Intergovernmental Conference and the next amendment of the Treaties.
One question, though, has not been answered - that of to what extent we can actually attribute real significance to the Lamfalussy procedure in all this legislation, because all of what has been described as technical, today, is very often political.
In my country, Denmark, we had a constitutional struggle that lasted from 1866 right up to 1901, in which parliamentarianism was finally adopted as the central democratic principle.
To refer again to the situation in Denmark 130 years ago, the whole political system was just about paralysed during the Danish constitutional struggle.
However, it is extremely important that the Council not merely accept the content, but also the basic message, of this report.
It is, in short, about exercising democratic control by means of our common European legislation.
Finally, the solution to this dilemma has been discovered by the new Knight of the Order of the Legion of Honour, Karl von Wogau, and supported by this Parliament.
I congratulate Karl von Wogau, the Commission and the Council and I hope that in Barcelona we will be able to reap the harvest which we have begun to sow today.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, today is indeed a most decisive day as far as the role of Parliament is concerned.
I do not believe that Commissioner Bolkestein has now been transformed from a devil into an angel, for we did not see him as a devil and he is not an angel now, but a good piece of work has been done.
Today is an important day in the sense that it is now a matter of record that we recognise the knowledge and insight possessed by the experts, but at the same time that democratic control means that it is parliaments that, at the end of the day, decide on political objectives.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, I would like firstly to congratulate Mr von Wogau on the wonderful work he has done on this report.
That is to say, we have to make the 42 directives envisaged a reality, by 2003 in the case of the capital market and by 2005 in the case of financial services.
Secondly, I would like to point out that the European Parliament has never created obstacles when it has been asked for speed, urgency and cooperation in the implementation of projects and issues of such importance as the implementation of the euro or the European internal market itself, which are two very important successes of European construction.
The Commission has not normally created obstacles, nor has Parliament, and if we have ever been faced with obstacles, it has been in the Council.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to take up a position on this issue and propose to do so in seven stages.
Firstly, I wish to congratulate the rapporteur and thank him for this report and for his gesture of commitment to various committees and institutions, in order to resume progress towards realisation of a common objective.
This instance has provided an answer to the question as to what sex an angel is; here the parliamentary angel was a male one in the person of Karl von Wogau.
Secondly, I would like to thank him, again, today for the excellent work he has done for the Community on the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs, which he has left after many decades and to which - as to all the other committees he sits on, as this report shows - he has brought massive experience and economic knowledge.
My second point - and this is probably beyond doubt - is that we must speed up the Lisbon process, and - not only for that reason, but certainly for that reason - we must create an internal market for securities as rapidly as possible.
There is a contradiction between Article 202 and Parliament's codecision procedure; that is why it needs to be amended.
I recall the European Company, on which we are in agreement on matters of content but not at all as regards form, because we act on the basis of Article 95 and, in Nice, the Council pulled the legal basis for codecision from under our feet.
I consider the letter necessary because we must not differentiate between States, but must do our utmost to ensure that the Stability Pact is applied to everyone equally and with its full weight.
Mr President, Mr von Wogau has submitted an excellent report.
Commissioner Bolkestein told us that we must not discuss the sex of angels, but that 'equivalence' obviously means equivalence between Parliament and the Council.
Following this trial of strength between Parliament, Commission and Council, the issue is now what we want this building to be like.
Mr President, Mrs Randzio-Plath has drawn to our attention the importance of financial markets and the Commission wholeheartedly subscribes to her words in that respect.
Fortunately we are living in the European Union where more and more ordinary people own shares and all we are doing this morning is providing a legislative framework which safeguards the interests of ordinary people.
Mr Goebbels also made reference to the word "equivalence".
The Commission has very clearly indicated its sympathy with Parliament's position with respect to Article 202.
It has laid that down in black and white in the White Paper on comitology.
In the end we are striving for what we can achieve only at the next IGC, which hopefully will start in the year 2004.
Since this is close to the hearts of Members of Parliament, may I end by summarising in seven points the safeguards which this Parliament has.
Fourthly, the Commission, as I have mentioned a few times this morning, will take the utmost account of Parliament's position and of any resolution - Mr Goebbels - stating that the Commission has exceeded its delegated powers.
Fifthly, the Commission will support a change to Article 202 at the next IGC.
Mrs Randzio-Plath was kind enough to say a few kind words in my direction.
They know that when the comitology procedure was decided on in mid-1999, the Commission issued a unilateral declaration, which has become known as the "aerosol" declaration, which was given in exchange for something called the contre-filet, another procedural device.
The Commission and Council accepted that the contre-filet procedure would disappear, and in its place came this unilateral declaration, which referred to a much earlier case in connection with veterinary matters.
Therefore the Stockholm resolution adds nothing beyond what was already in place under the comitology procedure, because the same words - the ipsissima verba - that appeared in the declaration by the Commission in June 1991 reappear in the resolution of the European Council.
Mr President, there has been a qualitative change in the form of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The debate is closed.
Of course, Article 14 expired a long time ago, back in December 1992; however, as the internal market has not quite been completed, the purpose of the Commission's first proposal was to serve the objectives of Article 93, with which we have no choice but to agree, given that they derive directly from the Treaty.
The Commission too has put pressure on Parliament, brandishing the fact that the Council is in unanimous political agreement on the matter, so all that is left is for us to endorse the Council's and the Commission's faits accomplis.
This was, in my view, an unfortunate way of dealing with Parliament, especially on the part of the Commission, because it is tantamount to asking Parliament merely to endorse a fait accompli without making any contribution of its own whatsoever.
The main tenet of that proposal was to impose a minimum fixed tax of EUR 70 per 1000 cigarettes, alongside the minimum 57% tax charged on the most popular market brand.
Secondly, the immediate effect of the Commission proposal was to increase prices in southern countries, where per capita income is lower than in the northern countries in the main zone of the Union.
Parliament had, in fact, called for this sort of harmonisation in the past, but it was clear from the last vote that the new Parliament voted in took a different view and in 1996 and 1999, Commissioner, the rapporteurs voted against the Commission proposal.
Consequently, the Commission's old proposal, which in essence forms the basis for the Council's political agreement, does not serve the purpose of Article 93 because it tends to destabilise rather than consolidate the internal market.
It is important for Parliament to vote against this report, because very recently we adopted the tobacco directive, which, as we all know, took various public health measures to reduce smoking.
It therefore seems very inconsistent to adopt this report, which seeks to pass measures and form opinions which will, to some extent, go against the measures we have already taken on public health grounds.
I felt that I needed to explain our position and say why the UK PSE will be voting against this report later today.
The situation in the United States and Sweden, where excise is very high and consumption relatively low, illustrate this trend, as well as a study conducted by the World Bank.
In two previous resolutions from 1996 and 1997, the European Parliament left no doubt as to the fact that it is seeking an upward harmonisation of tobacco prices by means of increased excise duty.
As the Commission proposes in the explanatory note, the new minimum excise amount in euros for cigarettes is based on the average excise yield in the Member States, namely EUR 90 per 1 000 cigarettes and subsequently reduced to EUR 70 per 1 000 cigarettes in order to prevent the majority of the Member States from having to increase their excise duties.
It is, in this connection, once again worth mentioning that the excise yield in nine Member States is even more than EUR 70 per 1 000 cigarettes.
In the final analysis, and I am taking this opportunity to repeat what I have said before, it remains an unacceptable anomaly, on the one hand, to increase the excise duty on tobacco products, although partly for health reasons and, on the other hand, to continue to heavily subsidise tobacco growing in the European Union.
The campaign against smoking and the campaign against tobacco cultivation in the European Union have become one and the same and we are against that.
The campaign against smoking benefits consumers' health, while the campaign against tobacco cultivation benefits large-scale producers and industry, mainly in the USA, to the detriment of tobacco farmers and processors in southern Europe.
However, the report has made it clear that the rapporteur wants to protect the interests of the tobacco industry, and particularly in those countries where products are also available at low prices.
It is therefore very disappointing to note that the rapporteur confines himself to amending the Commission proposal where the level of excise duty is concerned without giving a reasoned consideration.
This consideration is something which the European Commission itself does give with regard to increasing excise duty, namely in terms of promoting a well functioning internal market and discouraging smoking by pursuing a consistent and convincing policy.
Quite the reverse, in fact, smuggling practices occur precisely in those areas where tobacco products are cheap.
Moreover, we will be in danger of exacerbating this phenomenon of criminal, mafia smuggling if we continue to pursue this policy of increasing excise duties.
The positive results obtained in terms of public health in the United States - I want the Members to understand this - were pursued and achieved by applying lower rates of excise duty than in Europe.
I fully agree with what the rapporteur said about the legislative procedure, the role of Parliament and the need for loyal cooperation between the institutions.
The accumulation of indirect taxes and value-added tax have been repeatedly condemned by this Parliament and this option - to establish a combined minimum level for the two taxes - seems to me to be a good solution.
I also agree with the rapporteur that price plays a part in dissuading people from smoking, but it is not the only method, and we therefore expect the Commission to send us supplementary proposals soon, aimed at putting an end to this habit.
Mr President, we feel that the Katiforis report on the proposal for a directive on the structure and rates of excise duty applied on manufactured tobacco products is a good compromise on the Commission and Council' s proposal.
Lastly, we feel that the position on cigars and cigarettes as presented in the Katiforis report is more convincing in that it also avoids potential employment slumps, thus safeguarding the principles laid down in Article 127 of the Treaty.
The bootleggers are up in arms at this, but now, with the Commissioner announcing his intention to take action against the United Kingdom for creating barriers to the free movement of goods, the door could be opened even wider to give smuggling an even greater field day.
The British tobacco industry should have an even playing field with the tobacco manufacturers in the rest of the European Union and should not be penalised.
However, overall, we cannot give our support to this proposal because we do not believe in the upwards harmonisation of tobacco taxes.
So the health issues in favour of high tobacco taxes are not clear cut but, even more importantly, we do not believe in the upward harmonisation of excise duties or, in particular, the upward harmonisation of tobacco taxes.
Mr President, Commissioner, smoking is dangerous both for people who smoke and for those in their vicinity.
In my country, the Public Health Institute has calculated that the one-off effect of the increase in cigarette prices in 1997 was to save 12 500 people from premature death, thanks to the fact that 100 000 people gave up smoking when cigarettes became more expensive.
We are talking here simply about my own country, Sweden, which has only 9 million inhabitants.
Mr President, I belong to the majority in this House that rejected the Commission's proposal in November, and I would actually have been quite happy to have left it at that, but now we are confronted by a second report that we have to vote on.
This proposal will not achieve the objective set for it, that is, the progressive convergence of excise duties in the internal market, and puts an unnecessary question mark against the balanced compromise achieved in 1992 under Luxembourg's Presidency between supporters of proportional and specific taxation.
If this hapless proposal from the Commission were to be implemented, there would also be a massively greater risk of smuggling, especially in the countries of the South and in post-enlargement Central Europe, because the price of cigarettes there would increase by between 200% and 500%.
The amendments introduced by our rapporteur, leaving it to Member States to choose between excise duty at EUR 60 per thousand cigarettes and excise duty plus VAT of 71% of the price, represent the lesser evil, and, politics being the art of the possible, I will, of course, follow the rest of my group in voting for Mr Katiforis' report with full conviction.
His report now proposes to approve the Commission proposal subject to two amendments.
The first amendment concerns the taxation of cigarettes and offers Member States a choice between two taxation systems.
For this reason, the Commission cannot accept this first amendment.
Moreover, it feels that one of the reasons why it is proposed - in particular the need to conserve the balance between specific and percentage taxation - is already taken into account in its proposal.
But offering them a choice between two taxation systems after accession would leave us with a wide gap between their tax and price levels and the tax and price levels of the present Member States, resulting in substantial revenue loss for present Member States.
The Commission is aware that achieving the amounts in euro will require a significant effort from most candidate countries and has therefore proposed to the Council that limited transitional periods should be granted to candidate countries to reach the minimum rate of taxation.
The second amendment rejects the change in the definition of cigars and cigarillos.
I would also like to comment upon the two other amendments adopted in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
The first one suggests adding a new recital, calling upon the Commission to submit proposals to eliminate fraud and smuggling.
The Commission shares the view that rate harmonisation in itself will not eliminate fraud and also that other measures are required to combat fraud and smuggling.
A number of initiatives to combat fraud in the sector of excise products, have already been launched following the 1996 report of a High Level Group on fraud in the alcohol and tobacco sector.
The most recent example is the Commission proposal of 19 October 2001 for a decision of the European Parliament and the Council on computerising the movement and surveillance of excise products.
The second amendment concerns the upper limit of the euro amount proposed by the Commission and suggests lowering the amount from EUR 100 to EUR 85.
The motivation of the amendment is that EUR 85 is easier to achieve than EUR 100 for the applicant countries, which today apply excise duty levels between EUR 6 and EUR 24.
It is only relevant for Member States already applying a very high amount of duty but which, in spite of this, do not meet the 57% minimum.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place today at 12 noon.
The only thing that remains for me to do is to bring the result of this vote to the attention of the Commission, which will take due account of it and inform Parliament accordingly.
Mr President, I have asked for the floor, when you have given it to the Commission, to say that what we have just rejected in this House is Mr Oostlander' s report, not the Commission' s proposal.
I discussed the matter with my friend, Mr Ugo Gustinetti from Alzano Lombardo in the province of Bergamo, who has worked as a driver all his life, and he said to me: 'What is much more important than rules is that there should be genuine monitoring of driving time' .
My delegation welcomes the adoption of the directive.
The latest events in connection with the hauliers' scandal in Luxembourg and in my homeland, Austria, have shown that there is much wrong in the transport sector.
The plenary's adoption in January of the proposed regulation introducing an attestation for drivers was a proper indication of the desire to get the better of the illegal employment of third-country nationals.
The directive that the plenary has adopted today represents another important step.
I welcome, in particular, the agreement achieved on the central issue of this directive: the inclusion of self-employed workers.
The definition of a self-employed driver put forward in the directive also makes a valuable contribution to preventing the creation of new forms of false self-employment during the period of temporary exclusion of self-employed drivers.
I do believe that regulations of this nature must balance the acknowledged benefits against the practical realities faced by transport operators, especially in rural and island areas where no viable alternative to road transportation exists.
The concession on limitation to night working is important to Scotland, where long road distances are unavoidable and where transport operators already suffer such disincentives as high fuel taxation and relatively poor road networks in many areas.
The six-year exemption unfortunately shows that the UK Government has learned nothing from that experience and workers in Wales will continue to be amongst the most vulnerable in Europe to job losses.
I believe that the World Health Organisation has taken the correct approach on this issue.
European initiatives to reduce the level of drug abuse in Europe must be supported at every opportunity.
I do believe that the European Social Fund has played a key role in this regard in the past and must continue to do so. - (NL) Those who organise international trafficking in hard drugs are only concerned with making money on the back of the suffering of others.
Proposals not only to lock these criminals up but also to strip them of their profits receive my support.
Essentially, this report represents a balanced, far-reaching, sensible and tough approach to a perennial problem which besets all Member States of the EU.
For too long, the terms and conditions of what constitutes a drug trafficking offence have been too woolly, thereby creating serious pockets of crime in some parts of the world and within the EU.
Once this law becomes enforceable, it should act as a real deterrent.
Report Ludford (A5-0436/2001) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we naturally welcome the proposal for a Council directive which is totally in line with the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Tampere conclusions, which stressed the need to finally put in place a policy for integrating third-country nationals.
Yet, the way in which it is presented in the report, the right to live a normal family life, which is internationally recognised, does not take into account certain fundamental laws.
The Union must therefore shoulder its responsibilities.
To sum up, this report does not promote equality between citizens of the Union and citizens of third countries.
The European status of a long-term resident does not exist.
In this regard, however, I feel we should distinguish between citizens who come to visit Europe with honest, noble intentions - Baroness Ludford belongs to the nobility so she, better than anyone, can understand that nobility must be valued - and the honest citizen is noble, and citizens with ignoble intentions.
It is an attempt to define the status of long-term resident, because we all recognise the need for the European Union to reach a compromise on harmonising the situation of citizens of third countries residing legally and permanently in a Member State, in which they must be guaranteed legal, economic and social rights on a par with those enjoyed by the Union' s own citizens.
On the other hand, once this status has been granted, the individual will be guaranteed a set of rights, such as the right to work, to education, social security, healthcare and access to goods and services, etc., thereby making this a real instrument for integration into the society in which the individual lives.
Secondly, we cannot give this proposal a legal basis without distorting the meaning of Article 63(3) and (4) of the Treaty establishing the European Community, which only provides for 'measures' regarding residence and not a 'status' in the full meaning of the word.
Article 12 of the proposal for a directive lists the areas where equal treatment would be de rigueur, in other words, almost all of them, except the right to vote.
We shall not vote against this text, because, in many ways, it improves the situation of certain third-country nationals who live and work in the European Union.
Her report is therefore presented as a list of duties.
Therefore, third-country nationals who have been residing in an EU country for more than five years shall automatically acquire the status of long-term resident.
Once the status has been granted, Member States can only withdraw it under very restricted and specific circumstances.
The legal certainty of the holder must be as high as possible.
The holder can therefore be absent for a period of more than two years without having his long-term resident status withdrawn.
To complete the picture, obtaining this status must constitute the first step towards being granted the nationality of the Member State in which they reside.
Home, sweet home! - (NL) If the measures for residents and visitors from outside had not been prepared before 11 September 2001, they would probably have been subject to a long delay due to the new fear of terrorism and lack of security.
Unlike people with the nationality of a Member State, they were required to continue to comply with visa obligations in each separate Member State which they crossed in order to spend a holiday in their country of origin.
I would emphasise that I am in favour of giving rights to third-country nationals when they accept work in another EU country.
In another area, the Commission is also pursuing its former approach by proposing to introduce a 'specific travel authorisation' issued by a Member State which will apply in all the others, in order to facilitate the movement of third-country nationals for a period of less than six months.
In order to justify this derogation, on page 9 of the Explanatory Memorandum, the Commission mentions the case of certain foreigners who would need to move around the EU over a six-month period in their capacity as 'recipients of services' , such as 'tourists' or 'persons taking health cures' or even 'musicians' , as Commissioner Vitorino mentioned during the debate.
I should have been in the Chamber for one of my reports - I am a shadow rapporteur - but I did not get here in time.
Mr President, I should like to make a comment on the Katiforis report.
I share the concern about the less privileged regions.
Rapport Van den Berg (A5-0464/2001) Mr President, yesterday, I followed with great interest the debate on the reform of development cooperation policy and the debate with the Commission on the grey zone between relief and development cooperation.
To speak of 'gaps' in 'international assistance' is utterly scandalous when referring to the most powerful countries, which restrict themselves to making purely symbolic gestures when they have to assist a poor country in coping with a natural disaster, but which, in fact, spend astronomical amounts on dropping bombs on a poor country such as Afghanistan (and many others before it).
Report Von Wogau (A5-0011/2002) Mr President, Mr von Wogau could not fail to win the vote of Mr Fatuzzo and the Pensioners' Party on this major document on European finances, public finance and the financial market.
The process of integrating the financial markets involves reshaping all the structures which supplement financial services.
In this context, it becomes even more important to take note of experience gained in markets outside as well as within Europe in terms of organisation, operating procedures and the functioning of control measures.
In fact, the use of these new instruments, which both allows the level of competitiveness between securities operators to grow and makes it possible to manage large volumes of transactions according to time frames and procedures which, until a few years ago, were unhoped for, has helped to raise the 'quality' of prices on these markets and to reduce brokerage costs.
The European Parliament is putting forward some excellent ideas in the von Wogau report, such as the automatic inclusion of a sunset clause in legislative acts, under which any delegation of powers to the Commission with a view to taking implementing measures would be suspended at the end of four years so that its appropriateness can be re-examined.
Due to its executive powers, Article 202 grants it a specific role in drawing up implementing measures.
The same does not apply to the European Parliament, which has only a legislative role in applying the Treaties, and must not therefore be involved in everything.
The next Intergovernmental Conference should respond to this by strengthening the role of the Council in the execution committees, and by strengthening the democratic scrutiny exerted over these committees: the scrutiny of the European Parliament over the Commission' s representatives, possibly, but also the scrutiny of sectoral assemblies made up of national parliaments, which would be exerted over the Council' s representatives.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have been asked to attend today to speak essentially about the Middle East and that is what I will focus on, but I would also like to take this opportunity to exchange a few words with you on the situation in Afghanistan and the Balkans, where - we must not forget - we have very serious commitments.
Ladies and gentlemen, the first term I am going to use when talking about the situation in the Middle East is frustration.
For those of us, like myself, who have spent years trying to find a formula for resolving the problems of the Middle East, the situation we are in can only be described, both from a personal point of view and from that of the parties involved, as highly frustrating.
We must stick vehemently to our principles and our commitment to this process.
Ladies and gentlemen, we must not just defend and help the Middle East peace process because of the principles and values which inspire the European Union, but also because, in this globalised world, the Middle East, the Mediterranean, is our home territory.
On 10 December, I was in the Middle East.
And we must recognise that, thanks to the effort of Miguel Ángel Moratinos, the representative of the European Union in situ, we achieved, from around 10 December, the most significant moment of peace for many, many months, which lasted until the middle of January.
There was opportunity during that period, the most significant demonstration of which was the speech by President Arafat on 16 December.
You will remember perfectly that on 16 December President Arafat made a speech in his own language, broadcast by television stations, as requested by the Members of the European Union, in which he called for a cease-fire, for peace and for the terrorist groups to stop their violent acts on behalf of the Palestinian Authority.
Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, since 10 January we have a situation similar to the previous one.
First of all violence broke out amongst Palestinians in one of the settlements, later Israeli forces murdered an important member of one of the Al Fatah groups and later there was the incident involving the vessel, the Karim A.
I remember, and I will never forget, how, in Tel Aviv airport, on 6 December, late at night, together with the United States' representative, General Zinni, we were thinking about the plan to implement the Tenet plan and the implementation of the Mitchell plan.
We had agreed on a trilateral meeting between the Palestinian, Israeli and United States security services and subsequently a bilateral meeting between the Palestinians and the Israeli forces.
There is no firm proof which I have been able to see physically, but there is no doubt that something of that nature has taken place.
Remember the famous European Union declaration in Laeken, in the final days of December.
And I have had the opportunity over recent days - I have spent the whole week in New York talking to the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, and in Washington with Vice-President Cheney, Secretary of State Powell and the President' s adviser, Condoleezza Rice - to try to discover whether we are able to give further joint impetus in the face of this terrible situation in the Middle East.
I believe that these visits have some consequences.
I do not want to talk about the influence of any one party, or the influence the European Union, but I will restrict myself to describing the facts.
For the first time, Prime Minister Sharon received these people in his house.
I can also tell you that yesterday and today Secretary of State Powell has received Abu Ala, President of the Palestinian Parliament, in Washington.
I began by saying that I was very frustrated, but I can also see that there is some possibility that we may inch forward a little.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the European Union is doing all it can to try to bring a little hope to this process.
I believe that the European Union must continue to work in conjunction with our friends in the United States, as well as the King of Jordan and President Mubarak.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to participate in what I believe should now be our course of action: to help, to contribute to the successful outcome of the process of dialogue which has begun between the President of the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority and the Foreign Affairs Minister, Simon Peres.
That is to say that we cannot be sure that in the end the government of Prime Minister Sharon is going to accept it.
If there is no change, even the slightest change, in the current situation, the violence will continue to dominate the centre of the debate.
And we must be able to prevent violence being at the centre of the debate, since politics must be there.
I insist once again: this problem can only be resolved politically, by means of dialogue, and, therefore, sooner or later - let us hope that it is as soon as possible - arms and violence must disappear so that politics can prevail.
He said more or less as follows: "I will never be in a government which does not have the objective of two States: Palestine and Israel.
For a dreamer such as I, Simon Peres, who is very old and has always worked to achieve peace, it is impossible to imagine a situation in which there are not two States.
To carry on working with the United Nations, with the United States, with Egypt, with Jordan, is - I believe - the best way to try to make progress in that direction.
You can rest assured that both Miguel Ángel Moratinos and I will be working 24 hours a day, whenever necessary, to try to resolve this conflict, which is of profound concern to the Europeans.
We are not talking about a distant problem, but a problem which is physically, geographically, close and which we feel in our hearts and in our heads.
It is therefore our obligation to continue doing it.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, please allow me very briefly to mention two issues which I had been asked to mention.
Thirteen European Union countries have forces deployed there.
Yesterday, both Chris Patten and I were with the Pakistani Foreign Affairs Minister.
Secondly, Iran, the other key country for the stability of the region.
We must recognise that, regardless of what is said or what can be said about Iran, its representatives behaved constructively in both the meeting in Bonn and the meeting in Tokyo.
The other issue I wanted to mention, very briefly, Mr President, is that of the Balkans.
I believe that, after the agreements signed in Ohrid, we are in an ideal situation, from a political point of view.
The situation is still not perfect, but I believe we will be able to spend the Spring in peace and calm.
At this moment, NATO military forces, led by Germany, are still there.
No decision has been taken, but it is being considered and therefore, in relation to Skopje, although this is not a time for great celebrations, I believe that things are moving in the right direction.
The Conference of Donors, which Chris Patten will refer to, may work and may be a considerable help from an economic point of view.
Let us hope that over the next few days we will have an Assembly with a government in place, with the Presidency elected which has the ability to confront the real problems that that government will have to deal with.
The last point I would like to make relates to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
As you know, the talks between Podgorica (Montenegro) and Belgrade broke down on 24 October.
I have one potential confession: If I have to slip away for a couple of minutes during the course of the debate, it will be just to do my democratic duty in another place, where one of the Union's great institutions is meeting and discussing important matters relating to competition policy and other things.
He has pointed out the missed opportunities - one after another - which have brought so much savagery and violence to the region, beginning with the failure to implement the Mitchell report, and going on to the failure to respond with adequate generosity of spirit to the speech made by Mr Arafat on 16 September.
We have been supporting the Palestinian Authority, and our support for the Palestinian Authority has first of all made certain that there is still a viable negotiating partner for the Israeli government.
We have seen the destruction of projects worth about EUR 17m in which the European Union has invested - that is, just over a tenth of the total destruction of infrastructure which has been identified by the World Bank.
And the World Bank argues, though this must be a very rule-of-thumb figure, that the Palestinian national income has been reduced by about USD 2.4bn as a result of what has happened over the last months.
We are doing that not just out of humanitarian motives, but also to try to ensure a more stable and secure future for the people of Afghanistan.
In the last few months, with the reconstruction agency starting to do as good a job in FYROM as elsewhere in the region, we have already repaired 400 houses, there will be 300 more repaired by April; electricity has been restored in Aracinovo; water and electricity are restored in Kumanovo.
Not only because of a humanitarian impulse but also because we know from our experience in Europe that there is a relationship between economic stability and political stability and security.
If you make people unemployed, if you destroy any infrastructure for people's social well being, then what you are doing is not only making their lives miserable but also, almost certainly, making sure that everyone's lives become more violent.
I hope that even now in the Palestinian Territories and in Israel more people will be prepared to listen to the moderates, to those who made their views about the future so bravely known at Kalandria checkpoint before Christmas.
I hope that the Voice of Peace movement will be listened to because the people who argue in that brave way for peace are the only ones who really chart a way forward for the Middle East, for the Palestinian State in the future, and for Israel.
He wrote a remarkable article in the 'New York Times' a few days ago.
Secretary of State Powell, in an interview a few days ago, spoke of Palestine's right to exist, its right to be a state.
Yasser Arafat is, of course, the elected President of Palestine.
We therefore call on Ariel Sharon and Yasser Arafat to make a start on peace by talking to each other so that people in the region, in the Middle East, can have a future worthy of human beings.
All those who promote that, such as Javier Solana, Chris Patten and others, have the full support of our group. (Applause) Mr President, High Representative, I too want to welcome the Commissioner, who will shortly be returning to the Chamber.
I wish to start by joining with Mr Poettering in what he said on behalf of his group, and also, on behalf of our group, express our thanks for the success of the policy on the Macedonian issue which the High Representative and the Commissioner conducted last summer.
The press is, unfortunately, always full of the things that are not going well in Europe, but when a policy is successful, it is virtually ignored.
I do not believe there are many other potential partners in dialogue on the Palestinian side.
High Representative, Commissioner, you have the dubious fortune to live in interesting times, as the Chinese might say.
Nonetheless, the news that some Israeli reservists are reportedly refusing to serve outside the 1967 frontiers is a welcome development.
High Representative, you spoke of the Mitchell report and light at the end of the tunnel.
Sometimes America's friends - or so-called friends - in the Middle East have been about as helpful to the peace process as the so-called loyalists in Northern Ireland have proven loyal to the UK Government.
My group is concerned about reports of interfactional fighting in Northern and Eastern Afghanistan, leading to thousands of Pashtuns fleeing villages, reports of 50 or more people being killed in Gardez.
I hope that you will support my call for a United Nations committee to review it, to determine whether further changes are needed concerning armed insurgents and terrorists who do not fall within the traditional definitions and, if not, at least call on the Americans to sign the 1977 amendments to extend protection to guerrillas and combatants, amendments which the US has refused thus far to sign.
We must therefore make him understand that he will only achieve peace and security in his country if there is a Palestinian State.
And, to do this, we must enter into a dialogue of political interference in Israel.
I know what fighting for this issue means in Israel, but there is no other solution.
The price of this is that there will be a European intervention force between the Palestinians, maintaining security in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and Jaffa, but which also maintains security in Ramallah, Gaza and in other Palestinian towns.
I can do nothing, even though, in any case, I would not have voted for Mr Arafat or for Mr Sharon.
Well, let us invite two holders of the Nobel Peace Prize to discuss the subject of peace with us here in Strasbourg.
We must fund, organise and support all the NGOs that are fighting at civil society level for new relations to be forged and so that everything between the Israelis and Palestinians will not collapse, as there are some wonderful things being done in this region.
Mr President, High Representative, I welcome many of the positions that you have clearly outlined, Mr Solana, particularly regarding the Palestinian Authority and its president.
I am thinking of the 300 men and women who travelled from Israel to Ramallah this weekend to deliver a message of peace to Mr Arafat.
I am thinking of the appeal launched by 52 Israeli officers and soldiers to no longer agree to fight in order to occupy, deport, destroy, blockade, kill, starve and humiliate a whole nation of people.
What are you intending to do, Mr Solana, in this area, to support the forces of peace in Israel?
Situation in the Middle East (continued) Mr President, like previous speakers I, too, am gravely concerned that since last December the situation in the Middle East has deteriorated to a new low.
Between 15 January and 25 January last, over 45 people were injured from bomb attacks alone, while ten people were killed during the same period.
Hundreds of Palestinians have been left homeless as a result of the demolition of nearly 100 houses by the Israeli forces at the refugee camp in the Gaza Strip.
I very much welcome the fact that the Spanish Presidency has written to the Israeli Foreign Minister expressing our deepest concern at the damage that has been done to projects funded by the European Union as a direct result of Israeli attacks against the Palestinian institutions.
The Mitchell principles have clearly laid down the broad parameters for an overall peace agreement.
Any future agreement must both recognise Israel's right to live in peace and security and ensure that the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people are protected and promoted.
This means the establishment of a viable and democratic Palestinian state and an end to the occupation of the Palestinian territories.
Recent discussions between representatives of the Palestinian authority and Prime Minister Sharon must be seen as a somewhat positive move, but negotiations must surely be meaningful and cannot be seen as a cosmetic exercise under any circumstances.
We must all remember that Yasser Arafat is the democratically elected leader of the Palestinian people and he has the political authority and the political mandate to represent the concerns and the needs of the Palestinian people at this time.
Yasser Arafat is a viable peace partner for Israel and he commands the support not only of his people, but of the broader international community.
I welcome the recent article written by him in the New York Times in which he stated that the Palestinians were ready to end the conflict with Israel.
President Bush and Prime Minister Sharon are meeting this week and I hope that this will signal a more willing involvement on the part of the United States to re-intensify its efforts to reach a political agreement in the region.
I strongly believe that the European Union and the American government have mutually important roles to play in ending the violence in the region and restarting meaningful peace talks.
Incursions by the Israeli military forces into Palestinian territories must be halted immediately and there must also be a lifting of restrictions that are imposed on the Palestinian people.
First of all, there was the discussion between Prime Minister Sharon and prominent representatives of the Palestinian Authority that was held in the middle of last week.
In addition, there is the public assurance by Mr Arafat in the American press that he wants to call an end to the terrorist attacks on Israeli citizens.
The EU Member States support efforts to bring peace to the Middle East, especially by making a credible and effective contribution to the current fight against terrorist networks in that region.
Last week, a young person from my town, Apeldoorn, sent a touching e-mail about peace in the Middle East.
In my view, to speak of the senseless destruction - and this is a point on which we obviously agree with him - of the Palestinian infrastructure and to speak of the selective killings of Palestinians without mentioning the Israeli victims is absolutely intolerable.
But this is also symptomatic of the policy that Commissioner Patten has, for many months, been conducting towards Israel.
Mr Barak made some proposals with which we are all familiar and these proposals were not accepted.
The Palestinian Authority existed and the Palestinian Authority has sanctioned the suicide attacks that were and still are carried out every day against Israel.
The European Union could show its true generosity by saying to the public, to the people of Europe, that they must have the courage to fully integrate Israel into the European Union, that this is the only way to guarantee security in Israel, to finally give five million Israelis the feeling that they can live in peace alongside the Palestinians, but within the European Union.
Mr President, I have the feeling that, recently, in each debate in this Parliament on the Middle East, we basically go over the same ground.
Since the last resolution we approved in the European Parliament, with the majority support of the parliamentary groups, there have evidently been more terrorist attacks against Israeli civilians.
We have also, however, seen the siege by the Israeli army increasingly close in on the Palestinian population and its institutions.
Within the landscape of violence, which is very controversial both inside and outside the region and also here in the European Parliament, we should be able to agree on certain things.
The fourth is that the parties in conflict must understand that no act of violence is going to improve their position.
And the fifth is that we cannot stand on the sidelines; on the contrary, the European Union must maintain its political pressure and its permanent presence in the region.
I agree with the Council declaration, which says that our first priority must be to put an end to the suffering of both peoples.
And it seems to me completely pointless for us to try to find somebody to blame.
Let us hope that amongst all of us we can contribute to peace, because I believe that that is the only truly important thing at the moment.
Mr President, High Representative, today' s debate seems to me to be a proper debate.
Therefore, we must start to declare right now that we are prepared to recognise such a State and also that we need to have a special relationship with both the Israeli State and the Palestinian State.
This spiral of violence must now be broken as a matter of urgency.
The international community must urge both parties to reach a permanent settlement and cease the terror.
We must strengthen our position in the peace talks, given the exceptional interests - and first and foremost the humanitarian interests - that are at stake.
As Mr Solana has said on a number of occasions: we have wasted many opportunities.
If Mr Arafat leaves the territories, there is a danger that we will not be able to get him back in again.
It is important that we work to support this operation, to bring Abu Ala and Avraham Burg here.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic situation of Palestine illustrates two political truths, which are only bitter for utopians.
The Palestinians must be permitted to live freely, in peace, in the other quarter.
We must observe the United Nations Security Council resolutions and we must also bring an end to a military occupation that has lasted for almost 35 years now and which is an outright record in history.
Of course, Israel has a right to secure serious guarantees in exchange for its withdrawal.
These guarantees can be granted within the framework of the United Nations Organisation, and, in particular, by the United States of America.
Only then can peace return to the Middle East.
We also see it in the destruction of infrastructure on Palestinian territory, and that in areas that have nothing to do with counter-terrorism, but - as Commissioner Patten rightly said - destroy prospects for development.
What has happened in the past weeks is, alas, no contribution to stability.
They are, in fact, choosing the road of peace, away from occupation, away from terror and state terror, and towards the negotiating table and, hopefully, peace eventually.
I should simply like to recall the closing statement of the special session of the Mediterranean Forum, held in Brussels in November, before the vote on 13 December on our recommendations preceding the formal declaration by the Laeken Council.
I would remind you that this statement called for the immediate and unconditional implementation of the Tenet plan and of the recommendations of the Mitchell committee, and reiterated our conviction, Mr Cohn-Bendit, that establishing an impartial monitoring mechanism would serve the interests of both parties.
As Commissioner Patten said in his last speech to this House, 'What is past, is past' .
What we are interested in is the future and the immediate future.
In our own interests and for the sake of coherence with the spirit of our unreserved commitment to the fight against terrorism, we must play as active a role as possible in saving the peace process, while respecting the legitimate rights of the region' s peoples.
The best way to protect both Israeli and Palestinian citizens is to re-establish a proper border between the two peoples.
Mr Solana, Mr Patten, you must state this quite clearly.
This is the urgent message that all of Europe' s representatives should be conveying.
I believe we should open a Commission office in Tehran as soon as possible.
Surely Iran is part of the solution rather than part of the problem - a peaceful society in a violent region.
I thank our Commissioner and our High Representative and their staff for all their work.
Mr President, Israeli Premier Ariel Sharon's recent remark that he regrets not having killed Yasser Arafat in Lebanon in 1982 is unforgivable.
The fact that the Americans are indebted to us for the solidarity and the support that we provided when they needed it should mean that we are entitled to a reciprocal response from them.
It is frustrating that the United States through its present stance is becoming much more part of the problem than part of the solution.
It is surreal because Mr Arafat is under great pressure to combat terrorism but, at the same time, Israel - and we are allowing it - is bombing and thereby destroying the resources available to the Palestinian Authority for combating that terrorism.
Mr President, this debate has focused largely on the situation in the Middle East.
Taken together one might think that these matters already constitute a breach of EU conditions.
Thank you, Mr President, talking about the conflict in the Middle East means being faced with the substantial dilemma of striking a balance between Israel' s right to safe borders and a viable Palestinian state.
Nobody appears to be able to play an objective role in getting the peace process back on track.
The European Union should be prepared to postpone a certain form of cooperation with Israel in this context, but not to rule such postponement out in respect of the Palestinian Authority either, should it transpire that the fight against terrorism is not being taken seriously.
I would particularly like to know what implications these statements by President Bush have for the policy of the European Union, particularly with regard to Iran.
In my opinion, this will be an important issue in the time to come, also in connection with the fresh debate on the military superiority of the United States and the military weakness of the European Union.
We must, however, also turn our attention to other matters because now we have a crisis in the Middle East and tension on the borders of the European Union.
I would stress once again that the difficulty of the problem is not the absence of a mechanism to provide a solution to the crisis.
Two questions have been put very clearly and I would like to answer them before I make my final remarks.
Several countries - some are members of the European Union - state that their intelligence has established a link.
This joint effort is being carried out every day on the ground by representatives of the European Union, of the United States, of the Secretary-General of the UN and of the Russian Federation.
We also need a change in both societies, and not only in the authorities that lead the countries.
This is a terrible blow to trust and confidence among people.
It is necessary to continue the negotiations, to continue talking, to continue moving the political scene - the centre of gravity has to be politics.
It is part of our history, no doubt about that, but it is also part of our future, the future of this European Union, of the countries in an enlarged European Union and of the countries of the Mediterranean and the Middle East, which are part of our family.
The debate is closed.
It is not sufficiently beneficial for consumers, particularly where they wish to exercise their right to a single market.
When they select their distributors, vehicle manufacturers can choose between a selective distribution system and a distribution based on territorial exclusivity, but they can no longer combine the two systems.
In both cases, the rights linked to the single market will be much, much better safeguarded than at present.
In an exclusive distribution system, distributors will be assigned to a specific geographical area such as a city, within which no other distributor will be permitted to open a showroom or carry out sales activities.
These resellers could be supermarkets, for example, and they would exploit the price differentials to buy vehicles in countries where the prices are lower and then sell them in Member States where prices are higher, thus helping to create a genuine single market.
We therefore deemed it necessary to adopt a more radical approach in order to bring about greater integration of the markets, making it genuinely possible for consumers to buy vehicles abroad.
A vehicle distributor must be able to open sales or delivery outlets closer to consumers' places of residence, including in other Member States.
On a practical level, this means, for example, that an Amsterdam Volkswagen dealer could open a showroom in the United Kingdom and sell Volkswagen Golfs there at the Dutch retail price, which is 23% lower than the British price.
This, of course, would create the necessary market conditions for reducing the currently considerable price differentials of motor vehicles in the European Union.
The draft regulation makes multi-brand selling much more simple.
The only permissible constraint is that the different brand models are displayed in different areas of a showroom so as to avoid confusion between brands.
Distributors will be able to opt to provide after-sales services themselves, as dealerships currently do, or they will be able to subcontract to one or more authorised repairers.
These repairers must observe all the quality requirements set by the vehicle manufacturers.
If the distributor does not agree with the grounds given, it can have recourse to a mediator or a court.
The new draft regulation seeks to ensure that consumers have a genuine choice and that they can have recourse to both authorised repairers and independent operators.
In the interests of the safety and reliability of all vehicles - we have placed great emphasis on this objective - we have to ensure that all operators can compete with each other in all sectors without this affecting the quality of the service provided, which must continue to be of the highest level.
The new regulation allows all vehicle manufacturers to set quality requirements which must be respected by all repairers who wish to be authorised repairers.
Any discrimination between official repairers which are part of the network and independent repairers is therefore unacceptable.
The whole process should be concluded before next summer.
If we want the European citizens genuinely to identify with European integration, we cannot afford to let such a key element of the single market as that in motor vehicles to continue not to be a single market, for it would be unfair to the consumer.
It will create problems for us and we must discuss this.
Such is my first important question in this context.
Mr President, I should also like to thank Mr Monti for coming to Parliament today and making a very clear statement on a very complex issue.
I should like to raise two points with him.
As you know, we keep regular track of the convergence or non-convergence of prices.
The same problems exist in the UK: 52 models examined in the UK are still more expensive.
If we did not have specific rules for this industry competition-wise, the industry would fall under the application of the block-exemption regulation on vertical restrictions.
It would allow the industry to use very similar distribution agreements to those permitted at present, on which our evaluation report was pretty negative.
But here the particular nature of the situation has led us to firmly believe that a sector-specific rule would be more appropriate.
As for supermarkets, for example, I can only say that, during the lengthy consultation process undertaken by the Commission, no supermarket or association speaking on its behalf directly expressed a desire to sell cars on a regular basis.
Therefore, given the removal of the localisation clause, I would ask you, Commissioner, whether you think there should be a transitional period for small distribution companies, bearing in mind the investments made or under way in this sector, which have a great influence on the level of employment.
You have given the example of the distributor in Amsterdam who could open a branch in London.
It is true that, in the event of a resolution, they could go to tribunals, but I believe that, in the majority of EU countries - at least, Commissioner, in yours and in mine - the indefinite extension of cases would lead to the bankruptcy of distributors.
Therefore, given that selective distribution is allowed, I would ask you whether, in order to achieve equality of prices between the different countries, it would not be more sensible, for example, to restrict this prohibition of the selective vendor selling exclusively to the final consumer or to other members of the network.
The time frame is already sufficiently structured because, after consultation, the final Commission regulation will be adopted before the summer of this year.
In reply to Mr Berenguer Fuster, the Commission allows selective systems for many products in line with the policy it applies: the draft regulation neither imposes a particular distribution format nor prescribes in detail how agreements should be drafted.
I know that taxes fall within the national competences, but I believe that the Commission is entitled to intervene if competition and internal market regulation are hindered.
In addition, I should like to ask why it is not possible to take a registered car from another Member State to the country where you live.
Commissioner, you have already heard many Members who believe that the approximation of prices must also be achieved by means of fiscal harmonisation, possibly more than by means of this regulation.
We will have to wait and see how it actually works in practice.
Finally, what impact, if any, would this have on guaranteeing on a Europe-wide basis the car which may be bought in another state?
The Commission has a role to play in this.
The draft regulation offers former dealers the opportunity to become official repayers within the manufacturers' network and to locate where they wish.
At any rate we already know that, this draft regulation aside, several manufacturers are planning to restructure and reduce the number of official network dealers in their systems.
The debate is closed.
Information available to the Commission indicates that, in a statement on 10 January 2002 on the early decommissioning of the four reactor blocks at Kozloduy, the Bulgarian Energy Minister mentioned 2008 or 2010 as possible dates for the closure of Blocks 3 and 4.
The Bulgarian Energy Minister's statement did not refer to Blocks 1 and 2.
The situation is that, in the agreement I reached with the Bulgarian government in 1999, we agreed on the decommissioning of Blocks 1 and 2 by 2002, that is this year, and that we would have discussions with the Bulgarian government on the decommissioning of Blocks 3 and 4 in connection with the revision of that country's energy strategy and that a decision on this would be reached before the date originally envisaged.
I must, though, say quite clearly that Bulgaria has not yet come to a formal decision on this matter.
This means that we cannot, of course, complete the energy chapter of negotiations with Bulgaria as long as we do not have a definite decommissioning date set down for Blocks 3 and 4.
The matter is clear to that extent, and, on the Commission's behalf, I now repeat that the decommissioning of Blocks 1 to 4 of the nuclear power station at Kozloduy in accordance with the agreement entered into is an absolutely indispensable requirement for the conclusion of accession negotiations with the Republic of Bulgaria.
Work has begun on the decommissioning of Blocks 1 and 2 and the right administrative and technical conditions are in place.
I do not share the concern expressed by some that the decommissioning of reactor Blocks 1 to 4 will result in major economic difficulties, particularly as regards competitiveness.
In order to avoid misunderstandings, I have to again tell you, Mr Trakatellis, in the clearest terms that there is as yet no binding promise by the Bulgarian government that Blocks 3 and 4 will be decommissioned by 2006; there is, rather, an agreement that the decision on decommissioning these blocks will be taken earlier than the Bulgarian government originally planned.
Nor is the issue of energy efficiency in the Balkans and Bulgaria's position in the energy market a matter within the immediate remit of the Commission.
I can only reiterate our estimation that the decommissioning of Blocks 1 to 4 will not result in an energy shortage in Bulgaria, where there is, on the contrary, substantial overcapacity.
This was a political condition for the opening of negotiations with Bulgaria, one that was laid upon us by the Member States.
The Commission did not set any enquiries in motion, but performed its political function of achieving a result with the Bulgarian government as regards compliance with a political condition for the beginning of negotiations.
Madam, much as I regret it, the Commission bears no responsibility for the safety standards at nuclear power stations anywhere in the world, not even in Bulgaria.
I must also make it clear that the Commission is not in a position to take on any responsibility as we are not in a position either to have any influence on how this nuclear power station is operated.
That means that we are dealing here with a very long-term operation, which may, under certain circumstances, also involve long-term commitments or burdens on the Community budget.
As the author is not present, Question No 38 lapses.
Progress in this area is being watched within the framework of the Commission' s Internal Market Strategy for Services, approved in November 1999.
The evaluation was last carried out in April.
The Conference of European Ministers responsible for SME policies to be held on 23 February in Aranjuez, in Spain, will be reporting on the conclusions of the report for 2002, and they will be submitted to the European Council when it convenes in Barcelona.
Six events have been planned for this year in different Member States and there is to be a large-scale conference in Brussels.
The Enterprise Directorate-General will be actively involved in drawing up this plan and drawing on the experience gained from the business impact assessment system and the test project connected with it.
When our report appears this week on the SME Charter it will present a picture of what has been done in Member States.
The 2002 report evaluates actions reported by the Member States and the Commission in favour of small businesses.
The conclusions of the report will be presented to the Conference of European Ministers responsible for SME policies on 23 February and submitted to the European Council.
As regards the efforts of SMEs to adapt their business practices to the global knowledge-based economy, the Commission launched last year the GoDigital initiative for SMEs as part of the eEurope Action Plan.
In some countries this report has received a very positive welcome.
This confirms the relevance of actions such as GoDigital, but also indicates the urgent need to identify obstacles to eCommerce amongst especially small companies as well as consumers.
The communication on the impact of the e-Economy on European enterprises contains proposals to deepen cooperation between all relevant stakeholders to develop a policy agenda for maximising the benefits of the e-Economy for European enterprises, taking into account the needs of SMEs.
The Industry Council endorsed this proposal in December 2001 and invited the Commission and the Member States to intensify the debate on the e-Economy.
For the first time it also contains a legal basis for spectra.
As the author is not present, Question No 42 lapses.
It was 18% in March 2000 and 38% in December 2001 - more than double.
Schools are massively connected but still the number of pupils per on-line PC varies enormously.
The first discussion on a possible new action plan will take place at the informal telecoms council in Vitoria in Spain on 22 and 23 February 2002.
However, my concern is not the work that he has done - for which I commend him very much - but rather, for example, the delays and problems that Member States are experiencing in transposing the electronic commerce directive, passed by this House with great speed.
In Europe comprehensive school systems still work.
Here I hope all Member States will take active measures.
It brings together different operators from different Member States.
There has been huge interest and it is doing fine.
The Commission supports these efforts.
The venture capital market developed very rapidly in 2000, then we saw the difficulties and it went down.
At EU level, the European Investment Funds invested in venture capital funds in various Member States.
Through these efforts the public sector has been playing its role.
So all such measures, an active financial market and public support measures, if there is market failure, will be needed.
Greece is criticised for low employment rates, high youth and female unemployment, and the Commission's recommendations continue along the same lines for 2002 (COM(2001)0512/final).
First, the target of full employment set in Lisbon was a political commitment by leaders of the Member States, not a binding legal commitment.
Except that the political commitment was also highly significant and all the national action plans for employment have been drawn up and submitted on the basis of that commitment.
As far as the third Community Support Framework is concerned, Greece is one of the few Member States which has set quantitative national targets under its national action plan, having announced a target of 61.5% for 2005.
The third Community Support Framework includes a hefty 2.9 trillion drachmas to fund pro-active employment policies and reforms.
The implementation of the third Community Support Framework is a huge challenge if Greece is to introduce the mechanisms needed for employment policy, such as an individualised approach, because the Greek national employment agencies need to be completely overhauled and training mechanisms need to work more efficiently and be geared to regional development objectives.
The Commission is working closely with all the Member States and, as you know, it repeats the guidelines every year so that the Member States can take account of European agreements on the application of employment policies.
Total unemployment in the European Union in 1990 was 7.7%; in 2000 it was 8.4%.
In 1990 unemployment in Greece stood at 6.3%, less than in the Community.
In Ireland, unemployment in 1990 was 13.1%; in 2000 it was 4.4%.
The rate of employment for men is exactly the same as the European average, but there is a huge difference in the rate of employment for women, which is 40% in Greece, compared with a Community average of 56%.
Here too, in comparison with other countries, unemployment is very high among the young in Greece, 29%, mainly because the various types of part-time employment found in numerous countries, including the country you referred to, are counted as full-time jobs.
These are the three main employment policy problems and, according to the national action plan which it has submitted, this is where the Greek government has focused its efforts.
Of course, the Commission will continue to make recommendations where policies have not progressed as the Greek government promised, as it did in September this year and will again next September.
Question No 45 by (H-0008/02): Subject: Employment in Greece According to the Recommendation for a Council Recommendation on the Implementation of Member States' Employment Policies (COM(2001)0512/final), Greece continues to have one of the lowest employment rates in the European Union, and unemployment in Greece has stabilised at 11%, which is considerably above the EU average.
I should like to start, Mr President, with the tables of indicators announced by the Commission in its most recent communication, which will be sent to Barcelona.
This is one of the major challenges of the Greek government's national action plan and the Community Support Framework.
Thank you, Commissioner, you are of course quite right.
Question No 46 by (H-0035/02): Subject: Undeclared work in Greece In 1998, the Commission published a communication aimed at launching a dialogue among the Member States with a view to combating undeclared work which, according to data at the time, accounted for some 15% of the Union's GDP, while in Greece and Italy the figure exceeded 20% of GDP.
The guidelines issued by the Commission in 2001 for 2002 call on the Member States to take measures to combat undeclared work and to encourage registration using a variety of means, such as regulatory measures, incentives, reforms of the tax system, allowances, collaboration with the social partners and special plans for relations between the social partners, between employers and employees.
By which I mean that the Greek authorities have introduced a series of measures dealing mainly with work inspectors, controls carried out by inspectors and the auditing agencies of the various insurance funds have been tightened up and, according to our information, a further 120 work inspectors are to be deployed.
The commitments made by the Greek government in its national action plan also include a series of other measures dealing with allowances, that is, incentives to register low-paid workers, the results of which will not transpire until a later date, once they have been applied.
On 26 February, the Commission is due to present the study started following the 1998 communication to which you refer.
Because undeclared work impacts not just on pension schemes, it also impacts on free competition and, of course, protection for workers, because we are hardly talking high-powered jobs here.
What takes place at European level on this particular issue is collaboration between the Member States, through the guidelines, in which undeclared work is a priority and, naturally, steps have also been taken in countries such as Italy which have serious problems.
My evaluation of the measures taken by the Greek government, which is why I was cautious, is that its reaction bodes well in that it has introduced a series of institutional measures which are now under way, such as integrating immigrants and paying companies incentives for low-paid workers and, once they have been implemented, these institutional reforms should bring in positive results.
As you said, this is a matter in which it is very difficult for the European Commission to intervene.
The registration of companies, which is the top priority for a country as far as its tax system, that is, its revenue is concerned, and as far as its social security system, that is, pensions are concerned, is obviously a priority for the Member States and I do not think that any recommendations are needed along these lines.
Question No 47 by (H-0015/02): Subject: Transfer of unemployment entitlements Under the provisions of Regulation (EEC) 1408/71, employees who are nationals of EU Member States may acquire unemployment benefit entitlements in any Member State.
In 1997 the Commission presented a proposal to the Council to extend the scope of this regulation to workers who are third-country nationals.
The same extension had been included in the larger frame of the Commission proposal of 1998 to modernise and simplify Regulation 1408/71.
There were many disagreements between the Member States.
The main obstacles to progress in this regard had been the lack of agreement on the legal base.
But the difference in the legal base concerned first the Commission's proposal, which was based on the implementation of Articles 42 and 308, and certain Member States which considered that the basis of this proposal could be Article 63.
Our initial EUR 57 m commitment to reconstruction in Afghanistan includes specific provision for this.
In 2001 more than 50% of the projects directed at health, education and refugee care had specific and significant gender components.
The Commission is currently assessing project proposals for the 2002 budget for uprooted people.
The amount envisaged is EUR 24 m.
In the new political situation in Afghanistan the Commission is planning to open an office in Kabul in February or March this year.
ECHO reopened its office at the beginning of last month.
NGOs have access to all beneficiaries, women included, and can employ women as local NGO personnel in medically related programmes.
Secondly, since there are specific risks for women - just today a girl of seven has been sold into marriage by her family in order to deal with hunger and meet their needs - I would like to know whether the Commission intends to create specific funds to prevent this type of violation of women' s rights.
It is also very important to know whether women will manage these funds.
As the author is not present, Question No 53 lapses.
The Commission is now working closely with the Special Coordinator in the preparation of this report.
Two meetings have already taken place: on 11 and 31 January.
In conclusion, work is well in hand.
The proposals he brings forward on 11 March will reflect that awareness of his.
What we have been able to achieve in Serbia, in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and in other countries, is impressive.
I think he will do outstandingly well and he can certainly count on our understanding and support and, I am sure, the understanding and support of Parliament, in the efforts he makes in the future.
This recognises that the Community contribution must be seen as part of the overall donor support in a given country and that a degree of flexibility must be the norm.
The Commission is committed to work towards meeting this benchmark in assistance to the social sectors in all its programmes, including Asia and Latin America.
With a view to honouring this commitment, a number of initiatives will be undertaken.
Second, the establishment during 2002 - and I know this is a point on which the honourable Member has himself laid great emphasis - of a solid statistical basis allowing DAC sectoral classification of programmes and projects from 2002.
A reclassification exercise of all 2001 commitments will be undertaken with a view to enabling comparison to be made.
Finally, the continuation during 2002 of work on the definition of internationally agreed performance indicators and implementation of sector-wide programmes in the social sector.
The delegations will play a key role in drawing up the country strategy papers, which will have to reflect the priorities of our development philosophy and development strategy.
The purpose of providing a better statistical basis for analysing and planning what we are doing is to demonstrate that we are making an effort to achieve the objectives which the honourable Member and I have in common and which are also the objectives of my distinguished colleague, Commissioner Nielsen.
It will take some time before we achieve the sort of figures that all of us want to see, but we are headed in the right direction.
Question No 56 by Olivier Dupuis (H-0007/02): Subject: International Criminal Court For several years now the establishment of the International Criminal Court for war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity has been a priority of EU foreign policy.
As for his question, the European Union attaches a great deal of importance to the ratification of the Statute of the International Criminal Court.
The adoption of the common position of 11 June 2001, which aims to promote early ratification of the Statute and the swift establishment of the ICC, and the ratification of the Statute by 13 Member States underline our commitment to this objective.
The European Union's commitment to this issue is also reflected in the level of Community funding given to NGOs working for ratification.
Since 1995, this has reached almost EUR 7m under the European initiative for democratisation and human rights.
In addition, in line with the common position, the European Union regularly raises the question of ratification in the framework of political dialogues with accession countries.
Moreover, the Central and Eastern European countries associated with the European Union and the associated countries Cyprus and Malta aligned themselves with the EU declaration at the Sixth Committee of the UN General Assembly in November 2001, which sought to encourage a swift start to the ICC.
In January 2002, they also declared that they shared the objectives of the EU common position on the International Criminal Court and undertook to ensure that their national policies conform to that common position.
The Council of Europe has also called on all its members to ratify or adhere to the ICC's Statute as soon as possible.
I simply wish to say to Commissioner Patten that I knew he had informed us that he would miss some of the debate.
Having said that, politically, we are at odds on the matter, but I believe we will have the opportunity to discuss this again later.
Pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, Questions Nos 57 to 83 will be replied to in writing.
on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation on administrative cooperation in the field of value added tax (COM(2001) 294 - C5-0269/2001 - 2001/0133(COD)) and 2.
on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Council Directive 77/799/EEC concerning mutual assistance by the competent authorities of the Member States in the field of direct and indirect taxation (COM(2001) 294 - C5-0270/2001 - 2001/0134(COD)) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, VAT fraud is a widespread problem in the European Union, which is unfortunately becoming more common all the time.
We can therefore estimate that VAT fraud costs the EU and its Member States hundreds of millions of euros every year.
Carousel Fraud means the acquisition of goods without paying the VAT as required under the rules of the internal market.
I also support the Commission' s proposal for a directive, in addition to which I propose measures in my report to make direct cooperation between the authorities still more effective and practical.
I therefore wholeheartedly support the Commission proposal, which should be seen as a major step forward in the fight against fraud.
For the same reason, to speed up the exchange of information, that is, more room for manoeuvre should be given to the local authorities with regard to language policy.
The Commission bases its proposal on Article 95 of the Treaty, which means the co-decision procedure for Parliament.
I agree with the Commission' s view that this proposal should concern administrative cooperation only and must be dealt with according to the procedure laid down in Article 95.
The Council has always rejected this view, formerly, and changed the legal basis to Article 93 or 94, which only require Parliament to be consulted.
I would also like to hear comments from the Commissioner in connection with this choice of legal basis and any new information he might have for Parliament regarding how the case regarding the legal basis for the proposal for a directive on the recovery of claims is proceeding in the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
The report constitutes yet further evidence of the competence for which our young colleague has, in a short time, acquired a reputation in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, as also for the industriousness shown by the quality of her work.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats says 'yes' to improved cooperation by the authorities against VAT fraud, although we of course emphasise that we are not only opposed to VAT fraud but also every form of fraud.
In any case, 250 instances of it were uncovered in the first half of 1998, with losses amounting to over EUR 500 million.
The second issue, which is related to the first, as an instrument in combating fraud - is that of cooperation between public authorities to find a solution to, or at least, to reduce, the level of fraud previously mentioned.
Having said this, I would like to make two additional comments with regard to the content of this report.
I would like to draw your attention to this because the reason we are having to discuss this report and the fraud it deals with today is that, to a large extent, we continue to maintain this provisional VAT system - set up by intra Community operations - which places a burden on a series of operations in the country of destination without having those border controls that were maintained by the system in place before the entry into force of the single market.
In these cases, it is not really a matter of fiscal law or tax law itself, in the strict sense of the word, reserved for national parliaments and, as a consequence, for unanimity, but of an issue that can be dealt with, as is happening now, by the codecision procedure.
Incomprehensible tax laws and the tax burdens arising from them are, though, always or automatically seen by the taxpayer as unfair.
We should, therefore, be thinking, first of all, not only in terms of how we get the different authorities to work together better, but also about how we can simplify the system that makes fraud possible in the first place.
Madam President, I have no doubt that the existing arrangements for cooperation in the area of VAT fraud are inadequate in the context of the evolved single market.
VAT fraud costs the EU and its Member States several hundred million euro each year.
Although measures have been taken over the last few years to come to terms with it, VAT fraud is still a considerable problem today.
I agree that the best way to tackle this ever-increasing fraud is to have close administrative cooperation between Member States.
By allowing direct contacts between local offices, the fight against fraud will become less bureaucratic and more effective.
However, let me sound a note of caution in relation to the efforts inherent in this Commission proposal to base this measure on Article 95 of the Treaty.
Article 95 specifically states that it may not be used for fiscal provisions.
With respect, I do not agree - my country does not agree - that by stealth the present position should be eroded.
Mrs Kauppi has referred to the concerns regarding the legal basis in her attached explanatory memorandum.
In the past where conflicts have arisen in relation to the legal basis, the Council has always rejected the Commission's view and has changed the legal basis to Article 93 or 94.
As pointed out by my colleague, it did this most recently on the proposal for a directive on the mutual assistance for the recovery of claims.
The Commission has decided to take the Council to the Court of Justice in this matter and Ireland will be joining the action on the side of the Council.
I see no need for a translation: nobody would ask for a translation of information that would permit the arrest of Jack the Ripper and I do not see why things should be different in the field of taxation.
But no, it is about administrative cooperation.
It is not designed to change in any way the obligations of taxpayers or the rules governing the application of that legislation, but rather to gear administrative cooperation to the challenges of the internal market.
In taking that article as the legal basis the Commission is consistent with its proposal for Regulation No 218/92 as well as with its proposal to modify the recovery directive.
I add to that that the Commission is extremely pleased that we have settled the matter of the so-called Lamfalussy proposal and that we can now continue with the work ahead.
More to the point, the Commission is of the opinion that this proposal is an important element of the new VAT strategy to improve the operation of the VAT system within the context of the internal market.
The intra-Community market is today seriously affected by organised VAT fraud, where professional fraudsters abuse the exemption mechanism of the VAT system.
Tackling that kind of fraud requires rapid and efficient cooperation between the tax administrations of the different Member States.
In addition, cooperation is complicated owing to the existence of two legal instruments in this area with different scopes and different rules.
She said that when French and Spanish controllers - for example - in a border area want to communicate, at the moment this communication has to pass via Madrid and Paris.
It is obvious that direct communication between inspection staff will make cooperation faster and more effective.
Thirdly, the proposal aims to intensify the exchange of information between tax administrations in order to combat fraud more effectively.
But given the fact that examination of this proposal is ongoing in the Council, and given the Commission' s strong desire to address this issue in a timely manner, I believe that the most appropriate course of action at this time is for the Commission not to formally accept the amendments put forward by Parliament, but to endeavour to take them on board, as much as possible, during the negotiations in the Council.
In particular, as regards the issue of electronic communication, I would like to stress that much of the information covered by this regulation is not available in electronic format, and therefore, in practice, cannot be exchanged by electronic means.
But the Commission takes the view that the arrangements under which Member States should waive translations should be determined in an implementing regulation, binding for all Member States, and not individually by each Member State.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
However, I have just heard that I am permitted to speak for eight minutes, as my group is not especially interested in the subject.
If the European Union wants to be the world's most competitive region, that means that its enterprises must be the most competitive enterprises in the world.
It also means that we need the European Union's ambience to be both favourable to competition and capable of handling it.
Thus far, it is right that our task should be to roll back state aid to enterprises as far as possible, and our task must also be - if we actually have to grant aid at all - to direct it increasingly towards horizontal goals.
Some of us do that from time to time in this House, and I will give an example of it later.
Aid has a vital place among the political instruments, as it can be used to correct failings in the market and reduce differences in standards of living between regions of the European Union.
I believe that the Commission has a far more broad and open mind - with apologies to Mr Evans, and Mrs Riis-Jørgensen - than has the present conservative-liberal majority in this House.
Now, I will be giving you the opportunity to make good this error tomorrow.
There are 22 paragraphs in this report.
I have consistently said to Commissioner Monti that the industry is looking for guidance here.
I hope that Commissioner Monti will feel after mature reflection that, given the difficulties with the United States of America, that is something he could support.
The Commission was not immediately willing to alter its proposal, which was based upon the results worked out in what is known as the TBR report, drawn up by the Commission every six months.
Naturally, I am concerned that the Commission' s next TBR report will conveniently demonstrate that we need aid for more types of ship than those cited in the Commission' s original proposal.
This commitment must be kept to.
We in Parliament have time and time again called for action that would guarantee greater transparency in this area.
Data on state aid is still provided only in the form of total sums.
I greatly welcome the support pledged by the committee with this report for a rigorous state aid control policy.
I essentially agree that a careful reassessment of the relationship between regional policy and competition policy must be carried out for the period after 2006.
What is more, the state aid register supplements the scoreboard, providing more detailed information in a less aggregate form on each case of aid, specifying the sectors and businesses concerned.
Concerning the steel industry, may I remind Parliament that the Commission has already expressed its intention that strict rules on state aids to this sector be maintained after the expiry of the ECSC Treaty.
The European Parliament, Member States, the ECSC Consultative Committee, as well as steel companies and their associations, have also requested strict rules for state aids to the steel industry.
Indeed, a report is being produced concerning the situation of another market segment, for which a procedure has been started.
This means that state aid to make good damage caused can be accepted - though as you know, this has been applied by the Commission in a very stringent and cautious and restrictive manner - concerning the four days following 11 September, as a result of the closure of US air space, and measures to cover the excess costs of insurance in air transport for one month or if needed to the end of the year.
Finally, let me once again stress how grateful the Commission is for the interest of Parliament in the state aid policy.
Madam President, they could not fly for four days after 11 September and now they want to have a monopoly for more than a year.
Everything can be blamed on 11 September.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
The problem is that there is a risk of disease if an animal eats other animals of the same species.
If individual Member States do not meet their Treaty obligations, the EU must have powers to intervene by taking measures to guarantee food safety - an issue that we also address in a number of points in the report.
Diseases of this kind are dangerous to both animals and human beings, and it is incredibly important that we in the EU devote adequate resources to maintaining the fight against them at a high level.
Madam President, Commissioner Byrne, this being the fifteenth year since cases of the disease first appeared, one might think we had done everything necessary and had got a grip on BSE.
We see here, Commissioner Byrne, that the feed ban is evidently inadequate.
They are the responsibility of the Member States.
The Member States have, on several occasions, shown how hard they are finding it to manage this crisis.
Our objective is food safety.
We will only be able to achieve this objective by means of better coordination of the policies implemented in each State, and through greater harmonisation of screening procedures and of the fight against the disease.
Therefore, this obligation to public health does not allow any relaxation of rigour in terms of implementing the precautionary principle and the principle of zero tolerance, respecting the ban on feeding animals with animal meal, and the destruction of existing stocks of such meal.
I should like to conclude, Madam President, by reminding you that, in this field, it is crucial that the Commission is able to put a number of sanctions in place and that it ensures that the necessary inspections are made by the Food and Veterinary Office.
Community legislation must be implemented more systematically and must be implemented in all the Member States in the same way.
Madam President, the Commissioner is in danger of hearing the same speech many times in different languages.
We certainly do not know enough about its incidence in all the Member States of the Community.
I do not mind that, but I believe that nothing should subtract from the responsibility of the individual Member States to ensure that their testing and external controls are effective and are carried through.
There is no proof that testing animals at 24 months is foolproof.
On the contrary, animals can develop BSE after 24 months.
The 30-month threshold currently imposed seems to be working.
Meat under 30 months can now be exported from the UK and it is true to say that it has proved to be a safe product for the consumer.
The whole UK flock was nearly wiped out last year because of the discovery of BSE in sheep.
However, we must now concentrate on the future and work on a policy and strategy to undo the damage to the food chain.
We must regain consumer confidence by producing a policy that will embrace all aspects.
Such is the most significant statement in the White Paper on Food Safety.
Madam President, BSE crystallises the fears and the doubts of both consumers and producers: a considerable fall in the consumption of beef and a more than 20% fall in the price of produce.
Europe, which is largely responsible for this tragic health crisis, must learn the lessons from it, particularly with regard to the failings that have occurred.
How, for example, is it possible that the list of specific risk material varies from one State to another?
The fall in the number of farms clearly illustrates the professional crisis affecting young farmers.
If, as we are told, society has opted for quality, it must stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers in this process.
It has become crucial to launch information campaigns to reopen dialogue and to finally restore confidence between consumers and producers.
Incidentally, the special purchases programme, set up by the Commission is about to be abolished, on 31 March, and according to Agenda 2000, the intervention mechanism for beef and veal is due to end on 30 June 2002.
Instead, we feel that at a time when the BSE epidemic is at very different stages in the various Member States, it is the vigilance of the States themselves that provides the bests results.
The number of BSE cases has steadily fallen by 40% per year to reach fewer than 1000 cases last year, whereas in 1992, there were 36 000.
In France, where the epidemic is more recent and where systematic screening over the last eighteen months seemed to initially increase the number of cases, there has been a slight decrease since the end of 2000.
The other countries affected have a lower rate of prevalence and also appear to be in control of the situation.
With regard to conclusion No 27, which calls for a reform of the CAP to tackle this problem, I would say that the CAP deals with a great deal more than food safety alone and that this safety is sufficiently complex to be addressed within the reform of the CAP.
It is therefore possible for new cases of the serious Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease to emerge, against which we are still powerless to do anything.
On the other hand, we can also state that, by the compulsory removal of specific risk material, a guarantee is put in place that the carrier of the disease no longer ends up in the food chain.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is using the Olsson report not only to take up a position on the current BSE situation, but also, in particular, to look into the future.
As a farmer myself, and someone who had a beef herd, I can testify to the wholesale damage and destruction that BSE has done - not only to the beef industry in my own country, but also in Member States throughout the Union.
So I welcome his efforts in fighting BSE.
I welcome any moves that will strengthen the efforts already made in the UK and by the Commission to stamp out BSE.
However, the report also raises some serious questions that are to be addressed if we are to maintain the efforts to improve food safety.
BSE is not a contagious disease and cannot be spread between cattle.
I ask Commissioner Byrne to review the whole slaughter policy for BSE in the EU.
In one recent case, beef over 30 months from a plant in Cork was shipped illegally for processing and then resale within the UK.
But I call on the Commission and other Member States to ensure that their own authorities are as vigilant against this dangerous trade.
I am not seeking to apportion blame in any way, but if we wish to see the farming industry - particularly the beef industry - flourish in Europe, we must all shoulder the responsibility to enforce the rules.
I call upon the Commission to take a more robust attitude to the enforcement of this regulation.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report focuses principally on public health and food safety.
I welcome the strict prescription of effective tests for BSE in all the Member States, and also the demand that the age for testing be reduced to 24 months.
Basically, there are some Member States which have been less diligent in enforcing precautionary rules and, above all, bans, over the past two years.
I therefore feel that the most important part of the Olsson report is precisely its loud call to governments to enforce the rules properly and thereby restore the confidence of the citizens, whether they are consumers or farmers, with an adequate information campaign and, most importantly, with sufficient support not least for those who are the direct victims of the tragedy: the farmers.
Madam President, Commissioner, it is, I believe, beyond dispute that public health and food safety are matters of importance to all of us, producers every bit as much as consumers.
In the meantime, I advocate testing for BSE from 24 months.
He, too, says 'for the foreseeable future' . 'For the foreseeable future' means, for me, that the future may perhaps find us back on a better road ahead.
A lot was done last year to bring BSE under control and this brought results: for example, consumer confidence in beef is starting to return.
Ever since the first case of BSE occurred, Parliament has always very closely observed and discussed the steps taken at both European and national level to deal with the crisis.
Tests should continue to be carried out at 30 months in order to obtain secure results.
I therefore also support those amendments that provide for this.
The problems of recycling should be dealt with in another report.
His extensive experience in this area is evident from the detail and the high quality of this report, and I thank him for that.
The recommendation to reduce the age of testing of bovines to 24 months is an example of this.
Almost eight million tests were carried out last year on healthy animals aged over 30 months.
The youngest positive case in these animals was aged 41 months.
The question of financial penalties in the case of fraud or serious malfunctioning of a national control system is being considered in this context.
Finally, the continued uncertainty over the possible presence of BSE in sheep is also of concern, and many of you referred to this.
This will provide a much better picture of the potential problem facing the Community if the presence of BSE in natural conditions is ever confirmed in sheep.
Testing for BSE has been introduced for all healthy animals aged over 30 months and for at-risk and casualty animals over 24 months.
Regulation No 999/2001 on TSEs was finally agreed and entered into force on 1 July 2001.
It appears that while there has been some progress, further important efforts are still required to achieve full compliance in these countries.
I also intend to raise the matter in the meeting of the Agriculture Council with the candidate countries scheduled for next month.
In the UK there is now testing of all bovines born between August 1996 - the date of MBM ban - and the end of 1997.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have now been waiting for ten years, since the Rio de Janeiro Conference, for this moment to arrive.
Nevertheless, the alternative to this small step would be incomparably worse: without the political agreement reached in Marrakech, we would have to waste another ten years in negotiations on drawing up a new Protocol.
However, in addition to this environmental message that demands that we act, approving the Kyoto Protocol also sends out other political signals that are worth highlighting.
Secondly, the European Union has demonstrated its capacity for leadership and, in this particular instance, I wish to congratulate Commissioner Wallström on the admirable way in which she has exercised this leadership.
Nevertheless, the lack of commitment by the vast majority of the Member States is still a matter of serious concern and the situation is very worrying in some sectors, such as transport, in which it is predicted that emissions will increase by 50% in the next ten years.
This would basically be an attempt to resolve the problem by cutting emissions in industry and in the energy sector without tackling the transport or civil construction industries.
By avoiding applying the policy to some sectors, Member States would not only be wasting an opportunity for technological change but would also run up a much higher reduction bill for the future.
This will only be possible if we introduce certain measures that are considered to be consensual, such as the production of renewable energies, energy efficiency and public transport, in addition to clearly unpopular measures such as ending subsidies to the fossil fuel industry, an energy tax and a tax on carbon dioxide emissions in the transport sector.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the presentation of his report, and also for his commitment to climate protection in recent years.
I thank all those who have played a part in this.
The magnitude of the task and the pettiness of the discussions between the Member States about this first step - which is, after all, a very modest one - is shown if we work on the basis that the industrialised countries need to reduce by over 50% in order for the developing countries to have any kind of chance of achieving some sort of prosperity for themselves.
India produces a tonne of CO2 per head of the population, as against the Member States of the European Union with about 10 tonnes on average.
The Kyoto Protocol is only an initial step and must be followed by many others.
I had really intended to begin by parodying a well-known Conservative politician in Sweden who once said that he was not only a Hallander but also a European.
I am proud to be able to say that Parliament has now concluded its debate on the Kyoto Protocol, and I look forward to the Council' s also being able to ratify it in March.
Hopefully, the Council will do the same, which on 4 March will first need to iron out a minor Danish issue, but I feel confident.
As far as the content is concerned: 8% less in Europe and 5% less in the industrialised world, is far from good enough.
This will hopefully be done before the Rio Plus 10 Summit meeting in Johannesburg.
Like Bush senior, Bush junior is in two minds whether he should go to Johannesburg.
Last week, we were in Washington with a small delegation, and there are indications that the United States is actually under pressure to change its attitude.
Finally, the most important and most difficult issue is to persuade the developing countries to come onboard in due course.
I think that today we are all aware of the significance of the Kyoto Protocol, the meaning of climate change and its associated effects, such as the submergence of islands, the destruction of coastline, the massive displacement of millions of people and the loss of biodiversity.
It is also true that, from 1990 to 1999, greenhouse gas emissions were reduced in Europe, but it must be said that this is due, to a large extent, to two countries in particular, for very specific reasons.
This is an example that other countries should follow, to be able to reach, in September, the figure of 55 countries needed to ratify the Protocol, which account for over 55% of all greenhouse gas emissions.
There is a cultural significance to this, for - if I am right - Europe would be assuming cultural leadership on an important issue for the first time since the Second World War.
In the past, we always followed the Americans, trailing them by five to ten years.
Some have already referred to that.
Parliament is really doing its utmost now to see that the Kyoto Protocol will be in force when the meeting on sustainable development is held in Johannesburg in September.
It may actually be, as my country' s Minister of the Environment has said in this connection, that the USA will become the last open-air museum of the old technology unless it joins in these efforts.
Now we have before us the task of implementing the Kyoto Agreement in practice in the Community.
This spring the European Parliament can now participate with determination in drafting the rules of this directive on emissions trading.
Madam President, Commissioner, as Mr Moreira da Silva stated, on 4 March the Kyoto Protocol will be submitted for ratification to the Environment Council.
This puts all EU Member States, and this is particularly true if we are able to get the United States to sit around the negotiating table, in a position of urgent need to fulfil each and every one of the provisions laid down in the Protocol, unless we want to suffer total ridicule and have our reputation in international politics tarnished.
For some years, the EU has of course advocated that the Kyoto Protocol should come into force at the World Summit on Sustainable Development to be held in Johannesburg in September of this year.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
This is why I regret that the European Parliament was not involved in drawing up these objectives, was not consulted and can therefore now only react to the programme which the Commission has in mind for developing the objectives.
Having said that, I do agree with the goals which the Commission is formulating: increasing the quality and effectiveness of education; facilitating access to education; and opening up education and training systems to the world.
Unfortunately, the Commission report mainly refers only to the first two objectives.
The Commission is thinking of education too much in terms of the economy and the labour market.
In other words, it mainly wants to educate people in their role as economic players.
When we talk about a future Europe, when we talk about a stable Europe, a Europe with social cohesion, then education has a role to play in that field too.
Education in my own country, the Netherlands, is in crisis, in my view.
Lifelong learning is important when we talk about improving access to education for all, not only for young people, but also older people, not only for healthy people, but also for those with a handicap, and not only for the native population, but also for foreign people.
With a growing, open internal market and with a society which is becoming ever more multicultural, the importance of a knowledge of languages is growing.
Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to emphasise the importance of this report, which underlines the fact that the role of education does not consist merely of preparing young people for employment - even if employment also underpins society and is a means of gauging inclusion and economic and social reproduction.
Consequently, the gap is continually increasing between a growing number of European citizens and what I would call the world of money.
We must, therefore, urgently discuss the issue of the continuous assessment of the European social model and of the price that we are prepared to pay to produce this social cohesion, this citizenship.
In this context, we must do everything we can to ensure that the decision of the Lisbon European Council, confirmed by the Stockholm European Council - which, in strategic terms, places economic growth, better employment and greater social cohesion on an equal footing - becomes a reality for all and that finally, everyone, without a single exception, has access both to the social skills required by citizens and the professional skills required by economic producers.
I feel that it is important - as the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has also pointed out - that this report should address the issue of education not just in terms of professional training, of the development of skills which will increase our citizens' chances of finding high quality work, but also in terms of more general education, of which school education is part in a wider sense, directing it towards a humanistic culture which - although it does not directly provide professional skills - certainly achieves that task of social cohesion which is our goal.
The same may be said of the report' s focus on equal opportunities for all citizens and the possibility that European Community action might remove those gaps, those divergences and distances which, in our society, still divide those who have skills, who have access to a computer and information technology, for example, from those who are still excluded from this world.
These are the main principles of the Martens report and I feel that Parliament cannot fail to support them.
To this framework we need to add a top priority action plan to assess and intervene with appropriate, effective tools in the tensions which can develop in the worlds of education and work where there are cases of discrimination, with the common desire to fight racism and intolerance.
Madam President, I welcome the report on the Commission communication on the concrete objectives of education and training systems.
I also agree that companies have to play a key role in training students and employees.
However, before submitting the report we should pay attention to the following points.
There seems to be a gap between the proposals in this report and the progress made by the Commission and its expert group so far.
My understanding is that the Commission has already started its work on social inclusion and reset its goals on the Leonardo da Vinci programme by, for example, including older people and disabled people within its scope.
In addition to that, one should not neglect the efforts made by the Commission on cooperation with the candidate countries at all levels.
We should also underline the importance of encouraging increased integration of European Union, Member States and regional initiatives in order to make efficient use of the relatively small budget for education and training systems.
In this respect I would suggest better cooperation between the different kinds of funding and an exchange of best practice, together with better dialogue between the supranational, national and regional decision-makers within the Community.
Parliament's report should not forget to underline that.
We have agreed on the following common objectives: firstly, increasing the quality of our education systems; secondly, facilitating the access of all to education and training systems; and thirdly, opening up education systems to the world.
The proposal will be discussed at the Council meeting on 14 February.
In the future too, we shall have the opportunity to work more with Parliament and other EU institutions, as well as with international organisations such as the OECD and the Council of Europe.
Together, we must obviously also ensure that the candidate countries are involved in the cooperation process, and preparations for all this will be made before the next meeting of the European Council in Barcelona.
Thank you, Commissioner.
That concludes the debate.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon. (The sitting was suspended at 12.10 a.m.)
