Member of the Commission. - Mr President, on this issue I had exhaustive discussions with my colleagues on the authorisation of the use of AMT substances as a decontamination measure to clean the surface of poultry carcases, during the college meeting of 28 May.
As you know, the possibility of removing surface contamination with substances other than potable water was approved by Council and Parliament in 2004 in the hygiene regulations.
The scientific opinions allow us to proceed with a proposal for authorisation, but not at any price.
Pursuant to the scientific opinions, a number of risk-management conditions had to be formulated.
I do not actually understand why the Commission persisted in tabling these proposals on 28 May.
The pressure from the United States must have been enormous.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, on behalf of the Union for Europe of the Nations Group, I fully support the draft resolution that has been put forward.
In our debates on the situation in agriculture, but also in international trade, we have called numerous times for respect for the principle that requirements must be identical for producers in the European Union and for those entities that export their products onto the European market.
The situation in the poultry industry is very difficult in a number of European countries.
The question is, then, what has led the Commission to give in to pressure from the United States and the multinationals, and what does it get in return for this change in position?
The food production chain is increasingly in the stranglehold of the food multinationals.
The ban on chlorinated chickens for consumption must continue to pertain. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, transatlantic trade is currently worth about EUR 600 billion a year.
I believe that in this specific case, we are faced with a situation where these lines are clearly being violated.
They have invested heavily in order to comply with standards and are subject to no fewer than 70 regulations, directives and other European decisions.
The Commission stands no chance of convincing us that importing 300 000 tonnes of chlorinated chicken, without any compensation, is good news for the European poultry industry.
I am in favour of having warmer relations, but I would rather this did not take place at the cost of the health of many EU citizens. (EL) Mr President, experts in the EU Member States have come out almost unanimously against the Commission's proposal to lift the ban on the import of chlorinated poultry.
The EU must comply with the strict rules on food quality, hygiene and safety.
In my opinion, we need to oppose this request from the Commission. (NL) Mr President, we have already heard a very great deal in this debate and I certainly would not want to repeat it all, but I think that two fundamental issues are at stake here.
The first is fair competition - the level playing field - between European producers and producers from third countries.
In January 2008 a study published in the US magazine Consumer Report revealed a 70% increase in the incidence of zoonosis in chickens treated with antimicrobial processes in the United States, compared to 2003.
The European Union is doing its duty, because it is controlling zoonosis from the start of the production chain, and because it applies the principle that 'prevention is better than cure', which it is following rigorously, at a very high cost to producers and to the industry in the European Union.
Consequently, we must say a categorical 'no' to chlorinated chicken imports. (PL) Mr President, back in April I sent a written question to the Commissioner, in which I firmly objected to the planned admission into the EU market of chemically disinfected chickens from the United States.
The vote will take place on Thursday 19 June 2008.
