In particular, I should like to thank the President of the Italian Republic, Giorgio Napolitano, for the fruitful collaboration that we have established in order to make a success of revising the Treaties.
The German Presidency of the Council is currently working hard to find a solution satisfactory not only to all those countries that rejected the Treaty, but also to the eighteen Member States, constituting the majority by population of the European Union, that have already ratified it.
I am most grateful to the President, Hans Gert Poettering, for this opportunity.
Between now and the 2009 elections, Europe will be playing for its own future.
In a month's time, the European Council will decide on launching an Intergovernmental Conference, at the end of which we must be able to say that we are equal to the commitments that we all adopted together in Berlin on 25 March this year.
It is a question of deciding what Europe needs - what we all need - in order to address the challenges that the world imposes on us.
In October 2004, all the European countries signed a treaty and 18 countries have actually ratified it.
The time has now come to listen to those who have ratified the 2004 treaty, those who have worked hard, including with their own citizens, to stay on that path.
We must therefore start again from October 2004, putting aside the struggles and pauses for reflection of these last two years and thinking seriously and responsibly about our future and that of our children.
To be successful in this, we have to hold faith with a principle that lies at the basis of our existence as the European Union, a principle so fundamental that it defines the very ethics of our being together.
It is the principle whereby, in furthering European integration, it is essential always to make an effort to understand the arguments of the other side and in some way to take them on board.
Well, the document produced in 2004 is good, really good, and it has a broad, Europe-wide reach.
For those of us who believe in the European project, that would be an enormous sacrifice, and a very high price to pay for all those who have ratified it and made a democratic investment in doing so.
I would point out, however, that if the major global challenges can only be addressed at a European level, then the people who want a Europe that is equal to such challenges are the ones who are being genuinely realistic, and not the people who do not want that.
Let us tell our fellow citizens once and for all that in a world that is now a system of continents it makes no sense for a country and its citizens to live outside a political and economic aggregation that is internally strong and externally respected.
I am convinced that we can succeed and that, all together, we must succeed.
Of course, if it proves impossible for all 27 countries to agree, then there will be the problem of how to proceed.
Even now, though, some of Europe's most significant political decisions, such as the euro and the creation of the Schengen area, have been put into practice by just some of the Member States.
Even countries like mine, which have invested unreservedly in the integration of Europe for 50 years, might eventually run out of enthusiasm.
Italy will give the German and, later, the Portuguese Presidency the utmost support to ensure that the European Council of 21 and 22 June and the subsequent Intergovernmental Conference are a success with which all the Member States can identify.
At the same time, Italy is well aware that a compromise is not an end in itself, and that therefore, if we are not convinced by such a compromise, we will not subscribe to it.
Allow me finally to make a strong appeal to the members of our parliaments, the direct representatives of the citizens.
If Europe is in a position to make effective and democratic decisions, we will be able usefully to decide on common policies.
We are only four weeks away from the crucial European Council of 21 and 22 June, which must result in a new Treaty being drafted by the end of the year.
Action goes hand in hand with flexibility because, as you have said, bridges must be built between the 18 countries that said 'Yes', the two that said 'No' and those that have not yet given their opinion.
So it was that they, reluctantly, agreed to our demand for a convention, knowing as they did that what the 15 had hammered out would not be enough for 27.
I would ask, though, whether what was true in the year 2000 - namely that Nice would not be enough for enlargement - has become false in 2007.
There is much in the existing foundational treaties that needs to be changed if this model of success is to survive.
In his novel, 'The Leopard' the Italian author Tomasi di Lampedusa has Tancredi, the nephew of the Prince of Salina, tell his uncle, in splendid words, that 'everything must change if everything is to stay as it is'.
With President Napolitano you have turned the osservato speciale into a partner speciale.
Your cabinet, with names like Bonino, Amato and Padoa-Schioppa, fills my colleagues and me with confidence.
None is better than our Community method, tried and tested over 50 years.
For now is not the time for apathy or egocentrism.
To belittle the difficulties that exist and which are the cause of the doubts which have until now prevented us from reaching agreement, however, is certainly not the way forward.
Mr President, I believe that when people say to us 'the important role of the MEPs' we should also try to remember in all countries, including our own, that up until now the members of the European Convention, the Italian members, have never been asked to have an exchange of ideas and to make their contributions.
This is what happened in Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice.
We believe that there are two or three conditions that could permit us, Mr Prodi, to escape from this stalemate and we truly hope that the Italian Government will resolutely agree with us on this issue.
There needs to be a strong alliance among the 18 countries that have ratified the Constitution, as well as this Parliament, the Commission and some national parliaments, to resist the trend to dismantle the Constitutional Treaty.
The second condition is that you governments must have the courage to speak to the general public about the choices that must be made and the divisions that exist among you on the future of Europe, and to seek their support.
Indeed, we think that it is only if we face certain governments and certain peoples with a choice of staying in or leaving that they will in the end decide to stand with us.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, I should like to make three brief comments.
We will be able to remind him in particular of the keynote speech he made on this issue on 21 February right here in Strasbourg, entitled 'I want Europe to change'.
I am surprised you had to time to come, given that in Italy you have had 38 Prime Ministers in the last 60 years and it looks as though you may well be on the verge of the 39th.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (FR) Mr President, Prime Minister, the Eurocrats of the Commission and of the Council must have breathed a huge sigh of relief on the evening of 22 April: for them, either Royal or Sarkozy, the UMP or the Socialist Party, were a guarantee that the European Constitution, which had been rejected en masse by two countries in 2005, was going to be put back on track, flying in the face of democracy.
For you, it was better that Sarkozy should have been elected, rather than Royal, since the former wants the Constitution to be ratified by Parliament, while the latter intended to take some account of the popular will.
I firmly believe that the EU needs to reform its institutions and that it needs a new unifying document that would clearly demarcate the scope of authority of the Union and the Member States.
We need a Treaty that is concise, comprehensible and fair, and thus acceptable to our citizens, as well as being, most importantly, a Treaty that is something other that just an amended or trimmed down version of the rejected Constitution.
Prime Minister of Italy. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for this debate, which like all debates in this Parliament has been concise, constructive and frank.
It is precisely this fact that prompted me to make my initial speech; it is precisely in order to regulate this great diversity and breadth of opinions that we have to have rules that allow us to run the European Union, as we have all had.
We are forgetting the long road travelled in organising the Constitutional Treaty; we are forgetting the 18 months of the Convention, the debates, the involvement of the national parliaments and of the European Parliament.
Well, the draft Constitution was already a compromise!
As President of the European Commission, I regretted the fact that some great advances were missing from that treaty.
We realised that our idea of Europe was even stronger, but that, at that time, this was what was permitted by historical circumstances.
I put forward Europe's sense of responsibility to history, to our lives and to those of our children.
Thank you very much, Mr Prodi; the mind of this House is expressed in its applause. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after months of difficulty the initiative by Chancellor Merkel and the election of Nicolas Sarkozy to the presidency of the French Republic have offered Europe new hope.
These words were very clear on a crucial point: we must start again from the draft Constitution ratified by the 18 countries, and not from Nice.
We cannot dismiss a draft Constitution that has been accepted by the vast majority of citizens and that gives precise answers, not vagueness, Mrs Muscardini!
There are many in this Chamber who share my view that the European Union is now in need of wise institutional reform.
I would like to take the opportunity, on this point, to thank all those throughout the world who are working on peace-keeping missions, particularly in Afghanistan, Lebanon and Palestine, starting with the approximately 8 000 Italians.
You spoke of our need for compromises, and that, too, throws up a very pertinent question.
It is for the spirit of the Constitution, too, that we have to fight. (Applause) (IT) My dear Mr Prodi, precisely because I have the same passion as you for Europe, I am convinced that in order to relaunch the constitutional process we need a new impulse of energy based on democracy and rights.
It is the citizens and MEPs that must now take the lead, with a new constitutional mandate entrusted to a European Parliament that has these functions, with the aims of a new text and a European referendum; we need to change the text and the context.
In France and the Netherlands, in democratic referendums, the people said 'no' to the European super state.
For Angela Merkel, and I am afraid for you as a Member of the European Council, the will of the people does not count.
All opinion polls show that whilst the Europeans want to be on friendly terms with the Turks, they do not want a non-European and Islamic country to join our Union.
I should like to finish off by saying to Mr Prodi that the government of my country brought itself into disrepute last week by refusing, for commercial reasons, to allow the Dalai Lama to visit Belgium.
Today, the European Union is made up of 27 Member States, of which 12 are post-communist countries.
The Treaties, dating back 50 years, are non-transparent, written in complicated language and could even be described as obsolete.
It appears essential to adopt a new Constitutional Treaty and new clear rules of the game.
Prime Minister Prodi, I would like to thank you for the trust you placed in Slovakia at a time when she was embarking on what you described as a long journey.
Gordon Brown should insist that he attend the summit alongside Tony Blair and take full responsibility for whatever his Government signs up to.
It is on this issue in particular, Prime Minister, that I urge you to stand firm.
By voting 'no' to the Constitutional Treaty, many French people believed that they were resisting a liberal Europe and thus hoped that that would help us to move towards a social and ecological Europe.
The 'no's have condemned our institutions to deadlock, and I share Prime Minister Prodi's view that we must not throw the baby out with the bath water.
What weight will that Minister carry, however, Mr Prodi, without a genuine European foreign policy?
I am convinced that our fellow citizens understand these challenges and will be able to move this tremendous European project forward. (IT) Mr Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, the process of adopting the European Constitution cannot be reduced to a set of amendments to the existing treaties but must contain important social aspects that are at the moment not present.
You referred to this and I believe that this is one of the examples where Europe can and must play the principal role on the world stage.
To conclude, there is no need for a compromise at all costs, but we need to tackle the real problems affecting millions of citizens.
We will be able to regain the support of the citizens of Europe for the constitutional project if Europe is able to achieve these common goals.
You spoke of being in the forefront, but for us only a refusal to close the doors of Europe will constitute being in the forefront.
Mr President, Mr Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, we clearly do need an efficient and well-ordered European Union that is democratic and close to its citizens.
I therefore call on you, Mr Prodi, to ensure that the European Council also listens to the views of European Union citizens at the forthcoming summit.
Over the coming weeks, we will need to put those convictions into practice, and we wish you, Prime Minister, much success, especially at the summit meeting in Brussels on 21 and 22 June, a month to the day from now.
Others want to listen only to those who said 'Yes' in the 18 countries which have ratified the Constitutional Treaty.
Fortunately, a majority in this House and of the governments of the Member States want to listen to all, to bridge the divergence of views and find a solution capable of being ratified by all 27 Member States.
We cannot stop the constitutional process, because this might lead to serious crisis in the European Union, to the devaluation of European values and to Europe falling behind in a global perspective.
This is why we cannot accept the Constitutional Treaty becoming a political and legal zombie.
