According to the regulation, we have two months in which to deliberate and then come up with a reply.
There is therefore plenty of time for negotiation and for making contacts, and 15 January - when we shall reply - is not too far away.
There is no problem with urgency being granted and we can do it without report and without debate. (Parliament agreed to urgent procedure) Draft Council regulation on specific restrictive measures directed against certain persons and entities with a view to combating international terrorism[COM(2001) 569 - C5-0665/2001 - 2001/0228(CNS)]Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs President.
I am pleased to be able to report that the Council has now accepted the legal base that was being proposed.
We would propose an urgent procedure without report.
Lastly, before the end of the week, the Laeken European Council will take the decision to set up a Convention, which will do the groundwork for the reform of the Treaties and, for the first time, bring together representatives of governments, national parliaments, the European Commission and this House.
With this in mind, as early as January this year, I told you of the Commission's intention to revitalise our method of working together in order to make cooperation between our two institutions even more effective and transparent.
Indeed, it will only be effective if the two legislative bodies - Parliament and the Council - can enter into dialogue with the Commission on a common basis of transparency.
Firstly, from this year on, the work programme will no longer be a catalogue of planned legislation for that year; it will, as you have requested, be a genuine political programme.
This programme, which the Commission hereby undertakes to follow closely, sets out both the priorities for the year in question and the initiatives needed to accomplish them.
I know that some of you were surprised not to receive an annex to the 2002 work programme listing planned legislation, as has been the case in previous years.
However, I want to point out that we listened very carefully to the views many of you expressed in this Chamber on 13 February.
For these reasons, which were also set out in writing by Mrs Fontaine on 10 September, we have replaced the catalogue with the much more reliable instrument of quarterly programming, which is what the College uses to plan its work and of which you will be informed at regular intervals.
The two key dates for this political dialogue will be in February, when I will come to present to you the political priorities approved by the Commission for 2003, and November, when I will come to set out to you the work programme the Commission has adopted on the basis of these priorities.
I shall therefore confine myself to focusing on the areas in which the Union, with a decisive contribution from the Commission, has achieved its greatest successes in 2001: the preparations for the changeover to the euro; the progress made in the enlargement negotiations; relations with the Balkan countries; the dialogue with Russia; the opening of a new round of trade negotiations at Doha; the adoption of a strategy for sustainable development which goes far beyond the mere adoption of a series of specific measures and which will gradually bring us to review all our internal policies; and lastly, the reinvigoration of the process of creating a common European area of justice and security, which has had a particularly high profile since 11 September.
These four major areas are internal security, the euro and economic and social matters, enlargement and, lastly, the Future of Europe debate and the process of reforming the Union' s institutions.
However, the events of 11 September - and you will all understand that any programme must be flexible if it is to deal with unforeseen circumstances - forced us to adopt a seventh.
Therefore, in 2002, the Commission will present a number of measures to combat terrorism and organised crime and to safeguard the security of our citizens.
As I have already had the opportunity to say, when speaking at Bruges on 12 November, improving judicial and police cooperation will lay the foundations for the creation, in the longer term, of an integrated police force to combat organised crime and terrorism.
What would have been the impact of 11 September if we had not had the euro?
Stability is the basis for our future policies and we must safeguard it.
We must, however, consider the need to improve the coordination of the budgetary policies of the countries in the euro zone.
With the introduction of the single currency, our economies have never been as interdependent as they are now.
In two fundamental steps, both completed during the first part of this Commission' s term of office - at Lisbon in March 2000 and at Gothenburg in June 2001 - the Member States undertook to work towards sustainable development that can combine competitiveness, social justice and respect for the environment.
The implementation of the undertakings given at Gothenburg is one of the seven priorities identified for next year.
This will be the case in 2002 and will remain so for many years to come.
This is why, in Barcelona, we will present a communication on the social aspects of the restructuring of companies, aimed at the social partners, as we are convinced that there is a positive correlation between social protection and competitiveness.
Completing the enlargement process and making it a success for the whole of the Union, that has been the Commission's number one priority since it first took office.
It was on 13 October 1999 when, addressing this same House, I called upon the European Council to complete the reforms necessary for enlargement before the end of 2002 and stressed that the Commission was confident that negotiations with the countries fulfilling the accession criteria could be concluded by that date.
This is not only because, as I pointed out just now, we must forge ahead with the negotiations and bring them to a successful conclusion; it is also because we must gradually begin to identify, for each of the common policies, the objectives and instruments made necessary by the new situation of an enlarged Union with new Member States.
In the course of 2002, but even more so in 2003 and 2004 (and the same will apply to our successors in the years after that), we will have to bring about a genuine 'intellectual revolution' .
In preparation for the meeting in Valencia in April, the Commission will table proposals for improving the functioning of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership, particularly in the fields of education and culture.
Also in the course of next year, it will propose measures for stimulating investment, improving cooperation in the field of immigration and strengthening the Union's role in the Middle East peace process.
It is crucial that the dialogue between our two institutions on the issues raised by the White Paper and the ensuing action should continue, and the work programme for 2002 lays down the details of this.
The debate on Europe and on the future has, however, spread well beyond the confines of the White Paper and has taken on a more clearly Constitutional tone.
As early as September 1999, addressing you here in this same Chamber, I insisted that the Intergovernmental Conference to be held in 2000 should adopt a broader agenda, above and beyond the 'Amsterdam leftovers' .
After the essential but undoubtedly minimal agreement reached in Nice, the Commission, along with Parliament, immediately lent its support to the idea of a Convention, something which has now been generally agreed.
In the meantime, a wide-ranging debate on the future of the Union is already taking place in all the European countries, and that debate must be ongoing and must provide input for the work of the Convention.
A major contribution to this discussion has already been made by the Mendez de Vigo and Kaufmann report and by the plenary debate which Parliament held on the topic.
In preparation for the Laeken Council, the Commission presented a communication on 5 December.
As we explained in that document, which is intended merely to provide a few pointers for the debate, the key to the problem lies in renewing and strengthening the Community method.
The extension of majority voting, the procedures for revising the Treaties and the Union's own resources are other issues that also form part of the political debate and will have to be addressed in the near future.
Last year, there was still a great deal of disapproval from Parliament with regard to the Council' s absence during this important debate.
I fully agree with you that the policy of the Council and the Commission must be as coherent as possible.
Our presidency has done this to enable the General Affairs Council to coordinate all activities of the various Council divisions, and thus to guarantee internal coherence and compliance with the Union' s general objectives.
Moreover, the institutions must respect each other' s autonomy.
We will, of course, need to continue to coordinate, as best we can, the action of the various institutions in the European Union in order that specific objectives can be reached.
I am sure you will understand, however, that, as the representative of a presidency that is coming to the end of its term, it is difficult for me to, in effect, put myself in the place of the forthcoming presidencies in presenting the Council' s work schedule for the year 2002.
The presentation of the programme for the forthcoming Spanish Presidency to the European Parliament will no doubt allow this debate to take place and deepen.
With regard to the fight against terrorism and crime, and advances in the security of European citizens after the tragic events of 11 September, it has to be said that, at a European level, every effort has been made to provide an adequate, rapid and coherent response to these issues.
We fully share the objective of offering citizens a high level of protection within an area of freedom, security and justice, and I would like to underline the constructive way in which the Council and the European Parliament have worked together on this matter, with the full cooperation of the Commission.
There is still a considerable amount of work to do and the Laeken European Council will provide a new impetus.
In this respect, the Council monitors this balance between the social, economic and environment-technical indicators.
These indicators are fundamental for the summary report on the strategy on sustainable development which the Commission is to draft for the European Council of Barcelona.
Indeed, progress that has been made since this strategy was laid down by the European Council of Gothenburg in June 2001, will be assessed for the first time on that occasion.
The considerable attention which is being devoted today to the administrative and legal capacity of the candidate countries finds its origin in this concern.
The fact that the number of association agreements is rapidly increasing is proof that this form of partnership is the best way of organising exchanges between our countries.
A fifth Euro-Mediterranean Conference has been arranged for 22 and 23 April 2002 in Valencia.
So, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, these are my thoughts on the Commission' s work programme for 2002.
I think it is fair to say that we share this assessment and I would also like, in this regard, to underline to Members of this House that, to my knowledge, this is the first time that the Presidency-in-Office of the Council has participated in the debate on the Commission' s work programme for 2002.
If the Council pursues a good policy, even if it concerns working methods, then that deserves our appreciation.
You are a Belgian; you represent the Belgian Presidency.
Mr Prodi, you know of course that the political groups in the European Parliament prepare each part-session here in Strasbourg by means of their work in group meetings in Brussels.
Many members were in favour of striking this debate from the agenda.
You yourself said that you are effectively the European government, an idea with which we in our group have a great deal of sympathy.
Mr President of the Commission, when we are setting our agenda during the meeting of political group chairmen, we often hear that Commissioner A, B or C cannot be here in Strasbourg at such and such a time.
If Parliament asks for Commissioners to be here, then they should come, and the excuse that they have other commitments is not acceptable.
We now expect, like you, that next weekend in Laeken the Heads of State and Government will give the Convention an ambitious mandate so as to achieve a really positive reform of the EU institutions.
We recommend that an early start should be made on this work, at the end of February or the beginning of March, so that the Convention can be concluded at the end of 2003 under the Italian Presidency.
It is not acceptable for countries like Hungary to have to wait because other countries are not yet ready.
You mentioned how important stability is for us if we want to make Europe truly competitive, because it is not enough for us simply to declare that the European Union is to become the most competitive area in the world.
We also have to take the necessary structural measures, and that means in particular strengthening Europe as a location for investment.
We are prepared to do so, and will support the other institutions when they do the same. (Applause) Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for her management during the Belgian Presidency and say that it truly demonstrates, in this case, that being a former Member of the European Parliament is good training for managing European affairs within a government.
It is important that we are able to respect the deadlines and agreements we are party to and, on that basis, you can organise the work as you see fit: by means of 'planning' , 'programming' , 'rolling on' , or whatever you want.
We are on the eve of the Laeken Summit and the fundamental issue is the defence of the Community method.
With regard to Laeken, Mr President of the Commission, the most interesting part of your speech was the final part, when you not only supported the Convention, but you gave it content, in complete agreement with the approach contained in the Leinen-Méndez de Vigo report.
I would like to know how that is going to be coordinated with the timetable for enlargement and the reform of the Treaties before 2004, and what your position is with regard to the membership of the praesidium of the Convention.
You call on Parliament and the Commission to work together - and I believe we can do great things in defence of the Community method - but it is important that you have the courage and the capacity to make use of your monopoly on initiative, which must not simply be a monopoly on operation, but which must be a means for achieving what you have proposed: texts of constitutional value and, above all, which reflect the democracy and transparency which we want in this enlarged Union.
Madam President, when we discussed this last week in the Conference of Presidents, my group - the Liberal Democrats - voted to have a debate today and not to postpone it.
I would, however, like to salute the work the Commission has done this year and to acknowledge the enormous progress in the preparation of the launch of the euro; the very substantial progress on enlargement which we very much welcome; the work which is being done in south-eastern Europe; the break-through on the World Trade Organisation and the very stimulating programme on sustainable development.
Why last year was only 45% of the programme processed by this time of the year and 55% not?
I fully respect the Commission's right of initiative, but I would urge that the Commission should not simply start in February with a general statement of priorities and then, in November, bring forward a specific work programme.
The Commission already has a wonderful process of consultation in place with social partners.
Our Committee on Constitutional Affairs backs what she has said and if we can do that, next year we will discuss politics more and process less.
We have to do this early to avoid a repetition of this unnecessary mutual incomprehension which helps none of us to bring good governance to the European Union.
Mr President of the Commission, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to share my thoughts on the main topic we are discussing today: the legislative programme and the Commission' s working programme.
Mr President of the Commission, you told us that you wanted full and transparent cooperation between the Commission and Parliament.
You told us: 'To be strong, the European Parliament needs a strong Commission' .
And yet, today we have to deal with a work programme that was sent to us at the last moment and a legislative programme of which we had no knowledge before last night.
The European Parliament is already suffering from having no right of legislative initiative, even in areas where the Commission is failing to act - which is, in my opinion, an institutional anomaly that should be corrected in order to reduce the democratic deficit.
I would remind you that, from the start of this Parliamentary term, a framework agreement exists between ourselves and the Commission, an agreement that clearly defines the role of Parliament in the legislative process.
In accordance with this agreement, the legislative programme for 2002 should have been presented to us in October, accompanied by an assessment of the previous programme; in this way we would have been able to make criticisms, remarks and proposals at a politically appropriate time and within reasonable timescales.
I must also underline the extent to which it would be appropriate, on a political level, for political debates on the budget and the legislative programme to mutually support and complement each other.
I would also like to remind you of some concrete facts: on 30 November, just a few days ago, less than half of the programme for 2001 had been executed.
In addition to this, half of the initiatives taken were not included in the legislative programme for 2001.
In my opinion, this reveals, and I think that most Members in my group would agree, that there is quite a significant degree of disorder within the Commission and a lack of common vision of the guidelines that should direct the common work of our institutions.
We cannot accept, Mr President, that the European Parliament be deprived of its powers of control, which are clearly recognised; this situation is not good for either Parliament or for the Commission itself.
Madam President, I too would like to thank the Belgian Presidency, and I hope that we shall all have a really successful summit in Laeken.
I also have a few more comments about your communication for the Laeken Summit.
All the institutions must ensure that the EU does not adopt rules which the Member States can devise just as well or better.
We are asking for an independent discussion of the annual programme as it relates to the proximity principle, and we agree with the other groups in criticising the way in which the Commission keeps its plans secret.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I feel that upholding the Community method has become a habit for many people and I would go as far as to say a religion for some, with its greater and lesser priests: President Delors, you, President Prodi, and Ferdinando Riccardi, who preaches his daily sermon in Agence Europe.
Yet it is a religion, ladies and gentlemen, which has lost its god, for the Community method that you are all upholding was based on the centrality of the Commission, and the Commission no longer has that pivotal status.
Mr President, although I agree with many of the comments that have been made today about the year 2001 having been reasonably successful, there are real grounds for concern about the way in which this debate is taking place today.
Firstly, as a matter of principle, we have the institutional agreement of 1993, which says that the programme should be presented by October, and then our agreement of 2000, under which we are to have a broad debate about the programme before it is implemented.
This leads me to say that we were better off with President Santer.
If you have all of us with you, you will be better off than if we have interinstitutional wars, which you seem to have started this morning.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, we are faced with two dilemmas here.
Except that this convention will chiefly consist of Members of Parliament from the individual Member States.
Mr Prodi, I believe that at such a stage and in the present situation, the Commission document that you adopted at the end of December should have used clearer language.
But the dilemma we face is that in such a sensitive political situation we need a Commission and a Commission President who are willing to say in even stronger, clearer and more unambiguous terms what needs doing - namely that the European Union as a whole needs to be strengthened, and that the Community method will take Europe into the future.
As Parliament' s rapporteur, I have had the opportunity to monitor this matter for quite a long time.
That does not mean that the Commission' s right of initiative is being questioned, but that all three institutions should be more in step in encouraging both openness and efficiency in our joint work.
And yet, if the different peoples of Europe really do want common cooperation and work at a European level, none of them has, to my knowledge, ever asked for this extreme type of integration, that is to say political, economic and social unification, by means of a democratic consultation.
The objective today is not to strengthen this 'integration-unification' , headed by supranational institutions, which we do not want, but to better organise and make more effective the nations' control over Brussels.
It should be provided with procedures which are more flexible, founded on respect for national democracies.
Mr President, in my opinion, the priorities of the Commission' s working programme for 2002 must focus on the European Union' s immediate challenges, both in the internal field (the internal market and Economic and Monetary Union), and in the external field - especially following the attacks of 11 September - including, of course, the fight against terrorism.
These challenges are very clear - how to revitalise our economies just a few weeks before the introduction of the single currency, how to take advantage of the challenges and opportunities offered by accession, with 13 countries seeking entry to the Union and, at the same time, how to reinvent Europe in a situation and at a moment when we are about to begin the work of a convention aimed at preparing a new Intergovernmental Conference, the objective of which must be to prevent the 'Old Continent' becoming an outdated continent.
This Commission' s working programme for 2002 is accompanied by a communication on the Community method.
I believe that that is an absolutely fundamental issue and we would be making a grave error if were to devote ourselves entirely to incidental issues and allow what is really crucial at the moment to stagnate.
I want to say this, Mr President, because it is in the interest of Parliament and the Community as a whole to have a strong Commission.
We should mobilise all our forces in order to consolidate, as I have said, this strategic alliance.
I have here the Framework Agreement between Parliament and the Commission agreed just two years ago.
I also have Rule 57 of our Rules of Procedure which lays down how we deal with the annual legislative programme and reflects the agreements that have been entered into in the past with the Commission.
But it specifies that this Annual Legislative Programme must refer to all proposals of a legislative nature and every act included in the programme must indicate the legal basis and the timetable envisaged for its adoption.
On these points, what we have had before us this week fails to respect our Rules of Procedure and existing agreements reached between the two institutions.
In fact we have a work programme, a work programme - not a legislative programme - outlining priorities.
Mrs Malmström is already in dialogue with the Commission on that and, frankly, we should have waited for the outcome of that before changing procedure.
Each Commissioner stands before the relevant Parliamentary committee on average seven times a year to discuss political issues relating to his or her responsibilities, to his or her portfolio; 80% of subjects are dealt with in plenary by the committee responsible; a record-breaking number of confidential documents has been sent to Parliament; each year, to date, we answer over 3 000 questions from Members of Parliament and dealt with 200 petitions referred to us by the Ombudsman.
The Convention did not just appear out of nowhere, it was not presented to us on a plate; the Convention was a working relationship between Parliament and the Commission immediately after Nice, at a time when both institutions were in the deepest despair.
We must acknowledge the substantial help we received from the Belgian Presidency, which really took the project to heart, but it was the Parliament-Commission cooperation which won for us the chance - and I would stress, this is a chance which has never before been available in European history - to reform the institutions by means of a broad, open debate with no time pressure, so that all the European citizens can listen to us and understand what we are talking about.
This meeting can be considered a success for the world community, and certainly for the European Union.
On 19 November, the General Affairs Council has been congratulated on the results obtained at Doha, and on the excellent work carried out by our negotiators, Commissioners Pascal Lamy and Franz Fischler, and their colleagues.
It is thanks to this work, as well as the cohesion and solidarity shown by the Union through these negotiators, that they were able, in spite of the fact that the situation of the European Union within the WTO was not favourable at the start of the process, to get things back on an even keel and obtain much better results than we might have hoped for.
The Union, which at all times remained a major player in the conference, was finally able to achieve the main objective it had set itself, of launching a new round of multilateral trade negotiations focusing on trade liberalisation, the strengthening of regulations and the acknowledgement of development needs.
In fact, the development dimension is the main thread of what we now call the 'Doha development agenda' .
The work programme adopted in view of the multilateral trade negotiations within the framework of the ministerial declaration includes a package of important implementation measures and takes up those unresolved implementation issues that aim more or less for a re-balancing or an amendment of existing agreements within the context of the negotiation agenda relating to single undertakings.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot over-emphasise the importance of this fifth ministerial conference for the development dimension.
We will need, in fact, to make decisions with regard to further negotiations, notably with regard to investments and competition, issues that will have been studied during the first phase.
It is obvious that this will be, for developing countries as well as for others, a very important time for assessment.
The European Union managed to ensure that negotiations on the environment start without delay, and that the link between the WTO rules and the trade rules of the multi-lateral environment agreements which form part of them becomes more transparent.
It appeared impossible to make a reference in the ministerial statement to the development of a permanent forum between the ILO and other international organisations, including the WTO.
Moreover, at the suggestion of the presidency, a statement was added in the shape of this phrase to the conclusions of the General Affairs Council of 14 November in Doha, Qatar, in which the Council and the Commission confirm this objective.
The alternation between plenary sessions, on the one hand, and issue groups, on the other, ensured the necessary combination of transparency and efficiency.
Therefore, our respective representatives read the texts at the same time as all the other delegations.
Furthermore, in the current international context, the success of the conference is a positive sign of international solidarity and confidence in the positive development of the world economy.
So the results very largely lived up to many of the concerns you had expressed in this Chamber, in particular in your two resolutions of 25 October.
I will try, in a few words, to show you how they lived up to these concerns, in the light of the Union' s three key objectives: integration of the developing countries, better governance of globalisation and better access to the market for all.
From the point of view of development policy, we have made progress on the four aspects of trade policy that are crucial to development - better access for the developing countries to our markets, better domestic policies, in particular with regard to the investment, competition and public procurement aspects of our work programme; a stronger role for the developing countries in the multilateral negotiation process and, lastly, boosting these countries' capacity to derive benefit from the liberalisation of trade.
As for technical assistance for the developing countries, the Commission, together with the Council and, at the appropriate time, Parliament, will have to rethink the way the Union both when it is acting as such and when it is acting through the Member States, is handling the technical assistance programmes for the developing countries in the field of trade.
This is true in the economic field as in the social and environmental field.
As I said, you know our views in this area; we need to establish coherence between all the aspects of the multilateral system and we need more constant, clear and definite relations between its various pillars.
In terms of regulating the markets, global rules on investment, on competition, on public procurement and on trade facilitation now form part of the work programme.
Regarding the environment, Doha will help establish greater international coherence by providing for negotiations to clarify the status of the multilateral agreements on the environment in the context of the WTO.
As you know, the Union had to struggle hard to obtain this decision.
I believe it was right to do so because this is a first step towards establishing greater coherence between the various pillars of international governance, in this case between the trade and environment pillars.
On the contrary, I believe we have to draw on every available multilateral means of putting this idea forward, because it represents the Union' s view and formed part of our mandate, especially as regards strengthening the multilateral aspect of the World Trade Organisation.
Having failed to succeed in relation to this multilateral aspect, we will be developing the other aspects of Community policy, as we have now begun to do, in particular the bilateral and the unilateral parts.
The not so good news is that for the time being no decision has been reached during this negotiating round on reforming the World Trade Organisation itself.
On the specific question of relations with the national parliaments or your Parliament, the proposal to incorporate a reference to closer association between Member State parliaments was not accepted.
In any case, there were not enough representatives of the American parliamentary authorities to deal with this question seriously.
In fact, the Commission and Parliament have already been working in the spirit of transparency, information and consultation that we had hoped to promote within the WTO.
In this respect, the results are entirely in line with what we had hoped.
The negotiating programme adopted in Doha certainly does not commit us to go beyond the limits that were set both by the Council and by Parliament in this area.
I will now hand over to Franz Fischler who can tell you a little more about this subject.
To conclude, in my capacity as, shall we say, principal negotiator, let me tell you that one of the keys to success in this business was our work with the Belgian Presidency and, via the Belgian Presidency, with the Member States, whose presence is not always entirely convenient in such circumstances, and with those of you who were there at the meeting.
The first part of the declaration concerns the general objective of agricultural negotiations within the framework of the WTO, that is to say the creation of a fair and market-oriented trading system.
At the same time it also acknowledges the work that has been done since the beginning of 2000 under the 'Article 20 negotiations' .
The next section deals with the traditional three pillars of trade: market access, exports, and competition and domestic support measures.
In the case of market access, the text settled on was "comprehensive negotiations aimed at substantial improvements in market access".
This reflects the conclusions of the Agriculture Council on 27 September 1999, in which the importance of further liberalisation of agricultural trade as a contribution towards sustainable economic growth was recognised.
With regard to export subsidies, the declaration talks about reductions in all forms of export subsidies, in other words exactly what this House called for in its resolution in October.
However, the text also clearly indicates that none of the statements on the three pillars should anticipate the outcome of the negotiations.
However, we also know that there is a broad coalition against continuing export subsidies.
The Cairns Group, the USA and the 77 Group of developing countries all spoke out against continuing export subsidies.
We consciously chose the word 'concept' to indicate that we are perfectly willing to negotiate on the details of the blue box and the green box.
The extent of distortion of competition will be a key element of all discussions relating to domestic support.
Another important point is the special and differential treatment of the developing countries.
I know that one of your own priorities is to integrate the developing countries in international trade.
The wording of the Doha declaration is in accordance with this objective and it also matches the Council mandate of 1999.
The proposals that the WTO Member States put forward in Geneva in this area are specifically recognised.
As you know, the European Union too presented a raft of proposals on the most important non-trade concerns, such as the environment, the development of rural regions, food security, consumer affairs, labelling and animal protection.
By specifically recognising non-trade concerns, the Doha declaration allows us to pursue these objectives further in forthcoming negotiations.
The last section contains the timetable for agreeing on methodology, 31 March 2003, and the deadlines for presenting the comprehensive drafts.
This is to take place before the next WTO ministerial conference, so that agreement on agriculture can be reached at the same time as the overall package, by 1 January 2005.
This will enable us to pursue our objectives in the negotiations on geographical information and in the agricultural negotiations, and also in the TRIPS negotiations.
Finally, in parallel to the decision on the start of the Doha development round, agreement was also reach on the ACP waiver, which allows us to conclude the solution negotiated with the USA and Ecuador to bring an end to the banana war.
This means that the proposal the Commission has already put forward can be accepted, as soon as you here in the European Parliament have adopted your position on this, which I hope will happen in the course of this week.
The objectives of the other major WTO members are in some cases very different indeed from our own, but we will do our utmost to secure the European agricultural model and at the same time to negotiate a fair and more market-oriented trading system for agricultural products.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Members of the Commission, the launch of the new, comprehensive, three-year round of talks at the Doha Summit is a very positive signal for both the World Trade Organisation and the present world economic situation.
The Doha development programme, which includes the liberalisation of trade as well as elements of new rules, stressed the commitment of the developed countries to capacity building in respect of the less developed countries and to helping them implement already existing WTO rules.
The presence of China and Taiwan at the WTO was also a significant milestone.
Sustainable development and the inclusion of environmental considerations in trade policy decisions were agreed to be an all-embracing objective in future talks, something that is certainly of crucial importance to us, the countries in the Union.
As talks on the trade in agricultural products are also to be conducted in accordance with a comprehensive agenda but without any predetermined conclusion having been reached concerning forms of subsidy and timetables, this difficult matter, too, can now be negotiated peaceably whilst the Union' s common agricultural policy is being reformed.
Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, the WTO meeting in Qatar was a landmark achievement, especially for all those who realise that globalisation is one of the twenty-first century' s greatest challenges and that it is a challenge to bring it under democratic and political control.
As Commissioner Lamy said, Seattle two years ago failed on all kinds of fronts.
It is actually a real achievement for us to have witnessed true change in Qatar after those two years.
It constitutes a first step towards a new WTO, in a fight to equip globalisation with rules which are at the service of human values.
My group is therefore delighted with the outcome of this Fourth Ministerial Conference.
In this respect, the TRIPS account and public health care are of huge importance.
The recognition as such will persuade many to join a modern and new worldwide WTO.
On behalf of the Liberal Group, I would also like to extend our thanks and congratulations to the Council and Commission, especially to Commissioner Lamy.
In our view, without the effective work of the Commissioner and the Council, in cooperation with Parliament, the new round would never have been proposed, let alone launched, and for that we are grateful.
It seems to us that the summit at Doha represented the coming together of two themes or two trends within the WTO.
The first theme is the first concerted attempt to accommodate the needs and legitimate complaints of developing countries.
The second theme or trend is that the talks extended well beyond traditional market access preoccupations and moved towards the development of new rules, competition, investment and, above all, the environment.
That again seems to us to be a very welcome development and we are very pleased to see that a balance seems to have been struck - a sensible and workable balance between the needs of developing countries and the need to develop new rules within the World Trade Organisation.
Some have suggested - I think my Green friends and other critics of the WTO - that somehow these two things are incompatible with each other and that developing new rules on the WTO is anathema to the interests of the developing countries.
We found it particularly bizarre that Green Members of this House and Green campaigners rejected talks on the environment within the WTO, in the name of the developing countries.
Some of the news over the last few days is a little mixed, particularly from the United States, over the concessions which were extracted from the Administration in the fast-track debate and the debate on trade and steel in Washington.
It was an unedifying example of the richer countries bullying the poorer ones and has prompted many to assert that the so-called victory in Doha was a failure for democracy.
As Tanzania's Trade Minister, Mr Iddi Simba, said, the wrong policy on agriculture might lose elections in France, but it loses lives in Africa.
Commissioner Lamy, I do not expect you to agree with this analysis, but at the very least you should acknowledge the very real anger and frustration of the developing countries throughout the conference and pledge that in the negotiations that are now beginning their interests will genuinely be at the forefront of our priorities.
The first is the real involvement of the southern countries and the evidence that multilateralism is effectively beginning to happen.
As a result, the WTO, still fragile but better recognised, is therefore strengthened.
Secondly, a window has been opened for examining the coherence between social questions and trade rules.
Thanks to the European Union, however, and here I believe we can thank Pascal Lamy for his firm stance, we have the beginnings of a broad agenda - the environment, investment and competition can be negotiated on the basis of an explicit consensus.
In substance, this is still not much and we can understand why some of the NGOs wanted a more ambitious agenda, one that included the social aspect in particular.
Thirdly, for the first time, as much importance was attached to implementation as to the new subjects introduced.
We have a certain lack of cohesion here and it is up to us to clarify our agricultural and industrial social model.
My second point is that the social question is emblematic.
I am satisfied that our negotiators understand the extent of this challenge and - I hope - draw on the benefit of hindsight resulting from our experiences with the current regime.
From an agricultural perspective, we must not allow the United States to dictate agricultural policy.
We are investing heavily in the implementation of food safety measures and have banned the use of growth promoters.
I wish to ask the President, on behalf of the European Parliament, to send a communication to President Shevardnaze calling upon him not only to do everything in his power to solve this crime, but also to make sure at long last that constitutional means are used to ensure that people who work in Georgia and for Georgia are guaranteed appropriate protection, so that this essential work can be done effectively.
So we agree that we must broaden the statistical inquiries provided for under the directive to include new species and new variables.
We will take the necessary steps to expand the statistics so that we can reach a decision on the entire issue before the end of 2005.
The European Union is playing its full part in the efforts we have made in solidarity with the United States to combat international terrorism.
Quite apart from the excellent work done on the preparation of this report, we are all agreed that by the end of the year the Council needs to reach a decision on amounts of subsidy and on the budgetary stabiliser, to ensure the necessary degree of certainty.
Firstly, I accept the possibility of being able to introduce compensation between the Member States as regards guaranteed quantities in the context of the Community maximum guaranteed quantity.
Secondly, I am in favour of an implementing system which makes it possible to give niche products from small producers a sufficient degree of flexibility.
Thirdly, in view of the results of an in-depth study of the functioning of this market organisation and of the supply of the common market with various types of seed, the Commission will submit appropriate proposals to the Council and Parliament under Article 37, which will include a reference to the setting of the maximum guaranteed quantity.
The Council was not prepared to admit that as a part of the report.
The best way we can do that without going to conciliation is to vote it as a legislative resolution, binding therefore only on Parliament.
We hope that the President of Parliament will convey that information and our view on the matter to the Laeken Summit in two days' time.
We are close to finding an overall compromise that will enable the regulation to be adopted without a requirement for conciliation, which will enable the European Food Safety Authority to be established early next year.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 2 to 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 15, 17, 18, 20, 25, 27 and 28.
Finally, and above all, it would be unwise to share a guaranteed maximum quantity amongst the Member States, given that these seed producers often have branches in several countries.
I am happy to note that the European Parliament proved equally wise in plenary.
Cunha report (A5-0425/2001) . (NL) The fisheries agreements which the EU concludes with developing countries are bad for the environment and bad for those countries.
It is absurd that as part of the agreement, the EU should pay money to the governments of those countries in order to help the fishermen to find other jobs.
Lage report (A5-0402/2001) and Cunha report (A5-0425/2001) We abstained on the reports on the fisheries agreements with Guinea Bissau and Cape Verde because although they provide these states with a certain amount of revenue, the large-scale fishing by European countries merely formalises the plundering of Guinea Bissau and Cape Verde' s natural resources.
The only reason we voted for Amendment No 7 to the Lage report and Amendment No 5 to the Cunha report is because at least they have the merit of formally specifying the amount of financial compensation, without making any advance judgment on the question of whether this sum really makes up for the loss of this natural resource.
Whitehead report (A5-0416/2001) Mr President, I would like to explain why I voted for the document on the European Food Authority.
This second subject is a subject which takes us to the kitchen as well, Mr President - nothing to do with me.
If the right people are now also deployed in the right places, and the Authority is accorded a location which will give it the opportunity of establishing external contacts easily, then I believe that all conditions are in place to turn this Food Authority into a success.
This means that the European Food Authority is liable to be a purely decorative body. . (PT) Whilst some advances in establishing the European Food Authority are positive, I still maintain that it cannot act as a panacea for solving food safety problems or as a smoke screen for public opinion.
The underlying principle of any legislation on food is the protection of human health, and for this very reason, it is vital to introduce the precautionary principle in risk management when scientific data is insufficient or inconclusive.
However, it is questionable whether such a structure that is so cumbersome from the administrative and budgetary standpoint is necessary, but the need to ensure that one representative from each Member State takes part in the Administration should be highlighted.
There is no such thing as zero risk and we know what consequences a bacteriological problem (not linked only to terrorism) can have for a large number of our citizens.
If we want the European Food Authority to be as effective as possible, it will have to be completely independent, its composition will be a determining factor, and its decisions will have to be highly transparent.
Lastly, the penalties imposed for serious errors or fraud must not only be considerable but, above all, applied. . (NL) For years, quality and public health in the production of food were secondary to the pursuit of ever lower production costs.
The solution does not lie in enhancing the European bureaucracy, or squabbles about the location and management of a new institution.
The European Food Safety Authority will be strong and will, I hope, help us counter any food-related risks throughout the European Union.
The Member States will continue to be responsible for monitoring and checks, while risk management and the rapid alert system will remain in the remit of the European Commission.
Food Safety is of great concern to the majority of the European Union's citizens and it is therefore vital that this Authority will be efficient, democratic and transparent once it is fixed.
Moreover, it is highly desirable that the future location of this Authority should be physically independent from other EU institutions.
Finally, the call for close cooperation with the relevant bodies is pertinent: when there is a suspected food risk it makes sense that the Authority should capitalise on the knowledge available in other related associations. . (NL) The group encompassing the Dutch D66 Party has endorsed the Whitehead report on the European Food Authority.
D66 is pleased with the timing of this report, immediately preceding the European Summit in Laeken.
The report submitted by the Commission provides an objective analysis of the development of the three financial instruments for SMEs: the Start-up Facility (ETF), the Joint European Venture (JEV) Programme and the SME Guarantee Facility.
The unequal geographical distribution of this aid is also typical of growing regional inequalities between the Member States, in that over half this funding (be it in the form of start-up aid or the guarantee mechanism) will go to France and Germany, while in Greece, for example, this aid is non-existent because there is no venture capital market to speak of.
I greatly value the fact that I am able to make this statement before the MEPs who, as representatives of the European democracy, are meeting here in plenary session.
According to the rules of the interinstitutional agreement, this second reading of the Council was preceded by a consultative meeting of the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, which took place on 21 November.
I believe I can speak on behalf of all participants in this lengthy meeting, which did not finish until the small hours, when I say that it was not only a success from a budgetary point of view, because the general budget for 2002 will now soon be established, but also politically speaking, for we managed to agree on a number of new elements which presented themselves to us since our first reading and which need to be discussed, as well as a number of priorities.
Needless to say, there were the events of 11 September.
The Council also wanted to leave open a wide margin under the maximum of Heading 4 'External action' with a view to meeting possible future needs in those regions.
This margin is also in line with the agreement that was reached with the European Parliament to maintain a minimum margin of EUR 70 million for any needs in Afghanistan and neighbouring countries.
Moreover, I should like to remind you that it was also agreed to earmark a minimum amount of EUR 35 million in reserve for emergency aid of Heading 6 for possible needs of this kind.
These elements formed an important part of the discussions we held.
Another new element that came up in the discussions, is the conversion programme of the Spanish and Portuguese fishing fleet following the failure to set up a fisheries agreement with Morocco.
In this respect, the Council has included EUR 170 million of commitment appropriations under Heading 2 of the draft budget and has decided to use the flexibility instrument for the corresponding amount.
In this connection, may I remind you that the Council, by way of accommodating the EP' s wishes, has approved a specific allocation of EUR 30 million in commitment appropriations under Heading 2 for the regions which border the candidate countries, and has also approved the use of the flexibility instrument for the corresponding amount?
In the framework of the agreement with the European Parliament on an amount of EUR 20 million in commitment appropriations under Heading 3 for those border regions, the Council has approved the trial project: 'Effects of enlargement in the border regions' .
In order to give this more lasting form, the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission have decided in favour of inclusion in the 2003 budget, taking into consideration the maximum amounts established in Berlin, together with EUR 27 million that were not placed on the 2002 budget which form part of the EUR 197 million which the Commission had proposed in the financial statement pertaining to the fleet conversion programme, as well as EUR 15 million for the border regions.
As far as the priorities are concerned, I would remind you that the Council officially adopted conclusions concerning the budgetary guidelines for the forthcoming budgetary procedure in March of this year for the first time.
In doing so, the Council wanted to indicate its budgetary procedures for the year 2002, as is the European Parliament' s and the Commission' s wont.
I therefore believe that we all stand to benefit from the Council' s continued efforts in this direction.
I believe that the measures announced by the Commission will ensure that this matter be resolved satisfactorily in due course.
Moreover, we managed to agree on a statement regarding the implementation profile for the 2002 budget.
Furthermore, an implementation plan for the 2002 per heading of the financial perspectives will be sent upon submittal of the preliminary draft budget for 2003.
The Council has also devoted special attention to the priorities which the European Parliament had listed at first reading, inter alia by agreeing to the additional appropriations for e-learning and immigration.
As far as agricultural expenditure is concerned, letter of amendment 2 has been adopted in its entirety.
Moreover, the Council has restored the proposed amounts in the preliminary draft budget for the budget lines which were cut at first reading and to which the letter of amendment refers.
An additional EUR 4.5 million has been included, as agreed during the consultation of 21 November, whereby Parliament' s observations were taken into account.
In a joint declaration with the European Parliament, special attention has been paid to the protection of animals during transport.
I am also delighted that our institutions can reach agreement on the points of this letter of amendment which pertain to expenditure for rural development, fisheries agreements and the inclusion in the budget of the surplus available from the previous budget year in the sum of EUR 1.2 billion.
I believe I have already outlined the key results in connection with the structural measures, namely the inclusion of EUR 170 million by way of commitment appropriations and EUR 39 million in payment appropriations for the conversion of the Spanish and Portuguese fishing fleet, and the amount of EUR 30 million for the regions which border the candidate countries, whereby use is made of the flexibility instrument in both cases.
With regard to internal policy, the Council has kept most points of its first reading and has also partially adopted a number of major amendments of the European Parliament, including e-learning, which entails EUR 5 million, and the European refugee fund, which entails an increase of EUR 5 million.
It is under this heading that quite a considerable proportion of the measures will be funded for the benefit of the regions which border the candidate countries.
As far as the external policy is concerned, the Council has not only increased the budget items covering Asia and TACIS by EUR 66 million compared to the draft budget, it has also adopted letter of amendment 2 concerning international fisheries agreements.
Concerning the common security policy, an amount of EUR 30 million in commitment appropriations has been included, in accordance with the results of the consultation of 21 November.
For a number of years now, the Council has adopted a comprehensive approach during its reading, which means that the main issues in the draft budget are the set priorities and the extent of the expenditure category.
Thanks to this approach, the Council has managed to remain under the existing annual maximum amounts of expenditure, established in the interinstitutional agreement of 6 May 1999.
As you know, agreement was reached during the consultation of 21 November in the framework of this general agreement with the help of the Commission.
The Council relies on the fact that the European Parliament will carry on in this vein during its second reading, so that the percentage increase does not exceed the agreed maximum amounts.
Furthermore, the Council has once again opted for the outcome of the first reading of the draft budget for heading B7-1 concerning the European Development Fund, since the increase of a funding or even of a margin in the budget lacks the necessary legal basis and is therefore not possible.
I should like to conclude this brief outline of the second reading by the Council by highlighting that the budgetary procedure been conducted in a good atmosphere.
Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with the constructive attitude of both branches of the budgetary authority, the European Parliament and the European Council, and with the support of the Commission, it has been possible, throughout the different phases of the complex budgetary process, to find an answer to a series of new challenges, ensure that previous commitments are fulfilled and deal with most of the priorities defined for 2002.
The joint declarations issued by the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission are very important.
There is also an initial response to new challenges relating to the situation following the attacks of September 11, in particular in the areas of policing, justice and external action; here again special reference should be made to the financing of humanitarian and reconstruction actions in Afghanistan and neighbouring countries.
Of course, it is only normal that new challenges are appearing for the future.
The 2002 budget is ready and I believe it merits your approval.
At the start of the budgetary procedure, it looked as if the pain for the 2002 budget was mainly concentrated in heading 5.
However, as far as my group is concerned, our support is not really heart-felt, and this has everything to do with the tragic rituals and traditions which typify the budgetary procedure.
It did seem like a healthy exercise to let the Council come face to face with the effects of its actions and its unilateral obsession to remain well below the ceiling of the financial perspectives.
My group will therefore grant priority to this aspect during the preparation of the 2003 budget.
However, my group is pleased with the minor changes in the Council' s budget in the area of foreign policy expenditure.
And you cannot get much closer than the people of Elsene, our neighbours in Brussels, and I am therefore delighted with the paragraph in the present resolution which urges us to draw up a sound inventory of what we need, and how we can provide for it, and also to take account of the interests of the citizens in the immediate vicinity, before we start making plans for new Parliament buildings.
We had an agreement, based on the joint declaration of 20 July 2000, in which we established a system for programming and verifying the activities of the Commission in relation to the Financial Perspectives.
Its objective was to serve as a guide for the decisions of the Budgetary Authority, offer a vision of the margins available in each heading, taking account of the contributions already approved during the codecision procedure, and facilitating the application of the new assessment procedure originating from the aforementioned joint declaration.
There is an issue which interests us, a very methodological issue, on how to plan, in the future, the programmes which are already under way, and there is just one point which interests us: for certain programmes, for certain budget lines, future inflation is included, by means of what the Commission calls a budgetary deflater, and, in our opinion, it ought to be a budgetary inflater.
The Financial Perspectives are expressed in standard euros, while the programming works in current euros for each year.
Anybody who has been a trade unionist knows that one can lie through statistics in many ways and this is one of them - by mixing current prices with standard prices; and I will not therefore insist on this.
When I have seen that inflation has disappeared, I will accept the removal of this type of differentiation between standard prices and current prices and, therefore, this is the main issue from our point of view.
Our concern is really to prevent a situation where, through this technique, the higher real inflation is, the greater the margin available will be.
For the last three years the flexibility instrument has been the main aspect of the budget and it has overshadowed everything else.
On this occasion we are using it for two programmes, as has been said by speakers before me.
These last three years have shown the creaking structure of the financial perspective.
The preparations for pre-enlargement will be as big a headache as the enlargement issue itself.
This head-in-the-sand attitude cannot prevail if we are trying to be serious about how we manage the Union's budget and the taxpayers' expenses in the future.
The coordinators and the rapporteur are working very hard to try to ensure that we can get a position which will deliver a qualified majority on Thursday because if we do not, we may end up with the Council's position which would not aid the Commission's reform process as we would want it to do.
I have seen the letter that Commissioners Schreyer, Kinnock and de Palacio have written, where they state that the conditions for release of the reserve have been met.
In several cases, Member States have had different priorities, while the notion of public or private partnership is not yet well developed.
To get round this problem it will, I think, be necessary to gradually shift the emphasis away from the Essen priority projects and national infrastructure projects towards transit and cross-border projects, so as to strengthen the policy of sustainable transport and promote integration between different modes of transport.
I believe we have come to the end of two not inconsiderable political problems which reflect the additional needs which have emerged in view of the changed international situation.
In second reading, we have left an ample margin for assistance to Afghanistan and neighbouring regions, and with the Council we have agreed on the figure of EUR 488 million for cooperation with developing countries in Asia.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the result of the budget negotiations that we have before us is self-evident.
During the period of the budget negotiations, that is to say from the time the preliminary draft budget was submitted to the present day, many new demands on the EU budget have arisen.
World events, the terrorist attacks of 11 September, the war in Afghanistan, and the crisis in the Middle East have all given rise to new budgetary requirements.
The crises in the agricultural sector that we have witnessed this year have meant new budget requirements in the coming year, and the public's changing expectations also need to be reflected.
Together, we have succeeded in adapting the 2002 budget to these new challenges and given how often the European Union is criticised, we should make sure that this positive outcome is heard loud and clear.
He had the historic task of presenting the report on the last budget of the European Coal and Steel Community.
I am stressing this point firstly because it reflects the budgetary discipline that prevails at European level, and, Mr President-in-Office, because the EU budget is therefore below the average growth rate for budgets in the Member States.
Secondly, this result also demonstrates that scope for action has been created to allow the EU to take on new financial tasks, and I am referring here, in particular, to the debate on the costs of enlargement.
That therefore means that Europe, the European budget, is prepared to assume new tasks.
Aid to Afghanistan for peaceful future development of that country is a new task for which the European Union should, and will, assume responsibility.
An initial provision has been made for this in the 2002 budget, with EUR 130 million in addition to the funds already earmarked for humanitarian aid.
Of the EUR 4.6 billion that the 2002 budget will be below the amount provided for next year in the financial perspective, we cannot just use EUR 400 or 500 million for coping with external policy crises.
A new feature of the 2002 budget is the commitment of funds for measures in the area of judicial cooperation, including the development of the new information system for Schengen and for Eurojust.
The compromise solution of making additional funds available in the 2002 budget for the regions bordering the candidate countries was really not easy to achieve.
However, the compromise of entering part of the additional amount in the 2003 budget for these two requirements is acceptable, and I can assure you that the Commission will make the necessary financial proposals for 2003, so that the funds for the programme to restructure the Spanish and Portuguese fishing fleets will be available.
Parliament has this year once again very strongly supported the Commission's reform process during the discussions on the budget.
I hope that we will also reach a satisfactory outcome on this point.
Two thousand and two is an important year for agricultural policy.
Next year the agricultural budget will rise by only 0.5%, which is less than the average, and that is despite the fact that, for example, there is EUR 400 million in the budget for the reimbursement of expenditure to Member States because of foot and mouth disease and that a total of EUR 8 billion is available for the beef sector.
The reform process, the mid-term review, not only has a financial dimension, it is also about setting objectives in agricultural policy, and the second pillar, the promotion of rural development, has an important role to play here.
Two thousand and two will also be a very important year for the enlargement of the European Union.
The Commission has already agreed to present a proposal that will not go beyond the amounts set in Agenda 2000 for new Member States for the years 2004, 2005 and 2006.
That was also laid down in the interinstitutional agreement.
Thank you, Mr Tajani.
I need to remind him, from a control point of view that we anticipate and look forward to him taking a keen interest in how the budget is implemented by the Commission next year and how he drives it forward from there.
The Committee on Budgetary Control tabled a number of amendments to the budget to gain extra information and evaluations from the Commission.
Finally, I thank the rapporteur again for taking a keen interest in the amendment concerning the European Court of Auditors.
It is a rare privilege - and I can measure its worth as a committee rapporteur - to be able to say that the Committee on Budgets accepted all the demands we had made, they were, of course, legitimate and carefully considered, and which were put forward in Parliament at second reading.
So I want to thank the general rapporteur and all the members of the Committee on Budgets.
Four years have passed and now the Council has just proposed more money than we ourselves had even asked for the European refugee fund it had refused to create.
It took the Council all of four years to understand, to become responsible and, with respect, to show some intelligence.
Another example: for several years now we have included a Schengen list at the budget' s first reading, because for several years we have wanted some of its aspects to be communitised and financed from the Community budget.
Each year the Council would angrily strike off the Schengen heading at second reading.
This time, the Council needs the Schengen heading we had introduced because it has to finance SIS II and has decided to finance it on a Community basis.
We decided - Parliament did so at first reading and will do so at second reading - to vote to enter EUR 5 million under the Europol heading to combat terrorism.
The Council did not accept this at second reading.
I ask you, firstly, to take a close look at the agencies with a view to seeing whether or not they work well, and then read the report of the Court of Auditors.
I too would like to congratulate both the rapporteurs on their budget reports and thank them for the collaborative approach that they have adopted.
These programmes are not just crucial to achieving a dynamic knowledge - based Europe but, in the light of the tough current economic climate that the European businesses and organisations are facing, our key to achieving our aims of creating new jobs and supporting businesses.
The issues that I really want to raise concern the implementation of the budget.
First, there is the Commission habit of ignoring some of the priorities of this budget authority and I want to give you an example from my committee in relation to the synergy programme.
Thirdly, there is the lack of synchronisation between the budgetary process and the launch of legislative programmes.
It makes a mockery of the budgetary process and the authorities when you have the launch of the budgetary process in February and the launch of the legislative programme in November.
I really fail to understand how the Council dares present proposals of this kind.
I welcome the developing framework in the area of health where it is certainly going to encourage the development of steady progress in that field.
We can only develop our work in guaranteeing the future rights of the consumer, the health of the public and the safe, clean environment if we put our money where our mouth is and spend the cash that is needed.
Mr President, my warm thanks to Mr Costa Neves, Mr Wynn and all the members of Parliament's team in the conciliation negotiations.
Mr President the reform of the common fisheries policy on 1 January 2003 will change this important economic sector for the better.
It was for that reason that the committee did not want to bring in any new Budget lines at the present time, with the exception of the flexibility reserve because of the Morocco disaster, which has been a heavy blow for the fisheries sector and raised many issues.
B: on the monitoring of fishing activity.
The situation has become more critical as, unfortunately, the EU had to withdraw from WADA funding.
Mr President, Commissioner, the report presented by the Committee on Women' s Rights was approved by Parliament at first reading, practically in its entirety.
We are thereby acting coherently, presenting the amendments which Parliament approved on first reading.
I hope that the House will approve it by a large majority, because, as you all know, since the Treaty of Amsterdam entered into force, all Community programmes must include the objective of promoting women and achieving greater equality, not only in the European Union, but also in the countries with which we have cooperation agreements, particularly in the Euro-Mediterranean area.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft budget for 2002, both in its Commission section and in the sections relating to the other institutions, deals directly with the financial challenges of enlargement.
The two rapporteurs have budgeted for the structural, administrative and logistical needs which the immense challenge of enlargement will very soon present us with.
For 2002 we are basically faced with two new structural needs originating from the Nice Summit and not foreseen in Berlin.
The first one is caused by the failure of a Community policy, the non-renewal of the fisheries agreement with Morocco, which obliges us to convert part of Portugal and Spain' s fishing fleets, with the great social impact of that conversion on many regions of those countries.
The other structural need derives from the very fact that enlargement is imminent.
This year Afghanistan and the Middle East are the issues which have once again created tension within heading 4.
But this Parliament does not agree with the Council' s way of doing things.
We take very good note of the words of the Commissioner on the possibility of improving the suitability of the legislative and budgetary procedures during next year and we truly welcome what he has said.
I would like to congratulate Carlos Costa Neves and also Kathalijne Maria Buitenweg, as well as Francesco Turchi on his report on the Trans-European networks.
We believe that Commissioner Schreyer has found a good ally in this Parliament and that we have received good help from the Commissioner.
Mr President, I also want to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, Mr Costa Neves, Mrs Buitenweg etc.
They have not only sought broad solutions within Parliament but have also persistently maintained our positions in relation to the Council, something which has been especially important.
I also want to thank the Council and the Commission.
If we do not succeed in this - and it is not only a question of reviewing the regulations but, above all, of looking at evaluation, follow-up and how we use taxpayers' money - then I do not believe we shall succeed in changing people' s view of the EU.
The agricultural budget is realistic.
Furthermore, the CARDS programme had already been given 63 million euros out of this year' s budget transfers, so all in all the programme is returning to what was proposed in the Council' s draft budget.
A compromise decision was reached on its use, according to which Spain and Portugal will see the structure of their fisheries fleets revitalised with the aid of 170 million euros, plus another 27 million in 2003.
Mr President, in the conciliation meeting between the Council and Parliament most of the time was spent discussing the use of a flexible instrument.
The Commission would have promised 197 million euros for the reconversion of the Spanish and Portuguese fisheries fleets, which is a lot of money.
In the same connection, the Nordic countries are demanding 50 million euros to resolve problems on their eastern borders.
It was decided to finance these new needs with a flexible instrument under section 2, but over a period of two years.
When the Council lacks the ambition to tackle the problem of unemployment, it also shows in the Commission' s draft budget; for that reason, our group takes a critical view of it.
Unfortunately, the Commission has abandoned its plans for a reserve in the sum of EUR 1 billion in the compulsory agriculture expenditure.
It is striking that these resources, an annual amount of no less than EUR 200 million, have been fully used up ever since this instrument was created three years ago.
The roles played by the Commission, and indeed also by some Members, were in our view not always transparent.
These regions' economic situation is often not much better than that in the acceding countries.
The accession of the new states will, for the reasons I have mentioned, make it difficult, or almost impossible, to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the frontier regions of the Member States.
We must, though, be clear in our own minds that the citizens in these regions can hardly be in favour of the accession of new countries under these circumstances.
If this trend continues in the coming years, if this level is consistently maintained, we shall yet manage to establish really close cooperation and mutual trust one of these days between the Council and Parliament.
We have allocated aid to the fishing regions and aid to the border regions.
We must forge ahead on e-learning, one of the areas with the highest growth potential in a developing economic area like the European Union, not only because we want to grasp our economic opportunities but also because we want to avoid a split within our populations between those who can afford to acquire computers at a very early stage and those who are excluded from the information society.
But we must also heed the silent agony of the voiceless in the world.
On the contrary, the European Union must become more sensitive, in cooperation with the regions of the world where our help is needed, especially to the need for food aid to ward off starvation but also to the need to help the countries in those regions to improve their administrative systems and infrastructure, thereby guaranteeing that those countries can develop by their own efforts in a manner which reflects credit on the quality and diligence of European cooperation with the rest of the world.
Mr President, from Brussels' point of view, the budget for 2002 is coherent and comprehensive, despite the criticisms made by the European Court of Auditors, which I have been examining with great interest.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first let me pay tribute to the presidency of the Council and to its cooperative approach to this year' s budget.
Naturally I also pay tribute to our rapporteurs and to the Commission for a budget that, in my view, is going in the right direction.
The first concerns the reform.
I want to draw the attention of Members and in particular of the rapporteur to two points.
So I would ask you whether we could change the vote on Thursday and delete this heading.
The commitments made in the statements during the conciliation process represent a code of conduct which works in favour of transparency and greater efficiency in spending.
But it is also necessary for this Parliament to stand shoulder to shoulder with the Commission on such important projects as the establishment of the European satellite navigation system, known as Galileo.
It is true that, as we move towards the mid point of the period of the financial framework in force, the difficulties increase because the new demands, the new commitments, call on the budget without any financial coverage.
It is a political success because it is rigorous and is accompanied by guarantees of more efficient implementation, and these conditions are essential if we are to ensure healthy and sustainable economic growth.
It is true that at first reading we were quite severe with the Commission about the reform.
I must tell you that if the Council could reply in time, coherently and on a reasoned basis to the questions we or the Commission put to it, we could make progress on every front.
Thank you, Mr President.
We greatly appreciate the fact that amendments tabled by Parliament to compulsory agricultural expenditure have been adopted under the Belgian Presidency for the first time.
But the fact is that nearly EUR 1 billion is committed over the next five years, all from the public sector - from either the European Space Agency or from the Commission itself.
By contrast, only EUR 200 million is allocated to the project by the private sector.
I ask for a reserve of half the money allocated by the Commission for the first year of the funding to be set aside and released only if the private sector signs up to its commitments to take part in this project.
I know there are heated discussions in the Council, and many nations have withdrawn their support for now, or are a bit uncertain.
Many comments related to the implementation of the budget.
May I simply remind the House that a new instrument has been in place this year through which Parliament has been able to take part in the monitoring process, namely the weekly implementation figures issued by the Commission.
It is undoubtedly noteworthy that this year, for the first time, the Council consented almost immediately to the use of flexibility instruments, of the flexibility reserve, in the budget.
But of course we must also ask the question whether that in itself is sufficient.
The debate is closed.
This revised system superseded the old ESA 1979.
Its use was made compulsory for all Member States.
In other words, we had all the time in the world, and we wanted to take this opportunity to issue another urgent reminder of the importance of the revenue side in the compilation of the budget, to re-emphasise that revenue is the key to our prospects of funding our European policies.
In its common position, the Council has only adopted the first of our amendments, the one in which we stated that the change from ESA 79 to the ESA 95 system for the determination of the Communities' own VAT-based resources would have no impact on the level of these resources, neither in terms of the balance between Member States nor of the overall volume of the Communities' own resources.
The Council has rejected our Amendments Nos 2 and 3, in which we sought to guarantee better annual information for the budgetary authority on the state of play with regard to the Communities' own resources in the form of a Commission working paper and to establish a trialogue with the Council and the Commission in this domain.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve the objectives set in the Treaty on European Union and, more specifically, on Economic and Monetary Union, the Community requires high-quality statistical instruments, which provide all the institutions, governments and economic and social operators with a collection of harmonised and reliable statistics on which to base their decisions.
In this respect, it is necessary to modify the Regulation in order to make it possible to use ESA 95.
It is clear that, by implementing the change to the new system, the Member States have made additional improvements to the quality of the national accounts as a result of a complete review of their sources and methods used in producing accounts.
Finally, we congratulate the rapporteur on having obtained a commitment from the Commission to present an annual report to the European Parliament on the state of the collection of own resources, the forecasts in this field for the next budgetary year and certain frequent problems relating to the system.
This will contribute to greater transparency and will allow the European Parliament to be duly informed on the implementation of the modifications necessary for the harmonisation of the new system.
In relation to everything else, we fully agree with the rapporteur' s views.
As Mr Garriga also pointed out, the Regulation in no way affects budgetary revenue or the balance between Member States in the field of own resources.
The debate at first reading allowed us to better understand and restate the need to improve information to Parliament relating to budgetary revenue.
As a result of this debate, I would like to confirm on behalf of the Commission that, at the beginning of every year, we will present Parliament with a working document on the state of the collection of own resources, the forecasts for those resources for the following budgetary year and any other specific problem relating to the own resource system.
The debate is closed.
The vote will be taken tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Green paper on the criminal protection of the Community's financial interests: A European prosecutor The next item is the Commission communication on the Green Paper on the criminal protection of the Community's financial interests: A European prosecutor.
Today the college of Commissioners has unanimously approved the Green Book I presented on the use of criminal law to protect the financial interests of the Community and on the creation of a European Public Prosecutor.
By adopting this Green Paper just before the European Council meeting in Laeken, the Commission has sent out a strong political signal.
The prosecution of cross-border frauds involving funds from the Community budget all too frequently grinds to a halt at the borders between different legal systems, of which there are not only 15 but 17 in the European Union, a number that will increase still further with enlargement.
The best possible use should therefore be made of the time between now and the next reform of the Treaties to respond to the questions and scepticism from the Member States, which have been asking us repeatedly about the precise form that such a system would take.
Our proposals are therefore fully consistent with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
In the Member States, the European Public Prosecutor would be assisted by 'delegated national prosecutors' whose responsibilities would have a European dimension.
As for proceedings, the European Public Prosecutor should be able to draw on the broad range of national investigation instruments.
This approach respects the national legal system.
At the same time, the principle of mutual recognition would ensure that the common investigation area became a reality.
The concept of a European Public Prosecutor fits neatly into the vision of a common European legal area.
Another is Eurojust.
I expect the Green Paper to herald the start of a broad and objective discussion about the creation of a European Public Prosecutor with all interested parties, including, of course, practitioners, judges and prosecutors in the Member States.
I would ask the European Parliament, as the driving force behind this idea, to play an active part in this discussion and to foster the debate in the Member States.
The ultimate goal is to ensure that the European Public Prosecutor is enshrined in the Treaties when they are next revised.
I am, however, optimistic, because this goal can be achieved together, with the support of the European Parliament.
Mr President, I would like to pick out a few points.
I believe that we are now at a stage when, as the Nice Summit showed, it really is important to be precise.
Surely you are not ignoring political signals sent by both the Council - many countries are against this - and Parliament, which, as I said at the beginning, two weeks ago rejected many things to do with the European public prosecutor?
Commissioner, you have now announced a timeframe for setting up the post of European Public Prosecutor that is indeed a very slow process.
Secondly, how do you convince those Member States which are resistant to the concept of European Public Prosecutor, for example my own country which, in my opinion, is misguided on this point?
In other words, Eurojust will simply not work.
I will say again that we have a Community Budget, we have Community finances and we have a common internal market, and to that degree we no longer have borders in the legal sphere, but we do still have seventeen different legal systems, as the United Kingdom has three different legal systems.
Thank you, Mr President.
The debate is closed.
Part I Question No 39 by (H-0878/01): Subject: Securing the external borders of an Enlarged Union Slovenia has some 370 border crossings with its neighbour Croatia.
The Commission recalls that Slovenia must achieve a high level of external border control upon accession.
The Commission is paying close attention to Slovenia's progress in the framework of the negotiations under the Justice and Home Affairs chapter, as well as in the pre-accession process.
Slovenia is required to demonstrate its capability systematically to check all persons crossing external borders and to ensure effective border surveillance between authorised border crossing points.
In this regard, Slovenia has prepared a detailed action plan for the implementation of the Schengen acquis, as requested by the European Union.
In addition to the very substantial financial assistance granted to Slovenia for upgrading its border controls - this is financial assistance within the framework of the pre-accession process - the Commission is encouraging and directly supporting the bilateral cooperation between Slovenia and Croatia.
This is funded under our assistance programme to Croatia for integrated border management, which will also cover border crossings with Slovenia.
Slovenia and Croatia have recently reached agreement on the demarcation of the common border.
While, in the past, the lack of demarcation did not affect in practice the quality of the border controls and of the surveillance of the green and blue border, this agreement, once ratified, is additional proof of the good cooperation between the two countries.
It is quite important, as part of the whole negotiation process and accepting the acquis and responsibilities, that we clarify that this is a responsibility for the applicant country.
Not having it would be a problem for the future of Europe and for our ambitions.
Question No 40 by , which has been taken over by Carlos Carnero González (H-0881/01): Subject: Revitalisation of the Euro-Mediterranean policy On 24 October 2001 President Prodi, addressing the EP plenary in Strasbourg in the debate on the Ghent European Council of 19 October 2001, said: 'The time has come to make new moves in the Mediterranean area. (...) We must now take full advantage of all the opportunities open to us to ensure real progress.
Concerning the association agreements, 2001 started with the good news of Egypt' s decision to initial the association agreement and negotiations are ongoing with Algeria, Lebanon and Syria.
The Commission is working with the countries which have already started this process to see where technical advice can best be provided to help partners reach agreement.
In order to lay the basis for a Euro-Med internal market so as to fully exploit the future free trade area, we are assisting our partners to bring their regulatory frameworks closer to ours.
During 2001 the Commission has further developed a concept of the Euro-Med internal market, provided information about its implications and opportunities, and we have paid particular attention to internal market issues in MEDA programming.
The regional economic dialogue is being reinforced with future discussions focusing on growth and employment.
MEDA is being used to examine certain infrastructure needs from a regional or subregional perspective and, where appropriate, to draw up strategies for interconnection and for linkage with the trans-European networks to ensure that priority projects are funded and implemented.
Together with our partners we are developing a new regional MEDA programme on justice and home affairs and are engaged in discussions on these issues bilaterally in relation to the provisions of the association agreements and in MEDA programming.
With regard to new structures for dialogue, the Commission will bring forward proposals to adapt the working methods of the Euro-Mediterranean partnership, in particular to provide for more frequent political dialogue on regional and international issues.
The Commission will launch a policy dialogue with the Mediterranean partners on employment policy, sharing EU experience on ways of combating unemployment and of creating new jobs.
It will work to improve the available information and statistics as part of ongoing efforts to channel legal migration and to combat illegal migration.
Let me add some information concerning the performance this year of the activities in the MEDA programme.
For this year, there are commitments under MEDA of about EUR 740 million in the budget which are expected to be fully implemented.
The same is true of other budget lines benefiting the Mediterranean partners.
Consultations have already taken place with the partners and with the other donors on the country and regional strategy papers covering 2002 to 2006 and on the more detailed national and regional indicative programmes for 2002 to 2004.
All these documents should be approved by the end of the year.
This process must not be limited to Euro-Mediterranean summits or ministerial meetings, such as the one which is going to take place next April under the Spanish Presidency in Valencia.
Question No 41 by (H-0917/01): Subject: African children sold into slavery in Europe The BBC recently raised the issue of the increasing trade in child trafficking from Africa to Europe.
In reality, children are put to work as domestic slaves, some are beaten and abused - they rarely set foot in a classroom.
As regards the situation in the European Union, a study has been finalised with support from the Stop programme.
They have carried out a study on the extent to which children are trafficked for sexual purposes into the European Union, how they get here, what happens to them next and what can be done to help them.
Furthermore, for 2002 the Stop II programme will support a follow-up and extension of the IOM report through a seminar on trafficking in unaccompanied minors in EU Member States.
As regards action against trafficking in human beings, the Commission has been developing a comprehensive policy to fight and prevent such trafficking in human beings over the past few years.
The most recent example is the agreement reached on 28 September 2001 on the Commission's proposal for a framework decision on combating trafficking in human beings.
The framework decision essentially concerns approximation of criminal laws and penalties to improve and facilitate law enforcement and judicial cooperation.
The Commission confirms that the political dialogue under the Cotonou Agreement and EU support for good governance in ACP countries have given real opportunities to address the human and social aspects of this practice, as well as the corruption elements that may be linked to it.
Moreover, as poverty and lack of local opportunities are amongst the main reasons for children being trafficked, the poverty-reduction approach of our development cooperation is a meaningful basis for attacking the problem.
It gives a priority to equitable growth and better access to education.
The Commission is also implementing actions and coordination with UNICEF and a large number of NGOs in several African countries where this problem is most acute.
In June 2000, in Cotonou, in Benin I had the strange experience of visiting two projects we were funding from the Commission.
In the same city we had two groups of beneficiaries: one project was for street children or orphans or simply abandoned children, and the other was for children who had been freed by the project from being enslaved.
We went from one project to another and were told about two different ways in which children find themselves in very serious situations.
We are pleased with our cooperation with NGOs in many countries in trying to do something meaningful here.
Perhaps he could confirm whether my own Member State is involved or whether it will be brought in in the future.
It is clear that the real value of these studies is their ability to throw light on the whole issue and to raise awareness.
As regards the specific issue of child soldiers, where we have set in place a personal initiative on my behalf, there is a scheme under way with Unicef to try to establish a real information system that could produce reports, using a comprehensive standard base in order to establish meaningful and credible statistics.
So this scheme aims also to exert pressure and keep everybody better informed.
It is a moral issue.
Highlighting the problem of greed could be part of stronger work in this field.
I have to say that it is extremely difficult for the Commission to intervene on its own and control and monitor the application of directives in all the Member States.
Since the Erika disaster, we have had several projects in Europe that have aimed to improve environmental legislation with regard to oil tankers.
Environmental policy, especially after EUREKA, has been a driving force at the European Commission which, as you know, has submitted a framework of measures and proposals to the Council as regards both the actual ships and their various structural specifications and the measures which coastal countries need to take.
This undertaking is contained in the agreement on the community support framework for 2000-2006 or, more precisely, in the operational programme on employment and vocational training, and has been reiterated by the Commission in its recommendations for the last three years.
It has also tabled a reforming law, which was published on 19 October 2001.
The Greek authorities have informed us that the bulk of the reforms will be complete by the end of 2003, while the implementation of supplementary measures will continue until the end of 2005.
My question is this: you originally told me - I have all the information here and I do not suppose that you will question it - that it would be all done and dusted in 2001.
There were procedures which the Greek government had to follow in terms both of social dialogue and parliamentary deadlines.
I hope that preparations by the Member States, which have already started so that we can commission this new system in 2003, will be of help both to the European Union as a whole and to each individual country.
Since comparable statistics are needed in order to carry out such an undertaking, how does the Commission intend to address the lack of data and problems of comparability between national data?
As I said earlier, the European Commission has put the strategy on health and safety on its list of priorities and harmonised statistics from the EU Statistical Office will be the basis for the proper development of this strategy.
The Commission has published two harmonised statistical methodologies since 1990.
The first is the ESAW, the European Statistics on Accidents at Work, with 1993 as the reference year.
The second is the EODS, the European Statistics on Occupational Diseases, with 2001 as the reference year.
Provision was made for a special unit for work-related health problems in the 1999 survey on employees.
As part of the new Community strategy on safety, the Commission intends to recommend measures to improve the reporting of accidents at work and occupational diseases which, we believe, will help promote this strategy in all the Member States.
It is very hard for the European Commission to monitor the situation at national and regional level, let alone at enterprise level.
However, I must tell you that there are new ideas as regards the application of the new strategy on health and safety and, to reply to your concern as to whether further steps will be taken, thought is being given to applying the open cooperation method to the field of health and safety, which means common objectives, common national action plans, recommendations and cooperation between Member States.
It is open to the parties concerned, in the various areas, and the results are obviously largely a question of how much the various participants invest in them.
The Commission is involved at different levels in the events that are organised in the context of the Transatlantic Business Dialogue, including an annual conference between the CEOs of the various companies, which could be said to form the annual highpoint of this dialogue.
In 1998, at another EU-US summit, both sides undertook to support all the dialogues and in fact that same year the European Parliament created a specific budget heading to support them.
The major companies in TABD are making a number of practical demands, or expressing their wishes, in connection with legislation they want to see within the EU.
With regard to participation at the summit, as I said earlier, those taking part in these dialogues on business, consumers, the environment and employment are, in turn, urged to come and present their recommendations to the leaders of the two sides, in other words to the American president on the one hand, and to the Presidency of the Council and to the Commission on the other.
Mr Martin' s question broadly relates to the problems that non-governmental organisations experienced in gaining access to the Doha Conference in Qatar.
If we cast our minds back, so that we have a clear understanding, this decision was due to be taken several months after the Seattle conference, which may explain why there were not as many candidates as some might have wished.
Nevertheless, I think that the authorities made a considerable effort - this was something that all those taking part in the ministerial conference mentioned - to be in a position to offer the delegates appropriate accommodation and provide the necessary logistical support.
In any case, I am sure that this saved the taxpayer some money and as for the delegation from the European Union, we were pleased with the way the conference was organised.
It is also true that logistical matters were not helped by the events of 11 September and that many security measures were added to the checks that are normally applied at such conferences.
I would like to reiterate that, as I also said to Parliament some time ago, we asked the Qatar authorities for access for the non-governmental organisations and were granted it.
The last point that I would like to stress is that, again for security reasons, a large number of potential participants, whether governmental delegations, parliamentary delegations or non-governmental organisations, decided on their own initiative not to come to Doha.
I willingly take on board the idea of a code of conduct, which could regulate relations between the WTO and the non-governmental organisations.
I myself had many intensive discussions with these representatives during the conference, and also with the representatives of other organisations from European civil society, who were not, strictly speaking, part of our delegation.
However, in the context of the European Union, and I suppose that it is essentially the EU that is of interest to you - it is, in any case, of primary interest to me - we are very lucky to participate in such conferences with 15 Member States, which themselves bring a number of NGOs along with their own delegations.
One of the reasons why Doha was better than Seattle - and, in my view, this is the main reason - was because everyone (the governments, the WTO, the NGOs) gave much thought as to why Seattle failed.
The preparations for Seattle were poor, the preparations for Doha were good, and that is what counts for around 80% of the success.
These two barriers are still standing in our way, but I believe that we must not give up, and, in any case, if Parliament continues to move in the direction it has chosen, namely to attempt to set up this inter-parliamentary structure, you will have the support of the Commission in striving to overcome the obstacles that I have just mentioned, which are still standing in the way but which, in my view, must not deter us.
Thank you very much, Mr Lamy.
Travelling times, as with other parameters such as temperatures or densities, are essential elements to achieve a good level of protection for the animals during transport.
As a matter of policy, the Commission considers it to be of the utmost importance to draft legislative proposals on the basis of sound scientific advice.
The Commission has therefore requested an opinion from the Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare on different welfare aspects of animal transport and, in particular, travelling time limits.
This opinion is expected early in 2002.
The Commission will present further proposals on animal transport in the light of this opinion.
As regards the granting of export refunds for slaughtered cattle, the Commission shares the views of the Council, as expressed in its resolution of 19 June 2001 on welfare.
The first objective is to correct the deficiencies observed with the implementation of existing legislation.
There should be more controls and severe sanctions if the existing legislation on welfare during transport is not correctly implemented, be it on transport inside the Community or on exports to countries outside the EU.
Commissioner Fischler is also committed to strengthening the existing rules in this respect.
Community legislation in the field of export refunds unambiguously links the payment of aid to the respect of all the conditions related to animal welfare.
The Community must achieve a well-balanced solution to the different aspects of this question.
In 1999, we had further evidence of particular problems in Spain, Italy and Greece.
There is no reason to believe that implementation enforcement has improved at all since 1993 or 1999.
Animals frequently still find themselves crammed into overcrowded trucks, given neither food nor water, often for journeys flouting the current limits and travelling for up to 30 or 40 hours.
The European Parliament has repeatedly voted in favour of an eight-hour limit on transport.
You will also be aware of Regulation (EC), No 615/98 which requires and empowers the Commission to withdraw export refunds in circumstances where the animal welfare legislation has not been complied with.
There is a close association between the two and definitely a connection in the sense that you make reference to - antibiotics.
The Commission has brought forward legislation in that regard and I refer you to the conference that took place only a couple of weeks ago under the auspices of the Belgian presidency on this particular issue.
I refer you to what I said on that occasion and also to what Minister Magda Aelvoet said in relation to that particularly important issue.
The investment needed to achieve these standards means that there are now fewer abattoirs than there used to be and this is necessary in order to comply with the legislation for the protection of human health.
There was consensus between the Environment Committee and the Agriculture Committee on the reduction of the overall journey time and distance.
It is very important that the Commission takes this on board.
Question No 49 by (H-0908/01): Subject: Unacceptable limit values for heavy metals in fish The Danish newspaper Politiken reported on 15 November 2001 that the EU was to raise limit values to allow more heavy metal in fish despite a recommendation from an EU committee of experts that stricter standards should be introduced.
The only proposed change is that two additional species have been added to the list of fish species for the maximum level of 1 mg/kg.
However, the Commission considers that the task of developing food quality and information to consumers on the results of official controls, surveillance and other monitoring activities in the food sector should be left to Member States.
Member States are responsible for carrying out the official control of foodstuffs at all stages of production and distribution.
While the Commission is not aware of this particular initiative by the Danish authorities, it can encourage such steps or the voluntary implementation of such initiatives by other Member States, but it is unlikely to make a similar proposal at Community level.
I stress that these points are made in relation to the outlets that you particularly refer to in your question.
Question No 50 by (H-0942/01): Subject: State of slaughterhouses in Greece According to the data available, the Greek slaughterhouse infrastructure is extremely inadequate.
Specifically, of the 350 operational slaughterhouses, 50 to 60 fulfil the requirements of Directive 91/497/EEC to a certain extent, and have formal approval, while the rest belong to municipal authorities and communes and are of ancient construction, with inadequate and obsolete equipment and no facilities for the hygienic disposal of liquid or solid waste or highly toxic substances.
The last inspection mission on fresh meat carried out in Greece by the Commission's Food and Veterinary Office was in September 2000 in relation to porcine meat.
This mission identified serious wide-ranging deficiencies in the operation of official controls and production standards in this sector.
Further high level meetings with the Greek authorities are planned for early 2002 in an attempt to resolve the remaining shortcomings in food safety and veterinary control standards.
With regard to waste water treatment, Council Directive 91/271 concerning urban waste water treatment foresees rules for slaughterhouses.
Waste water above a particular volume must meet conditions established in prior regulations and or specific authorisations by the competent authority since 31 December 2000.
Commissioner, you said that 47 slaughterhouses meet certain Community requirements, while others can operate freely in Greece.
On 22 May, I confirmed that I met the Greek minister in the margins of the Agriculture Council where there was a discussion in relation to the weaknesses identified in successive reports of the FVO.
Once again, on 8 June, I wrote to the Greek minister asking for a follow-up to his initial reply of 27 April.
As the time allotted to questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions Nos 51 to 83 will be replied to in writing.
Two weeks later, in Accra, I saw for myself the pride of Ghana's government representatives in pointing out that Africa had played an independent role this time, and this could, among other things, be attributed to good preparatory work by the European Union and in particular by Commissioner Lamy.
The developing countries, particularly Africa, are now and for the future fully involved in negotiations, and this was also one of our main demands.
The demands of the developing countries and of the Africans - ranging from the need for comprehensive technical aid to the Cotonou Agreement's exceptions up to 2008 - have very largely been met.
Mr Lamy, you too have referred to the need for us to achieve the creation of a parliamentary assembly.
For the first time, and against fierce and widespread opposition, we will have negotiations on some key environmental issues.
The key to further progress must be to demonstrate, above all, to developing countries that their fears of green protectionism on our side are groundless.
The EU must now push hard to translate this principle into practice, seizing the opportunity given by the ILO's launch of a commission on the social aspects of globalisation in which the WTO and other international organisations will be participating.
The ministerial meeting also agreed to negotiations on reform of the dispute settlement procedure with an open agenda covering whatever proposals WTO members choose to table.
The EU must take this opportunity for openness and transparency.
I emphasise, in particular, your insistence that you need the political support of this House in order to pursue the round in the way it was launched.
They are disappointed in that hope and they need to be honest with themselves and to respect the views of developing countries not to indulge in paternalism as some of our colleagues have unfortunately done.
The agenda is not the outcome and we will need to be vigilant for a good result, but when developing.... (The President cut off the speaker) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the World Trade Organisation has a future.
It is true that in the coming years the 144 Member States will resume negotiations on the further liberalisation of world trade, but more than ever before, the rich man' s club has learnt that survival of the fittest no longer applies.
However, the European Union also has reason to be satisfied.
These trade discussions are held at a significant time, because after the acts of terrorism in the United States, they send out the message that the Member States are prepared to join forces at international level and that terrorists cannot undermine international trade.
The International Forum on Globalisation observes, for example, that the results from Qatar signify 'the ultimate triumph for the world trade body whose very mission is to exclude civil society from shaping economic systems' .
Prior to the Laeken Summit, ATTAC Belgium wrote that, partly because of its support for the WTO, the EU est essentiellement déterminée par les intérêts des institutions financières et des grandes entreprises.
The truth is that both the European popular movements and representatives of the developing countries are very embittered about the EU negotiators' way of using the language of force to twist the arms of the poor countries' representatives.
Madam President, we view with concern the decisions of the meeting of the World Trade Organisation.
Its repercussions in the short and medium term may prove disastrous for the peoples of many countries, particularly the less developed countries, but also some in the European Union, namely Portugal.
For my country, the opening up in the agricultural and textile areas, including the bilateral agreements being negotiated by the European Union, such as that with Pakistan, without taking Portuguese requirements into account, is particularly worrying.
For the economic and multinational groups, the most important factor was achieved: the opening of negotiations for greater liberalisation of world trade, postponed in Seattle and openly called into question this year by world organisations, namely those which were present at the World Social Forum of Porto Alegre and at Genoa.
The final resolution of the WTO itself, referring to liberalisation in particularly sensitive areas such as textiles, important aspects of agriculture, services and others, including the area of intellectual property, leaves little doubt, although its consolidation in practice could yet be influenced by any disputes that may develop.
Even a few small positive advances in the field of intellectual property, after the pressure which countries like Brazil and South Africa brought to bear in order to obtain generic drugs to combat AIDS and malaria, show that it is important to step up the fight against capitalist globalisation in its various aspects, whether political, economic, social or environmental.
The European Union trade associations have already condemned the opening of negotiations within the WTO framework without at least having secured real progress in upholding compliance with the ILO agreements and minimum standards of defence of workers' rights, given that there can be no sustained development without social and environmental development.
The liberalisation of international trade favours the rich countries and multinationals, deepens the gulf between developed and less developed countries, as is clearly shown by studies conducted under the aegis of the UN, intensifies the exploitation of communities and workers by multinationals which dominate international trade and which are only interested in making maximum profit, even if it is at the expense of child labour, food safety, the environment, family farming and multifunctional farming.
Thank you, Madam President.
The Qatar trade round was to become a round for the benefit of the developing countries.
The challenge is to guarantee farmers a reasonable income without distorting the world market price.
Finally, I would underline that in the fight for the environment and social standards, not distortion of competition, but market access for poor countries and their well-being should be the EU' s most important driving forces.
Madam President, Commissioner, at Doha, the fourth WTO ministerial conference had to set an agenda and a programme.
Talking of health issues, Doha was a real success as far as medicines are concerned, but it is chiefly due to Osama bin Laden that the poor people of the world owe their entitlement to access to medicines.
The clichés are piling up.
We had already signed a trade agreement in Marrakesh, and everyone knows that that agreement brought about peace in Gaza and in Palestine, and even peace in Afghanistan.
The second great cliché is that Europe would have held out, but was abandoned by Japan.
However, Europe did obtain a victory on the environment and social affairs.
Until the end of the negotiating round, and therefore until 2005, our farmers will have internal aid and restitutions.
They obtained that stay of execution for the CAP, which was facing the death penalty, so well, in fact, that when Poland accedes to Europe, Polish farmers will be deceived because they will be joining the Europe of the CAP when in fact, from 2005 onwards, there will no longer be one.
We also obtained a reprieve for foreign investments.
It will be merely a vast free-trade area, and everyone knows that, according to Adam Smith, free trade equals national poverty.
Madam President, the self-appointed opponents of globalisation were in the headlines only for a short time.
Let us then call for sustainable protection of the environment, social standards and the punishment of human rights violations.
I would like this cooperation to be substantially more precise and detailed, giving a much more accurate view of the state of negotiations you will be engaged in on the various subject areas, and also signalling where there are difficulties or problems, not only giving definite information on many points, but actually facilitating political monitoring as well.
I believe we must attach much more emphasis to putting foreign policy regarding countries such as, for example, India, Singapore or China, but also regarding many of the Latin American countries, on a much firmer footing, using a stronger foreign policy to achieve greater understanding for what we actually want to achieve in the sphere of trade policy.
There is still the prevalent feeling in certain countries and states that we are actually using our trade policy to engage in indirect protectionism.
Madam President, all this triumphant talk masks the latest instalment in a policy to ensure that global trade serves the interests of the multinationals.
Further liberalisation is still the main objective, that is, opening up the markets in poor countries to the industrialised products of the developed countries which, at the same time, will import agricultural produce to compete with our own, together with raw materials at derisory prices.
The meeting in Qatar confirmed the WTO as the main tool of capitalist globalisation.
Any interest evinced in the problems of less developed countries and the environment is lip service and, as such, mere hypocrisy.
It is true that the final declaration does not say everything it should say and, I would say, that sometimes it says more than it should say, but any negotiation means reaching compromises and compromise requires concessions.
The WTO train, as you said quite rightly, Commissioner Lamy, is back on the rails and has already left the station.
However, in order for that train to reach its destination, the necessary means must be adopted, the texts must be interpreted correctly, since they are full of structural ambiguities, and guarantee reciprocity in the opening up of the markets and full respect for the rules which govern multilateral trade.
In order to help to overcome the barrier of poverty once and for all, we must adopt the necessary measures to facilitate access, above all by the least-developed countries, because these countries may suffer as a result of the multilateral commercial system, due to the advantages we offer to the developing countries.
What we have seen is a declaration on access to medicines and public health.
It is groundbreaking and, as someone said this morning, it has within it a commitment to the whole question of flexibility of the agreement on TRIPS.
As the Commissioner is well aware, the United States and Switzerland, in particular, argued that the reference to public health was too broad.
But I have to say, Commissioner - and you will agree - that what happened represented a real victory for developing countries because they were skilled in negotiation, and that position by the US and Switzerland, in particular, was finally rejected.
If drug companies price medicines beyond the reach of people who need them, governments can override patents without the fear of retribution.
Secondly, how does the Commission intend to ensure that countries without production capacity or insufficient production capacity can make full use of the compulsory licensing provisions?
This must, in my view, be accompanied by a reduction in the length of drug patents in poor countries.
TRIPS currently dictates a patent term of 20 years world-wide.
Finally, on the question of developing countries, I would like to pay tribute, in particular, to ACP countries, in which we have a particular interest and partnership in the European Union.
The 77 ACP countries succeeded in obtaining a waiver.
They put out a brilliant declaration before Doha.
I have had several meetings with them since then.
I do not share other Members' optimism on this point.
For instance, the agreement on access to medicines, which appeared to be a victory, is really a decoy to lure the media and the developing countries.
For the time being, nothing allows them to use compulsory licensing in order to arrange for the medicines they need to be manufactured by third parties, and this point was emphasised at the recent conference in Ouagadougou.
Madam President, Mr Lamy, Mr Fischler, I should like to say, first of all, that I am delighted by the success of the Doha ministerial conference, not only from the point of view of its results, but also from a material point of view.
Holding this event in Qatar was in itself a response to the war against terrorism that we entered into following the tragic events of 11 September.
Like other Members who took part in that conference, I appreciated the constant transparency that prevailed between the Council, the Commission and Parliament during the negotiations.
That transparency was also the order of the day among the NGOs present at Doha, who are to be congratulated on the efforts that they have made in this direction since the previous conference in Seattle.
This ministerial conference certainly enabled considerable progress to be made on various fronts, including the inclusion of China and Taiwan.
As for the rest, the Commission took a tough stance in the negotiations, and the efforts that it made during the final night and on the morning of 14 November enabled the European Union to convince its partners that its positions were well-founded.
Secondly, the Doha ministerial declaration constitutes an undertaking to start negotiations on the priority issues of European enlargement and integration.
Finally, now that the real negotiations are about to start, I hope that the transparency that has prevailed so far will continue to do so, and that it will be strengthened still further between us.
Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the European Parliament delegation attending the Doha Conference, I too would like to congratulate our Commissioners on the excellent work that they accomplished and the results that they obtained, which were undeniably very positive and which bear witness to the highly effective way in which our Commissioners handled these negotiations.
I should also, above all, like to say how pleased I was with the excellent cohesion and solidarity between our three institutions which were represented in Qatar.
Basically, and restricting my comments solely to the agricultural issues, I was interested to discover that the European Union has given itself the room to manoeuvre that is needed to reform its common agricultural policy in response to the new expectations of our society, because non-trade considerations were explicitly mentioned in the final ministerial declaration.
It seems to me that this aspect is the vital element in the outcome of Doha.
The Union can also take advantage of a success that it has achieved with regard to the United States, because all forms of aid to exports will be subject to negotiation in the new round.
This prospect, in its turn, is more likely to encourage the development of farming for food production, and is therefore very important from the point of view of the world demand for food, which is expected to double in the next twenty-five years owing to the increase in the populations of the developing countries and the improvement in living conditions in the emerging countries.
In all, I believe this agreement represents a good balance between trade liberalisation and regulation, and also between trade and the development of all types of farming.
Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, it is too early to say who won or lost at Doha in terms of the agricultural COM, since the only issue there was agreement on an agenda and a timetable of negotiations.
The countries of the Cairns group and the United States saw enshrined in the text the principle of ongoing agricultural reform, improved market access and the gradual elimination of export subsidies.
The European Union succeeded in ensuring that this reduction in export subsidies would not be automatic and had some of its main demands in terms of reinforcing the non-commercial elements of the agreement included in the text.
Multi-functional agriculture was not expressly referred to in the text and the strengthening of measures for the protection of geographic indicators was only defined clearly for wines.
It will therefore not be difficult to conclude that the next reform of the CAP, before 2006, will have to be more thorough than may have been hoped.
Not just because of the cut in the guaranteed prices it will involve, but also and especially because of the qualitative change in the instruments of support for farmers so that, even without market support, they continue to have an income safety net.
It would not be fair to end without paying special tribute to our Commissioners for the courage and firmness they showed in these negotiations.
Madam President, Commissioners, I will avoid polite flowery phrases, for you cannot talk up the outcome of Doha in such a way as to paper over the absence of any social component in world trade - at least from the point of view of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
We should not forget, though, that the WTO should also be concerning itself with the creation of fair general conditions for investment, competition and market access.
To tell the truth, conglomerates no longer see the WTO as the core issue - there is already a McDonald's in every city in the world.
I would like to end by asking another group to explain to us how they are going to handle the confidentiality of discussions between the Commission and Parliament in future.
The Conference of the World Trade Organisation in Qatar in itself justifies tempered optimism.
The European Union' s action through its representatives, namely Commissioners Lamy and Fischler, was difficult but frankly positive.
The commitments undertaken by the European Union are far from fulfilling our main priorities, particularly in the environmental and social spheres.
The European representatives were, in fact, faced with a dilemma, where they saw protection of nature and social rights, the representatives of the developing countries saw only disguised protectionism of European interests.
Therefore, there are grounds for hope, but also grounds for disappointment.
The Doha Conference represents just a small step along the steep path that aims to harmonise liberalism and regulation, a small step for globalisation to contribute to world progress and especially to the reduction of poverty, hunger, disease and violence.
Lastly, if the failure... (The President cut the speaker off) Thank you, Mr Lage, your speaking time is up.
Before I give the floor to Commissioner Fischler, in my capacity as President - and of course, I am not allowed to take part in the debate - I should like to warmly congratulate both Commissioners and also thank them for the pleasant working relationship which was very constructive, particularly in Doha.
I see the most important success at Doha as having been the formulation now contained in the Doha Declaration, which gives us the chance to decide for ourselves the direction we will take in agricultural policy.
It is an opportunity because, unlike in the Uruguay Round, we are not so much standing with our backs to the wall in a situation in which, while we continually just said 'no', the other parties to the WTO Treaty determined the direction of future policy.
It is, though, also a responsibility in so far as this outcome does not mean that we do not have to make further appropriate developments to our agricultural policy.
It is this task that now faces us, and it is one that we must take very seriously.
The criticism from some quarters has been that we, the rich part of the world, continue to exploit the developing countries with the help of our refunds on exports.
The European Union alone imports more agricultural produce from the developing countries than do the USA, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Japan put together.
We cannot assume that our ideas about the future of agriculture will be accepted elsewhere in the world without needing to be explained.
The fact that the results obtained are of good quality is really due to the fact that this is the product of policy work in which Parliament and the Council played an important part.
In reality, the solidarity derived its substance from the Union' s negotiating position and from the balance, which is in some ways intrinsic to our mandate, between liberalisation and regulation, between our general concerns here among the countries of the North and our openness towards the concerns of the countries of the South, between the specific values that we, as Europeans, wish to defend and our openness towards a number of the concerns felt by partners who do not necessarily share those values.
However, it is true that on the social side - and I think that neither Mr Fischler nor I have sought to conceal the fact - we have not made as much progress as we would have liked.
As a result, we shall be tested during the next round of negotiations, on our capacity to remain faithful to this viewpoint, particularly when it comes to adapting our programmes of technical assistance for development to fit the ambitious negotiation programme which has been decided on.
The structure of the negotiations themselves is still being finalised.
On this point, we shall have to be scrupulous and careful to ensure that a certain number of the political balances that we obtained in the negotiating programme are not destroyed by some underhand means as a result of timetables with variable speeds, which would have the result of dealing with some subjects before others.
We shall be proposing solutions that will be in the same spirit as what we have already done in order to achieve this compromise, a spirit which those of you who are familiar with the Commission' s position in February last year will easily have recognised.
Finally, to those of you who would like to see a reform of the WTO and who have pointed out, quite rightly, that this is not included in the working programme, I would reply that I share your view.
Some progress has, admittedly, been made since Seattle, at least in practice, without making any formal changes to the rules of procedure.
This is true in the case of transparency, and it is true as regards having a much larger number of the actors who sit around the WTO table being involved in the decision-making process, but I think that at Doha we probably went as far as we could in terms of what informal action can add to formal action, and I think that we shall have to think about this matter very soon.
As most of you have said, the serious negotiations are only just starting, and will continue during the years to come, in all probability with the maximum negotiating intensity somewhere between 2003 and 2004.
In any case, you can count on Franz Fischler and myself to ensure that that is the case as far as the Commission' s contribution is concerned.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Thursday.
The programme designed to replace sectoral and fragmented Community action on health is a more integrated programme, based mainly on disease prevention, which will help us to introduce quality standards in the public health sector.
However, important aspects of our proposals have been rejected in the common position; worse, part of the programme's proposal has been deleted by the Council, forcing us to amend the common position in the Committee on the Environment, the members of which voted in favour of the present recommendation for second reading by a large majority.
I should like now to make a few comments on the programme itself.
The main objective of the programme is to strengthen collaboration between the Member States - and hence achieve added value from the synergy of Community action - by developing three lines of approach, which constitute the general aims of the programme.
I should point out here, given that it is three months to the day since the terrorist attack on 11 September, that we need to include a category to deal with health threats from natural, biological and chemical agents caused by unforeseen circumstances, such as accidents or defective infrastructure or machinery, human error or even acts of terrorism.
The third line of approach is to take account of health-determining factors in all policies and activities through health promotion and disease prevention schemes.
Although we are in almost total agreement with the Council on the objectives of the programme and on individual issues, there is still a great deal of discussion as regards coordination and the budget for the programme.
The European Parliament feels that this sort of complex programme, which includes networks, data, various institutions and non-governmental organisations, needs efficient coordination and control.
We have now confirmed this approach in the Committee on the Environment, which voted for a second reading.
Of course, the Council, in its common position, and the Commission, in its amended proposal, espoused and adopted the main elements of Parliament's position on developing what they refer to as an efficient system and mechanism for coordinating and monitoring the programme.
Finally, the budget.
Consequently, the budget needs to be increased if we are to fully satisfy the needs and objectives of the programme and meet the demands involved in applying the Council's proposals for preparing, adopting and operating suitable structural arrangements including strengthened central resources, as set out by the Council in the second paragraph of Article 7.1.
Finally, strengthening the foundations of our European Structure depends on convergence, not just at the level of economic strategy and policies, such as the single market and EMU, but in individual sectors, such as the health sector.
Madam President, Commissioner, this is the second reading of the public health programme and it is important that the European Parliament re-address a number of issues which it considers to be of fundamental importance.
To start with, we feel that the European Commission really must make suitable structural arrangements, within a year of the date on which the programme starts, for a mechanism which guarantees permanent monitoring and coordination, boosts efficiency and supplies the Member States with information on best practices and an overall evaluation of the programme.
Following recent events and their impact on health, we need to extend action in order to deal with unforeseen threats and new circumstances.
So I ask the Council to reconsider its position, accept the relevant amendments approved by the parliamentary committee and allow for a budget of EUR 380 million.
Amendment No 23, which is referred to in Article 2, reinstates questions such as a holistic approach to health, highlighting mental health and well-being, and the importance of preventing and combating morbidity or premature mortality and reducing inequalities in health matters.
Madam President, I should like, in my turn, and this time on behalf of the Liberal Group, to thank Professor Trakatellis for his excellent report and for his particularly productive and effective collaboration with the notional rapporteurs, and in this case, believe me, that is not just a formality.
He has succeeded in extracting from the 57 amendments our essential concerns, as expressed by our vote on the occasion of the first reading.
Amendment Nos 16, 22 and 47 are essential.
Finally, thanks to Amendment Nos 3, 26 and 42, the rights of young and adult patients are finally laid down in a Community programme.
The EUR 380 million which we had adopted at the time of the first reading in plenary session, on 4 April, is in our view the minimum minimorum.
It has drastically reduced the budget to EUR 280 million, and at the same time it intends to open up this programme to the candidate and associated countries.
This is why we do not understand the attitude of the Council which, by not wanting to fill in the details of this programme, is in fact leaving the Commission with all the powers, while Members of the European Parliament will be deprived of any right of review for the next six years.
The European Parliament must be consulted about the annual priorities, and I hope that our fellow Members will support us on this point.
As far as we are concerned, this is not the main priority; we already have comparable data from other countries.
The Community added value should appear upstream, in the form of a reduction in the health risks emanating, for the most part, from our environment in the broadest sense of the word: transport, pollution, chemicals, food etc., but also from our behaviour and from social, economic and environmental inequalities.
AIDS remains a scourge in Europe, and tuberculosis is resurfacing everywhere.
The 'all-drug' approach has revealed its limitations with the increasing levels of resistance to antibiotics and vaccines.
It is time to take other methods and replacement treatments into consideration, but this should also be done on the basis of relevant evaluations.
Finally, we cannot give in on this matter of the budget.
By sticking at EUR 280 million, the Council would be demonstrating a desire to restrict the actions of the European Union on public health issues, which is something that we cannot comprehend.
The recommendation contains some good intentions, but nothing about how they are to be put into practice.
Yet even in the most highly developed countries of the European Union, in any case in France, public health is short of resources, personnel, premises and equipment.
Yet how can we prevent disease in a society wracked by unemployment and poverty, in which we are witnessing the reappearance of diseases that we thought had been eradicated, like tuberculosis?
Certainly in the field of education and the provision of information, I do not expect Europe to outstrip the individual Member States.
This would greatly benefit public health in the European Union.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the European Community's programme of action in the field of public health for 2001-2006.
The European Commission had allocated EUR 300 million for all the European Union's health projects over five years.
Coming as I do from a large Member State, I have seen only that the centralised allocation of tasks does not necessarily represent an improvement, but that individuals must really be helped where they actually are, and that, I believe, is done better by the Member States.
Madam President, the adoption of Community action in the field of public health is greatly welcome.
The new public health strategy will determine the EU's focus on health for the next five years.
That is why having clear priorities is so important: firstly, improving information and knowledge concerning health issues; secondly, strengthening rapid reaction to health threats; and, finally, tackling health determinants.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy would like EUR 300 million.
This is an EUR 80 million increase which would correspond to the amount already in the existing programmes.
As many have mentioned, this is EUR 100 million more than the Council asked for in the common position.
I would like to take this opportunity, in light of 11 September, to ask the Commissioner if any new action to combat bioterrorism will be funded by a new budgetary proposal and not from the framework programme?
I am alarmed that the Conservatives in this House have called for a split vote on the issue of NGO networks.
The new health programme is about protecting the health of all EU citizens, not just the privileged few.
My fourth and last point concerns the importance of the efforts in support of the activities of the not-for-profit and non-governmental organisations that operate in the public health field.
Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work.
At a time when there are many questions with regard to what Europe is doing and what it is about, the one area where we can claim to have success and where we have responded to the concerns of European citizens is in the area of public health.
The one certainty, the one foundation stone that European citizens could depend on was the European Union.
However, there is much that we can learn from each other.
There are practices with regard to medical devices and new technologies which are in use in one Member State and are not even discussed in another.
The Commission and Europe can act as the honest broker in bringing together these sides to ensure that we deliver the best possible remedies for people within the European Union.
I have one area of concern in particular - and there is nothing in the report to help resolve the problem - and that is having a clear account of the illness and diseases suffered right across the European Union.
For instance, in areas such as autism, polio, cancer - breaking down the individual cancers is probably easier to collate than anything else - cystic fibrosis and other generic and genetic diseases, we have seen continuing problems for people trying to give services to sufferers.
If the Commissioner could come forward with an idea of being the collator of information, at least we could then say that there is 10% or 12% or 50%, instead of using guess-work or guess-figures as regards the extent of disease, illness or disability prevalent in our Union.
I am very grateful to the rapporteur, Mr Trakatellis, the Members of Parliament and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy for their work on this important and ambitious programme.
This programme is important because protecting and improving public health is at the very centre of our citizens' concerns and their expectations.
The recent terrorist attacks have underlined the need to strengthen and extend the existing Community preparedness and response mechanisms.
The Commission will do everything it can to ensure the necessary, effective coordination by establishing the appropriate structural arrangements.
Firstly, the Commission services are engaged in the process of restructuring in order better to reflect the main areas of the programme.
In the light of this, I can accept Amendment No 8 which calls for the appropriate structural arrangements to ensure the effectiveness and cohesion of measures and actions in the programme and to promote cooperation between the Member States.
The Commission's proposal was for a total budget of EUR 300 million over a period of six years.
Amendment No 36 increases this amount to EUR 380 million.
The Council's common position proposes a budget of EUR 280 million.
The decision on this matter is for the Council and the European Parliament, as the budgetary authority.
I cannot, therefore, accept Amendment No 36.
This amendment and the last part of Amendment No 56 also set limits on how we spend the programme budget.
Recent events have clearly demonstrated the need to retain such flexibility.
Therefore we cannot accept these amendments.
The Council and Parliament stressed the need to put in place new structural arrangements to ensure effective coordination.
I wish to turn now to the amendments concerning the scope and structure of the programme.
Amendments Nos 7, 13, 25, 30, 44, 46, 50, 52 and part of Amendment No 58 touch on a variety of subjects, such as giving support to regional and national centres of excellence in various fields.
These amendments cannot be accepted since they cover areas under the responsibility of Member States.
Amendments Nos 41 and 59 seek to impose an obligation for the Commission to report annually to Parliament on the implementation of the programme.
Parliament will be informed on a regular basis of the development of the programme through both the comitology rules and the evaluation process foreseen in Article 12 of the common position.
Therefore, we cannot accept these amendments.
Amendment No 42 cannot be accepted since it limits the scope of the health information system by linking it explicitly to the right of patients to receive certain information on their illnesses and treatment.
I stress, however, that I favour the concept of the promotion of patient rights and I am following the policy on this, which is included in the health forum and - you will note - is specifically referred to in the legislation at recital 3.
Finally, there is a group of seven amendments that we cannot accept because they take away the flexibility necessary for the implementation of the programme or because they duplicate provisions of the common position.
As these amendments, as well as Amendments Nos 3, 11, 29, 31, 45 and 60 will serve to strengthen the programme and improve its effectiveness, they are all acceptable to the Commission.
I should add that applicant countries can join in and that is provided for.
Furthermore, I also want to mention the reference made to the extent to which it is necessary to acquire information on diseases and disabilities, as Mr Prodi mentioned.
Let me, in conclusion, Madam President, repeat my appreciation for all the constructive work that the rapporteur and the committee have put in on shaping the future of public health policy in the EU.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report has progressed very well.
It is very good that the important rules on, for example, the ban on dilution are now being implemented.
The groups have come to an agreement among themselves.
So it is not enough to simply send the stuff back, and does not do justice to our responsibility as politicians.
The measures in the Council common position are a key element of the comprehensive strategy to improve the safety of feed.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3 as adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
Regarding Amendment No 1, the Commission considers that the possibility of returning non-compliant products intended for animal feed to the country of origin has to be maintained.
The Commission shares, however, Parliament's concerns in this regard and agrees, therefore, that this return can only happen under strict conditions.
Regarding Amendments Nos 2 and 3 on the date of application, the Commission cannot accept the time period of six months.
The Commission is therefore pleased that compromise Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 6 have been tabled for this plenary session to replace Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3.
Therefore the Commission can accept Amendments Nos 4, 5 and 6.
The Commission will also try to persuade the Council to do likewise.
The Commission has already requested the Scientific Committee for Animal Nutrition to provide updated scientific risk assessments.
The Commission hopes to finalise this review as soon as possible.
Secondly, though, in order also to make it safe for industry to plan ahead, as of course new emission technology and new engines are being developed, and 2006 is no longer quite so far ahead.
Another important point applies as much here as to other types of vehicles, such as passenger cars, lorries and buses, namely that it is not enough for vehicles to achieve great emission values only on a test bed; they must be able to keep to them throughout their working lives.
Thank you, Madam President.
With regard to new cars, the second generation of catalytic converters will be compulsory in 2005.
A lengthy and difficult conciliation procedure was required in order to achieve this outcome.
Today, we are discussing new motorcycles.
The rapporteur is once again proposing, however, an amendment that appeared in the first reading, which has to do with a second stage of mandatory limit values that would apply from 2006.
This stage would be based on limit values and test cycles that currently apply to passenger cars.
The technical work carried out under this programme makes it possible to determine a solution for motorcycles that can perhaps be applied first in EU legislation.
The common position now contains a package of measures for improved in-use emission control, but there is still a number of amendments in the report which define time limits and the details of the regulations more precisely.
The Commission also accepts Amendments Nos 3 and 12, which would permit the retrofitting of older motorcycles.
The Commission cannot accept the demands in Amendments Nos 5, 13 and 20 regarding durability.
For that reason, the Commission accepts Amendment No 7, but rejects Amendments Nos 15 and 19.
Amendments Nos 8 and 9 are connected with the introduction of stage 2 limit values for mopeds.
The Commission cannot accept Amendment No 8, as it would delay the application of stage 2 to new type approvals to a time past that agreed in the existing Directive (97/24/EC).
The Commission therefore accepts Amendments Nos 3, 6, 7, 9, 12, 17 and 22.
In addition, the Commission accepts Amendments Nos 1 and 18 in principle and Amendments Nos 5, 14 and 23 in part.
The Commission does not agree with Amendments Nos 2, 4, 8, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16, 19 - 21, and 24 - 27.
Thank you, Commissioner Liikaanen.
The debate is closed.
Since the beginning of the 1960s, you have fought for free elections, founded parties and pressure groups and, on several occasions, stood as a candidate at elections, in order to defend the basic values which inspired you throughout your life.
However, allow me to tell you how pleased we all were when you were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2000.
I have always admired the European Parliament, this great hall of democracy and the very symbol of European unity.
This is the place where the unprecedented and monumental task of bringing the countries of Europe together was achieved.
Here, the Members of the European Parliament are working for the realisation of democracy, economic prosperity and social justice in Europe and throughout the world.
I am deeply grateful, moreover, to you, Madam President, for your kind and gracious words of welcome.
When I was elected President four years ago, Korea was in a desperate situation, faced with a serious financial crisis.
I thank you all.
This great revolution is - to put it simply - about knowledge and information and about globalisation.
The gap in information capabilities between the advanced and developing nations means a widening gap between the rich and poor.
Territorial boundaries are becoming practically meaningless as enormous amounts of information are spreading throughout the world almost instantaneously.
Thus, enhanced information capabilities and globalisation could also threaten global peace in the 21st century.
I would like to stress that this is a very serious problem.
The digital divide is further raising the level of antagonism between the rich and poor within a single nation.
To overcome such problems, Korea has been pushing a policy of productive welfare.
Furthermore, productive welfare strives to improve the overall quality of life for its citizens.
With this policy, we are trying to prevent the digital divide from becoming wider, which would create a gap in earnings.
Korea built the first nationwide high-speed information network in the world.
As a result, more than half of the 46 million citizens are now active users of the Internet.
There is another project that would greatly promote exchanges between Europe and Asia.
For this project, one thing must be done - the linking of the railway between South and North Korea.
If we manage to link the remaining 14 kilometres of this railway, South Korea and Europe will finally be connected.
When the trans-Korean railway (TKR) is linked with the trans-China or the trans-Siberia railways, a train leaving London could reach Seoul and Busan via Paris, Eastern Europe, Central Asia and Siberia or China.
Transportation costs would be cut by 30% and time shortened by one third.
On the day we achieve our plans for an e-EurAsia and complete our "Iron Silk Road", Asia and Europe will, for all practical purposes, become one landmass.
In modern times, the West's democratic system of governance, the industrial revolution and cultural achievements have exerted great influence on the politics, economy and culture of Asia.
The political system featuring a centralised government, which has been prevalent in Asia, had a tremendous impact on the way Europeans governed themselves.
Three-quarters of the world's population now live in these two regions.
I am convinced that close cooperation between Korea and the EU will help put into effect this ideal of ASEM and greatly contribute to efforts to bind Asia and Europe closer together.
It is the number one foreign investor in Korea and the third largest trade partner for Korea.
Nonetheless, the room for expansion of trade and investment between Korea and the EU is boundless.
Korea is located in the middle of a huge market that includes the United States, Japan, China and Russia.
Its business and investment climate has been improved greatly through continuous economic reform.
I hope that the EU and Korea will continue to expand their cooperative partnership in the huge East Asia market with Korea as a bridgehead for the EU, as it advances into countries like Japan and China.
A systematic mechanism for further strengthening practical cooperation in such areas as investment and trade is now in place.
In the process of negotiating the Doha Development Agenda, Korea and the EU cooperated closely.
Let me assure you that Korea will continue to step up its cooperation with the EU.
As you know, the world is currently experiencing a global economic downturn.
The flexible management of our financial policy is necessary to stimulate domestic demand.
Thus, I hope that both Korea and the EU will be able to overcome today's economic downturn through mutual cooperation and jointly pave the way towards a new and common prosperity.
Peace on the Korean Peninsula is an issue that concerns not only the 70 million Korean people - it is also directly linked to peace and stability in the East Asian region and the world.
I have consistently pushed the Sunshine Policy to prevent war and settle peace on the Korean Peninsula.
The crux of our Sunshine Policy calls for peaceful coexistence and peaceful exchange and cooperation between the two Koreas.
After a period of time, perhaps ten or 20 years, when the peoples of the South and North have come to trust each other and feel comfortable with each other, we hope to accomplish our ultimate goal of peaceful unification.
As long as the Korean people ardently wish for unification, and as long as support from you and the world continues, I am firmly convinced that we will be able to unify our country in the not-too- distant future.
The EU has been taking part in the Korean Peninsula Energy Development Organisation (KEDO) and has offered a range of humanitarian and economic assistance to North Korea.
In May this year, when the inter-Korean relationship experienced a temporary setback, an EU delegation, led by Swedish Prime Minister Goran Persson and including EU Commissioner for External Relations, Chris Patten, visited North Korea and helped us resume our dialogue.
The EU is an important supporter of peace on the Korean Peninsula and exchanges and cooperation between the South and North.
You, the Members of the European Parliament are genuine friends of the Korean people.
Terrorism does not declare itself before striking, terrorism is faceless and terrorism indiscriminately kills innocent civilians.
However, no religion or culture should be regarded with hostility under any circumstances.
We must keep this in mind as we carry on our war against terrorism.
We will make them a festival in which all people around the world will take part for peace and unity.
Of the 32 competing nations, 10 are EU members.
We will soon complete our preparations and wait for you.
I hope all of you will take great interest in and help us make this a success.
We have, of course, seen and heard with great interest the proposals, the very specific projects that you have in mind in order to encourage trade between Asia and Europe, and you have told us that these projects would help to strengthen our mutual understanding and cooperation.
You know that you have our full support in these undertakings, and we hope that the framework agreement that has been concluded will be a privileged instrument of that cooperation.
Yet you also emphasised, Mr President, the responsibility that the developed countries have to help the developing countries to adjust to the information society, so that the poorest countries will not be isolated from the future development of the world economy.
I can assure you that this is a view to which we in this House attach particular importance, and your message has been not only heard, but also understood and accepted.
