Since then, a whole series of discussions have taken place: a public hearing took place in Parliament on 20 July 2006; there were reports from the Committee responsible, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety; there were opinions from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
During this whole procedure, my colleague, Commissioner Fischer Boel, has played a constructive and pragmatic role with a view to finding a result that we hope the European Parliament will be able to endorse.
In line with the international obligations deriving from the TBT Agreement and following the Council's request of 23 April 2007, the Commission sent the file to the WTO, setting a two-month period for comments.
So my colleague would like to conclude with these words: 'For the time being, let me congratulate the Council Presidency and Parliament for their very successful collaboration, which I hope will be endorsed as a first-reading agreement by Parliament in view of a final adoption once the WTO notification procedure has been brought to an end in two months' time'.
Not only did this come together at the drawing board, it was also the result of a clear vote in committee: 58 votes in favour to only 2 against, with 2 abstentions - that was a result we could build on.
The issue of sweetening is another that was pushed through by Parliament.
Figures have been mentioned: 20 grams per litre, which corresponds to five teaspoons.
The hydrocyanic acid content of stone-fruit marc spirit has been reduced by 3 grams to 7 grams per hectolitre of pure alcohol.
I think the Commission proposal was better than the compromise, but it is important to move forward with the compromise on vodka, bearing in mind geographical indications will protect forever Polish vodka, Finnish vodka, Swedish vodka, Lithuanian vodka, and so on.
Here too, though, the rapporteur has done a sterling job by requiring that, if vodka is made from raw materials other than grain or potatoes, this raw material should be indicated on the label next to the product name.
But, at the same time, it allows other long-standing producers of vodka to continue to market their products on the European market - and they will be labelled.
I have to say that this is vital for European jobs, it is vital for the drinks industry, which employs 60 000 people, and has the support of British industry as well as European vodka producers and other drinks manufacturers.
The Council and the Commission have been very helpful and I very much hope that tomorrow, after, as Mr Titley has said, 18 years have passed since we started trying to get this legislation on the statute book, we just go ahead and do it and protect European jobs.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - (NL) Mr President, the discussion on the Schnellhardt report is being hijacked by the discussion on vodka, which is unfortunate, because it is a report that says so much more in many areas that are so crucial to Europe and to this industry in Europe.
This is important in a situation in which not everything that is said about Europe is always positive, because this is something in which Europe excels.
They know what they buy, and can rely on the fact that what they are getting is quality.
on behalf of the UEN Group. - (PL) Mr President, objections have been raised concerning the proposal for a regulation on spirit drinks for a number of reasons.
Fourthly, the name 'vodka' is a trade name, linked with a specific product that is manufactured according to a specific recipe and using specific ingredients, namely grain, potatoes and beet molasses.
If vodka is made of anything other than grain or potatoes, this must be stated on the bottle.
In our proceedings in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety I have already said that we should not succumb to the pressure that has been brought to bear by the so-called traditional producers.
With regard to the current situation and to the opinions of the traditional producers, I feel that the compromise definition in point 145 of the report could be a solution, and as shadow rapporteur I recommend that at least some MEPs from my group should support it.
on behalf of the ITS Group. - (DE) Mr President, I welcome the fact that our discussion here and now on labelling, designations of origin and the production of spirit drinks is based on a workable compromise that is clearly suitable for preserving tradition and the typical national means of producing spirit drinks across Europe.
Now we are facing a situation where it is mostly the EU 15 Member States that must show that they can behave in a fair and proper manner and consistently comply with the same requirements that in the past were imposed on us.
I should therefore like to call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support Amendment 144 tomorrow in the vote, and to rectify the mistake that has crept into the report.
In the Nordic countries and in many of the EU's new Member States, we have a long, Slavic-inspired history and tradition of vodka production, in which alcohol is manufactured from potatoes and grain.
The debates in which I have taken part in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection have been interesting, at times heated, and I have argued strongly for a flexible definition of 'vodka'.
Some say that spirits should be treated the same, but vodka and whisky are not the same, and this proposal simply has to recognise that fact.
I worked in the industry for several years and I can tell you that a malt whisky distillery is indeed a craft industry, but a vodka or grain whisky distillery is an industrial process and the process for producing vodka produces pure alcohol whether you make it from sugar or from potatoes or from anything else.
I have heard people in the House this evening saying that that we could possibly have a situation where whisky is going to be made out of grapes.
We are trying to define these products for the benefit of consumers to ensure that what is in the bottle conforms to their expectations of what a whisky or a vodka should be.
They are asking us to define a product not by reference to its characteristics or by reference to what the consumers expect, but by reference to the raw materials that their producers currently use.
The House should bear that in mind when it comes to tomorrow's vote. (LT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 1989, when the definition and labelling of alcoholic beverages was introduced, there have been many changes.
Some traditional spirit-producing countries have become members of the European Union.
A consumer has the right to buy a product made according to the original and traditional recipes and from traditional ingredients.
If this is applicable to whisky, then why can it not be applied to vodka?
I urge my colleagues to vote for a fair compromise: vodka - only from grain, potatoes and sugar beets. (CS) Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the debate on the labelling of alcohol I should like to inform the House of a problem that is overshadowed by the debate over vodka, but that has particular significance for the citizens of the Czech Republic in economic, political and cultural terms.
Because mistakes must be rectified, I would call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the amendment on slivovice, on which I worked with Mr Horst Schnellhardt and which almost all groups have said they will support.
Let us therefore take a much-needed step towards protecting slivovice by adopting the amendment in question. (PL) Mr President, although the report on the labelling of spirit drinks deals with over 30 different kinds of beverages, I would like to focus on the most controversial issue, namely that of the definition of vodka.
Parliament should therefore adopt a definition of vodka that would secure the reputation and leading market position of this spirit drink.
This was the definition adopted by the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
I would like to thank Mr Schnellhardt for taking on board my request for an adequate definition of agricultural rum and for finally deciding to include in his report the definition of it already to be found in the Council's compromise text.
People may be wondering why the EU has to decide on how vodka should be marketed.
The second is equal treatment: when we joined the Union in 1995, we were told that vodka would have a tight definition, just like rum, whisky or grappa, or in line with some of the more traditional geographic definitions, for instance, of champagne and cognac.
I do not feel that I am the most appropriate recipient of this gift, but I thank you nevertheless. (HU) The production and consumption of alcohol are probably as old as humanity itself.
The technologies used have improved, while the concepts and labelling have become more precise.
However, over the last 50 years, business, advertising and, later on, consumer society itself have completely muddied the clear picture we had up until then.
This also goes for the raw material.
A high-ranking official sent a letter to the representatives of 24 Member States and not only referred to the position of the influential lobby group the European Vodka Alliance, but also failed to send this letter to the representatives of two of the countries most involved in this dispute, namely Poland and Lithuania.
The opinions of the European Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Economic and Social Committee were not taken into account.
COPA - COGECA, the European Union farmers' organisations, and the European Union farmers themselves, all support the traditional definition of vodka.
Additives are and must be controlled, but you cannot ban products that have been used for a long time.
draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - (DA) Madam President, Commissioner, I am draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which has been the advisory committee for this proposal.
It was also the intention that there should be extended cooperation on this matter between the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Unfortunately, I have to say that this is not something we have seen much of in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Consumers want information, more information and yet more information.
It is a fact that many producers have produced vodka legally for many years from raw materials other than potatoes and cereals, and the Commission cannot ignore the legitimate rights and expectations of those producers, as you will understand.
The vote will take place on Tuesday 19 June 2007.
The vodka-producing countries, in which 70% of vodka is produced and consumed, do actually know what they are talking about.
If we have to end up with a compromise, it should give greater support to the traditional manufacturing method.
The EU's common identity and the legislation that supports that notion must be built on mutual respect, where historical facts are recognised.
