They are in fact facing unfair competition from their colleagues in the Eastern Atlantic, both Spanish and French.
The problem Britain has is that Margaret Thatcher with the 1984 Fontainebleau Agreement left future British Governments with a poison pill.
In that context, we believe that the useful and necessary cooperation at EU level must safeguard the full sovereignty of the Member States as regards the transportation of (dangerous) goods within their territory, for example by means of the right to regulate, to issue individual authorisations and forbid the transportation of dangerous goods, notably for reasons of national security or environmental protection.
The Commission proposal on the simplification and unification of European legislation on the transport of dangerous goods should be endorsed in its entirety, including in the interests of better regulation.
It makes sense, therefore, to adopt the relevant rules for transport not only by road and rail, but also by inland waterway.
The fact that the directive summarises four 'old' directives and saves 2 000 pages of legislative text makes it an example of bureaucracy reduction in action.
Member States will retain the right to regulate or even prohibit the transport of certain dangerous goods within their territory, for example, for reasons of national security or of environmental protection.
For once the Commission proposal aimed at harmonising the rules for the transport of dangerous goods is a step in the right direction.
The over-regulation of the market in milk and milk products for drinking milk in the EU is both unnecessary and senseless and both consumers and producers suffer as a result.
It is therefore only right that the existing rules be liberalised.
We therefore agree that the range of products for inclusion in this programme should be expanded both as regards diversity and in terms of nutritional considerations and dietary rationalisation.
in writing. - (SV) The reports on milk products from the Agriculture Committee are a mixed bag.
The June List supports the Commission on the point that it must be permitted to produce and sell drinking milk that is not classified in any of the three categories that apply at present.
Such liberalisation is good and makes things easier for Sweden, which since 1995 has had problems adapting Swedish traditions to the EU's rigid rules on milk products.
Passengers see these strict airport controls as a violation of their rights.
The purpose of their flight is different and therefore they do not understand why they have to part with basic hygiene products.
I voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, which proposes ending the controversial measures affecting air passengers and emphasises the need for research studies to find efficient tools for the detection of explosives in liquids.
in writing. - (PT) As regards the Regulation on restrictions on the introduction of liquids onto aircraft, I believe that the adoption of the amendment - that was also tabled by our Parliamentary group - that 'invites' the European Commission to repeal that Regulation, is a positive step, since there has never been any evidence that it is effective in terms of security, nor have any conclusive facts been produced, as had been promised, by means of an exhaustive public report.
I voted in favour of the resolution which asks the European Commission to review the restrictions and ensure they are proportionate to any risk.
The way in which this Regulation has been applied across the EU has varied, giving rise to inconsistencies and manifest unfairness, and any review must address this aspect as a matter of urgency.
in writing. - UKIP supports the repeal of all EU legislation.
in writing. - (PT) I think that the threat to the security of air transport is a real one and that the risks involved are enormous.
I therefore believe that the inconvenience to passengers is proportional to what we are protecting and that the issue here is in no way a violation of rights, freedoms or guarantees, but simply a technical measure that has proved effective.
As a reminder, more than 16 million passengers transit through Brussels National airport each year, and since last November they have been subject to a ban on carrying liquids in their hand luggage.
in writing. - I voted against this report because, whilst it makes real sense to review the impact of this measure, it is important not to repeal it.
The problem seems to be with passengers in transit who buy in the 'transit' airport and then attempt to check through security for their further flight.
I voted in favour of the report by my colleague Mrs Ayala Sender in response to the Commission communication on freight transport logistics in Europe and sustainable mobility.
Lastly, we believe that the Member States must decide independently whether or not 60 t goods vehicles may be permitted.
After all, transport logistics is a crucial factor in the development of European economic growth, competitiveness and quality of life, and also reduces environmental impact.
Finally, we must not automatically associate the term 'megaliner' with a maximum authorised mass of 60 tonnes.
It should be taken into account that megaliners with a maximum authorised mass of 44 tonnes actually reduce road congestion and bring enormous benefits to the economy, transport and the environment without harming the railways, which cannot even absorb the growth in demand for transport services.
While I am delighted about the adoption of the own-initiative report by Mrs Ayala Sender on logistics, which underlines the importance of intermodality for cleaner and more sustainable transport, I can only lament the adoption of paragraph 21, against which I had already voted in the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
I voted against this paragraph because 60 t goods vehicles, to which this paragraph has just opened the door, are dangerous for the environment and for the users of our roads, which were not designed to carry these loads.
in writing. - Although I will be supporting the Ayala Sender report because it contains a number of good and constructive suggestions as regards the technical subject of freight logistics, I do have some concerns.
I am voting in favour of the report by Inés Ayala Sender on freight transport logistics in Europe - the key to sustainable mobility.
I voted in favour of the resolution on the EURES Activity Report 2004-2005 on the contribution of EURES to a single European labour market.
in writing. - (SV) We have chosen to support the report in the final vote.
in writing. - (FR) I voted in favour of the own-initiative report by Mr Foglietta on a European Union strategy to support Member States in reducing alcohol-related harm.
I support the recommendations, while not undermining the principle of subsidiarity, in favour of ambitious general objectives for the Member States with a view to curbing hazardous and harmful alcohol consumption, particularly in vulnerable social groups, such as children, young people and pregnant women.
I am pleased that MEPs, in their wisdom, acknowledge that the consumption of alcoholic products can be considered as a part of the European cultural heritage and life style, and that low consumption of alcohol (10 g/day) may, under certain conditions, help prevent some diseases.
I voted in favour of this report, which makes a number of concrete proposals to prevent alcohol abuse among vulnerable groups such as young people and pregnant women.
The report does not demonise moderate consumption of wine (except in the specific case of pregnant women), which is part of our culture and traditions, but addresses alcohol abuse.
I look forward to the publication of the Commission's study on the performance of innovative means of communication to reduce hazardous and harmful alcohol consumption before 1 January 2010, as called for in the above-mentioned report.
I believe that alcopops must be separated from soft drinks in supermarkets and I am pleased that the report highlights this.
