Economic policy guidelines for 2007 - Member States' employment policies (debate) The next item is the joint debate on: the report by Mr Bullmann, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the situation of the European economy: preparatory report on the broad economic policy guidelines for 2007, and the report by Mr Andersson, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the proposal for a Council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the Member States - C6-0036/2007 - 2006/0271(CNS].
President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to make a few comments on your Members' reports on the economic policy guidelines for 2007.
We are therefore glad to see that your House has given thought to these economic policy guidelines, and, in addition to this debate today, we will also have another opportunity for exchanging views at the Troika meeting on 26 February.
As required by Article 128(2) of the European Communities Treaty, the Council, acting on the Commission's proposal, lays down every year guidelines that the Member States follow in their employment policy.
In order, however, to ensure the continuity needed for proper implementation, it was agreed in 2002 that the employment policy guidelines would, in principle, be altered only every three years.
By way of conclusion, I would like once more to emphasise that these include, in particular, an increase in the participation of young people and older persons in the labour market, together with an improvement in the compatibility of work and family life.
Today's debate is taking place during the weeks leading up to the Spring European Council of 8 March and involves cooperating in the preparations for that Council.
The figures show that, since the euro was created on 1 January 1999, eight years ago now, the European Union has created four times as many jobs as it had created over the previous eight years.
The truth is that fiscal consolidation makes progress and improves in parallel with the increase and improvement in our growth and job creation figures.
There has recently been a lot of talk about the strength of the euro against the dollar and the yen being an obstacle to our exports, but the fact is that the euro zone's trade balance, in relation to the United States, has improved again in 2006 and that the rise in oil prices has partly been compensated for by the rise in the value of the euro against the dollar.
Europe, its countries, our economies, have always worked better when they have opened up to the world and, now that the global economy is undergoing an unprecedented expansion, Europe and its citizens have much to gain from this opening up of our borders and the increased integration of our economies at global level.
Sending this message to the citizens is not just a way to vindicate the economic and social policies that we have been advocating over recent years: it is crucial in terms of increasing confidence in Europe's capacity to provide the European citizens with well-being and offers us a solid basis for strengthening the political will necessary in order to move ahead with the structural reforms laid down in the Lisbon Strategy.
The third significant area of agreement between Parliament and the Commission relates to the need to act not just in each of the Member States, but also at European level, in order to make progress on achieving an internal market in sectors that are crucial to our economy, such as the energy sector and the financial services sector, in order to increase support for innovation, in order to create a more favourable environment for business activity and greater adaptability of the markets in products and services and of the labour market.
Of these priority areas for action at European level, the reports rightly place the emphasis on the issue of energy, which will be one of the key issues at the Spring European Council, which is going to debate the energy package proposed by the Commission on 10 January.
Just as Commissioner Almunia said, we therefore anticipate being able to devote a little more time to the issue, and we need more time in Parliament too.
I am thinking of people who have come to us from other parts of the world and who, even today, have problems entering the labour market due to the shortcomings of our integration policy.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, as Commissioner Almunia pointed out, we have, in practical terms, got our growth back up to 3%, and are therefore back on the course set by Lisbon.
We must also stress the need for reforms: reforms of the labour market that have been discussed and agreed; reforms of economic policies to promote small and medium-sized businesses, which are key to the growth and creation of employment; reforms intended to complete the single market, particularly in services and in the energy sector; reforms to improve the efficiency of the markets in goods, services, work and capital; and also fiscal reforms aimed at providing a coordinated fiscal framework that stimulates the creation of jobs and promotes the creation and development of the fabric of small and medium-sized enterprise that we believe to be fundamental.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (FR) Mr President, Mr Almunia, Mr Gloser, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his work; I believe that this report presents both an analysis and recommendations that my group can fully support.
However, as the report says - and this is my first remark - there are some very important differences between the Member States.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I have to say is that the 'Lisbon Strategy' label now gets stuck on everything, irrespective of how little it has to do with the Strategy's original objective.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Bullmann report shows that economies of countries which have not yet adopted the euro are performing better than those who have.
Please give them economic independence. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the latest data on the economic situation are on the whole positive but, as the Commission has stressed, growth in productivity and job quality are still below the levels that Europe needs.
Secondly, to guarantee an appropriate immigration policy, in accordance with a proposal that is based on a broad European agreement enabling it to be controlled in an ordered fashion and immigrants to be integrated by means of training and recycling plans suited to their profiles.
This whole discussion on more coordinated economic and employment policy started in Essen 10 or 12 years ago.
This positive trend is also reflected in the labour market, and proves the mutual connection between economic policy and social protection.
The second number is the percentage of citizens in the Union living below the poverty line which, at 17%, corresponds to 80 million European citizens who cannot get by on a daily basis.
Finally, as you will already know, the multinational Alcatel Lucent has decided to lay off 12 500 workers over the next three years, most of whom work in Europe.
The factors that can help engender that confidence include balancing public accounts, developing the internal market, and good coordination in the Member States' economic policies and in economic and monetary policy.
Firstly, because unemployment discourages people and makes them stop believing in themselves and in others.
The Lisbon Strategy calls for both more and better quality jobs.
This tension characterises all our debates.
The Spring European Council due to be held in a few days' time will address an issue that intersects with the field of jobs - namely that of energy.
Written statements (Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure) in writing. - Within the framework of the recent socio-economic developments in the Union and even if unemployment figures seem to decrease, genuine and thorough attention should still be given to social cohesion in the Union as a whole.
