Cross-border cooperation to combat terrorism and cross-border crime (debate) The next item is the report by Bárbara Dührkop Dührkop, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the initiative of the Federal Republic of Germany with a view to the adoption of a Council Decision on the implementation of Decision 2007/.../JHA on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime (11563/2007 - C6-0409/2007 -.
The aim is to be able to compare the DNA profile of a person with the future databases of 27 national contact points.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the political agreement reached in the Council on 13 June 2007 on the first part of the legislative package aimed at transposing the Prüm Treaty into European law, Germany has submitted the initiative that we are about to discuss, namely the implementation of the decision which is the subject matter of the first part and its annex.
Improving police cooperation between the Member States' authorities, while fully respecting fundamental rights and, in particular, data protection, is essential for guaranteeing greater security within the European Union for the benefit of our citizens.
DNA data, fingerprints, personal data and information of all kinds is gathered, processed and exchanged automatically in every possible detail, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, between the repressive mechanisms of the Member States and the EU.
That figure includes 150 000 children under the age of 16, of whom 25 000 have never been charged with an offence.
The European Union still has no standard set of procedural safeguards and no adequate third pillar legal instrument on data protection, as Vice-President Barrot has just recognised in his speech.
The proposal initially put forward by the Commission was certainly more ambitious, and we regret, in particular, the decision's more limited scope.
rapporteur. - (ES) Mr President, I would like to thank all those fellow Members with whom it has been a pleasure to work on this report.
The vote will take place on Tuesday, 22 April 2008.
in writing. - (FI) There needs to be greater cooperation between the border control authorities, customs, the police and the security authorities to improve the safety of Europeans.
