Transatlantic relations (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on transatlantic relations.
Strengthening common trans-Atlantic action and building on our relationship with the USA are core elements in our presidency, in the political and economic spheres as much as in energy security and in addressing climate change, and it is intended that this message should go out from the EU/USA summit to be held in Washington on 30 April.
Those experiences have shown that this foundation, which is sometimes severely tested, can withstand a great deal, and so it is all the more important that trans-Atlantic relations be continually renewed and made fit for the future.
The transatlantic partnership is not restricted to bilateral issues, but has a strong global dimension.
Not least because this is a major market for the future, we must aim at pooling our energies and radically shortening the innovation cycles for new processes and technologies, and it is in our own most intrinsic interest that our transatlantic partners must take a lead here.
I am persuaded that energy security and climate change will be among the transatlantic projects of the twenty-first century.
The Commission has a particular part to play in the development of an international aid machinery for the Palestinian people, with the objects of supporting them and improving the way in which they are governed.
On visa policy, we will, at the EU/USA summit, be calling on President Bush to push for all EU citizens to be allowed to enter the United States without a visa, in the same way as US citizens no longer require a visa in order to enter the European Union; we would very much welcome it if the USA were to extend the waiver of visas to all the EU's Member States and thus put an end to the de facto discrimination against EU citizens.
Ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a transatlantic common market by 2015 is one of our priorities.
Let us provide ourselves with a compulsory road map, accompanied by a precise timetable with 2015 as the cut-off date for the launch of an unrestricted transatlantic market.
As President Kennedy observed in 1963, let us not be blind to our differences, but let us also direct attention to the means by which those differences can be resolved.
Respect for fundamental rights will only strengthen our work and our influence in the world.
Europeans and Americans share common roots that have largely shaped our world.
The tone has changed, and we can tell that the State Department's authority and Condoleezza Rice has grown enormously.
We would like to emphasise once again - and we hope that the Presidency will take note - that we must ensure that the new government of national unity in Palestine is not left out in the cold, and that we look for ways of supporting this new development.
I should like to finish off with a minor point, which is that it is to be hoped that the presidency can also put the Wolfowitz case on the summit agenda, should this prove necessary, because in our view, given the important role the World Bank has to play in the fight against corruption, his position as Director of the World Bank has become untenable. (Applause from the Left) on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, after 9/11 Le Monde announced: 'Nous sommes tous Américains'.
Times have changed.
This will require the frank, forthright, and sometimes fraught, transatlantic dialogue on issues like the visa waiver scheme, extradition and 'open skies', which our Member States have thus far resisted.
Indeed, President Bush succeeds in 'divide and rule' of Europe at least as well as President Putin.
The Americans have taken exactly 466 Iraqi refugees since 2003.
Paul Wolfowitz has undermined the World Bank's moral authority.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we will - together and as one - be adopting a resolution condemning the brutal treatment meted out to the demonstrators by the Russian armed forces, and our expectation is that there should be similar plain speaking during the EU/USA summit.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (FR) Mr President, what exactly does the transatlantic economic partnership have in store for us?
It was in March 1998 that the then figurehead of liberal Europe, Commissioner Leon Brittan, launched the New Transatlantic Market project, modelled on the North American Free Trade Agreement, NAFTA.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - Mr President, I would like in the very short time allocated to me to make one or two observations, offering perhaps some words of caution.
Despite the Commission spending the last 10 years trying to fudge the Kyoto baseline figures, it still seems that perhaps only two Member States will actually hit their Kyoto targets.
They are investing in green technology and their AP6 Partnership engages China and India, without whom no global programme can succeed.
It is time that we in this House stopped our moral posturing and started to treat our American ally with a little more courtesy and respect. (ES) Mr President, I believe that it is important that we remove the ideological baggage from this debate on transatlantic relations.
I believe that this must not lead us to forget that the transatlantic link is not written into the European Union's genetic code and also that the United States - perhaps as a result of our incapacities - have been the guarantors of security in Europe and that, when it comes to security, there is currently no alternative to the transatlantic link.
Mr President, I believe that, if we want the European Union to become a European power, that cannot be done in opposition to the United States, but rather with the United States, as two partners which have mutual respect, which share a set of values and which share a vision of the world.
We must have more cooperation between the US Congress and the European Parliament in order to bring about democratic accountability and the desired goal of a transatlantic Schengen-type zone. (PL) Mr President, of all Europe's most important political and economic problems, not a single one could be resolved without dialogue and cooperation with the United States.
Only a European-Atlantic common market can put us in a position to compete with China and India.
I live in the hope that we will succeed, and that European identity will never again be reduced to a cheap, trumped-up and harmful confrontation with the United States in the face of such serious threats to our security and to our values. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, partnership is based on mutual respect, which itself begins with respect for one another's laws and for the values that both parties have in common.
The Bush Administration loves walls; it builds them in Iraq, in Palestine and on its border with Mexico.
This is why I should like to wish the Council and Commission every success in creating a favourable transatlantic working climate.
The Americans are trying to secure their interests, ruthlessly, and even at the cost of the Europeans who are supposed to be their friends. (CS) Mr President, I fully support the agreement on economic partnership between the Union and the United States.
In my view, a far more pressing priority is a joint response to the challenge posed by India and China, which are beginning to outstrip us in terms of economic and political development.
EU-US relations, like EU-India ones - and I especially welcome the visit to our Parliament later on today of President Kalam of India - are a partnership built on our common values of democracy, human rights, freedom and security.
Its engagement with countries like Georgia, Moldova, Belarus and Ukraine in an effort to resolve frozen conflicts is also most welcome.
We must be a strong and credible partner in dialogue with the United States, because protesting with 27 squeaky voices will make no impression whatsoever.
Finally, I am in favour of joining forces with the Americans, as long as this is not done in small, cloak-and-dagger, undemocratic groups, of which the High Level Contact Group is an example, but simply by following democratic procedures. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the German Presidency has ushered in an improved climate in transatlantic relations and a very strong commitment to fight terrorism.
I have in fact had a perfectly clear answer about another, related matter from the Commission, but the response from the Council Secretariat was somewhat vague.
The current situation in Iraq demonstrates how right the US thinker Santayana was when he said that those who do not learn from history are doomed to repeat it.
Whether it is the transmission of personal data for various motives; whether it is these surprising - and shameful for the whole of Europe - relinquishments of sovereignty that are the secret CIA prisons and other, all too quickly forgotten, affairs of this kind; whether it is our willingness to accept the very term 'international community', which means little other than the imperial power and its accomplices; or whether it is the general position - about which, I might add, too little is known - occupied by the US Embassy in the central bodies of the Union, these relations do a poor job of disguising different interests, different principles and different views of the world.
I am thinking of the comitology debates and the anti-democratic behaviour of the foreign ministries in Europe when I say that I would like to insist on this House being consulted in due time on future projects of this kind, rather than being presented with a fait accompli. (FR) Mr President, last week the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs sent a delegation - which proved to be most useful - to address visa waiver and data protection issues, not least regarding the negotiation of a PNR agreement and, of course, regarding the problems posed by SWIFT.
For the European Parliament, it is vital to distinguish the negotiations on the visa waiver scheme from those on the PNR.
US citizens are protected by European data protection legislation, but US legislation excludes Europeans and does not permit them any means of redress.
It is our duty to protect our citizens' data. (PL) Mr President, today the EU Member States are wavering between two extremes: stand-offishness and distance towards the USA, or wholehearted support which overrides European interests.
Diversification is important for both sides of the Atlantic. (PL) Mr President, relations between two important world powers such as the USA and the EU have always aroused a great deal of emotion not just because of their effect on the international order, but also because of their complexity and the range of issues they affect.
We live in a time of a huge increase in international competition from countries such as China, India and Russia.
Paragraph 16 of our motion for a resolution notes the disappointment that the United States has refused to move on issues such as emissions targets and the creation of global carbon-trading schemes.
Finally, we must commend the German Presidency's ambitious ideas on a transatlantic partnership.
The Monroe Doctrine of 1823 and the actions of Roosevelt in 1904, in other words the right to intervene and the actual interventions in the Caribbean - Haiti, Panama, the Dominican Republic, Cuba and Guatemala - are meaningful illustrations of a century-old doctrine that has now been resurrected.
That is why our relations with the most important democracy in the world should be a key element in Europe's policies, from security and the fight against terrorism to the fight against drug trafficking, and from the search for energy security to the issue of climate change.
Just as Europe needs the United States, however, the United States cannot do without a strong Europe that is capable of being a loyal, credible and reliable interlocutor as well as an essential protagonist in upholding the shared values on which our democracies and that of the United States are based.
Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members, although I would like, in view of the lateness of the hour, to keep my remarks very brief, I would like to express my gratitude to you for this lively and frank debate.
Relations across the Atlantic were important in the past and will be important in the future, particularly in view of the challenges that we in the European Union find ourselves facing together, in the shape of issues relating to energy and climate change, but also, for example, the fight against international terrorism.
Earlier on, Mrs Mann said that neither open enthusiasm nor frustration are of any use in this, and the pragmatism to which you have referred is the right way to go about things, because pragmatism is vital in any ongoing dialogue with the United States.
Dialogue between parliamentarians on both sides is an important pillar in the relationship between the EU and the United States.
The EU will be working on the basis of the sound policy platform agreed at the meeting of the European Council on 9 May.
Negotiations on airline passenger data began in Washington on 26 February, and we expect to be able to conclude them by the end of July, that is to say by the time the current agreement on PNR data is due to expire.
Dialogue between experts on both sides has so far been fruitful, but we have not yet got far enough to be able to negotiate a formal agreement.
I am quite certain - and this has also been reflected in this debate - that relations between the United States and the European Union, and the matters of common interest that they share, are of great importance and that there are no other relations of greater significance to Europe; there is practically no major issue in which Europe and the United States do not have a common interest and involvement, and so - as was also clearly articulated - we should address the Americans as equals and engage them in a truly rational dialogue, but must not, in so doing, lose sight of our common European values.
The debate is closed.
The EU-USA summit set to take place on 30 April is the result of attempts to overcome differences, to put disagreements to one side and to realign the political, economic and military agendas of the two sides of the North Atlantic.
