Evaluation mechanism to monitor the application of the Schengen acquis - Establishment of an evaluation mechanism to verify the application of the Schengen acquis (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the following reports: by Carlos Coelho, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the establishment of an evaluation mechanism to monitor the application of the Schengen acquis - C6-0111/2009 -; by Carlos Coelho, on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, on the establishment of an evaluation mechanism to verify the application of the Schengen acquis - C6-0110/2009 -.
I am also concerned that we are moving towards the total separation of the evaluation mechanisms for each part of the mandate, which could jeopardise the efficiency and consistency of the system.
Secondly, the security requirements proposed for the Schengen Information System (SIS) should also be included in the item about visas.
Thirdly, Article 7 of the regulation should include not only the risk analysis but also the audits and reports on the security inspections carried out by the Member States in accordance with the rules introduced by the statutory instruments of the SIS and the Visa Information System (VIS).
We should not forget that we are discussing the security of the area of freedom, security and justice, which should involve all Member States and all the European institutions.
I would like to conclude by thanking the shadow rapporteurs for supporting this position for the European Parliament and I invite Vice-President Barrot, who has always shown respect for this Parliament, to resubmit these proposals, introducing not only improvements in terms of the content, but also establishing a proper role for the European Parliament as regards the procedure itself.
The Commission considered that Article 66 of the EC Treaty, which provides for consultation of the European Parliament, was the correct legal basis for the proposal of the first pillar.
Articles 30 and 31 of the treaty were the ones chosen as a legal basis for the proposal of the third pillar.
It brought along with it the concept of full liberty of movement for our citizens in a more realistic manner, and it could even be said that when a citizen travels within the Schengen area, he or she might almost feel as though they are travelling within their own country.
Therefore, when it comes to these reports, I agree with my colleague Carlos Coelho, in that they are meant to enhance the evaluation mechanism within the Schengen Area project; a project which is of great importance, and which is built upon mutual trust.
However, a closer analysis highlights that certain principles of interinstitutional cooperation are being ignored, both at European Union level and between EU Member States.
The Treaty of Lisbon will soon come into force and from then on, codecision will become the normal legislative procedure, which also covers the area of freedom, security and justice.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I also want to thank our colleague, Carlos Coelho, for his report.
We do indeed need a simple and effective, transparent mechanism for the Schengen evaluation.
Besides the annual evaluation programme, Article 7 of the regulation must take into account not only the risk analysis provided by FRONTEX but also the audits and inspections conducted by Member States themselves.
I cannot, however, support the conclusions of the rapporteur, our fellow Member, Carlos Coelho.
I believe that he does European democracy good service in exhorting the Commission to rework its proposals and deliver something that is simpler, more effective, more transparent, more respectful of human rights, and which provides greater parliamentary and democratic control.
As a Member State of the European Union, we no longer control our own borders and under Lisbon, the tidal wave of immigration that we have experienced will become a tsunami.
Of course, this must necessarily mean that the European Parliament is granted codecision rights and that you, Commissioner, must wait until we have this codecision or it is at least granted to us by default. (ES) Mr President, I congratulate and support Carlos Coelho, and I would like to point out that this report was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
The creation of the Schengen area really did bring freedom of movement for our citizens within the Schengen area and, in my opinion, was one of the greatest successes in European history.
It is important for this mechanism to be both effective and transparent and I therefore see a problem with the Commission's proposal.
We are talking about something as technical as an evaluation mechanism, but we must not forget that this concerns the basic foundation of European cooperation: freedom, security and justice.
The substance of a new proposal must be that any amendments to the evaluation mechanism must be the subject of codecision between the Commission, the Member States and, in particular, the popularly elected representatives in the European Parliament. (EL) Mr President, the Commission proposal aims to strengthen the role of the Schengen Evaluation Working Group by making this mechanism more efficient and transparent so as to safeguard the effective and consistent application of the Schengen acquis.
The difficulty we have in evaluating the application of the Schengen acquis lies precisely in the difficulty we have in accepting that it makes provision for the exchange of sensitive information, the 'personal files' and repressive mechanisms which have been created with the excuse of the protection of, and free movement in, the European area.
You would be aware of the 1951 Convention on Refugees that says that a refugee should claim asylum in the first safe country - but you disregard that.
And when we fight back, we win. (NL) Madam President, a more efficient evaluation mechanism for the application of the 'Schengen acquis' is certainly needed, but I have the impression that we are busy discussing the sex of angels here while the EU's external borders are full of holes.
We all know that there are some Member States who are unable or unwilling to protect their EU external borders against illegal immigration.
We all know that there are some governments who are undermining the whole Schengen system through the mass regularisation of illegal aliens.
The current system has been in operation since 1995 and was developed for up to 18 countries.
I regret that President Klaus is nonsensically delaying ratification of the Lisbon Treaty, but it is clear that soon after that happens, the Commission will have to submit the legislation again, this time under the codecision procedure of the European Parliament.
However, I would like to talk about something which has not been mentioned in this Chamber.
Compliance with accompanying mechanisms is therefore an essential factor for the security of EU citizens.
This case shows how important it is to be able to rely on proper and effective control of external borders and how rare that is the case.
As the introduction of an evaluation mechanism to monitor the application of the Schengen acquis is a core concern of the Member States and, more to the point, of their citizens, I believe it is very important for the European Parliament, as the representative of the citizens, to be involved in these decisions. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, both proposals fully transfer to the Commission the powers which, until now, have been held by the Council.
This is why I feel it is essential that the proposal provides for greater involvement of the Member States - I do not believe, Mr Barrot, that the involvement of experts is sufficient - and, above all, true involvement, true participation of the European Parliament within the coordinating group of the mechanism to monitor and verify the proper application of the Schengen acquis.
This is also because, with the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the applicable procedure will be codecision.
However, after the Treaty of Lisbon comes into force, the area of police and judicial cooperation will become part of the first pillar, the Community legislation pillar.
I also wish to draw attention to the fact that Article 14 of the proposal for a Council decision on introducing an evaluation mechanism to monitor the application of the Schengen acquis stipulates an annual report which the Commission must submit to Parliament and the Council.
However, I wish to repeat that the proposal needs to be reassessed to take into account the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon.
One last point I would like to add is that the suggestion which the Commission has made on the proposal for a Council decision for introducing this evaluation mechanism has significant implications for new Member States as well, as we are discussing in this case a procedure for implementing the Schengen acquis provisions in two stages.
Some of them feature in Annex I of the accession treaties, with the others due to come into force after a decision is adopted by the Council regarding certain provisions of the Schengen acquis. (PL) Madam President, it is good that the discussion we are having today to evaluate the Schengen acquis is taking place at the same time as a larger debate is beginning in the European Union, and also in the European Parliament, on the Stockholm Programme.
For instance, two elements of the programme, the freedom and security of EU citizens, clearly should be included in the evaluation of the Schengen project.
We must, therefore, ask ourselves what the European Union was set up for and why it is so important for us that this great project succeed.
Therefore, the good of the citizens, their freedom and liberty, but also the highest possible standards of security which should be guaranteed to them, are one of the main elements of the work which the EU institutions should undertake.
The Schengen Information System, the Schengen visa, the Schengen Border Code and the Visa Code are all subject to the codecision procedure and, as we move towards ratification of the Lisbon Treaty and a more simplified and united legal structure throughout the European Union, we should be seeing greater involvement of Parliament in these issues, not less.
Thus, it is only with an effective and transparent mechanism for evaluating the application of this Schengen acquis that we will be able to ensure that this confidence is maintained and, therefore, that the Member States cooperate at a very high level.
It follows that, if this text is adopted before the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the mechanism, or at least the elements that come under the first pillar, will have to be adopted by codecision.
It is because of this remarkable achievement that it is regrettable that my own country is only taking part in Schengen on a piecemeal basis.
I believe that it gives too much power to the Commission.
The establishment of a simple, effective and transparent evaluation mechanism complementing the current Schengen evaluation is a most welcome initiative.
Since the security of the Schengen area and its citizens is at stake, all players should be deeply involved in the establishment of these evaluation systems, thereby making it possible to guarantee and consolidate the principle of mutual trust essential to maintaining the Schengen area.
Creating an area of justice, freedom and security is a top priority for the European Union.
Thus, there are some misunderstandings that I would like to try to clear up.
There is no doubt that Parliament must play a major role in this Community method, but we have made this proposal for communitisation purposes, it being understood that this subsequently leaves the way very clear for the European Parliament to become involved.
Firstly, I would like to thank the Members who supported my report and made statements to this effect during this debate, and Vice-President Barrot for his statement encouraging the involvement of the European Parliament as a colegislator, making the very most of the possibilities that arise from the Treaty of Lisbon.
Thirdly, I would like to underline two things that I believe have come out of this debate.
Written statements (Rule 149) It is vital that there should be a simple, effective, efficient and transparent evaluation mechanism that will enable the Schengen area to be preserved as an area of free movement whilst, at the same time, it is indispensable to adapt the intergovernmental framework for the Schengen evaluation to the EU framework.
As the security of the Schengen area and its citizens is of vital importance we must choose the codecision procedure.
I believe that as an MEP, it is worth mentioning, here and now, that one of the basic conditions for the free movement of people is to have a complete Schengen system operating efficiently and built on mutual trust.
The provisions of the Schengen acquis have been part of the European Union framework since the Amsterdam Treaty came into force in 1999.
It should not be forgotten that this is an area based on freedom, security and justice, and also that the responsibility for preserving and refining this area does not rest solely with the Commission as guarantor of the supervision of the implementation of the constitutional treaty, but with the Member States, which are continually responsible for the security of their external borders, and also with the European Parliament, which represents the citizens of the European Union.
