Outcome of the European Council on 29 and 30 October 2009 including the mandate and attributions of the President of the European Council and of the High Representative of the Union for the foreign and security policy/Vice-president of the Commission, as well as the structure of the new Commission (continuation of debate) The next item is the continuation of the debate on the European Council report and on the Commission statement on the outcome of the European Council on 29 and 30 October 2009, including the mandate and attributions of the President of the European Council and of the High Representative of the Union for foreign and security policy/Vice-President of the Commission, as well as the structure of the new Commission. (DE) Mr President, Commission, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the speech by Mr Borghezio was typical - these eurosceptics cannot distinguish between the Council of Europe and the European Union - as the ruling on crucifixes was given by the European Court of Human Rights, which comes under the Council of Europe.
He cannot first take office as the High Representative on 1 December and then later as the Vice-President.
I would also like to mention that the European Parliament will exercise its rights with regard to the External Action Service.
The External Action Service will play a decisive role in this regard.
If we want this architecture to be viable, it must be a synthesis of all the historical experiences, cultural sensitivities and political traditions of all European regions and all European citizens.
I believe that this will be achieved and I believe that, if this is achieved, it will be good for the viability of the architecture and the effectiveness of the institution, but also for the credibility of the Union in the eyes of all our citizens. (FI) Mr President, permit me to thank the media for once.
Even in this debate, in fact, there has been rather little talk of names, and only a few have been mentioned.
It is therefore important that the President is both collegiate and someone the people trust, and, with that in mind, the worst possible candidate on both scores would be one Tony Blair.
He is unfit for public office and I urge the Council not to appoint him. (NL) Mr President, I read with great interest the Swedish Presidency's document on the European External Action Service.
At all events, I think it sensible of the Swedish Presidency to allow additional time for seeking the right candidates for the new posts, as the High Representative needs to be of the kind of outstanding calibre rare in Europe.
What we need is a powerful mouthpiece for the Member States, and also for the citizens, who, unfortunately, are not taken into account in all this. (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, twenty years ago, we peacefully ended the violent division of Europe into freedom and dictatorship.
If we have this political will, then it also means that we need to stop always looking only for the lowest common denominator.
The first is on immigration: I welcome the fact that immigration occupied a significant place in the conclusions of the Council and I think it important that immigration policy is going to be, for the first time, a Community policy and that it is going to be the subject, during the Spanish Presidency, of an initial assessment that will involve the role of the European Parliament and of the national parliaments.
The majority of Europe's citizens are waiting for an answer to the question as to whether we are moving towards the establishment of a strong European federal state at the cost of the sovereignty of nations and if, in the future, a strong Council President will not want to revert to the antidemocratic traditions of 20th century Europe. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many thanks also to the Swedish Presidency for the crucial results obtained during this six-month period.
At the same time, however, allow me to offer you - I am addressing the Swedish Presidency here - a gift: the gift is this blank sheet of paper, which you can use over the next few days as an extraordinary instrument for overcoming the difficulties that exist in identifying the candidates for the post of President of the European Council and of High Representative of the Union for foreign policy.
Europe, in short, must start afresh on the basis of the values on which it was created, the fine results that we have achieved thus far, and, believe me, a good dose of realism too. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to thank the Swedish Presidency for the work it has done and for having succeeded in putting in place the conditions for the final ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon.
This is not easy when we number 27 nations, but it is crucial all the same, unless we do not mind - which I personally do - being subcontractors or being under the influence of the other countries.
It is our shared responsibility to highlight this fact. (SV) Mr President, politics and psychology go together and right now, many people are trying to talk down expectations ahead of the Kyoto negotiations in Copenhagen in a few weeks' time.
The climate targets that we proposed and worked for in this Parliament had been declared dead and buried not once, but perhaps ten times, by the time we obtained the final decision.
I would therefore call on the Swedish Presidency to continue its good work in the negotiations and its constructive line, because if we do not aim for a fully binding agreement in Copenhagen, we will not achieve it.
Moreover, the economic crisis should not ultimately turn into a crisis of values and principles.
I trust that both the Presidency of the European Commission and, more importantly, the Presidency of the Council, will make appropriate recommendations to the Member States, so that the way in which both institutions operate is such that it does not differ from the Community modus operandi and the excellent past we have in Europe which has secured us so many years of prosperity. (ES) Mr President, I think that the agreement on the Czech problem was a reasonable solution; it was not perfect, but it was the best solution, and was necessary for such a serious problem.
I think that 2010 may be a great year for Europe.
One is an urgent matter: the College of Commissioners must be approved in December in Strasbourg.
Secondly, we need to realise how important it is in the new situation to have a continuously strong Commission that can take responsibility for the implementation of the Lisbon Treaty.
So, in order to address enormous new challenges, the EU once again needs two European statesmen in the Adenauer, Schuman or De Gasperi mould.
These statesmen can also be found in the new Member States, which certainly should be represented in the future troika.
Presiding over the European Council does not mean presiding in Europe, but rather being together with the European Union Member States, the Member States' leaders, and supporting and encouraging them to reinforce the European Union's role among tomorrow's leading global states.
She will definitely also be able to take unpopular decisions, should that be necessary. (HU) Madam President, as a representative of the first Member State to ratify the Treaty of Lisbon, I would like to congratulate the Swedish Presidency on Hungary's behalf.
We are directly elected. (RO) I very strongly appreciate what has been said by Mr Reinfeldt and I welcome, in particular, the fact that the European Union reached a common position for the Copenhagen conference at the European Council in October.
In addition, specific targets for cutting emissions should be adopted by the developed countries on a par with those adopted by the EU, along with the corresponding contributions from the developing countries. (FI) Madam President, we have a very interesting arrangement in this House at the moment, which is that all three institutions are being represented by a woman: Mrs Malmström for Sweden, the country to hold the Presidency, Mrs Wallström for the Commission, and you, Madam President, for Parliament.
I would also like to point out that the Lisbon Treaty is entering into force at a time of economic crisis in Europe.
The current decisions of the governments that have taken steps to overcome the economic crisis were not effective, were not efficient and from this perspective, I think that we must proceed in future in a more coordinated way and not take ad hoc decisions which fail to produce a sufficient effect in terms of supporting employment and economic development.
I therefore believe that when appointing the new Commission, we must ensure that it is staffed by experts and professionals. (HU) I firmly believe that the Treaty of Lisbon will undoubtedly enable Europe to function on a more secure basis and in a more logical manner, with a stronger focus on the problems affecting citizens' daily lives.
However, we must also ask what price we have paid to achieve this.
In my view, what the European Union did is unacceptable from a legal, political and moral perspective.
We have criticised the Czech constitutional system from a legal perspective, we have monitored the view of the Czech Parliament and we are including the document politically in any future accession, having possibly penalised a country which has nothing to do with this, Croatia.
This is a model which the European Union must also apply to the Danube region, thereby contributing to the economic development, as well as the economic and social cohesion, of this region and, last but not least, to the European Union's competitiveness.
The European Union will attend the Copenhagen conference as the leader in the battle against climate change.
Last but not least, the European Union must be able to generate investment in industry and public services in order to safeguard jobs. (HU) Madam President, Mrs Malmström and Mrs Wallström, two decades have elapsed since the Iron Curtain was torn down.
The European Union must deal with them and it is its duty to help citizens fighting to exercise their rights. (PL) Madam President, adoption of the long-awaited Lisbon Treaty is now behind us.
An understanding in Copenhagen is important and necessary, but a time of crisis is not a good moment to make decisions about how much will be allocated to this objective by which countries and international organisations, and what commitments they will make.
Historians will point to the role of the European Union in offering support and guidance and comfort to these countries so that civil war did not follow on a widespread basis.
Protocol 30 does not suspend the mandatory nature of the Charter in respect of the UK, Poland or the Czech Republic.
However, we need to discuss them and we need to have a plan to do that, if we want to have a sustainable economy to give to future generations.
If we can get a good number of responses to this by the end of January, we hope, after a quick debate, including here in Parliament, to be able to have the new citizens' initiative in place and ready to be implemented by the end of next year.
Finally, I hope, of course, that we will continue to cooperate closely on the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon.
For this reason, I believe that the decision on financing the battle against climate change must take this factor into account and exclude the countries from the last accession rounds from paying certain taxes which would impose an excessive burden on these economies.
At the moment, the European Council is devoting particular attention to the European Union's economic and financial situation.
The global financial crisis has hit Europe's states, citizens and businesses extremely hard.
The Council and Commission must continue their efforts on devising recovery strategies in cooperation with the European Parliament and Member States by implementing the European Economic Recovery Plan.
In Romania's case, the agreements with the European Union and International Monetary Fund are planned to cover 2009 and 2010.
Following the negotiations at the European Council of 29 and 30 October and the decision of the Czech Constitutional Court of 3 November, the President of the Czech Republic, Václav Klaus, has signed the Treaty of Lisbon.
The treaty will now be able to enter into force, providing the institutions with a High Representative for Foreign Affairs and with a stable President of the Council for two and a half years.
On 19 November, an extraordinary European Council will meet to negotiate the nominations.
European leaders have endorsed the estimate that, by 2020, the total costs of mitigation and adaptation in developing countries could amount to around EUR 100 billion annually.
The main concerns of the leaders of the European Union are the institutional issues that allow for quicker progress in the capitalist, federalist and militaristic integration of the European Union.
Issues concerning the economic, financial and social crisis therefore took a back seat.
in writing. - The Council meeting was crucial for the European Union, for it cleared away the last obstacle to the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty.
I also hope that Member States reach agreement on devising a coordinated strategy for withdrawing the incentive measures when the right moment arrives for this.
I wish to express my support for the positions adopted by the European Commission and European Council highlighted in the documents presented.
The Copenhagen conference is approaching and the EU must play a vital role in negotiating a comprehensive and ambitious global agreement for combating climate change.
We have also noticed a great need for financial support from the EU at local authority and private individual level where the necessary funds are not available for making buildings more energy efficient.
The EU must continue to devote greater attention to this aspect so that citizens remain at the heart of European policies.
On the basis of the Beneš Decrees, up to 1947 around 2.9 million people were declared enemies of the state and expelled purely on the basis of their nationality.
As a result, around 230 000 people met a tragic death.
Felix Ermacora, professor of international law and former UN rapporteur, even came to the conclusion in his 1991 legal report that the expulsion was tantamount to genocide.
The EU's unilateral action is not sufficient, even though it is at the forefront of the fight against climate change.
The effects of climate change are already having an impact on the development of these states: drought, flooding, natural disasters, desertification, with all the economic and social repercussions they entail.
It is men who have been elected to the highest positions in the European Union (President of the European Parliament and President of the European Commission).
It will be easy to find suitable candidates among the 250 million dynamic, bold and strong female citizens of the European Union, and this includes female candidates for the positions of President of the European Council and High Representative for Common Foreign Policy.
