Resumption of the session I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday, 10 October 2002.
We still do not know the exact toll of casualties caused by the car bombs in Kuta Beach, Bali on 12 October.
The apparently unrelated attack in Vantaa, near Helsinki, that killed other innocents going about their business on the previous day, is also an act I condemn.
The vote was carried by a majority in all 42 national constituencies in the country, reversing the previous vote where 40 constituencies had voted 'no'.
Mr President, you are indeed right to specify that point.
Initially, 70 amendments had been tabled since the vote in committee.
Discretion or not, Mr Corbett, please enlighten us.
The Commission has announced that Commissioner Patten could address this issue on Tuesday at 9 p.m.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of December 2001, we voted on a report on strategy and organisation for energy development in the Korean peninsula, as a result of which we decided to participate in civil nuclear development in Korea.
Here I would like to mention three points from this report which, given what we have learnt over the past few weeks, are quite interesting.
One of the recitals of this report read: 'whereas the European Union recognised KEDO as a major industrial project constituting a vital contribution to nuclear non-proliferation and peace and stability on the Korean peninsula and, following negotiations with the founder members, signed an agreement'.
This means that we need to discuss this matter, that we must call this agreement into question, that we must stop funding the civil nuclear sector in North Korea and that, lastly, we must fund a non-nuclear energy production sector for North Korea.
We therefore suggest postponing this debate until Thursday afternoon.
Otherwise, we are against including it in the agenda for Tuesday because we do not want to disrupt the agenda for that day.
The next item on the agenda is the Commission statement on the Stability and Growth Pact.
This is important because it is so closely related to the economic and monetary policy of the Union, because it is an incentive for structural change in budget management in many of our economies, because there is an economic slowdown and because it has provoked a debate about how to respond.
In recent days there has been considerable controversy on this matter, not least sparked by remarks published in the newspaper le Monde.
By approving the Treaty of Nice with a large majority, the Irish people have clearly indicated their support for the ideals and projects of the European Union.
The Stability and Growth Pact has been and remains extremely important for Economic and Monetary Union.
Responsibilities for everyone - Member States, European institutions and ordinary citizens.
The European citizens have a right to be informed, and we have a duty to tell them what we think is right, what we think works, and what, on the other hand, we think could and should be improved.
We are talking about criteria that apply to all the Member States, both large and small, to the benefit of all the countries of the Union.
Last year, in our communication on strengthening the coordination of economic policies, we proposed a number of major improvements within the present institutional framework.
For instance, we shall show that the need for clear rules can be made compatible with recognition of the fact that the Pact's rules apply to different countries in different situations as regards levels of debt, financial burdens arising from the ageing of the population and the urgent public investment requirements.
It will, at last, become an instrument that is fully compatible with the growth and employment strategy adopted by the European Council at Lisbon two years ago, a strategy that Parliament has always supported wholeheartedly.
Only a strong authority can both apply the rules strictly to prevent behaviour that is off-course and adapt the rules to changing circumstances, where necessary.
Budgetary policy is the responsibility of the authorities of the Member States.
The Commission also proposed that the Treaty be amended to incorporate the coordination of economic policies more fully within the framework of interinstitutional cooperation guaranteed by the Community method.
Lastly, the Commission put forward proposals for addressing in full the need for unitary representation of the euro in international organisations.
We therefore call upon the Council to consider these proposals as a matter of urgency.
In the meantime, we will continue to uphold the Pact's current rules staunchly, fulfilling our responsibility to propose the improvements we regard as appropriate when and where this proves necessary.
A democratic Europe, the democratic Europe we all want must be a Europe where the policies that affect wealth, employment, growth and development are an essential part of open political debate.
Within the Convention, the Commission has made every endeavour - and will continue to do so - to point out intelligent ways of establishing a centre of responsibility and authority in the system for the coordination of European economic policy.
I share President Prodi's conviction that the Stability and Growth Pact is an essential regulatory framework within the Union's institutional system, which provides the Member States with rigorous but flexible rules so that the Union can confront the challenges in store in the short, medium and long terms.
By acting in this way, it will be easier to prevent expansive fiscal policies when the economy's growth is strong and therefore we will be able to implement non-restrictive fiscal policies in periods of low growth.
The Pact has also provided us with an appropriate framework to confront the challenges of fiscal policy in the medium term.
We all agree that tax and spending reforms are essential in order to increase potential growth in the Union, and the Commission has stressed that a correct interpretation of the rules of the Pact provides an appropriate reference for assessing whether these reforms really improve the quality of public finances.
A majority of Member States are now in a good position to allow fiscal policy to play an anticyclical role in the current economic situation, in which the forecasts suggest a slower growth than that foreseen at the beginning of the year.
Consequently, this year the budgetary deficits in the zone will be equivalent to more than 2% of GDP, instead of the 0.9% forecast.
In accordance with this thinking, and in accordance with the vision of the Pact which I have just described, President Prodi and myself presented a strategy on how to confront the current budgetary challenges at the end of September.
In order to improve the implementation of the Pact and at the same time take account of the complexity of economic reality, we proposed a strategy based on four points: firstly, the deficit limit of 3% of GDP is, and will continue to be, obligatory, and any violation of that threshold will require corrective measures on the part of the Member States concerned; secondly, the objective established by the Pact of a budgetary situation close to the balance of the surplus in the medium term, as well as adjustments aimed at the same thing, must be interpreted in terms of an adjustment of the cycle; thirdly, the countries that have not yet achieved the objective of a budget close to balance must achieve a reduction of their structural deficits of half a point of GDP per year, as a minimum; and, finally, in years of strong growth, any procyclical flexibilisation of the budgets, which may lead to non-compliance with the rule of budgetary balance, must be considered a violation of the provisions of the Pact.
The budgetary situation is particularly difficult in four countries which were not able to consolidate their public finances during the period of strong growth: Portugal, Germany, France and Italy.
The deficits in some of these countries are dangerously close to, if not above, 3%.
I am aware that an adjustment is required in these countries in order to achieve a situation of substantial budgetary balance, but I also believe that carrying out this adjustment is crucial so that each country can create sufficient room for manoeuvre for the automatic stabilisers to operate fully.
In the case of Portugal, last week the Commission took a series of important decisions in relation to the excessive deficit procedure and, in our opinion to the Council, we concluded that such a deficit exists in Portugal.
I would also like to thank the Irish members of my group and of Fine Gael, which is in Opposition, and whose sense of responsibility to Europe led them to decide unequivocally in favour of a Yes vote.
That is why an overwhelming majority in my group is of the definite opinion that something has happened that must not be allowed to repeat itself in the same way. (Applause) Last Friday, the President of the Commission had this to say to Le Monde: Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the President of the Commission, whose appearance was requested by my group on Friday morning having seen the statements he had made to the Le Monde newspaper, for having agreed to come to the appropriate place to explain his position; the European Parliament.
I must say that we in my group have read the comments in Le Monde carefully and we believe that the President has made a series of observations on current issues which we largely agree with.
I have heard Mr Solbes talk about France and Italy; if you think France is a small country, then you are making truly revolutionary proposals.
And the Commission must present proposals which allow Parliament to carry out its duties.
I have heard the President and the Commission talk about their relations with the Council and in particular Ecofin, in its euro dimension, but it would be useful if they could tell us how they believe the European Parliament should participate in the taking of the important budgetary and economic decisions.
I will end, Mr President, by saying that very specific proposals have been presented to the Convention in application of the early warning mechanism representing the euro.
Commissioner Lamy is also on record as having described the pact as 'medieval'.
The first is that a well-run economy and a stable currency require taxes and spending to be in balance over the course of the business cycle.
Those principles are at the heart of the Stability and Growth Pact and my group expects them to be the starting point for any reform.
That is why we supported the Commission's decision to allow two more years for countries to return their budgets to balance, because growth had been slower than expected.
But we must not forget that postponement to 2006 came with strings attached in the form of a requirement to reduce structural deficits by 0.5% year on year.
That is why we call for the Commission to have the power to issue early warnings against countries which are breaching the rules, whether Finance Ministers agree or not.
If you wish to have the authority to enforce the Stability and Growth Pact, then you must earn that authority by acting promptly against France and any other countries which might be tempted to follow their example.
The Pact is stupid when your house is on fire, and you are right, we must stop burying our heads in the sand.
The financial crisis is even more serious in Europe than it is in the United States.
We must be prepared for at least two difficult years of restructuring, with the inevitable social consequences that this will entail.
The Pact is also stupid when the Union is moving away from the Lisbon objectives, as you mentioned.
It is stupid when enlargement would require a Pact for the countries joining the Union to bring their economies into line with those of the current Member States, with practical solidarity.
A Stability and Growth Pact worthy of the name would protect public spending of general interest, put a stop to fiscal competition that scorns ethics and effectiveness, provide the Union with a real budget, and guarantee the Member States' capacity for action, while maintaining a discipline of control over public debt.
Mr Prodi, you are demanding that the Commission be given real authority over the coordination of economic policies, but we want more than early warnings and the authority to take corrective action.
The Union would no longer be merely a marketplace but would participate in societal choices and concepts relating to the public economy.
There is, however, one thing we must put an end to if we want to avoid a situation where the citizens reject our Europe - which, let it be said in passing, has once again scraped a victory in Ireland - reforms cannot operate solely on the basis of the proposals of banks and employers, without considering those who, either now or in future, have to live with them.
Let us take the example of Germany, Mr Poettering.
Secondly, I would like to know whether a country like Germany, which spent 600 billion in transfers from West to East for the unification, should be treated in the same way as any other country, be it small or large?
The slowdown in growth has intensified over the past few months and the euro-zone deficit has risen from 0.2% of GDP in the year 2000 to 1.4% in 2001.
As for the Stability and Growth Pact - and I would put 'growth' in inverted commas - the supporters of a federal and bureaucratic Europe, faced with delays in the implementation of structural reforms at a time when there was growth but the governments were run by social democrats, aim to penalise governments that have inherited a difficult situation and intend to reduce taxes and charges to relaunch the economy and implement structural investments.
This theoretical threshold, however, contrary to the powers granted to the European Central Bank or the rules on the euro, has never been the subject of popular consensus.
As the Members of the Commission have suggested, we could easily postpone the reduction of the deficit by two or three years, as we all know it is easier to reduce the deficit during a period of growth.
I am telling you - I did not interrupt you, Mr Cohn-Bendit, please grant me the same courtesy, you have ample opportunity to speak - you are free to ignore these problems, to turn a blind eye.
Mr President, to my great surprise, I read in the paper at the end of last week that the President of the Commission referred to the Stability and Growth Pact as 'stupid' in an interview.
We created this Stability and Growth Pact less than five years ago.
The Pact's implementation benefits from clear and simple decision-making.
Discussions about the Stability and Growth Pact and the possibility to improve the Pact are necessary, but these discussions should not put the Stability and Growth Pact's credibility on the line.
I should like to hear from Commissioner Solbes how he will be discussing the Stability and Growth Pact's rules in a sensible manner, and in this framework, I should like to find out from the Commission what measures it intends to take in order to present the Member States' budgetary issues in an adequate manner.
It is no coincidence that the countries in the greatest difficulties are precisely those which have been most reluctant to adopt ambitious reform programmes in recent years.
This is what we want you to tell us, President Prodi, in this debate or next time you are interviewed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Commission, although I very much welcome today's debate, I would like to put it on record that I see the summons to you, Mr President of the Commission, to come to Parliament today, as amounting to a blue letter in response to your latest utterances on the Stability and Growth Pact.
The Stability and Growth Pact is neither complicated nor rigid; it is flexible and simple enough, with its rule of no new debts in good times and up to 3% of GDP room to manoeuvre in bad ones.
Running up debts may be opportune in the short term, but, in the long term, the debt trap jeopardises growth and employment, stability and social cohesion.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use this minute and this debate to express gratitude and congratulations to the Board of the ECB and its President, Wim Duisenberg for their steady hand and for being an anchor of stability.
I would, though also like to tell the President of the European Central Bank that, when rain comes pouring in through the roof of a house, or water breaks into a ship, the caretaker or the captain must not go.
I want to spare us a debate at the present time as to whether a country that openly defies the Stability and Growth Pact has any sort of moral right to propose a candidate as his successor.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, you said on Radio Europe 1, and repeated today, that you were calling for a central institution to coordinate the eurozone countries' economic policies.
I would like to remind you that this Parliament took the view in 1997 that the Stability and Growth Pact had to be flexibly applied, and there was a majority across the group boundaries in support of this.
Now, following the statements made by Commissioner Lamy and the Commission President, Romano Prodi, I can say that we agree with these statements.
This Pact is a clumsy tool for economic governance and must be replaced with something more intelligent, since the 3% rule is positively medieval.
It makes no sense that Commissioner Solbes Mira, on the one hand, confirms that the targets for the stability programmes will not be met in 2002 - and this could not be clearer in Germany, France and Italy - but on the other, where Portugal is concerned, opens an excessive-deficit procedure and applauds the implementation of measures for antisocial policies that create more unemployment and more poverty, precisely in the country that has the worst economic and social situation and the lowest level of development in the entire European Union.
What is clear is that the Pact's main function is to serve as a pretext, as a political cover-up for the most damaging, disastrous and revanchist government policies seen in Portugal since the revolution of 25 April in 1974.
Mr President, I can only congratulate you on the decision you have finally taken on the Stability and Growth Pact included in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I agree we need rules that apply to all the countries of our Europe.
If we want intelligent, flexible rules, however, a common economic authority must be able to take decisions according to the common situation.
It is the short-sightedness of the Amsterdam negotiators, their rejection of a true federal Europe which led them to adopt a stupid rule, setting the same deficit limits, the same deadline for compliance, in advance, for all Member States.
May your positive intervention, Mr President, convince the Convention, the European Council and Europe as a whole to choose intelligence over stupidity, to opt for a federal constitution.
I am sure that you, Mr President of the Commission, will agree with me when I say that it would be stupid and idiotic to open these floodgates even wider at the present time.
Mr President of the Commission, you said that there is a need in Europe for an authority that would have an undisputed role of economic governance.
What we expect of you today is that you should make good that error and should do as Parliament demanded on 2 May 1997 and apply the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact - not flexibly, but strictly and consistently.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Stability and Growth Pact was adopted in 1997 as an extension to the excessive deficit procedure, the Maastricht Treaty having famously required that Member States had to remain below the excessive deficit limit in order to join the single currency.
Consequently, in spirit - not in letter but in spirit - the Stability and Growth Pact can be no better or worse than the Maastricht requirement in question.
The strict limits imposed in Maastricht certainly succeeded in keeping prices under control, but they exacerbated unemployment in the European economy.
Witness also the fact that every time the European Central Bank has raised interest rates, that is, every time it has tightened monetary policy, the value of the euro has fallen rather than risen, contrary to the expectations of those who decided to raise interest rates.
Mr President, Mr Prodi, if the implementation of a policy to limit the new debts entered into by states adds up in practice to inflation-cutting measures combined with a simultaneous increase in economic growth, then there is nothing to be said against it.
If, despite the European internal market, nation states continue to assume that they must gain for themselves advantageous positions within the European Union - and that is possible in the absence of an adequate harmonisation of economic, fiscal and social policy - then, quite simply, the fundamental conditions for sustainable growth in Europe are not there.
Mr President, Mr Prodi, I should like to describe your statement in Le Monde as economically understandable and fair, but politically not very astute.
However, in my view, countries that are intent on a structural deterioration of their deficit by, for example, making out bad cheques, like France, should, in my view, be given a yellow card in future, with good reason.
Mr Prodi, if it was your intention to stir up a discussion about a reform of the Stability and Growth Pact, then you can count on my support.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, our citizens deserve a strong euro.
The euro can never become a dominant currency in the world, the sort we have set out to create, unless the aims of the Stability and Growth Pact are strictly adhered to.
It is quite obvious that it is more difficult to achieve the aims of the Stability and Growth Pact in a slump than it is during a period of economic prosperity.
These four Member States which are now in difficulties and which have promised their citizens something they cannot do are paying the price of not doing what they should have done when we had an economic boom.
Many Members of Parliament would be prepared to increase the Commission's responsibility and extend its role in coordinating economic policy.
Unfortunately, however, remarks like these and the fact that they are being made by Members of the Commission at all, none of whose business this is in any way, do not in the least increase our faith in the notion that we should be giving the Commission a greater role in the coordination of economic policy in the Convention on the future of Europe.
When Commissioner Lamy, for example, condemned the Pact as being medieval he was evidently representing more the French Socialist Party rather than the Commission's view on trade policy.
So I think someone wanted to make you say more, or less, than what you wanted to say, and perhaps someone wanted to cover up what you were saying elsewhere in this article, that, for example, a monetary union without economic union would be pure madness.
If today we give up any coordination of economic policies, what will be left of our ability to use the euro?
Parliament has made its suggestions.
Perhaps it would have been better to have a stronger Commission then, in terms of its proposals, just as, in certain exceptional circumstances, the Member States need to feel guided by the Commission leadership.
For God's sake, is it not enough to be in debt to the tune of EUR 4 700 billion?
The need, which I fully endorse, for flexible application of the Stability and Growth Pact and for coordination of economic, social and environmental policies, starting with the eurozone, has, however, been completely disregarded during the recent years of recession, not least because of the serious forecasting errors made by the European Commission and the European Central Bank, which actually discouraged any attempts to promote or coordinate an active, counter-cyclical economic policy shared by the Union's governments.
Moreover, it is true that the flexible, selective management of the Stability and Growth Pact cannot be left to the discretion of the individual governments, for this could result in the weakening of social cohesion and, at worst, higher inflation.
Indeed, the Community must be able, through the Commission, to assess, ex ante, the compatibility and conformance of the investments with the objective of making the European Union the most competitive and dynamic economy based on knowledge, full employment and sustainable development in the world by 2010, facilitating the coordination of these investments.
As you know, President Prodi, the credibility of the euro is linked, amongst other things - above all, I would say - to the Stability and Growth Pact and to its capacity to force the Member States to produce responsible budgetary policies: budgetary policies, I would point out, which they themselves have proposed and which are accepted by all their citizens.
What concerns me, President Prodi, are not the intelligent changes - which are always welcome - but the danger that budgetary policy will actually be renationalised.
This, President Prodi, is the most serious matter, the most perilous danger of all, for we could end up endorsing the policies of the irresponsible countries and penalising countries which have implemented responsible policies, the countries which have placed their trust in us.
Mr President, I welcome, understand and support the recent statements by President Prodi on public finance policy in Europe.
It was clear from the earliest days that the Stability and Growth Pact was founded on rules that would work reasonably in times of economic growth but which could prove to be a hindrance when faced with certain unforeseen circumstances and with only moderate growth.
The Europe of the Euro is founded on a framework of a single monetary policy and twelve separate budget policies.
A static interpretation of the Stability and Growth Pact is beginning to look unsustainable, because it does not respond to the current economic situation and even less matches the aims that the European Union set for itself in Lisbon of becoming, in the short term, the most powerful economy in the world.
The Stability and Growth Pact has to have a far more sophisticated interpretation.
Let us make it flexible - you can help do that - but let us recognise that it has to be a sophisticated instrument in a real economy.
If the economy is limping along, the currency will be weakened in the long term.
The euro needs not only a pact for stability, but also, primarily, for growth.
Discussion of this issue is therefore both necessary and sensible, in order that the euro may in the long term become a strong rather than a weak currency.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this debate, which has not been purely academic, as it could have been, given its chance, idiosyncratic origins; it has been a weighty debate on the economy which I hope can be repeated in the future.
We have a European economic policy in which, thank God, there is a Central Bank which has been successful from the start, and for this we must give it its due because it really did start from scratch.
It has been a Herculean task to create a control and monitoring structure, an economic financial analysis structure, from scratch, with 12 different countries, and we must safeguard the independence of the Central Bank but not its isolation.
Indeed, we share a single currency, and this means that we cannot devalue, it means that we cannot vary interest rates, it means that we really are tied to a system which is strong and rigid in many respects.
I have never said that this authority should necessarily be the Commission, of course not!
This authority needs to be created, to be established, to be formed because we have to protect the single currency together, and we therefore have to move together towards the future.
We have to have instruments, we have to use politics, we have to use the spirit of the law if we are to interpret our people's problems.
In the past, I have even had the courage to impose a Europe tax on my country - specifically labelled a Europe tax - because I feel that the citizens have to be given clear, accurate information.
Clearly, we in this House have to discuss the issue of the spirit and the letter of the Pact, with due regard for the Pact and within the constraints of the current situation where we have to apply it to both large and small countries.
This is another of the problems which have emerged during this debate: do you apply equal rigour in the event of deviation on the part of France, Germany or Italy, whose deficits are approaching or have already exceeded 3%?
The economic super-State would be just another rigid system, following in the footsteps of the Stability and Growth Pact and, dare we say, the euro.
Mr President, during the night of 26 to 27 September, the ship de Joola sank off the coast of Senegal, taking with it many Senegalese, a group of Europeans, and Roel and Lisette Arendshorst from Groningen.
We cannot allow a decision to be taken before there is a debate in the European Parliament's Committee on Petitions.
If I understand correctly, Mrs González Álvarez, it may be that some questions need to be put to the Commission too, so that we can get to the bottom of the matter.
She has decided - very courageously, I think - not to go to Nigeria to take part in the Miss World contest.
Today, she has, however, received a letter from the Miss World organisation, encouraging her to take part in the light of the fact that one of the Vice-Presidents of the European Parliament - and it was in actual fact yourself, Mr Imbeni - had encouraged the candidates to take part and so abstain from a boycott.
I therefore want to ask you to confirm today, or to confirm to myself as soon as possible, that the European Parliament has not come out in favour of the candidates' participating in the Miss World contest and to confirm that we have not therefore encouraged them to participate.
For the courts, the Charter is already an important source of reference alongside the ECHR and the constitutional traditions of the Member States.
Commission Vitorino and his working group in the Convention are considering the technical and semantic niceties that will be involved in incorporation and I look forward to hearing from him how successful the efforts of his working group are proving.
It says why incorporation in the treaties is important and why it should become mandatory upon the Union and upon the Member States, when and, in so far as, they put into effect European law and policy.
It proposes that we establish for ourselves our fundamental rights regime at the centre of the integration process so that it will stand as a jewel in the crown of our future constitution.
The report we are discussing today is based on the previous positions held by Parliament, adopted when the Charter was drawn up, in the course of 2000, and these recommendations fully respond to the aim of making this Charter the basis for a constitution.
I am speaking in my capacity as Commissioner but, of course, I cannot ignore the fact that, at the same time, I represent the Commission in the Convention on the Future of Europe and in that capacity, I chair the 'Charter' working group.
The Charter is already clear on this matter but could be more explicit in the horizontal clauses providing for the incorporation of the Charter into the Treaty, especially in order to allay the fears that some people have expressed.
By the same token, the Charter does not in any way limit the competences of the Member States.
The Charter represents the political commitment of the previous Convention, which this Convention must respect.
The European Parliament and the Commission have always looked favourably on acceding to the European Convention on Human Rights.
The rapporteur reiterates this point of view, which I welcome.
The members of the 'Charter' Working Group take the view that the Union's accession to the European Convention is fully compatible with enshrining a charter with constitutional value and binding legal force.
In this regard I believe that the result achieved by this working group will also receive a very broad consensus.
If the Union does indeed accede to the Treaty, it will become subject to external control, which is entirely in line with that exercised by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg over the Constitutional or Supreme Courts of the Member States.
This issue is closely linked to that of the future legal personality of the Union.
I sincerely hope that incorporating the Charter into the Constitutional Treaty and the Union's accession to the European Convention on Human Rights will constitute two fundamental milestones in the process of giving the European Union a constitution that acknowledges the values and principles of fundamental rights.
Mr President, one of the main tasks of the Convention on the future of Europe is to respond to the question raised in Laeken almost a year ago about how appropriate it would be to incorporate the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the Treaty on European Union.
A working group within the Convention was set up for this very purpose, competently chaired by Commissioner Vitorino and which is ready to make its conclusions public.
I should like publicly to express my agreement with his conclusions and to take the opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on the extremely broad consensus that he was able to add to his achievements in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
What we have is not so much a market but a collection of women and men who give this Community meaning.
This is why we wholeheartedly call for the Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated as the major part of the future Constitutional Treaty of the European Union.
From our point of view, however, that time has not yet come.
It is time today to clarify and strengthen the legal status of the Charter, giving it a binding nature and increasing the legal protection of European citizens from the European institutions and from the Member States when they apply Community law.
We therefore support the strategy advocated in this report and its main conclusions: to make it the major part of the new Constitutional Treaty, to lay down formal rules for its revision and, following the explicit attribution of a single legal personality to the European Union, to advocate accession to the European Convention on Human Rights.
Fortunately, our Charter does not simply address citizenship, but also represents, for our fellow citizens, an essential reference point, and from the beginning of this process, we have said that the Convention must aim for a more democratic, more comprehensible, more transparent Europe.
What our fellow citizens are asking is to be able to feel that they are European citizens.
We ourselves, in drawing up this Charter, took a few liberties with the text of the European Convention on Human Rights, due to the need to adapt and modernise it.
Basically, the Charter could only be revised according to the most restrictive rules proposed by the Convention.
Lastly, of course, I would like to express my support of the European Union's signing up to the European Convention on Human Rights, on my own behalf and on behalf of my group.
In this way we will have a complete set of measures to protect the rights of our citizens and our residents.
Mr President, I should firstly like to thank the tireless rapporteur for his work on the Charter.
The Charter is important.
It embraces important human and other rights that it is important to secure for the citizens of Europe.
I have also worked on it in relation to the Danish constitution and must say that it is rather better and more forward-looking than, for example, that particular constitution read only as it stands and without the whole historical background.
I therefore think it good to be able to look at whether some articles are more important and more significant than others and at whether there are matters it might not be thought crucial to incorporate at this stage.
Mr President, Commissioner, the report deals with one of the most important problems that the European Constitutional Convention has to solve, namely how to integrate the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the future European constitutional treaty and guarantee loophole-free protection of fundamental rights in the European Union.
The report - in its item 1, for example - is quite right to frame this as a demand.
I take the view, though, that Parliament is frustrating its own objectives when it is stated, under item 2 of the report, that the Charter of Fundamental Rights is to be incorporated into European constitutional law only in the form of a preamble.
In my judgment, the constitutional treaty must give its own answer to the question contained in the report.
I will make my third point to the rapporteur later on.
Mr President, it is in the nature of fundamental rights that they are not conferred but merely acknowledged, and that fundamental rights are perforce derived from human dignity.
The Council's refusal to make the Charter of Fundamental Rights binding in law therefore puts us in an absurd situation, in which, on the one hand, fundamental rights are regarded as an inevitable consequence of the recognition of human dignity, whilst, on the other hand, people are denied the chance to exercise their rights.
I thank the rapporteur for again making it clear that it is Parliament's top priority to incorporate fundamental rights into the European constitution, and indeed that they are a foundation stone without which a constitution is utterly unthinkable.
I am, secondly, grateful to the rapporteur for his observation that we must not allow the chapter on the Charter of Fundamental Rights to be reopened and renegotiated in the Constitutional Convention, which has no mandate to amend the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
And this is, in fact, another excellent opportunity to reflect on this key issue: the truth about European integration.
We will shortly have, for example, the Swiebel Report proving this clear shift in the form and the methodology used to study the situation of human rights and to assess Member States.
We also had, last year, the Cornillet Report in the same field.
In short, if the rule of law is still the rule of law we can only state that the Charter is unfortunately already leading to reactions against the normal rule of law.
This report must, therefore, be supported enthusiastically by those who ? (The President cut the speaker off) Mr President, as recommended by the Duff Report, Commissioner Vitorino has just declared that the working party he chairs within the Convention was inclined to propose the incorporation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights into the Treaties, or even into a future European constitution.
For that reason, we must prevent the text of the Charter from being re-submitted for discussion.
This is also the view taken by our PPE-DE Group here and by the PPE-DE Group in the Council of Europe.
It is our desire to do this and we will therefore commit ourselves to this in the Convention.
We know all too well that citizens' rights , minorities' rights, and social rights are still very fragile, particularly in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
In that way, citizens in Western and Central Europe can count on the same constitutional rights - rights enshrined in a European constitution, guaranteed by the Union and, if necessary, enforceable by European courts.
They must also become binding.
Congratulations to the Commissioner and the rapporteur on their intention that the Charter should form part of the constitutional treaty.
Mr President, the subject of the report is ostensibly the effect of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights.
As is apparent from, for example, paragraphs 7, P, X and N, the citizens of the European Union are being subjected to the EU's federal authorities.
The second point, Mr President, consists of expressly pointing out something that this Parliament has included in its Rules of Procedure: the Charter is already binding for us; for us, the Members of the European Parliament, this is already the parameter in accordance with which we must ensure that legislative initiatives conform to fundamental rights.
We cannot forget this.
This will ensure that the Charter is not watered down or distorted in the future.
Mr President, a Constitution and the Charter of Fundamental Rights are the two faces of the new Europe that we are building because democracy cannot be organised with twenty-five countries without binding fundamental rights.
Secondly, because the new citizenship of the Union, which places European citizens at the heart of European legitimacy, requires their defence and protection against any abusive behaviour that could result from the centralisation of power in the name of efficient decision-making.
We must therefore find a basis for giving the citizens direct access to the Union's courts and we must similarly define the mechanisms that will persuade national courts to apply the Charter in the name of the citizens.
Furthermore, no right is being removed from those already enjoyed by the citizens of the Member States, and nor is any higher protection being diluted into a Charter that lays down only minimum rules.
I agree that it is right that all the institutions of the EU should observe the same standard norms, but I am still less convinced that such legal constraints need to be included in the Convention.
The Charter must bind the Commission, the Council, Parliament and the Committee of the Regions, but should it be a 'central reference point for the European Court of Justice and national courts'?
No, it should not be a central reference point of national courts.
Mr President, there is no doubt that, for many countries, the easiest solution would be to incorporate the Charter with reference to Article 6 of the Treaty on European Union.
That would presumably be the easiest solution for my own country too.
Mr President, firstly I should like to thank all those who have spoken, and especially those who agreed with the report.
I also strongly congratulate Commissioner Vitorino for successfully brokering an agreement in his working group on the technical and semantic problems which have confronted some representatives of Member States.
The various national systems currently contain different criteria for citizens being able to receive protection and an at times highly disparate set of laws on refugee status or on subsidiary protection.
In order to create a situation of equal treatment, the proposal for a directive on qualification for international protection contains standards for a common definition both of refugees and of those who are entitled to subsidiary protection.
It also contains standards for rights to be granted to these two categories of people.
It guarantees a minimum level of protection in all Member States for anyone in genuine need of international protection, and at the same time prevents abuses in requests for asylum, which damage the credibility of the system.
Lastly, we must emphasise that the subsidiary protection proposed in the directive must be considered to complement the system of protection enshrined in the Geneva Convention on refugees and must be implemented in such a way so as not to damage but to complement the current refugee protection system.
The Danish Presidency's idea, supported by the Commission, is that rapid political agreement should be reached on this proposal, together with the regulation determining the Member State responsible for studying asylum requests, known as Dublin II, and the amended proposal for a directive on asylum procedures, specifically at the end of November at the Justice and Home Affairs Council.
It is therefore extremely important for the Commission that Parliament adopts its position on the directive as rapidly as possible so that the Council can debate this issue in light of your opinion.
Mr President, as we have just heard the proposed directive is effectively the linchpin of the common asylum policy, setting out the basis for minimum standards for people qualifying as refugees under the Geneva Convention and subsequent protocols, and also the criteria for people entitled to international protection under other international conventions and human rights legislation.
However, the basis of the Commission's perspective is the need for protection and our responsibility to provide it.
Full application of the Convention would take account of, for example, those suffering at the hands of the FARC, a non-state agent of persecution in Colombia, and would also cover political opposition in Zimbabwe and countless other instances.
The majority of the committee chose to support amendments by the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, which strengthen the position of women as a social group liable to persecution in some countries, and have included the example of genital mutilation in line with a previous Parliament decision on the issue.
The majority of the committee does not support the view that this directive should deal only with refugee status and that subsidiary protection could be dealt with at a later stage.
It is not true to say, as some do, that those in the additional category necessarily stay for shorter periods or face less serious problems in their country of origin.
If we are to have a common asylum policy, we have also to deal with these additional needs and it makes sense to deal with them together.
It must be sensible to allow those who wish to work, train or acquire an education to do so.
The EU's own social inclusion strategy recognises the links, for example, between poor housing, poor health and poor educational attainment.
In conclusion, I should like to thank all my colleagues for their serious work and commitment on this report, whether we agreed or not.
The committee has made positive amendments to the Commission's already sound proposals and I trust this position will be maintained in the vote tomorrow and supported by the Council.
Also the reference to increasing the rights of asylum seekers and their families, whether or not they be traditional families.
We have very clear examples of families which are not traditional but which are extraordinary families.
We believe that only the State can duly protect asylum seekers.
And non-repatriation in the event that the applicant is at risk of the death penalty or corporal punishment.
This Parliament has spoken out very clearly against the death penalty on many occasions.
Mr President, I believe this is a very important directive which will reflect a Europe of rights and a Europe that receives those people who feel persecuted.
The left-wingers in this House, though, also bear their due share of responsibility for the failures to date.
If you have your way, people receiving subsidiary protection will be treated in almost the same way as recognised asylum seekers.
In our States in crisis, since the events of 11 September, those seeking asylum and international protection have been perceived by many as a threat to law and order, to social stability and even, in some cases, to national security.
Following on from other reports already adopted by Parliament, I believe that the proposal before us today makes it possible to establish something that is a real credit to us, in other words an area of freedom, security and justice.
Furthermore, in order to introduce some coherence between the regulations and laws of the Member States and to define a platform for common standards, we are establishing, through this proposal for a directive, minimum standards on the definition and scope of the status of refugee.
Mr President, three years ago, the Tampere European Council gave the initial impetus to a common European asylum and immigration policy.
If the rules are to be effective, it is also important for all the Member States to have a common definition of what a refugee is.
I am pleased that the report contains general rules for determining whether or not international protection is properly justified.
Today, a number of the Member States have problems related to asylum and immigration policy.
I support making the concept of subsidiary protection status a part of the common refugee policy.
It is important for third country nationals to be given the opportunity of making headway with their lives in their new countries.
Overall, the report takes a balanced view of the problems with which we are confronted, and I hope that it will be able to attract a broad majority in Parliament.
Mr President, we shall vote in favour of this report which seeks to provide a minimum level of protection to all those men and women who have been forced to flee in order to escape persecution in their region of origin.
If the European Parliament had a genuine desire to protect those who are persecuted, it should start by doing this within the Union.
In the absence of a common European policy on asylum and immigration issues, we are now witnessing unacceptable competition in Europe between all the governments of the various EU Member States, designed to downgrade the conditions for receiving refugees, so as to be the most unwelcoming and the most unattractive, and which also aims to criminalise refugees on the pretext of fighting against phenomena such as illegal immigration.
They are also drawing our attention to their tragic existence in Afghanistan which, if not tragic before the war, would certainly be so on their return home, to their children and their families, but empty-handed, let there be no doubt about that.
Mr President, I would like to start by saying how necessary it is to lay the foundations for a policy shared by all the Member States on immigration strategies, on combating illegal immigration and therefore on a common definition of the right to asylum too.
In particular, as regards the right to asylum, many Member States complain that the amount of applications they receive is excessive, condemning the attempts of some asylum applicants to abuse asylum procedures in order to get round Member States' immigration laws.
From this point of view, the report, pursuing what is supposed to be an open, progressive line of reasoning, widens the definition of the right to asylum - a fundamental right which, as such, cannot have too wide a definition - excessively and inappropriately, first and foremost because those requesting protection and those requesting the status of refugee are, in practice, placed on the same level, and secondly, because the report proposes too wide a definition of the right to asylum granted subsequently to family members too.
Indeed, family members eligible for international protection include same-sex partners and partners' children, and likewise, when it comes to minors, members of a minor's family other than the minor's actual parents can be considered to be their parents, and they therefore do not necessarily have to have lived together with the applicant in their country of origin.
The Commission proposes an asylum system that includes a refugee status and a subsidiary protection status.
Fortunately, the directive in question concerns minimum harmonisation and Member States may go further when they transpose the directive into national legislation.
They are free to give persons with a subsidiary protection status equal treatment.
The Lambert Report is keen to extend the Commission's proposal.
Although meant well, the proposed amendments will, in my view, in fact, hamper the proper implementation of the directive on account of their subjective content.
The proposals tabled by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs unnecessarily restrict this discretion.
Mr President, the proposal for a directive presented by the Commission to set out the conditions for granting refugee status does not reflect the state of the world, nor the current needs of Europe.
This text constantly seeks to broaden the definition of refugees provided by the Geneva Convention.
To take another example, the probable causes of persecution have been drafted in a broad and open manner, as acknowledged in the Explanatory Statement itself, which explains, for example, that a person, persecuted on account of membership of a social group, may also be persecuted on the grounds of sex or sexual orientation.
The proposal for a directive creates a whole new category, subsidiary protection, which is in addition to the status of refugee provided for under the Geneva Convention.
We, for our part, believe that our main task is to protect our people.
In such circumstances, the communitarisation of the immigration policy at Amsterdam, giving the Commission a monopoly on initiative after 2004, would appear to be a serious mistake.
Mr President, Commissioner, I share the view that the directive to be drafted here is a fundamental one, and it is our common opinion that asylum law is in urgent need of harmonisation.
Your report contains no reference to an EU-wide list of safe third states and states of origin.
Yet we know that some refugees who are not, strictly speaking, persecuted by their government, are, in fact, in real danger and in genuine need of our help.
Ladies and gentlemen, by voting in favour of the Lambert Report tomorrow, we shall be responding to an expectation of our peoples.
Whoever votes against this text tomorrow can no longer claim to truly condemn the current reception conditions which are not worthy of humanity, which are not worthy of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's draft directive is meant to provide a minimum level of protection in the Member States for such third-country nationals as are actually in need of protection.
So, Mrs Lambert, the prime requirement when it comes to dealing with economic migrants is support for impoverished countries, in order to prevent human resources from haemorrhaging away through emigration and to promote economic growth with a better quality of life for the people.
The subject of asylum is seen as sensitive in all the Member States, as is shown by the fact that it has been impossible, to date, to get any of the previous draft directives on this subject adopted by the Council.
I therefore regard the rapporteur's approach, which involves extending the already very far-reaching Commission proposal still further, as being quite utterly wrong.
On the contrary, that leads to the great benefit of the right to asylum being nullified.
A forward-looking asylum policy in the EU must also take into account the circumstances and needs of the people in our Member States.
On the other hand, though, it is of course a good thing that we at last have a directive, or are at least making the attempt to lay down minimum standards, which, once in place, will enable us to achieve our objective of preventing secondary movement.
I am not a minister of a nation state, and am therefore not obliged to take a stringent line and consider how to persuade and convince my Danish or Dutch counterparts.
We agree with a common asylum policy that contains minimum rules designed to ensure a minimum level of protection for persons in genuine need of it.
We also agree with the aim of restricting the secondary movements of asylum seekers by reducing the differences that exist between the legislation and practices of the various Member States in this field, as well as imposing a fair division of efforts between the States.
In these matters, however, it is better to move slowly and appropriately rather than rapidly and get things wrong.
Even following 11 September, we have seen, amongst the public, suspect attitudes and increasing hostility towards asylum seekers, refugees and immigrant communities.
From this point of view, we must acknowledge that the Lambert Report has not helped to generate the consensus that would be useful and desirable in these matters.
Without wishing to dramatise, Mr President, this proposal contains a core of minimum standards that reveal the legislative courage to respond effectively to the issue of citizens of third countries in need of international protection, at the same time eliminating national differences in the way in which persons are treated, avoiding the need for secondary movements.
The violence arising from poverty and from other social scourges is not included but I hope that this will be covered in future by means of a broader concept of common asylum policy.
For the moment, however, a good part of the ground has been covered, as have the bases for a common European asylum policy.
The reality is that there are millions of people in the world who are seeking sanctuary in the European Union.
The issue of procedures should be dealt with in the proposal on that subject, on which the Commission has tabled an amended proposal.
Over a year ago, the Commission presented a regulation on which State should be held responsible for studying asylum requests, known as the 'Dublin II Regulation', which, I hope, will be concluded by the end of this year and the Commission will, in November, present its action plan for returns policy, as well as a framework for financial action for cooperation with third countries in the fight against illegal immigration.
Finally, why did we include subsidiary protection in this proposal?
Today, in all Member States of the European Union, the majority of persons receiving international protection do not receive this protection under the Geneva Convention but under systems of subsidiary protection.
On the contrary, only by dealing with the harmonisation of subsidiary protection will it be possible to adopt the so-called single procedure, which has been welcomed, as a matter of fact, by an increasing number of Member States, in which requests for asylum are studied in order of priority in a single administrative process and are subject to a single final decision.
Can Mr von Boetticher have asked himself why if, in these matters, the Commission proposals are as bad as he says, no Member State has tabled a proposal that has rapidly achieved the consensus of the fifteen Member States and has been adopted?
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0328/2002) by Mrs Cederschiöld, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Commission's proposal with a view to the adoption of the proposal for a Council Framework decision on attacks against information systems (COM(2002) 173 - C5-0271/2002 - 2002/0086(CNS)).
As she points out, hacking, viruses and denial of service can have very serious consequences, both as a result of individuals acting in their own interests and as part of organised crime or terrorism.
The Commission proposal aims to approximate criminal offences of unauthorised access or illegal interference with information systems and follows consultation with professional sectors and with the authorities responsible for implementing the law, as well as discussions with experts in the European Union forum on cybercrime.
The Commission is seeking to establish a degree of approximation in legislation at European level, but which is in line and coherent with the Council of Europe Cybercrime Convention of November 2001.
Article 3 of our proposal defines unauthorised access to an information system as an offence.
Such unauthorised access must be punished when perpetrated against an information system that is subject to specific protection measures or with the intent to cause damage to a singular or collective person, or with the intention of obtaining economic benefit.
The Commission proposal requires all offences to be committed in an intentional and unauthorised way and focuses above all on serious cases, the criteria for decisions on which must be decided on by the judges of the courts in each Member State.
The proposal caters for aggravating circumstances and also seeks to force Member States to designate operational points of contact, available around the clock and seven days a week, with a view to facilitating the exchange of information on attacks against information systems.
Recital 12 of the Commission proposal therefore suggests that we must avoid excessive criminalisation, particularly for behaviour which is not very serious or which is even insignificant.
With regard to the issue of data protection under the third pillar, we are working on this matter, but I would like to ask Parliament not to suspend implementation of this proposal for a framework decision until there is a specific instrument to protect data under the third pillar.
Instead, I think that specific reference must be made to respect for the principles established in the Council of Europe Convention on Data Protection, which must be fully complied with in this field of the framework decision's implementation.
I wish to thank the rapporteur once again for her contribution to this important debate which, I believe, has been much hoped for by public opinion in the Member States.
The Commission's proposal is a good one.
We must obtain democratic control, and I should therefore like this legislation to begin to apply from the day on which we have proper protection in this area and also data protection in the area of the third pillar.
I do not want to slow things down in any way, but I want to give some impetus to democratic development.
I hope, however, that a new constitution will mean our sorting out these issues and really being able to obtain a legitimate system.
I want the Convention to feel it is under pressure, which is why I have written in this way.
It is therefore crucial that there should be rigorous protection against potential abuses or criminal acts.
The protection of information systems is a crucial element in creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
We must, however, guarantee that no restrictions are imposed on fundamental rights and freedoms, that fundamental principles of law are not changed and that individual acts that take place purely as a result of mistakes in the use of new technologies are not punished.
As I have already said in this plenary, security is and must be only one tool for safeguarding these fundamental rights and freedoms.
Computer viruses in the future could cause legal uncertainty on a large scale and prevent electronic commerce and people's private business from being transacted electronically by sabotaging the reliability of electronic documents.
I am very concerned about the opinions of experts who say that those who are creating new viruses these days are less and less those who are just playing around.
At first viruses were turned out by schoolchildren and students, who produced them mainly for fun and publicity, but more and more frequently viruses can destroy hard disks and all installed programs.
According to the experts macro viruses already account for 80% of all viruses.
When we say, however, that there is no coherent vision, this quite simply means, for example, that cinema is dealt with from the point of view of industry, that music may feature in the budgetary lines, but that it all ends there, and that it is not clear how language or languages used in the theatre can be taken into account.
That is why, Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to draft this own-initiative report.
We have seen this elsewhere: within the cinema, State aid is now recognised, even promoted or mimicked in countries other than those where this already exists.
I believe that, for the performing arts and theatre in particular, it is the same thing, we must have State aid and this aid begins with the responsibility that the States must assume to facilitate the movement of individuals and productions in Europe, as well as to encourage training.
I feel that, in our never-ending debate on culture, we still mean that either culture will be dealt with by the Community, or it will be a matter of subsidiarity, and therefore we must not touch it.
I would like to respond to a number of points expounded in the report.
Under the cooperation agreements, I refer to Action II of the Culture 2000 programme, we are currently supporting, and will do so for three years, six networks in the area of the theatre, three in that of dance, seven in that of music, a network in the area of the circus and two interdisciplinary networks, and this is for performing arts networks alone.
Creating these platforms is also part of the current deliberations on the future of the Culture 2000 programme.
The Commission is aware of the need to increase the production of European cultural statistics and the Eurostat 'Cultural Statistics' group is already working on several themes: cultural jobs, financing culture, cultural events.
Furthermore, a Eurobarometer survey on the participation of EU citizens in cultural activities was carried out this year at the Commission's request.
We share these concerns, as does the Council, which is also examining a draft resolution on the mobility of artists.
In this respect, I also believe it is very positive that the Member States are themselves considering these issues of mobility, which are primarily their responsibility.
I would also like to point out that, as part of the action plan on mobility presented by the Commission at the European Summit in Barcelona, a comprehensive Internet site on the mobility of Europeans is to be set up in 2003 and the development of a 'culture' portal will enable the Commission to provide an increasing amount of information regarding mobility in the cultural sector.
The problems of double taxation are relatively rare, as our study showed.
The application of fiscal conventions agreed between the States should eliminate the risk of double taxation.
Nevertheless, the Member States must apply the conventions with respect for Community law and avoid any discrimination.
As you can see, the Commission is already doing a great deal to encourage mobility in this sector.
It has taken two types of measures; ensuring the application of Community legislation and encouraging mobility in our financial instruments.
For example, Culture Base Net is a project launched by the Haus der Kulturwelt [World Culture House] in Berlin, in conjunction with key players from Sweden, the United Kingdom and Denmark, in order to set up a database on the Internet which introduces artists from all over the world, beginning with Europe.
The Commission has therefore decided to create and promote instruments which make the content of studies undertaken in other countries transparent.
One example of many is that the number of Erasmus students studying arts subjects has increased from 3 250 in 1998 to 4 700 in 2001, and each school that is recognised as a higher education establishment in its country can apply to take part in Erasmus activities.
Mr President, I speak as shadow rapporteur on behalf of my group.
Mr President, I too should like to take my turn in congratulating the rapporteur for having made a quantum leap and married her vision to political considerations, a rare feat indeed here.
We all want a revival of the arts, and the performing arts in particular, and we feel that enlargement really will allow us to enter a new era in Europe.
Many theatres and theatre forms have followers who unite in one way or another in 'friends of ?', and I believe that they too deserve a mention when the topic of supporting the dramatic arts is mooted.
Secondly, I should also like to expressly draw your attention to the role of information technologies in modern theatre.
Mr President, Mrs Zorba, Commissioner, on the contrary, theatre is not dead.
If, within the internal market framework, we enact laws relating to culture, we must also make full use of every instrument at our disposal in the service of the many kinds of theatre - whether houses rich in tradition, buildings commandeered for alternative uses, streets between Lisbon and Helsinki, Athens and London - to protect this diversity, helping it to develop further and come to full bloom.
We must do everything necessary so that these television channels, which receive more than EUR 2 billion in subsidies from the French Government every year, at last respect the principles that are at the very core of their public service duty, in other words, the principles of democracy and respect for all political opinions.
It was in 1992 that I produced a report on the state of artists, and I can only say that I still search in vain today for the practical results that the Commission could have brought about in these ten years.
In addition, we should also bear in mind that it is the performing arts that are popular with quite specific viewers and listeners.
It is more important for cultural creation to run the risks inherent to it and that public resources facilitate international promotion, distribution, greater accessibility of content through translation and subtitling and proper co-production, in the spirit of the 'Culture 2000' Programme.
There is, however, every reason why artistic training from childhood, as well as contact with cultural creation in all spheres - and therefore with the arts and performing artists - judiciously promoted from school onwards, should make a decisive contribution to finding new publics, which we can expect will lead to an increase in the demand for cultural consumption likely, at least in part, to sustain the corresponding supply.
Let us hope that the Fraisse Report is also a step in this direction.
As Chairman of the Committee on Petitions, I have noted the increase in the citizens' requests for protection of their rights, which shows that their relationship with the European institutions, particularly Parliament, is constantly improving.
After the elements of Community law relating to criminal law, I believe it is important to address the civil law elements too and, in particular, the relationship between the citizens and the legal systems of the Member States, some of which need to be reorganised, including the administrative and civil justice systems of my country.
