This measure means that the world fishing quota of blue fin tuna will reduce from 22 000 tonnes currently to 13 500 tonnes in 2010.
There are 500 000 tonnes of nuts stored by the Turkish public body for nut purchasing.
This body wants to sell off these 500 000 tonnes of nuts in January 2010.
In the light of what the Turkish authorities said at a bilateral meeting with the European Union on 2 October 2009, such a situation would seriously damage European producers, with a new dramatic drop in nut prices.
With this in mind, it has submitted to a number of assessments, five to be exact, four of which have already been completed.
Taking the example provided by Romania, I am proposing to you that we look at the expansion of the Schengen area in a more optimistic light.
The ink cannot be separated easily from the paper, which means that much of today's printed matter cannot be recycled.
I have to admit that I did not know what our official position is on Turkey's statements and behaviour in terms of Iran's nuclear programme.
The arguments for maintaining the restrictions are contrary to market logic, especially during a crisis.
I urge the European Commission to coordinate with Member States the lifting, as soon as possible, of labour market restrictions for Member States which have recently joined.
I would like to come back to this event because it also provides an excuse to talk about secularism, and we can never talk enough about secularism in this House.
It is therefore essential that as European institutions, we promote research that is specifically aimed at women, either through their more extensive inclusion in clinical studies, or through designing studies that are conducted exclusively on women. (NL) Mr President, I, too, wish to talk about last Friday's decision of the Turkish Constitutional Court to ban the Democratic Society Party (DTP), which has resulted in no less than 22 members of the Turkish Parliament being either expelled from the parliament or deprived of their political rights for five years.
Nevertheless, the presidential elections in Tunisia have just been held in lamentable conditions that are unworthy of the provisions contained in the agreement with the European Union.
My request has been signed by 75 Members and five political groups.
It is hard to believe that the majority of young people in these countries still know nothing about the European Union.
This also goes for the population of Kosovo.
The fact should also be applauded that even the countries in the European Union which have been severely affected by the financial crisis to date have expressed their solidarity, made an effort and are going to make a contribution, even if it is only a token gesture by some of them, as an indication of their commitment to the battle against global warming. (EL) Mr President, may I start by expressing my full solidarity with the fight by the trade unionists in the European Parliament and wishing them every success.
The social security system is also being decimated and wages and pensions are being frozen.
The first response to the anti-grassroots attack by the government and the European Union will be the national strike on 17 December announced and organised by the All Workers Militant Front (PAME).
They are demanding measures to satisfy modern grassroots requirements which can only be met by a united front of the working classes, the poor and middle classes in the towns and countryside, to confront and overthrow the anti-grassroots policy of the European Union. (DE) Mr President, on 8 December, the ESDP mission, Operation Atalanta, celebrated one year of existence.
According to a report by the International Maritime Bureau, in the first nine months of 2009, there were more attacks in total than in the whole of 2008.
The financial efficiency of this operation is also highly questionable.
The cost of damage caused by piracy in this region is estimated to be USD 200 million in total, whereas the EU and its Member States are investing USD 408 million per year.
The European Commission hopes that in future, this will allow us to avoid an energy crisis similar to the one we experienced at the beginning of the year, when the dispute between Russia and Ukraine over the supply and transit of gas resulted in Moscow cutting off the supply of gas for nearly three weeks, effectively paralysing several European countries.
The European Union must understand that breaks in gas supply are not only a threat to the economy, but they also threaten the foundations of European integration, which, strengthened by European solidarity, support the free market.
The last electoral consultation was presidential and was won by the current president with the very narrow margin of 70 000 votes, coming mainly from the diaspora.
In order to implement Rail Baltica - the name by which we know this project - it is extremely important that both the European Parliament and the European Commission show considerable support for the Rail Baltica project, despite the fact that the population of this region is not exactly the biggest, and the financial situation facing the Baltic States is dire.
This project is important not only to ensure a normal railway link, but it will also have a considerable effect on all three countries with regard to regional and social policy.
Our colleagues in the PPE Group, headed by Wilfried Martens and Joseph Daul, expressed their support for President Băsescu, which we thank them for once again. (RO) During the second quarter of 2009, the revenues of the 27 Member States amounted to 43.9% of GDP, while their expenditure was 49.7%.
The 27 Member States' budget deficit grew from 0.8% in the second quarter of 2008 to 5.8% in the second quarter of 2009.
This form of taxation affects approximately 18 000 farmers in relation to 5.3% of their sales.
