You will be aware that the Globalisation Adjustment Fund has a maximum funding amount of EUR 500 million per annum and that it is exclusively for the purpose of providing additional support for those employees affected by globalisation who have lost their jobs and have been affected by the consequences of far-reaching structural changes in world trade patterns.
In Belgium, there have been a total of 2 199 job losses in 46 companies in the textile industry, all of which were based in two neighbouring NUTS 2 regions, namely East and West Flanders, and in a single NUTS 2 region, Limburg.
We have simply observed that, in the case in point, even though President Barroso announced, on 19 September, the granting of a EUR 19 million aid package - which we are debating this evening - to Dell, or rather to the workers made redundant from Dell, in order to help them come to grips with the period of retraining ahead of them, the same day, in New York, Dell bought out Perot Systems, which enabled it to increase its share price.
A few days later, on 23 September, Commissioner Kroes approved more than EUR 54 million in State aid for the creation of a Dell factory in Poland.
It is therefore genuinely difficult to see the European Union's budget ultimately being used - at a time when we realise the difficulty involved in the budgetary procedure, the difficulty involved in financing the recovery plan - to end up in this paradoxical situation in which we help to increase US shareholders' rate of return on investment but put Irish workers, within the European Union, in Polish workers' shoes.
This is certainly not the philosophy that we supported when we supported the implementation of the Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank the rapporteur for supporting the Commission's proposal to mobilise the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in response to the layoffs in the textile sector in Belgium and the computer manufacturing sector in Ireland.
The support of the rapporteur is accompanied by a number of comments and I would like to restrict myself here to questions of a budgetary nature since we will have an opportunity later to discuss the other points you raise in the report.
According to Article 57 of the general regulation on structural funds, Member States must ensure that projects maintain the investment for which a grant is provided for a period of five years after its completion and for a period of three years in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Moreover, in the 2007-2013 programme period, a special legal provision was introduced which is supposed to ensure that companies to which the procedure applies for returning sums of money paid out wrongfully after a relocation of production activities in a Member State or to another Member State cannot receive contributions from the funds.
Similarly, point 40 of the guidelines on regional support specifies that support must be conditional on the maintenance of a given investment in the relevant region for a period of at least five years from its completion date.
In conclusion, I would like to state that funds that were or will be used within the framework of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund go to benefit persons who have been adversely affected or to individual workers such as those in Belgium or Ireland or any other European country, and absolutely not to companies.
on behalf of the S&amp;D Group. - Mr President, on 8 January 2009, the mid-west of Ireland, and especially Limerick, Tipperary and North Kerry, experienced an economic trauma they had never seen before.
The announcement of over 2 000 jobs leaving the region from Dell, together with thousands of ancillary jobs, represented a loss of historic proportions.
When we vote tomorrow, the EUR 14.8 million will represent a hand-up and not a hand-out to over 2 400 people to help them restart their lives.
I would like to thank the Members, and especially my own colleagues, for their support for the Dell application and ask as well that they will support further applications in similar circumstances coming down the road from Waterford Crystal and SR Technics.
However, the Commission must ensure that there is coherence in EU industrial policy and that the EU budget is not used to increase shareholder value in some companies, while EU workers pay a price.
Secondly, I am pleased that Belgium has been commended for the quality of the cooperation between its social partners in the preparation of this matter.
Firstly, its success reflects a difficult economic situation in Europe, with all too familiar consequences for society.
After all, the core objective of the fund is for workers who are affected and lose their jobs to receive rapid support and help in finding a new job.
It has approved EUR 54 million in Polish State aid for Dell as this aid supposedly serves to benefit regional economic aid.
Using the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund is a short- and medium-term solution for supporting workers who are in a tough situation after losing their jobs.
The Łódź area is in a difficult situation in terms of employment levels, and the Dell factory has created around 2 000 new jobs.
Mr President, I would like to reassure my fellow Member, Mr Crowley.
It is true that Dell began its activities in Limerick in 1991, in other words, 18 years ago.
It is also a fact that the decision to relocate to Łódź was taken by Dell in 2007.
It is also a fact that the money used as State aid is Polish money and that this aid was notified in December 2007.
In this case - and it does not apply in all cases but in cases that are over EUR 50 million, which was the case here - a very detailed assessment takes place which also takes account of labour market issues.
We did, of course, ask similar questions in another place in relation to Nokia in Bochum and its relocation to Romania.
The vote will take place on Wednesday, 25 November 2009.
Let us not forget that the fund was created to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in the global business sector, and after 1 May 2009, also to those made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
