President-in-Office of the Council. - (SL) Mrs Ţicău, Mr Grosch, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission published draft legislative instruments in July 2007.
These were the proposal for a regulation on common rules for admission to the occupation of road transport operator, the proposal for a regulation on common rules for access to the international road haulage market, and the proposal for a regulation on common rules for access to the market for transport services by coach and bus.
Secondly, with regard to the regulation on admission to the occupation, a compromise needs to be found on the national electronic register and the register of transport undertakings.
The Slovenian Presidency will be endeavouring to achieve political agreement on these three proposed regulations in the TTE meeting on 13 June 2008.
Member of the Commission. - (RO) Regulations regarding access to the international road passenger and freight transport market, together with the Regulation regarding access to the profession of road operator form a package.
This relation to an international transport is generally recognized and, exactly for this reason, I understand the interest raised by amendment 17 of the Grosch report, which provides the performance of cabotage operations in a transit country on the shortest way back.
On the other hand, in order to avoid empty races, I believe we could control a provision saying that one of the three operations within seven days can be performed in a transit country within a maximum of three days.
It is the same with amendments 18, 37, 40, 44 and 47, which provide that restrictions regarding the number and duration of cabotage operations shall be eliminated gradually, until their complete elimination in 2014.
We have to take into consideration the market reality in various Member States.
I mention that, until this review, it goes without saying that the regulation does not prevent Member States in any way from completely opening their cabotage markets provided that they do this without any discrimination against the other Member States or under agreements between the national governments prior to the Community rules in force regarding market access.
Amendment 21, as formulated, omits these specifications and, consequently, cannot be supported by the Commission.
I believe the procedure you propose, regarding the withdrawal of good repute in case of a serious infringement of the law, has a great dissuasive power, still remaining appropriate.
I welcome in particular amendment 104 of Mrs. Ţicău's report, which provides a very clear list of these infringements.
Therefore, we can support the Parliament's proposal as regards article 6.
In this respect, in principle, we support amendments 70, from 72 to 78 and 114, which provide for a rapid and progressive introduction of interconnected national registers.
Amendment 27 does not establish limits for this possibility which, in my opinion, should remain an exception and not become a rule.
Yet, I could support amendment 109, which provides for a reasonable limit of 50 vehicles.
We tried to have consultations that were as comprehensive as possible with those operating in this field and for this purpose the TRAN Committee organized a public debate last October in order to gather as many opinions as possible regarding the proposal for regulation.
The Regulation replaces Directive 96/26, which was implemented differently by Member States.
As regards the national electronic registers to be interconnected by 1 January 2012, they will be developed starting from a minimum common structure, which shall be presented by the Commission by 1 January 2010.
The TRAN Committee considered it was sufficient for a company to prove its financial capacity based on the annual accounts examined by an auditor or a properly accredited person, based on a bank guarantee or another financial instrument, for instance insurance.
Therefore, the minimum 80% limit for immediate available funds was eliminated in favour of a minimum threshold for capital and reserves.
The TRAN Committee also considers it important that the euro value be established every year and not every 5 years, as provided in the Commission's proposal.
Two amendments regarding the 12-day derogation in relation to the rest period of coach drivers for international passenger transport were also submitted in the TRAN Committee.
rapporteur. - (DE) Mr President, I should also like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur, the Council and the Commission for their effective cooperation.
I believe we have been trying to create a complete package in order to maintain a certain coherence between the three reports.
However, Parliament can now point the way.
I am convinced that the Council can very usefully take on much of what has been debated here and will be agreed.
The transport manager, as just stated, plays an important role in access to jobs.
I believe it is important that we shall know tomorrow how enterprises are structured in an international sector such as this, who takes responsibility there on the one hand in terms of finances and reliability, but also on the other hand in terms of the important regulations on transport.
We are, however, very much counting on the Council's cooperation because the information network we want to create must be transparent, efficient as well as readily available.
Any kind of delay here is unnecessary in our view, because progress on this can be very quick thanks to today's information technology.
Limiting cabotage operations to three a week is at least in my view a clear statement.
This is much better than the term 'temporary', which would virtually have meant 27 countries having 27 different legislatures in the next few years, which would definitely not have been beneficial for the sector.
With these regulations, as we have been debating and adopting them here today - particularly with regard to cabotage - there is little sense in going into too much detail when the countries as a whole are not being given the necessary funds to carry out accurate monitoring of these cabotage journeys.
In our view it entails eventually harmonising the management documents on the one hand, and on the other hand getting to a point where total cabotage expenditure of 2% is properly monitored at European level; for certain countries, however, this does mean 30-40% of the work in this sector.
The Council has long been reluctant, but the European Court of Justice said in 1985 that we must also establish the European internal market in the transport market, so we must become a little bolder in this respect.
The demand that the Commission develop an integrated register of infringements of road transport legislation by 2010 is very important because Member States must be able to decide on the withdrawal of licences, for example, according to unified criteria.
If we want to eliminate the black sheep, we must decide on the matter of withdrawal of licences according to unified criteria and, in this respect, I hope that the Commission will undertake to produce a unified register by 2010.
With regard to access to the market for coach and bus services, I believe that we ought finally to make the internal market a reality, step by step.
Therefore, I hope that the Commission will support us in making it no longer necessary to obtain authorisation from another Member State for cross-border regular services not extending more than 50 km beyond the border.
With regard to access to the international road haulage market, we must stop cabotage at some point.
We are talking about doing away with cabotage in 2014.
I would first like to congratulate Mrs Ţicău, as it is her first report.
Road cabotage has become a reality.' This is what the European Commission said in 2001.
This time, we must truly throw open the market - and, Mr Piecyk, I agree with your amendment - in order to ensure that action is taken in the event of a disruption in the market.
This action must be taken in an open market, however, not by creating additional obstacles in a market in which there are already hundreds.
With regard to the report by Mrs Ţicău, I am in full agreement with a strict approach towards people who are starting out in the business.
This choice is even more important in relation to cross-border, long-distance transport by bus and lorry than in many other business sectors.
Such a system can be implemented only between countries with a similar level of income and social conditions.
My group has therefore submitted Amendments 45 and 46 to the report on haulage, in order to make the opening of the market for cabotage dependent upon the development of equal working conditions and an evaluation in 2012.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) I should like to thank Mr Grosch and Mrs Ţicău for the work they have done and to make three comments.
The Member States will have to enforce the rules under this regulation in the same way, and therefore I request that the European Commission thoroughly monitor the correct application of this regulation by Member States.
I shall therefore certainly lend my support to the amendment that is intended to lift the restrictions upon cabotage with effect from 2012. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposals by Mr Grosch are aimed at the uniform and stringent application of road transport regulations, which I support; I agree that criteria ought to be laid down which should have to be met before these activities can be carried out, and that surveillance by the relevant authorities should be stepped up through a single document recognition system and a system of sanctions, and that permission must be sought from the countries that these services cross.
In my opinion, the 2014 deadline is fitting and could even be extended.
The overall impact of cabotage is somewhat ambiguous and I know that a lot of hauliers, people involved in the industry, are very concerned.
The truth is that Parliament has taken the opportunity to recast these texts on road transport in order to try to improve the legislation and move towards more opening up in the case of cabotage, in principle for reasons of co-modality, as we are working on in other matters, in order to promote freedom of movement and, of course, to prevent unladen journeys from being made.
I would like to stress that the central reason should be social dumping; and for this purpose we are also establishing the date of 2014 for complete freedom of cabotage.
This is indeed remarkable given that the existing regulations have been perceived as a step towards complete freedom, including by the European Commission, since their adoption in 1993.
The appointment of committees and study No 250 will lead to virtually nothing, except maybe to a great deal of fuss, associated costs and other bad jokes, and that is something we are all too familiar with.
Of course we are up against limitations set out in the Accession Treaties of the 10 new Member States.
In the course of debates on lowering emissions and on the effectiveness of road haulage in particular, some requirements in the regulations in question seem somewhat futuristic, in our opinion.
Every unified regulation in Europe is better than the current patchwork quilt arrangement.
The compromise of throwing open the market in 2014 therefore seems justifiable, provided that Amendments 47 and 48 are adopted, that the Commission, in particular, takes the 2012 study into the differences in social and working conditions seriously, and particularly that the Member States still have a type of alarm procedure at their disposal, including after 2014, for use in the event of serious disruption to the national transport market.
The compromise is in the pipeline but has yet to be transposed into legal language.
The result of the talks proves that social dialogue can work at European level.
A good balance has been achieved, taking into account the specific features of the coach sector. (PL) Mr President, in such a short speech one can deal only with fundamental matters concerning the documents under discussion.
It is important to understand that we need common sanctions, but we also need to address the issue of common enforceability.
This is particularly alarming when we consider that according to my information there has been a 75% increase in road traffic accidents by drivers from other Member States in parts of my constituency alone in the past five years.
The sanction of withdrawing their licence is not applicable, as they do not have and have never had any such licence.
Again, congratulations to the Rapporteurs. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, here in the European Union, we are always proud - and quite rightly so, more often than not - that we try to find the middle ground and work together to find a solution, and that we often succeed in this.
Today's joint debate on the reports by Mrs Ţicău and Mr Grosch provides some particularly good examples of this, and also some exceptionally bad ones: the 12-day rule and cabotage have been mentioned more than once.
If it is a matter of a limited time - and that is indeed the case - then perhaps we should also take this time.
However, this naturally affects many areas, particularly the transport industry, and the interests in the Member States vary widely on this.
However, the heart of our debate today is not so much the legislation we pass but what the Member States will put into effect, apply and implement. (FR) Mr President, I would first of all like to thank our two rapporteurs for the excellent work that they have done, and then hope that, under the French Presidency, this very important road package will obviously have a future and come to a conclusion.
The first is cabotage and the date that the European Parliament deemed right to set, in other words automatic liberalisation in 2014.
This issue should be resolved by a new proposal from the Commission, amending what we called here the 'Markov report'.
Thus cabotage should also be possible on the return journey.
In my opinion, the differences between Parliament and the Council are not so great as to prevent progress or agreement in the relatively near future.
In my view, this could also be brought about by the electronic register that is yet to be established, and here, I must emphasise, we are very close to reaching an agreement as regards the timetable and the actual establishment of this electronic register.
The Slovenian Presidency will, in any case, do all it can to bring the various interests into line with one another, and also to ensure that the final compromise text helps to make the European road transport sector more efficient and above all, as I must emphasise, more competitive.
This situation is not acceptable for the sector in question.
In this context, we can say that total openness, without any guarantees and safeguarding measures, taking into account that cabotage is temporary, by definition, would send us back to today's legal uncertainty.
Consequently, the European Commission accepts that the liberalization of cabotage is a long-term objective.
On the other hand, we should closely monitor developments and, in this context, we are ready to make a report in 2012.
Rapporteur. - (RO) First of all, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the opinions they have presented.
I would like to thank my colleagues for their speeches one more time, as well as the Commission and the Council for cooperation.
