&#160;&#160; I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 2 February 2006. &#160;&#160; The final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting of Thursday 9 February 2006 pursuant to Rules 130 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure has been distributed.
The following amendments have been proposed: The secretariat has just received three requests for amendments to the agenda presented by the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
We shall listen firstly to Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck who will present the request that in the debate on the right to freedom of expression and respect for religious beliefs, there should not be just one speaker per political group, as agreed by the Conference of Presidents, but that there should be a list of speakers according to the normal procedure. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the opportunity I am being given to say a few words in connection with the order of business on Wednesday morning, in respect of which I should like to make a suggestion on behalf of my group.
Secondly, we suggest that, should it prove necessary to move one of the items of debate to a later session, that this be the item concerning Bosnia and Herzegovina, not because we see it as unimportant, but because it is less urgent, and it will be equally useful to discuss it during a future session.
I would like to thank the President once again for his understanding.
I would ask the Members and other groups to support this proposal. &#160;&#160; We shall examine the proposals one by one, because there is not just one, but several.
The first is that the list of speakers should not be restricted to the Presidents or spokespeople of the political groups; the second, as Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck has explained, asks that the item conclude with a resolution; and the third, which only makes sense in the event that either of the first two proposals are approved, asks for another item, the statements on Bosnia-Herzegovina, to be postponed.
We shall take them one by one: firstly we shall debate and vote on whether or not there should be a list of speakers. &#160;&#160; If we want to be logical, then we have to voice our opinions about the three requests at the same time.
I therefore call on you to open the debate by dealing with the three requests at the same time, because they are linked.
Personally speaking, I will come out against the three requests because there is a logic in all of this that needs to be respected. &#160;&#160; Mr Cohn-Bendit, excuse me but I believe that they are two completely different things: whether or not there is a resolution is one thing.
The number of people speaking in the debate is quite another. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the point made by Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck is one that we, in the Conference of Presidents, have discussed in a wider context, and what I said there I shall also say here on behalf of my group.
We have just now – while in a meeting of our group – been informed that the Liberals were making this request.
That being so, Mr President, you are quite right to have us vote on the individual points separately. &#160;&#160; Mr President, now that the two big groups have realised that everything is connected, we too can depict everything in its proper context.
For a start, Mr Poettering is right to say that the Liberals, in the Conference of Presidents, said that they were not in favour of a broader debate and not in favour of a resolution either.
We are always, as a matter of principle, in favour of resolutions, and we see it as important that this House should adopt one.
We are, however, dead against the idea that the issue of Bosnia-Herzegovina should be taken out of the debate, for the issue of the constitution is a live one in Bosnia at the moment, and it is of the utmost importance that this House should deliver a position in the aftermath of so many American initiatives.
I see that as a reasonable compromise on which we might agree. &#160;&#160; The time for negotiations has passed, Mr Swoboda.
I merely asked that Mr&#160;Swoboda’s request to postpone this resolution until the next part-session be put to the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, a member of the Liberal Group has put several motions to the House.
The Rules of Procedure provide for a decision for or against them.
We in this plenary, rather than discussing whether to vote for or against a motion intended to correct a decision by the Conference of Presidents, are staging a rerun of it.
We now have to see whether there is another proposal that can be put to the vote. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I regret having to say this as much as I regret our being in the situation we are in, but we have just voted on whether there is to be a resolution.
We said yes to one, and if there is to be one, it has to be voted on this week and not in March or at some even later date. &#160;&#160; I can tell Mr Poettering that I am opposed, and I also want to explain why.
I would ask that we now have a vote, as the rules of procedure require, following one speaker in favour and one against. &#160;&#160; Very good, now we have the proposal of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, on which the Presidency will allow a vote, that the vote on this resolution take place at the next part-session in Brussels. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I would just like to point out that there is – thank heavens – to be no mini-plenary in Brussels; instead the next proper plenary session is here in Strasbourg. &#160;&#160; Very good, thank you for your observation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this conflict is being discussed not only throughout Europe, not just in all the newspapers, not just by the man and woman in the street day in and day out; it is a conflict with profound implications and is being talked about around the world.
We still have to vote on the third proposal from the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe that an item on the agenda be postponed, namely the Outlook for Bosnia-Herzegovina. &#160;&#160; I believe that there has been enormous confusion in the debate and in the vote that has taken place.
If you promise to do that, we will not have to alter the agenda. (1) &#160;&#160; The next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I want to draw your attention to a recent conference held in London on drugs in Afghanistan.
Others are doing the same and, as you know, Britain is playing a leading role in the war against drugs.
We talk about terrorism and avian flu, but drugs are destroying many people’s lives. &#160;&#160; The Directive regulating the legal status of third country nationals residing legally in the European Union came into force on 23 January.
However, we cannot accept a situation where they are in a more favourable position on the labour market than the labour force of the new Member States.
The Commission report, accepted on 8 February, states that the positive effect of labour force movement is a decisive factor.
The task of the European Parliament is to represent all European citizens.
In Spain, the existence of Castilian as a common language and its recognition as the State’s official language does not prevent the recognition of the citizens’ right to use other Spanish languages which have official status: Galician, Catalan and Basque.
The Spanish Government has proposed a formula for the administrative agreement to promote, without any cost to the Community institutions nor to the other Member States, the reasonable use of these languages at Union level.
This proposal conforms to the linguistic legislation in force and has been accepted by the Council and the Committee of the Regions.
This is upsetting not only their relatives and immediate family, but also a very, very large number of people in Leipzig, who are very worried and are expressing their sadness in prayers for peace and vigils.
I ask you, Mr President, to do likewise on behalf of this House. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like simply to draw our fellow Members’ attention to the dreadful and tragic situation of the wine growers from southern Europe and, more specifically, from the Languedoc-Roussillon region, thousands – tens of thousands – of whom will take to the streets in the large cities of southern France this Wednesday in order to voice their distress.
The act unilaterally concedes Italian citizenship to the descendants of the citizens of the two countries who have resided in the territories that Italy ceded to the former Yugoslavia under the provisions of the Peace Treaty of 1947 and the 1975 Treaty of Osimo.
I should like to point out that, in its resolution of 27&#160;October of last year, Parliament declared its support for a fair and lasting solution in Western Sahara, based on the rule of law and on international law, and in accordance with the relevant United Nations Security Council resolutions.
This case shows that, in the EU’s key economic areas, we must provide long-term answers and, more specifically, act as the driving force behind international regulation.
European integration began with steel, and this is truly symbolic: it must be possible for European integration to continue without abandoning and its employees. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, two months ago we voted here on Mr&#160;Alavanos's thoughts on telephone tapping.
Secondly, as it is so easy to tap telephones, and I refer here to the telephone of the Prime Minister of Greece, I refer here to the telephone of the Hellenic Minister of Public Health, I refer here to the telephone of the Hellenic Minister of Foreign Affairs, how sure can we be that the telephones are not being tapped here, in the European Parliament? &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to draw attention to the fate of Anton Kuzniecov, a Russian citizen who came to Poland from Russia over 10&#160;years ago and applied for political asylum.
The European Parliament cannot remain indifferent to his situation. &#160;&#160; Mr President, in a few days we will decide on the fate of the Services Directive.
That will be a crucial test of whether the EU is taking the Lisbon agenda at its face value, because the services sector is a main reservoir for rapid economic growth.
Therefore, compromises on the Services Directive should not serve to block the dynamics of this important change. &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, the way in which Islamic countries reacted to the cartoons of Mohammed in the Danish press proves that, as far as culture and civilisation are concerned, there is a very deep divide between Islamic countries and countries based on Christian principles.
Followers of Islam do not understand the difference between what is said in jest and what is real.
It also suggests that the Islamic world needs our help.
We are prepared to provide it, but at a distance. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, two weeks ago in Greece the action of an extended gang of telephone call thieves was uncovered.
The Greek Government was told of the problem in March 2005, but concealed it for eleven months.
Secondly, the Greek Government also failed to notify the other Member States, so that they could take immediate steps for the safeguarding and protecting of the data of their citizens by Vodafone and Ericsson.
Similarly, European citizens are subject to discriminatory treatment and I shall explain how: with the excuse that there are legal proceedings pending, their cases have not led to the drafting of a report.
Even at the eleventh hour I ask you, Mr President, to prevent the Cashman report from being adopted, not for its content, but so as not to create a precedent of intervention in the work of justice and discriminatory treatment of European citizens. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, I should like to draw Members’ attention to the fact that, in recent days, there have been various cases of missionaries being murdered in Burundi and the Philippines.
Obviously, the most moving case was that of Don Andrea, an Italian missionary murdered in Trabzon, Turkey.
I should like to pay tribute to this man and to his sacrifice, partly because he was caught up in a climate of tension between the Islamic world and Europe.
If it fails to respect ethical and moral principles, freedom will evolve into destructive lawlessness or even into a dictatorship of relativism. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is truly at a crossroads.
The most recent countries to have joined the EU are discovering a Union that is less united than it was in their predecessors’ day, as demonstrated by the stingy draft budget.
If we value a Europe founded on solidarity and reject one that is founded on self-interest, then, ladies and gentlemen, let us seize the opportunity to stand side by side tomorrow with the demonstrators in response to the call of the ETUC and, if possible, let us go equipped with our scarves.
I call on you to do this in order to show the citizens from throughout Europe that a large number of their representatives are behind them and understand their more than legitimate concerns. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the furore over the Danish cartoons rages in Europe and worldwide.
I do not believe that I live in a Christian state or Christian territory and I look forward very much to Turkey joining the European Union. &#160;&#160; ( The citizens of the new Member States greatly appreciated the courage of the United Kingdom, Ireland and Sweden in opening their labour markets immediately following EU enlargement in May 2004.
The report submitted by Commissioner Špidla confirms that these three countries have not been harmed by opening their labour markets and, on the contrary, that people coming from the new Member States have been taking on jobs unattractive to local workers.
By doing so, they have contributed to the economic growth of these countries.
On the basis of the positive report from the European Commission, I trust that the remaining twelve Member States will follow the example set by these three countries and will lift the temporary restrictions on the free movement of workers in the labour market that apply to the new members.
I am pleased that the Commission has received significant support from European social partners.
This week will see us voting on the Services Directive, which may well, when transposed, bring 600&#160;000 new jobs, 100&#160;000 of them in Germany, my own country, providing that it is adopted in the form that has emerged from the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
There is now no more than an infinitesimal prospect of this actually happening, since the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has caved in and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has got its way right down the line.
It is for us to do something for those people who do not have work, for they have no leaders to bring them to Strasbourg by the busload. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, many employees and citizens of the European Union do not understand the European Commission’s passivity in the face of the hostile TOB affecting the group and have been deeply shocked by the remarks made by Commissioner Neelie Kroes, who does not see any need for a defence strategy for European groups.
Finally, I should like to say that, in this industrial policy affair, it is clear that the group is basically aiming to take the group’s own funds, which are unquestionably the fruit of employees’ labour; it is also seeking to pave the way for long-term relocations and is thus threatening&#160;… &#160;&#160; – Mr President, I should like to refer to the recent crisis which has broken out over the cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed, to which other members have also referred.
I believe that there are not two conflicting worlds – and I am certain that most of my honourable friends believe likewise; I believe there is one open world in which we are forced to coexist.
This crisis has broken out at a time of mutual distrust between the West and Islam and, I fear – mainly as far as the war in Iraq is concerned – that the West is to blame.
This is on 16 February.
However, the real reason is not to make them more effective, but to further the EU’s policy of regionalisation of Member States.
Few people in Britain realise how their country is being fundamentally changed in order for it to become merely a region of a United States of Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, on 20&#160;October 2005, the Unesco General Conference adopted the Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions by 148 votes in favour to two against with four abstentions.
Article 20 stipulates that the countries must pay heed to the convention when they subscribe to other international obligations, such as the agreements concluded in the context of the World Trade Organisation.
The Commission has just adopted the White Paper; we have a plan D — dialogue — and in this attempt to find new and better ways to communicate with each other, we cannot forget the natural means, which is the language of the European citizens.
In Spain, in addition to Castilian as the common language, the citizens’ right to use other official languages is recognised: Catalan, Basque, Galician; all of which are European languages.
In December 2004, the Spanish Government presented a proposal to the Council to authorise the use of those languages under certain conditions, without adding any cost for the Union's institutions.
The Commission, the Council and the Committee on the Regions have already put this proposal into practice.
It is a question of making it possible to use these languages in correspondence between the citizens and Parliament, in the publication of legislative provisions and in the speeches of Members of the European Parliament.
It appears that the two perpetrators of this crime have now been arrested.
We are therefore probably heading for a succession of political crises in Palestine, which could even lead in perhaps a few months’ time to elections – that is how President Abbas sees things, anyway.
When that time comes, he will provide a detailed explanation of the situation in Palestine and of his policy framework. &#160;&#160; Mrs De Keyser, thank you for that information and your telephone call this weekend to tell me about it.
We shall be very happy to receive the President of the Palestinian Authority if he can come here. &#160;&#160; – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 7 February marked the seventh anniversary of the day on which five Bulgarian nurses and a Palestinian doctor were arrested by the Libyan authorities on charges of contaminating children in the paediatric hospital in Benghazi with the AIDS virus.
We also need to stand by the children of Libya who were contaminated with the virus and, at the same time, to work to create the conditions needed in order for a fair solution to be found to this sad story. &#160;&#160; Mr President, about two weeks ago an 11-year-old girl collapsed in her classroom in a school in the UK.
Many of us believe that the situation is already becoming extremely worrying.
Therefore, Mr President, knowing your – and most colleagues’ – sensitivities on the subject, I respectfully call upon you to request from the Commission and the Council a statement on the current situation regarding drug addiction among children and the possible need for an urgent review of the strategy as to how best to deal with this alarming problem. &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are currently 84&#160;Lisbon directives that the European Parliament has adopted; 63 of them should have been fully implemented by all Member States; so far, only 12 have been fully implemented.
According to the latest figures published by the Commission, the directive on the common rules for the internal market in natural gas should have been implemented by 1&#160;July 2004.
Lisbon is placed in jeopardy by such lax behaviour on the part of the Member States.
There is an immediate need, through the International Maritime Organisation&#160;... &#160;&#160; Mr President, I wish to raise an issue of pressing importance to the farming community in my constituency.
I therefore call upon the Commission to sanction an approach capable of delivering a solution and securing the purpose of single farm payments, namely a fair standard of living for farmers. &#160;&#160; Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement between Germany and Russia to lay a gas pipeline along the bottom of the Baltic Sea has raised many questions.
A huge threat is also posed by a legacy from the Second World War chemical weapons that were buried at the bottom of the Baltic Sea 50 years ago.
If the status of Kosovo is not resolved successfully, this will result in the long-term destabilisation&#160;… &#160;&#160; &#160;Mr&#160;President, the European Commission has tabled a report regarding the operation of restrictions on access by citizens of the new Member States to the labour market in the countries of the Fifteen.
The scale of the influx of workers to the old countries is fairly small, and the countries that opened up their labour markets have benefited in many ways as a result.
In addition, an Italian priest was murdered in Trabzon in Turkey.
Allow me to appeal for a return to the core values of Western civilisation, in which there is no room for the religious hatred that is currently rampant in the European media. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I welcome this opportunity to register my contempt for a decision taken by a high-level group – which I presume is the Commission – to overrule the Committee on Budgetary Control and reappoint Mr Franz-Hermann Brüner as Director-General of OLAF.
In his first term he supported witch hunts against journalists such as Hans-Martin Tillack who exposed frauds.
However, I believe that this proposal, as it stands with many of the amendments tabled, is a balanced, logical proposal, which strikes a balance between the need for better handling of animals, for the welfare of the animals, especially in the chicken sector, on the one hand, while at the same time taking account of the financial cost and burden which it may cause to industry and undertakings in this sector.
However, we should not underestimate, first of all, the close link between the proper handling of animals and the health of the animals, and this is particularly important now that we are debating the measures which will be taken in order to combat avian influenza, which has now arrived – albeit only in wild birds – in the European Union.
On the contrary, if we follow a policy of proper handling of animals, all the protective measures, all the precautions we take are much more effective.
Much better supervision is being carried out, there is much better identification of the health problems which can arise and, of course, this means, from a practical point of view, fewer diseases for the animals, fewer fatalities, fewer unsuitable chickens in such cases and, hence, fewer losses and lower costs.
In addition, I would just like to state briefly that the World Bank recently issued a report setting out the financial benefits of the application of a welfare policy to animals and illustrating that there is also a financial benefit from these policies.
The second point I wish to comment on is, of course, the question of aid for producers.
Of course, there is also a general, multi-proposal strategy, the strategic plan for animal welfare, which was adopted recently by the Commission and will come before Parliament for debate.
Finally, I should like to mention the well-known question of the World Trade Organisation.
The recent adoption by the World Organisation for Animal Health of principles relating to the proper treatment of animals is a first step in this direction and we shall intensify efforts in the same direction.
It is first and foremost the European consumers and citizens who demand respect for animals and who – in an increasing number of countries – are prepared to pay a reasonable price for it.
It is good that the Commission, three weeks ago, launched the action plan for animal welfare.
The European consumer’s main concern about animal welfare at the moment is the welfare of broiler chickens.
First of all, genetic selection, the breeding of animals to obtain certain features, should never result in a decrease in, or threat of, the potential level of animal welfare of an animal species.
This principle must be a cornerstone in any animal welfare directive.
Secondly, animal welfare should not be treated as secondary to socio-economic considerations.
With this principle in mind, it makes sense to subject the quality of the chicken houses to certain criteria.
As Commissioner Kyprianou has already pointed out, animal welfare is in poultry farmers’ economic interests.
The directive also provides for professional and daily health and welfare checks, which, particularly in this day and age, are an important preventive measure against animal diseases.
The amendment that Mrs Jeggle and I have tabled specifies that maximum quantity of poultry per square metre in the few days immediately preceding their being transported to the slaughter house must come down to 38 kg per square metre and to 34 kg by 2013.
Many EU Member States are already under or around this limit.
I do not support amendments that favour even lower densities.
Above 30 kg per square metre, everything depends on good management, and that is precisely what this House can rely on.
Those who are opposed to this directive claim that global competition makes animal welfare standards of this kind impossible, and allege that Europe is subjected to stricter requirements than countries outside.
In Article 20 of this Agreement, import restrictions to protect human, animal or plant life or health are said to be justified on moral grounds.
Europe needs concrete proof in order to get its citizens to regain trust in the EU.
Sustainable development is one of the areas where the EU can score points.
Animal welfare is part of this and that is why this directive should be put into practice soon. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety obviously welcomes the Commission’s proposal on common rules governing chickens kept for meat production, particularly because the proposal involves clear improvements to animal protection but also because we aim to promote an efficient internal market.
The big problem with the Commission’s proposal is that it does not do enough in terms of animal protection.
According to the conclusions drawn by the Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare and on which our decision is based, stocking density must, for example, be lower than 25 kg if major injuries and unnecessary suffering are to be avoided.
These changes are necessary if we are to guarantee animal protection.
We in the European Parliament must take expert opinion seriously and show the Council that we want to see the Commission’s proposal tightened up when it comes to animal protection.
From the information that I have been gathering, the densities laid down in the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development are more than acceptable in most of the European regions, but they could cause certain problems in certain very specific areas of the Union.
I do believe, however, that Amendment 42 responds to a highly justified political concern, extending minimum standards applied in the European Union to imports from third countries.
The European Union has been producing abundant legislation over recent years with a view to improving animal welfare and responding to one of the concerns expressed by European public opinion.
We must recognise that this effort should lead to an improvement in the quality of products for the European consumer, and this quality must be accompanied by an effective policy in the field of labelling.
An initial economic approach in Wallonia shows that, on the basis of average revenue of 72 cents per kilo, the estimated loss of annual revenue for a 1&#160;000 square metre building would be 55% for a stocking density of 30 kg per square metre and 24% for a stocking density of 38 kg per square metre.
The planned elimination of countless producers in Europe and a stagnant or rising consumer demand will inevitably benefit imports from countries that are a long way away from applying our standards, or even from considering them.
Mass distribution has a key role to play in this regard.
Secondly – and to conclude – it is crucial that we do everything in our power to ensure that the European Commission, with the help of international organisations such as the Council of Europe or the World Organisation for Animal Health, succeeds in making the WTO more compliant with the animal welfare measures. &#160;&#160; . – Madam President, let me start by congratulating Mr&#160;Berman.
It may well be his first report, but I think he did a very thorough job of it.
I think the problem also lies in the fact that many of those engaged in fattening up chickens are no longer farmers, but rather industrialists, for whom respect for life is irrelevant to the business of getting a return on capital.
The very sight of these pens is enough to show the urgent necessity of our enacting legislation on them.
One problem is, in fact, that these stalls are often outwardly healthy, but that is only because they are protected by prophylactic inoculations and medication, which, while preventing an outbreak, allow the germination of the variants that are currently troubling us or that make bird flu particularly to be feared.
Tomorrow, we have the opportunity to take an important step towards a more animal-friendly Europe.
This Parliament regularly churns out details like that, prepared by people who probably have not the faintest idea what it is like out in the real world, where real people have to try to put all these new rules into practice and still manage to turn a profit.
Not only do the authors of this report wish to see this new regime inflicted on chicken meat producers in the 25&#160;Member States, but they also make it clear that they expect non-EU countries to follow suit.
I come from a country that already has very high standards of animal welfare and hygiene, which are vigorously policed.
The authors of this report have laid an egg and I suggest they scramble it. &#160;&#160; . )&#160;Madam President, the regulation we are debating today lays down high standards for the rearing of broiler chickens and their welfare.
The regulation imposes high standards on European Union broiler producers, but it does not apply to importers.
They are exporting to the European market meat from poultry raised in countries where such high standards are not guaranteed.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development adopted an amendment tabled by the Union for the Europe of the Nations Group calling on the European Commission to ensure that these high standards are also met in the case of imported meat.
I believe this should be a general principle that should apply not only to poultry but to all agricultural products.
Union producers and importers must be required to meet the same standards. &#160;&#160; Madam&#160;President, we are all clearly in favour of protecting chickens kept for meat production from the barbarity in the concentration camp-style farms.
We therefore all agree that rules are needed.
They see that the broiler chicken is subjected to two daily medical visits, which are carried out by a veterinary surgeon who must be at least three metres away from the chicken; the area in which the chickens are kept must be illuminated by a non-flickering light with an intensity of 50 lux, 20 lux or 100 lux – no one quite knows – measured at bird eye level; the inside temperature of the farm must not exceed the outside temperature measured in the shade by more than 3˚C; the chicken’s litter must be 5 cm deep; certificates are required for the purposes of keeping chickens and of castrating chicks that are less than ten days’ old; the chickens’ foot pads must be examined, and the stocking density of the chickens must be limited to 28, 30, 35 or 42 kilograms per square metre, although it is not specified whether this means one kilo liveweight or metabolic weight.
That is where foolishness leads you when you try to act virtuously and, with this directive, we are acting stupidly. &#160;&#160; Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to start with very warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Berman, for the work he has done.
Some 5 billion broiler chickens are slaughtered in the European Union every year, and the great challenge presented by this report is that of finding a balance between the protection of animals, which is necessary, and the protection of jobs in the commercial production of broiler chickens.
There is no doubt – not least in the minds of those who breed and keep chickens for fattening – about the rightness of our making a joint proposal for the improvement and harmonisation of the conditions under which they are kept in the EU.
If standards are raised within the Community, they will in particular face the problem of imports from third states, where standards in production are far inferior to our own.
Secondly, I call for certain standards in the keeping and production of broiler chickens and other agricultural products to be demanded in future WTO negotiations.
The EU’s high standard in food production should become an advantage for producers in the EU.
While we want our animals to be protected, we cannot, at the same time, allow our producers to be put in a disadvantaged position.
The current threat of bird flu is another reminder to us of how important it is that broiler chickens should be produced safely, in adequate quantities and on a sound economic basis. &#160;&#160; Madam President, the welfare of animals in farms has traditionally been an ethical issue.
I believe that that is something on which we have all agreed during this debate.
I therefore believe that the report by the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Berman, whom I congratulate, combines a genuine concern for the welfare of animals, taking account of scientific data at all times, with the necessary flexibility in its application to make it possible for producers to accept the measures proposed and adapt to them.
I believe that we must show responsibility — and we have done this in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
In conclusion, I would ask you to support the Berman report, in the form presented by the rapporteur and as supported by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Better conditions are required both by our consumers and in the interests of animal health.
I would thank Mr&#160;Jørgensen and others for their constructive cooperation.
Today, Parliament must listen to their voices.
We also welcome the new action programme presented by our Commissioner.
That does not, however, take away from the fact that, while it is clear that the European public does not think highly of animal welfare in Europe – God only knows why, though, for Europe does apply the world’s strictest standards – their behaviour as consumers is often very different, and that is where the problem lies.
One could say that we do not make that mistake in the World Trade Organisation and that although Europe tries its hardest, more should be done.
The CDA prefers this way of working, because otherwise we will produce yet more European legislation, which consumers may applaud well as citizens, but in respect of which they will display different purchase behaviour the minute they walk into a supermarket.
The majority of average consumers, at least in the new Member States, choose the cheaper product, because their income does not allow them to pay a higher price for basic food, just because they are environmentally aware or care about animal welfare.
In view of the professional, economic and animal welfare considerations, the acceptable stocking density would be 34 kilograms of live weight per square metre, with a maximum upper limit of 42 kilograms of live weight per square metre.
The economic aspects of the industrial production of broiler chickens have rightly been taken into consideration.
The danger of an outbreak of avian influenza is linked to the problem of control measures, and these measures do not consist only of vaccines.
I welcome this first piece of EU legislation of this kind. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is a very worthy report that has been a long time coming through the system.
They all have the same problem.
In many instances the supermarkets in the European Union are worsening standards by forcing down food prices.
That said, even if we only go as far as the proposal put forward by Mr Berman, there would be a big step forward for animal welfare, but it will also be a big step forward for consumers.
It is not going to be animal welfare measures that make our industry uncompetitive.
I wish to clearly state from the outset that I am in favour of a decent life for animals, for all animals in general and for chickens in particular.
However, we must accept that, as has already been said, all this increases the cost of production in the European Union.
This is unfortunate on two counts: both for the poultry farmers, a class for which we should show solidarity, and for the chickens, because we shall arrive at the point, in a few years' time, where chicken products will be imported from third countries which are produced without any protection as regards a decent life for the animals.
Today sees us discussing for the first time minimum rules for the protection of broiler chickens; previously, there were only the general provisions of the directive on the protection of farmed animals.
The Commission claims to be taking as its basis the report that the Scientific Committee on Animal Health and Animal Welfare produced in 2000, but that is not in fact the case, for this report explicitly states that the occupying density must not exceed 25&#160;kg per square metre if more serious problems for the animals’ well-being are to be avoided.
I endorse Amendment 53 from Mr Jørgensen, Mr Bowis and Mr Sacconi, which prescribes that chickens should be kept at a density of 25&#160;kg per square metre, and that this density may be increased to a maximum of 30&#160;kg per square metre if the owner complies with certain conditions. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I also very much welcome Mr Berman’s report and thank him for the work he has put into it.
What we have to do is get the balance right and I believe he has moved in that direction.
When consumers go to the supermarket to buy chicken, it has to be clearly labelled.
One of the problems is that you can often go into a supermarket now anywhere in the European Union and buy a chicken without being absolutely sure where it has come from and to what standards it has been produced.
The Commissioner said that consumers like to buy high-welfare-standard chickens.
Yes, they do, but these need to be clearly labelled.
Also, the Commissioner must be aware that a lot of the imported chicken meat that comes into Europe arrives in a partially cooked state.
When Europe introduces higher standards – as I believe it must – we have to be sure that everything else entering Europe meets the same high standards. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, animal welfare is undoubtedly a noble cause; we subscribe to it and we also pay tribute to the work of the rapporteur, Mr&#160;Berman.
I will simply add that the farmers’ welfare is also a noble cause and, in our view, a high-priority cause.
I will simply mention my own region – Brittany – which represents 35% of the French production of broiler chickens and which, above all, accounts for 18&#160;000 jobs, 11&#160;000 of which are in the agricultural and food industries.
Of course, it is all very well being told ‘produce high-quality goods’, but we know that adapting and restructuring are very risky, and in any case require a great deal of time.
A great deal of work has been done on this matter, but there are nevertheless some real shortcomings in the justifications of this text.
Commissioner, in the current context of the threat of avian influenza, which is approaching Europe, or even already in Europe, how should one go about tackling the paradox between, on the one hand, high European standards in respect of animal welfare and, on the other, the necessary national measures for keeping poultry indoors?
In the European Union, thank God, we have a very high level of civilisation.
The largest number of letters and complaints I have received from European citizens concerns animal welfare, in particular broilers.
So this proposal reflects the views of European citizens.
It is a step towards protecting the welfare of animals, but it also takes into account the interests of the producers.
Competitiveness is certainly important, but we know that the cost imposed on production by animal welfare standards is very low, something between 2.5 and 8&#160;cents per bird.
I have some photographs here of the dermatitis caused by this intensive farming and I do not think that any European consumer would be willing to eat these birds; it is just that they do not know about it.
On the issue of avian flu, best practices in animal welfare help us implement preventive measures more effectively, to protect the industry and the birds from avian flu.
Others cannot be accepted, mostly for technical reasons or because the provisions are already included in existing legislation.
We would therefore prefer that Parliament accept the Commission’s proposal on that point and we cannot accept that amendment.
I would like to thank Members again for their support for this proposal, which is a big step towards improving animal welfare in the European Union. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 12 noon &#160;&#160; It is unacceptable that the chickens we eat are effectively subject to torture for the whole of their brief lives.
Too often, animal welfare provisions of this sort are thwarted at national level by the argument that ‘if we alone do it, we will put our producers at a competitive disadvantage, and production will simply shift to less scrupulous Member States’.
By introducing the same rule across the whole of our single European market, we lessen that problem at a stroke, ensure a level playing field for our producers and protect chickens across 25&#160;countries.
The Commission can accept Amendments 1, 2, 7, 16, 20, 22, 24, 30, 32, 37, 39, 40, 41, 45, 55, 60 and 67.
Amendments 4, 11, 12, 13, 14, 18, 19, 25, 26, 27, 28, 34, 35, 38, 56 and 57 can be accepted in part.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments 3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 15, 17, 21, 23, 29, 31, 33, 36, 42, 43, 44, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 58, 59, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66 or 68. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report by Gunnar Hökmark, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on State aid reform 2005-2009 (2005/2165(INI)) (A6-0009/2006). &#160;&#160; .
I hope that this report will contribute to the improvement of the State aid policy.
I hope there will be, as there was in the committee, broad support for this new policy, which I hope will make an impact on the future guidelines on State aid policy that the Commission will be responsible for.
As we say over and over again, we need new businesses, new jobs, new products and new markets.
Experience of various kinds teaches us that State aid always tends to safeguard old, existing companies at the expense of new and growing companies.
If we look around at the European economy, as well as at the international economy, we see very clearly that the new companies and the new products have emerged not through State aid but through the existence of sound basic conditions for businesses and individual entrepreneurs.
However, a policy that aims for less State aid and at removing such State aid as distorts competition and that, moreover, invests resources in innovation and research will be able to produce a different outcome.
If it is not handled in the correct way, it is an instrument which, instead of providing a solution, can have the opposite effect.
I greatly appreciate the interest and involvement of the European Parliament in the process of reforming the rules of State aid.
It is a high priority for me during this term in office.
I am very pleased that Parliament, like the great majority of stakeholders, is supportive, in general, of the Commission’s plans.
In the spirit of the Lisbon Strategy, we want State aid reform to help Member States get the best value for money by focusing state resources on measures that will contribute to sustainable economic growth and to more and better jobs for the future.
One important message in the report is the need for legal certainty.
I agree with the report’s focus on the need for transparency of aid.
In its document, the Commission correctly indicates that State aid is an important factor in ensuring homogenous regional development, thereby strengthening one of the fundamental economic pillars of the European Union.
I would like to take this opportunity to raise the issue of regional bonuses.
Maximum transparency should be applied rigorously to the process of allocating and approving State aid.
All persons and entities applying for aid in support of their activities must feel sure, in the event that they are turned down, that it was for objective reasons.
On the issue of regional aid – my final point – I would also stress what Mr Koterec has said, but I would like to add an aspect that has not been mentioned: it would not make sense also to take State aid away from regions that stop receiving Structural Funds as a result of natural growth, and not just for statistical reasons, as the rapporteur has said.
We are in fact dealing here with a non-legislative report, and I believe that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has done a good job in terms of voicing the European Parliament’s strong position.
This system is more than ever at the heart of the Commission’s powers, since Europe remains essentially a Europe of the internal market and competition until further notice.
Parliament has above all stressed that the internal market and competition should not be regarded as representing every aspect of European society.
I should like to say to the Commissioner that the main contribution of Parliament is to ensure that State aid is not assessed as something merely to be borne but, rather, is assessed in a balanced way, that is to say that not only are the negative aspects, such as distortions of competition, considered, but so too are the positive effects.
We, in the European Parliament, wanted the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality to be clearly applied and, more specifically, wanted State aid that has no obvious impact on the internal market to be considered as compensation.
Finally, I should like to mention the issues that still need to be discussed and that are referred to in the 21 amendments tabled.
With regard to public services, we need clarification on those aspects to do with compensation, with the legitimate funding of public services and with subsidiary funding and, above all, we need clarification on what constitutes the fourth criterion set out in the judgment, a criterion that, by the Commission’s own admission, is actually extremely vague and very difficult to handle.
With regard to innovation, Mrs&#160;in 't Veld will soon present us with her report.
The question that must be asked concerns the scope of the report: should it be strictly confined to innovation, or should it branch out a little further into the area of research and development?
State support should be a last resort and is not a panacea.
I should also like to repeat that State aid should, in principle, not be sanctioned.
It disrupts the market and distorts competition.
Global context is also important in the debate.
That much we should recognise, but our objective to reduce State aid remains intact.
Finally, I should like to say a few words on public services.
As Mr Savary mentioned a moment ago, legal certainty and clarity are urgently needed for those public services.
It is true to say that Europe is competitive only if it is also innovative in the ways in which it protects the environment.
Finally, let me turn to the rules for businesses providing services of general interest.
In other words, the people's money will be not for grass-roots prosperity, but for the profitability of capital.
The references to State aid for purposes of general interest and in the public good at European Union level not only demonstrate indifference to the asymmetrical development between the Member States, but also prejudge that such a procedure will further strengthen this asymmetrical development by increasing inequality and injustice.
The reduction in State aid and its orientation towards servicing the anti-grass roots Lisbon Strategy will exacerbate still further the situation of the grass-roots classes.
The cost of giving State aid to all of these new Member States will be astronomical.
Instead, why do we not help to improve the economies of our European neighbours and of Third World countries by opening up free trade opportunities to them?
The reform of policy on State aid is enormously important to people at the local level, where the towns, boroughs and regions are the main sources of public investments.
State aid should not only be seen as a deviation or aberration from perfect market forces, but as an instrument for achieving socio-economic objectives.
Given the interests of town and country planning, the integration of minorities and social integration in cities, certain players within the market may well be granted government support in order to achieve those broader objectives.
He is therefore forced back onto the need for territorial, social and environmental cohesion.
He writes that it makes no sense to give aid to businesses that are already profitable, and in that I agree with him.
However, I would like to call attention to the fact that while, on the one hand, I agree that there should not be any discrimination between regions or countries as regards assistance, on the other hand we must acknowledge that there are significantly underdeveloped countries and regions within the internal market.
However, these countries – precisely in the interest of deepening the internal market – need a longer period of adaptation.
Therefore maintaining well-targeted, but moderate assistance could be both justified and useful, without distorting competition.
Finally, there should be support for innovative actions on matters of research, development and innovation, mainly in remote countries and areas, especially where there is a large technological divide. &#160;&#160; – Thank you, Mr President.
When the preliminary decisions taken by the Commission between February 2004 and the present day are examined thoroughly and compared with the Lisbon Strategy and the conclusions of the 2002 Barcelona European Summit, it is evident that it would be much more productive if State aid were more direct and designed to meet these same objectives.
Thus, I think that we should work towards having a system that is as simple as possible and, therefore, more effective and more transparent.
This will be an indispensable instrument because it will eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy that, until now, has not only led to more money being wasted but has prevented State aid from bringing about progress and made it less suited to the purpose for which it was intended.
The reform of State aid for the period 2005-2009 must bear in mind that, even when regional aid contributes to true convergence, there are great internal differences in income and opportunities amongst the regions of Europe.
The result of the Hökmark report is well balanced.
I take a positive view of the proposal to increase the threshold for de minimis aid, which will eliminate bureaucracy and above all benefit SMEs. &#160;&#160; ( I would first like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Hökmark, for his excellent and well-balanced report, with many ideas on how State aid policy should be consistently evaluated and implemented.
State aid policy must in no way restrain their development.
I trust that State aid reform will meet such requirements. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, I too agree with the rapporteur, with the Commissioner and with many of my fellow Members that we should reform State aid by adapting it to the current challenges.
I believe that the key strategy is one of reducing the amount of State aid, rewarding some sectors that have been mentioned, such as innovation, research, the environment and businesses, and ensuring greater transparency.
I hope that the Commission and Commissioner Kroes intend to take account of this important statement by Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, delighted as I am with Mr Hökmark’s report on European State aid reform, I should like to thank him warmly and join in the broad support he has received here in this House.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs will be closely monitoring the Commission in the next few months and we will gladly enter into dialogue with it, because I hope that the Commission will issue more detailed guidelines on the definition of State aid so as to guarantee more legal certainty and prevent misuse at the same time, because innovation should be what it implies, rather than a licence for certain Member States to carry on as before.
Commissioner, we in the Netherlands have been familiar with your determination for much longer, and I should like to thank you for the determined manner in which you are reforming State aid.
State aid should accelerate sustainable growth and sustainable competitiveness, and reduce regional disparities.
Properly targeted State aid encourages enterprise and creates jobs, even in regions that suffer from permanent natural disadvantages or are a long way from the big markets.
Those regions that suffer from permanent natural disadvantages, such as those in the north, should be in the same category as the Objective 1 zones.
As we heard, this House, in an own-initiative report a few weeks ago, spoke out in favour of State aid for disadvantaged regions being continued until 2013.
As a member of the Committee for Regional Development, I am firmly of the conviction that direct State aid has a key role to play in regional development and plays an important part in achieving our primary cohesion goals.
The scope given to aid by Article 87(3)(a) of the EC Treaty in conjunction with the guidelines for regional aid have, in the past, enabled the regions concerned to attract businesses and thereby actively contribute to their own regeneration.
Were such support is no longer possible, these regions’ convergence process would be jeopardised by the lack of any competitive advantage against not only regions without developmental disadvantages but also regions in the new Member States in receipt of the maximum amounts of aid.
This is particularly the case for regions bordering on the new Member States.
The reduction of bureaucracy is an important part of the law on aid and, like the increase in aid, makes an important contribution to making the legal environment more welcoming to businesses. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the same way that our rapporteur is a sensible man, this proposal for a resolution is a sensible balance between various opinions and fulfils a core requirement of the European Union, which has been stuck in a rut of low and uncompetitive growth for far too long.
The Prodi Commission always looked upon State aid as the enemy of competition and of the single market.
The content of the report and the Commission review are in line with what we discussed during this debate.
It is more that we try to give a hook to Member States’ companies, because the aid does not go to the Member States themselves.
We all agree that they are of fundamental importance to our social European model.
These include the social and regional cohesion, human capital and cultural diversity rightly mentioned by Mrs van den Burg.
However, State aid should be used wisely, because it is taxpayers’ money.
We want to deliver a fair and balanced package and we discussed that here in December.
Turning to SMEs, when we look at the 25 Member States, 92% of all the enterprises in the European Union are in the category of small and medium-sized enterprises.
State aid to back those companies in their early development could be very helpful.
The amount of euros we are talking about really covers that category.
So we shall be submitting a proposal quite soon, but do not be too optimistic, because I have heard on the grapevine that people are thinking of huge sums of money, but then we are not taking account of the category.
We have to look at all the policies of the Union.
However, the Commission shares the aim of reducing environmentally damaging State aid and we should all encourage Member States to take that into account when deciding on the subsidy.
On public services, services of general economic interest, the Commission’s decision and framework makes clear how the State aid rules apply to public service compensation.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the report (A6-0021/2006) by Mrs&#160;Edit Herczog, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the effects of globalisation on the internal market (2004/2225(INI)). &#160;&#160; Globalisation has been present throughout the history of Europe.
Europe has always found a progressive answer to any challenges presented by globalisation.
At the same time, however, we have always seen that individuals face further and yet further changes with fear and reservation.
The sudden democratisation of various geographical areas at the beginning of the 21st century and the information and technology revolution have made us realise that the transformation of the world is irreversible, and global competition will remain with us in the long term.
If this is not done, there is no point in referring to a knowledge-based society and economy in the Lisbon Strategy, the Wim Kok report or in any European Parliament decision.
And last but not least, allow me to point out that Europe can only be strong and competitive against global challenges if we do not weaken our own unity from within.
We need a dynamic internal market and a single European area where citizens cannot only travel freely, but also work freely and utilise their knowledge throughout Europe and for the benefit of Europe.
The result is a very balanced and comprehensive report, one which addresses the key challenges in a succinct way.
I am very glad that in its report the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, as well as the Committee on International Trade, which has given an opinion, takes a constructive and balanced approach towards globalisation.
As the report says, we can make globalisation a success if we provide the right conditions, and if we focus on our strengths.
We must make sure that Europe and the internal market remain an attractive place for consumers and businesses; an attractive place to invest, particularly for research and innovation activities in high-value products and services, where our businesses excel.
Priorities in this context are: an effective implementation of the new Lisbon Strategy for growth and jobs; the completion of the internal market, including for services, telecoms, energy, and financial services; ensuring simple and effective regulation, which frees businesses and citizens from unnecessary costs and red tape; and making better use of the existing internal market framework, which includes better administrative cooperation across borders.
Most of the relevant work is already under way, and it is important that all players, at the EU level and at Member State level, do everything to make it happen.
As the report quite rightly stresses, globalisation also has a strong external dimension for internal market policy-making.
We need to be much more outward-looking than in the past and to be aware of the external aspects of our internal economic policies, such as our internal market rules.
This is particularly important in the area of financial markets, which are leading the way in globalisation.
Furthermore, Europe must use its scale to help deliver ambitious and balanced solutions to problems of market access or regulatory issues.
Last but not least, we need a new partnership of the EU and Member States.
The Commissioner has just referred to the Doha Round, and he was right to do so, although assessments of it differ widely.
On the other side of that coin, however, are higher production costs and lower competitiveness in a number of sectors that are coming under global pressure, especially from Asian economies unfamiliar with these standards.
The weak point regarding this path is the unwieldy decision-making in the Union’s internal institutions, which might have been improved with a new Constitution.
Only a competitive economy can survive in a global market.
The hesitation of EU states to make decisions, which will influence the long-term outlook for the EU's economic development, also threatens competitiveness in other areas.
Finally, a comparison of the years from 1960 to 1980 with the years 1980 to 2000, when markets internationalised further or globalised, shows that progress clearly slowed down over the last twenty years, when markets opened up and companies traded in conditions of unadulterated competition, when small- and medium-sized enterprises closed down for the benefit of multinationals.
Europe needs sweeping change, and in particular it needs to build a genuinely common market for labour and services.
Citizens of the new Member States of the Union are only entitled to work in three countries of the old Fifteen.
This will be an opportunity for us to demonstrate whether we want a genuinely free common market or whether we will be content with a cheap sham and with empty words, blaming an evil and callous outside world which is fast leaving us behind. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although we know that we cannot stop globalisation, there is no doubt about the need to create the right framework conditions to keep the number of its victims in EU states as low as possible.
There may well be export surpluses, and major conglomerates may be doing well, but jobs that pay social insurance contributions are stagnant, and so our social security system is taking a battering.
This must change, and change without delay, or else – or so it seems to me – Europe’s small and medium-sized businesses will be thrown to the wolves. &#160;&#160; Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have six ideas that I would like to put forward on this subject.
Ideas about a ‘global Marshall Plan’ in development cooperation are highly relevant in this respect.
The services directive is part of that.
Lastly, I will point out that education and research and small and medium-sized businesses need the right sort of financial backup if we are to seize the opportunities in our own back yard and not shrink back from the risks involved. &#160;&#160; ( To begin with, I&#160;would like to thank the rapporteur, Edit Herczog, for her detailed analysis of the effects of globalisation on the internal market and for incorporating my amendments and additions to this consistent report.
Firstly, investment in education, research and development must be a priority, because the only way for the European Union to compete is through high added value in its goods and services.
Ladies and gentlemen, globalisation is both a great challenge and an opportunity for Europe.
The reason is simple.
Globalisation is not something that happens outside the single market; it is part of the single market and the single market is part of a globalised market. &#160;&#160; The debate is closed.
The positive achievements and experiences of our citizens translate into positive attitudes towards Europe, and I believe that our duty as legislators has to be to ensure that the laws we pass are implemented in a way that gives our citizens and consumers the benefits of working, living or doing business in the internal market.
SOLVIT is a means of righting these wrongs and assisting national administrations in ensuring the correct implementation and transposition of the legislation that we pass together in the European Union.
As is indicated in our question, the committee certainly believes that the online problem-solving network can find pragmatic and rapid solutions, which do not have to end up in the courts or as infringement cases.
Clearly, however, SOLVIT needs more resources and support, and needs to promote itself and its availability to the public.
There could well be a strong role for the SOLVIT network in assisting with the implementation of the Services Directive.
It could assist in aiding market access for businesses, by supporting the role of the single point of contact for businesses to get into the single market in services, known as the ‘one-stop shop’.
We want to see it better resourced, both in the Commission and at Member State level, and we want to see SOLVIT as a trouble-shooter for citizens and consumers throughout the EU.
After three years of experience, the Commission can wholeheartedly recommend SOLVIT as an alternative, fast and effective way of handling complaints.
There are currently two issues that need to be addressed to allow SOLVIT to reach its full potential: the need for Member States’ authorities to change administrative practices and habits, and ensuring that sufficient resources are available at national level to handle SOLVIT complaints and to engage in awareness-raising activities.
Inspired by the success of SOLVIT, we are currently developing an internal market information system, which is a more general tool aimed at supporting administrative cooperation between Member States across the internal market.
Moreover, over the past few years we have seen interesting spontaneous developments, such as the more structural resolution of problems by several SOLVIT centres, even though this is not part of the SOLVIT mandate as described in the Commission recommendation.
The Commission will continue to play an active role in the further development of SOLVIT.
A second annual report on the functioning and development of SOLVIT will be available in April 2006 and will allow the European Parliament to further monitor the situation. &#160;&#160; .
I would also like to welcome my friend and colleague, Mrs McCarthy, who is here for the first time as chairwoman of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection: this is the first of many future occasions when we will grapple with the issues.
We also have to get the Member States to put the resources in and gear up their activities.
I want to take this opportunity to thank publicly the very hard-working UK staff of SOLVIT in the Department of Trade and Industry who have been extremely helpful to my staff in pursuing a very wide range of complaints.
I am sure that other countries have had the same experience.
But if we remember that the European Union has a population of 450 million, 300 complaints do not seem to be so many after all.
If the citizens visiting the offices of the 732 Members of Parliament would each contact SOLVIT with at least one complaint, this would already cause an insolvable problem.
We must develop the framework and means of an administrative cooperation that works as efficiently as possible.
We must consider the fact that, whichever way we vote on Thursday on the Services Directive, it is absolutely certain that the SOLVIT system will also be required in the area of services.
It has been a success: it delivers positive outcomes; it has practical effects both for SMEs and others trying to make the internal market work.
However, the question certainly points out the problems: resources and publicity.
Last week I had the opportunity to speak at a meeting hosted by the Commission of consumer representatives from consumer bureaux across the European Union.
May I suggest that the people who think this network is a really good idea pay for it themselves, instead of squeezing ever more money out of the hard-pressed British taxpayer, who is already being squeezed dry by the greedy and stupid politicians who seem to hold sway over us at every level. &#160;&#160; . – Mr&#160;President, the existence of the internal market opens up tremendous opportunities for the citizens.
The unquestionable advantage of the network is that it deals with complaints from both citizens and entrepreneurs, and that it is required to find solutions to any problem raised within a short period of time.
SOLVIT is a type of instrument which allows the European Union to ascertain whether legislation adopted is being applied appropriately by Member States.
In order to guarantee high operating standards, SOLVIT has recently introduced a range of improvements to facilitate communication between networks and the individuals or entrepreneurs seeking solutions to their problems.
They should also foster economic development and the creation of a genuine single market.
In the course of this parliamentary sitting we shall have a good opportunity to make up for lost time where the creation of a single market in services is concerned.
Instead, we must send out a clear signal that Parliament is determined to create a genuine single market where there will no longer be problems for the SOLVIT programme to resolve.
EU companies and citizens can use SOLVIT to solve problems related to the movement of goods, social security, migration, recognition of qualifications, etc.
Around 800 cases have been registered with the EU's SOLVIT, and of these 80% have been resolved.
SOLVIT is about making the single market work.
Legal proceedings or regulation are rarely a practical solution, but SOLVIT is.
Systems such as SOLVIT contribute to that.
SOLVIT has been a success.
Hundreds of problems have been solved through it.
Some may not be impressed by these figures, but high numbers indicate that there are problems and that the single market is not working in some areas.
Yes, we must raise awareness that SOLVIT is a way of solving problems.
On the Committee on Petitions, above all other committees, I believe we have to put aside our national and party political obligations and allegiances in order to deliver natural justice for the citizens who approach us.
We have received numerous petitions from citizens across the EU concerning confiscation of their cars by the Greek authorities.
This report has been discussed several times in committee and was adopted by a large majority at the end of November.
The petitioners came to present their petition, explaining that, in some cases, they have had to pay fees and fines of up to EUR&#160;45&#160;000 to retrieve their property, after the Greek authorities had impounded and confiscated their vehicles.
Both I, as rapporteur, and the chairman of the Committee on Petitions have been in regular contact with the Greek authorities to try and resolve these issues and the cases that are currently before them.
An amendment to the law on the Greek national customs code has been adopted by the Greek Parliament.
It is worth remembering that the petitioners have fulfilled the conditions for exemption, laid down in Directive 83/182/EEC, from, in particular, turnover tax, excise duty and other consumption tax, in respect of temporary imports from another Member State of motor-driven road vehicles.
All the petitioners have their normal residence – i.e., the place where they live at least 185 days in each calendar year, because of personal or occupational ties – in a Member State other than Greece; that is, they fulfil the conditions laid down in the directive.
Finally, I hope that the adoption of this report will send a very strong signal to the Greek authorities that they must amend their law so that it is in conformity with the EU directives that I have referred to.
The issues highlighted in the report are of great importance not only for this specific case but also as regards their impact on the Commission initiatives in the field of car taxation and the fundamental rights of citizens.
Let me say a few words on the case in question.
In addition to the numerous petitions received by Parliament, the Commission has received a great number of complaints over recent years about an administrative practice which leads to the confiscation of cars.
I do not intend to go deeply into technical details, but, as you know, Community law allows a citizen resident in one Member State – I emphasise ‘resident’ and not ‘national’ – to use his or her car for personal reasons in another Member State without being obliged to register his or her car in that other Member State, provided certain conditions are met.
It has led to an administrative practice which, unfortunately, has disregarded the fact that, in many cases, the normal residence of Greek citizens is in a state other than Greece.
The outcome has been, as you can see from the report, the imposition of very high fines resulting in the confiscation of the vehicles concerned, followed sometimes by their sale at auction, even before a national judge could come to a decision on the case.
The Commission has also been informed in the past that, in some cases, this has led to prison sentences.
Nevertheless, the freedom that Member States enjoy has to be exercised within the framework laid down by the directives applicable in this field and within the general principles of Community law, which represent the fundamentals of the construction of the European Union.
When an individual incurs significant adverse economic consequences if he or she seeks to make use of his of her car for a certain period of time in another Member State, especially when this is allowed by Community law, this represents a risk to the free movement of citizens within the Union.
However, they should respect the principle of proportionality.
In July 2005, the Commission adopted my proposal on a draft directive on car taxation, which is intended to remove existing tax obstacles to the transfer of passenger cars from one Member State to another and thus improve the functioning of the internal market.
It is based in essence on fewer than a dozen petitions prior to 2004, the authors of which have either reached a compromise with the Greek authorities or are in court and need support.
As to the content, petitions from just one Member State, Greece, were selected, even though there is also confusion about the use of private cars with foreign number plates in the other 24 Member States.
That is precisely why the Commission proposed a new proposal for a directive, as you said, and took Greece to the Court of Justice of the European Communities for infringement on the basis of the 1983 directive.
As a result, Greek legislation was amended, both by the socialist government of Greece in 2001 and more recently by the New Democracy government in 2005, which is something the report ignores.
The few specific petitions which resulted in the drafting of this report are not representative, but their authors give the impression that they have personal relations of goodwill with Parliament.
I call on my honourable friends in all the groups to vote against the report and to give the Committee on Petitions the authority it deserves, with respect for the rule of law and without intervention in the work of justice.
Secondly, the report only concerns Greece, at a time when similar petitions have also been filed for other Member States of the European Union.
Let us look now at the report, the petitions and the data: Community directive 83/182 on tax exemptions lays down the preconditions for application of the scheme for the temporary importation and transportation of automobiles for private use.
It would appear from the tone of the debate that some people do not have a very good understanding of what the Committee on Petitions is; we respond to the complaints and concerns of the citizens, from any country.
In this case, I believe that the majority of members of the Committee on Petitions believe that rights and directives have been violated and that the Greek authorities’ practice of confiscating cars and the practice of imposing astronomical fines are totally unacceptable.
Finally, I would like to thank the Commission’s technical team for the excellent, exemplary work of mediation and communication it has done, which has been professional and, I believe, very effective.
On the one hand, the determination of the amount of registration tax due when a person registers a car in one state depends on the tax policy of the Member State concerned.
In fact, the directive is able to function properly only if a person who resides in one Member State is allowed to use his vehicle in the territory of a Member State other than that where the normal residence is located.
Before concluding, I wish to react to some of the issues and questions raised by some of the participants in the debate.
It is true that other Member States are also infringing Community law, but these infringements are in connection with other aspects of car taxation, such as discrimination in levying registration tax, and there has been no confiscation of cars, which also points to the lack of proportionality.
To conclude, I want to say that in this case, bearing in mind that the Commission is still receiving complaints on this issue, the Commission has taken all the action possible.
The Commission very much welcomes the encouraging signals that it has received from the Greek authorities during the debates in Parliament and would also welcome this being consolidated by the adoption of the new law.
Let me just say that, in the Committee on Petitions, we can only react to and deal with petitions that we have received and we have received no petitions from any other Member State regarding the confiscation of vehicles.
I therefore say to Members of the House that they should look at the title of this report.
If that is the case, we too have something to say.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 12 noon. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the report by Csaba Öry, on behalf of Parliament's Delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to risks arising from physical agents (artificial optical radiation) (19th individual directive within the meaning of Article 16(1) of Directive 89/391/EEC) (PE-CONS 3668/2005 C6-0001/2006 1992/0449B(COD))(A6-0026/2006). &#160;&#160; . – Please allow me to briefly summarise the main stages of this complicated legislative procedure, as a result of which we can now debate the third reading of the Directive on Optical Radiation.
The procedure started with Framework Directive 89/391/EEC, which provided a comprehensive regulation for the entire issue of health and safety at work, and created the legal framework for a single approach to all possible risks that may arise at the workplace.
It is also in the employees' interest that the protection in the area of health and safety at work, which is the inalienable right of each European citizen, as stipulated in Section 137 of the Treaty of Rome, should be implemented through efficient articles of law that are easy to apply in practice.
However, it was subsequently found that this decision violated certain European Union competences, as it would have prevented the application of the stipulation contained in Section 137 of the Treaty of Rome, which stated that the minimum level of requirements applicable in the area of health and safety at work should be set within EU frameworks, for each risk type.
In the course of the reconciliation procedure, the Council accepted the majority of the amendments made by Parliament, and only suggested two substantive and two formal alterations.
The Parliamentary Delegation accepted these arguments, but in all other issues the Council accepted the position of the European Parliament.
Consequently, this is what I would like to ask my colleagues and Parliament to support during the voting. &#160;&#160; . –Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank the Council and Parliament, on the Commission’s behalf, for their endeavours in this area.
The adoption of this new Directive, the provisions of which are based on the latest scientific reports, will make it possible to guarantee greater safety and health protection for all workers exposed in the workplace to artificial optical radiation.
The Commission is pleased that this directive complies entirely with the in the area of protecting the health and safety of workers whilst ensuring the flexibility and proportionality required for businesses to be competitive.
The directive on which we have agreed forms part of moves to improve legislation which, on the one hand, ensures that businesses are not disproportionately or unnecessarily overloaded and, on the other hand, complies with Article 137 of the Treaty, on protecting workers’ health and safety.
We supported German building workers when they demonstrated in front of the Parliament building here in Strasbourg – an event that got a very strong helping hand from the European People Party’s SME group – my group’s tradesmen – and from the British members of our Group’s European Democrat wing, including the energetic Mr Bushill-Matthews.
The title of the draft directive now refers to ‘artificial optical radiation’.
I wish to thank, once again, our rapporteur, Mr Öry, for the work he has done.
The European Union should spend less time on peripheral issues and a great deal more on the problems that really matter, such as the fight against unemployment and campaigns for sustainable protection for the environment and for effective cooperation in internal and external security.
The phenomenon I am talking about is, of course, natural radiation.
They are now lacking that legal certainty and still have the full implications of the framework directive and temporary mobile work sites directive to deal with.
We now have a sensible directive to protect workers such as welders from artificial radiation.
Certainly, everyone ought to be warned about the dangers of the sun and that is why I am very much in favour of national campaigns.
In principle, any initiative that reduces health risks and thereby affords people better protection deserves support, and, as people spend a considerable part of their lives at work, it is logical that the various dangers there should be precisely analysed and all of them, along with all hazards to health at work, reduced to the minimum possible.
Initially, the experts, the European institutions and the Member States agreed that it would be necessary to add further legislation to the general regulation on health and safety at work that would have simplified the legislation on protection from optical radiation and made it workable.
Nevertheless, it was his political group that had opposed the inclusion of all natural sources of optical radiation in this Directive.
The situation that confronts us today in this area is far from what I would consider a reduction in unnecessary bureaucracy.
I fear that in the future legal disputes will be unavoidable. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission’s proposal for a directive to protect workers against optical radiation was, as regards what it had to say about protection from sunlight, a masterpiece of European over-regulation.
At second reading, and by an absolute majority, we in this House nailed our colours to the mast by voting to remove the provisions on protection from natural radiation.
Europe has quite different problems to deal with, in the shape of unemployment, exhausted social security systems and more and more aged people among the population.
It has made possible a considerable improvement in the directive and prevented over-regulation that would have resulted in needless additional expense, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises.
I urge you to vote, tomorrow, in favour of the Conciliation Committee’s proposal, and then we will flag up our desire for less bureaucracy and less red tape throughout Europe. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this, today, really is the last time we will be discussing this directive, which has prompted so much public debate in my own country.
We came to that decision simply and solely because we want the minimum standards that we lay down for health protection in the workplace to be applied equally and across the board in all the Member States.
Where social policy is concerned, we do not want an Europe, which is what the outcome of the second reading would have given us, a Europe in which each and every Member State could decide for itself whether or not to oblige employers to inform their workers about the potential hazards of natural radiation.
Even though the references to natural radiation have been removed from the directive, the framework directive is still in place and still obliging employers to protect workers from the hazards of sunlight.
The bottom line is that the majority in this House has relinquished to the European Court of Justice the right to shape policy, and that really is very much to be regretted. &#160;&#160; Mr President, firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a piece of very good work.
As far as natural radiation is concerned, risks must be pointed out and reasonable precautions must be taken, but Member States should have the responsibility for drawing up the action plan, and that should give legal certainty to workers and employers in different countries.
In Ireland, partly because of our own inaction and through our own fault, we currently have a nitrates directive based on rainfall, weather and climate, which is totally unworkable, but that is another story.
We have avoided over-regulation and excessive bureaucracy and come forward with a piece of legislation that is reasonable and workable and which protects workers. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the question as to what is reasonable is often a rhetorical one.
Where the protection of the eyes and skin is concerned, artificial optical radiation is just as much a problem as the natural variety, in that there is a causal connection in both cases.
It follows that legal certainty is needed both as regards artificial optical radiation and that from a natural source.
The protection of workers has, for some considerable time, been founded upon information and prevention; that is more humane and less costly.
It is true that this particular proposal proved rather difficult to bring to a finalisation agreement, but thanks to the perseverance and the common-sense approach exhibited by all involved in the conciliation process, all the hurdles were overcome.
I also feel that there is room for further reflection on the development of health and safety protection at work.
The vote will take place on Tuesday at 12 noon.
