The Commission will play the role of facilitator to establish a network of all the stakeholders and institutions involved in a preventive strategy.
This proposal aims at fighting more effectively the exploitation of migrant workers through dissuasive administrative sanctions and through penal sanctions in the most serious cases, including trafficking, and where particularly exploitative working conditions are found.
The granting of assistance, residence status and support to find a better alternative for labour and life will secure the cooperation of trafficked persons in criminal proceedings and make it easier to punish the perpetrators.
In conclusion, on the occasion of the first Anti-Trafficking Day on 18 October next, the Commission will draw up recommendations with and for Member States on identification and support of victims - first of all vulnerable categories like children - based on close cooperation between law enforcement, prosecutors' offices and NGOs and other service providers. (RO) Madam President, please allow me to thank Commissioner Frattini for his answer.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the answer is certainly yes.
What I am therefore appealing for is for us to work together. (DE) EURO 2008 will be held in Austria and Switzerland next year.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are certainly aware of the most worrying developments.
Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, the European Court of Justice plays an important role in safeguarding the legality, implementation and application of third pillar instruments.
Under Article 35 of the Treaty, the Court has jurisdiction, upon request of a Member State's court or tribunal, to give preliminary rulings on the validity or interpretation of framework decisions and decisions, on the interpretation of conventions established under Title VI of the Treaty, and on the validity and interpretation of the measures implementing them.
At this moment, unfortunately, only 16 Member States have accepted the jurisdiction of the European Court to give preliminary rulings on third pillar instruments, and two of them have made a limitative statement.
This is really insufficient in my view and does not allow for appropriate dialogue between the Court and the national courts applying European law on a daily basis.
I have expressed my view on the gaps with respect to the jurisdiction of the Court in the area of freedom, security and justice in two communications I submitted to the Commission in 2006 and July 2007 on the implementation of the Hague programme.
On the one hand, I believe that the Member States must shoulder their responsibilities and, in my view, their first responsibility is to agree in October, during the Portuguese Presidency, on the proposal that the Intergovernmental Conference has received from the European Council, a very clear mandate which includes the new powers of the Court of Justice.
Those countries have achieved very good results and our interest now is, for instance, in working with those which are not candidates, but are simply our neighbours: the countries of the Western Balkans, important partners such as Ukraine, countries with which we have an important partnership.
Vice-President of the Commission. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my view we have already achieved very substantial results.
Frontex personnel numbers need, however, to be increased because as you probably already know Frontex is currently working with fewer than 90 actual people in order to coordinate operations in the whole area of the external borders.
A general ban would contradict Community legislation, in particular Directive 2001/18/EC on the deliberate release into the environment of GMOs.
A specific ban on a product must be scientifically justified according to Article 23 of this directive, the so-called safeguard clause article.
Community research into coexistence is studying appropriate measures to segregate authorised GM crops from conventional and organic crops in a feasible and practical way.
On your question about the possibility to authenticate a GM-free designation in relation to livestock products, I would like to draw your attention to the statement of the European Food Safety Authority paper published recently on 20 July 2007, where EFSA noted that no technique is currently available to enable a valid and reliable tracing of animal products like meat, milk or eggs, when the animals have been fed a diet incorporating GM plants or, to put it another way, DNA fragments or proteins from GM plants have not been detected in edible products from farm animals using the existing available techniques.
Member of the Commission. - I would like to respond and to repeat my response which I already sent to Mr Crowley about the annual procedures and budget procedures in general, and how they can and could be improved.
But of course the honourable Member is right in saying that, in this Treaty, there can already be a lot of room for improvement, and one of the examples concerns the pragmatic timetable in the annual budgetary procedure - followed since 1975.
Secondly, the so-called 'maximum rate of increase' in Article 27 of the EC Treaty - usually a source of conflict in the annual negotiation process - will no longer be in use or necessary because the substitute in practical terms for the maximum rate of increase, the multi-annual financial framework, will be enshrined in the treaties, which is not the case today.
Member of the Commission. - I would like to announce that we obtained an agreement with the Council precisely on the new Financial Regulation, under our transparency initiative, whereby Member States have agreed to report and make public all information on all recipients of funds - not only for agriculture but for all funds.
The agriculture agreement will take effect from 2009 and the others from 2008, 2009 and 2010.
Member of the Commission. - Concerning Greece in particular, we are looking for at least three sources of possible accumulation of funds.
Member of the Commission. - As we are all aware, under Article 149 of the EC Treaty, the content of the education programme is the responsibility of Member States, which means that decisions on the design of the curricula delivered by the educational institutions, as well as the subjects taught, are therefore taken solely by the Member States.
So I think this is a very direct and explicit contribution to the orientation which is asked for and supported by Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou, and, I believe, by many other Members of this Parliament. (EL) Commissioner, thank you for your answer.
Member of the Commission. - There is no specific subdivision now, but as you know from the legal base we have the programme is divided into four main pillars concerning lifelong learning: Erasmus, Comenius, Leonardo da Vinci and Grundtvig, plus horizontal actions or transfer selections.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, in 2000, the millennium year, 17.6% of the population aged between 18 and 24 had not gone beyond lower secondary education.
By last year, 2006, the level had fallen to 15.3%.
Under Article 149, as I previously mentioned, this is the full responsibility of Member States.
Further, last year, in our 2006 communication on efficiency and equity in European education and training systems, the Commission stressed the importance of pre-primary, pre-school, education as an effective means to reduce school drop-out rates, and pointed to the dangers of tracking pupils too early.
In conclusion, progress has been visible and measurable, but not yet enough, and we need to really continue and improve the dynamics. (RO) Madam President, Commissioner, thank you for your answer.
Here is my question: Commissioner, what are the measures you are taking in order to support Member States to financially assist those children who deserve to continue their studies, especially those originating from poor families or from a rural environment?
I say that not only as the Commissioner responsible for these areas, but also as a politician and a father.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, this is the question on EIT private sector funding.
The Community contribution, which was agreed at EUR 308 million for the next Financial Perspective, is intended to act as a catalyst to draw forth resources from the private sector.
The Commission has been particularly attentive in seeking to facilitate and attract private sector participation in the financing of the EIT and knowledge innovation communities (KICs).
Member of the Commission. - I would say it would be boring if there were only United States companies interested in dialogue and cooperation and possible investment.
The EIT should create even more incentives and friendly conditions for innovation in Europe.
It has not yet been finalised formally - we hope to do that by the end of this year - but the messages from individual businesses or business organisations have been more and more concrete and positive, in the sense of possibly deeper involvement in the future.
We had talks with the European Round Table of Industrialists, Business Europe, Eurochambers and many other associations, like the European Association of Research and Technology Organisations (EARTO).
Subject: Absolute prohibition of conversion of fixed-term contracts into contracts of indefinite duration in Greek public sector It is six years since Directive 1999/70/EC entered into force in 2001 and Greece has not yet complied therewith.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Council Directive 1999/70/EC concerning the framework agreement on fixed-term work requires the Member States to adopt such measures that would prevent abuse arising from the use of successive fixed-term employment contracts.
However, the Member States are not obliged to replace fixed-term contracts with open-ended contracts assuming that there are other effective measures in place that would prevent or sanction such abuse.
The European Court of Justice confirmed this interpretation in its judgment of 4 July 2006 in Case C-212/04 (Adeneler) pertaining to Greek legislation.
Since the Directive was implemented at a late stage, on 19 July 2004, the Presidential Decree contained an exceptional temporary provision that makes it possible under certain conditions to change successive fixed-term employment contracts concluded before the date on which the Decree entered into force into employment contracts of indefinite duration.
This was confirmed by the recent judgment of the Greek Supreme Court of 11 June 2007 in which the court annulled its previous case-law.
However, in doing so the courts must duly observe the applicable EU legislation, in particular Directive 1999/70/EC.
To conclude I would like to mention that according to the information supplied by the Commission, several Greek courts have already submitted preliminary questions concerning this matter to the European Court of Justice.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Of course the European Commission is a guardian of the European Treaties and European law, and of course for this reason we are prepared to take all the necessary steps.
Of course many questions arise about the abuse of the fixed-term employment contracts concluded before the date of adoption of the Directive, including those that were already in force on 10 July 2002, the day on which the Directive was to be implemented, unless a temporary provision applied to these contracts.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, 10 years after the inclusion of Article 13 in the EC Treaty we have made important progress in making sure that all citizens of the European Union are protected from discrimination based on racial or ethnic origin or sexual orientation, among other things.
However, this protection is not yet complete, nor have we yet the real 'equality' mentioned by the honourable Member.
It welcomed the European Parliament resolution of 26 April 2007 on homophobia in Europe.
In this context the Commission regrets that local authorities did not grant the necessary permissions for the truck promoting diversity in Europe to visit Vilnius on 25 May as had been planned, and banned the accompanying gay parade.
The Commission also regrets that the participants in the march for diversity during the Romanian GayFest 2007 festival on 11 June (which received moral support and used the European Year logo) were intimidated by extremist groups and needed police protection.
That is why the European Commission has initiated infringement proceedings against 14 Member States.
Subject: Representation of disabled people Could the European Commission describe which arrangements are in place to guarantee representation of disabled people and organisations of disabled people in EU social inclusion strategies?
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Since I am going to try to give a very brief reply to all of the questions together, I will concentrate only on the most important issues.
A program focusing on the active integration of disabled people has been developed since 2006 as part of the European Action Plan for people with disabilities.
Independent living for disabled people must be supported by the provision of quality community services to these people; not only of a physical nature but also respect for human dignity.
The way in which the basic rights of disabled people are observed and the quality of their lives depend to a large degree on education.
In this context, the Commission has requested a study on social integration, the purpose of which is to assess the situation of disabled people in large sheltered institutions where, as you know, there are many instances where the standards and way of life are not up to the standards and quality the people undoubtedly deserve.
Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the Commission implements active policies for disabled people and that we have achieved significant progress within the European Union.
A number of us who are active in the Disability Intergroup of Parliament have chosen to table these questions to mark the presence in Strasbourg of some 200 people with severe and multiple disabilities, who are living in institutions throughout Europe and are part of what is called the European Network on Independent Living.
I wonder if, Commissioner, you could confirm that the European Network on Independent Living, as a user-led organisation run for and by disabled people, represents a very important interest group for disabled people in Europe and that you would join me in hoping that they could benefit from the support for coordination of disability organisations Europe-wide currently benefiting organisations such as the European Blind Union and the European Union of the Deaf in the future.
The point in my question about a European strategy for personal assistance, enabling professional workers who are managed by and employed by disabled people to meet their care needs, is a very important objective of this freedom ride of the European Network on Independent Living, and I hope you will commit yourself to advancing their cause in this respect.
Since the active integration of the disabled into economic and social life depends on their ability to live independently, I should like to ask whether the European Commission intends to adopt legislative measures to guarantee this right.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am of the opinion that the current European legislation is of a high quality compared with the rest of the world.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, I think that have you touched on very serious issues that are generally linked to the issue of disability.
There is also the issue of the transferability and accessibility of social services or various social measures for disabled people.
Member of the Commission. - (CS) Ladies and gentlemen, in my first reply dealing with the Directives on non-discrimination I mentioned a study drafted within the framework of a process for the assessment of implementation and effectiveness, which examines whether and how it would be suitable to amend the relevant European legislation.
As I said in my previous remarks, of course I will reply to all questions in writing in case some questions were not answered sufficiently due to the nature of this slightly improvised session.
