Montenegro - EC/Montenegro: Stabilisation and Association Agreement (debate) The next item is the joint debate on the statement by the Commission on Montenegro, the recommendation, by Marcello Vernola, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the proposal for a Council and Commission decision on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Montenegro, of the other part - C6 0463/2007 -.
Of course a decisive step on Montenegro's European journey was taken on 15 October this year when we signed the SAA with the country.
The Commission's regular progress report, adopted on 6 November, highlights these positive developments.
It also underlines progress made by Montenegro in preparing for the implementation of the SAA and strengthening its administrative capacity.
For instance, Montenegro's administrative capacity remains rather weak and therefore administrative reforms need to be continued at all levels.
The Government also adopted a judicial reform strategy for the period 2007-2012.
Most issues with Serbia following independence have been settled.
I am pleased to inform you that the new Commission delegation has been operational since 1 November and is preparing to take over the work carried on by the European Agency for Reconstruction, in due course as planned.
Montenegro is expected to receive close to EUR 100 million under the instrument for pre-accession in the coming three-year period until 2009.
Economic and social development and civil society development certainly will be another priority.
So I trust we can count on the strong support of the European Parliament, which is crucial as always. (DE) Mr President, this was announced as a debate or as statements from the Council and the Commission.
I only wanted to ask where the Council is and whether it will at least be represented again at Council Question Time or perhaps even in the course of this debate.
The agreements were initialled on 15 March 2007 but, unfortunately, some technical problems then arose which slowed down further progress, although the end is now in sight.
The Commissioner has just announced that an office has already been opened in Podgorica - which we commend - and that everything is now in place for ratification of the agreement.
Montenegro's progress in the last year, the commitments into which it has entered vis-à-vis the European Community and ongoing reform work, even in the last few days, all lead us unhesitatingly to endorse the favourable opinion on the conclusion of the agreement.
In the last few days, a cooperation agreement with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia has been signed in order to regulate technical assistance in respect of that Tribunal.
We should bear in mind that unconditional cooperation with the ad hoc tribunal in The Hague is of crucial importance for all the states emerging from the break-up of Yugoslavia.
The European Parliament also considers that corruption in the public administration and the judiciary needs to be combated: the country is responding positively to the European authorities and signs of this can be seen in the new Constitution which introduces mechanisms to protect the autonomy and independence of the judiciary.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Mr President, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, I naturally welcome the progress which Montenegro has made since declaring its independence and which has very quickly led to the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
They should ensure that the judicial system is brought up to scratch and that action is taken to combat corruption, especially in the administration and the judiciary.
I welcome the cooperation with ICTY, the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, and hope that it might result in the arrest of Mr Karadžić at some point.
Since then, its relations with the European Union have become ever closer, and Montenegro has clearly chosen to steer a European course.
I particularly welcome the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on 18 October, which marks a milestone in relations between Montenegro and the EU.
Montenegro still has a long way to go to attain membership of the EU, but remaining obstacles are being dismantled bit by bit.
There is still a particular need for progress in the struggle against the informal economy and corruption.
The main challenges to this young country are associated with the fight against organised crime and corruption, where more must and can be done.
Montenegro must do more in terms of freedom, plurality and professionalism of the media.
Journalists and civil society play an important role in the development of democracy, in particular where they draw attention to sensitive social problems.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (DE) Mr President, may I express my warm thanks to Mr Vernola for his report and for the cooperative way in which it was dealt with in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
After the break-up of Yugoslavia, the Montenegrin electorate decided democratically in 2006 that they did not wish Montenegro to remain united with Serbia.
It is also a good thing that this report does not repeat the demand that Montenegro pursue the sort of neo-liberal economic policy which would go even further than we already have within the European Union.
Montenegro may in theory be splendidly 'green' and developing ideally, but Podgorica has to sustain this over the longer term.
Mr Vernola mentions this, but not forcefully enough for so serious a problem.
There must be no careless action regarding a new 'European Gold Coast'. (SL) I am pleased to support the consent given to the conclusion of a Stability and Association Agreement between the European Union and Montenegro which is one of the important, positive acts to have taken place in south-eastern Europe in recent months.
I am convinced that under the Slovenian Presidency the European Union will note any progress by Montenegro in complying with its contractual obligations.
Progress by Montenegro is of course in the particular interest of south-eastern Europe and thus also of the European Union as a whole. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is much to admire about Montenegro.
The landscape is admirable, as is the way in which the separation from Serbia was conducted, both Montenegro and Serbia having acted very responsibly.
Some of these investments are already endangering Montenegro's natural beauty spots and its picturesque landscapes.
Needless to say, however, we expect the Commission and the country itself to make every effort to eliminate corruption, which - and this is the sad thing - extends into political circles.
I certainly wish that the Montenegrin authorities would solve this case soon and would do far more to fight corruption in their own country. (PL) Mr President, the recommendation on the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and the Republic of Montenegro concerns a special situation.
The great commitment of the members of the electoral committees in ensuring that all procedures were complied with was clear to see.
It is also difficult to protect the environment.
In my view, the signature of the accession agreement, for the start of negotiations, is very positive, and will help towards the reform of public administration and judicial authority, but above all it will help to combat corruption, and I hope this same agreement will restrain whatever tendencies may emerge among the Albanian population. (PL) Mr President, the political situation in the Balkans has been a subject of special interest to this Parliament for many years.
It immediately began intensive negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which culminated in the signing of the Agreement on 15 October of this year.
There is still much to be done, especially in the fields of social policy and employment, energy and protection of the environment, and security and civil rights.
An effective fight against corruption and organised crime and full cooperation with the International Tribunal in the Hague are particularly important tasks facing the government of Montenegro.
The foundations have been laid for a new state and a new constitution has been adopted.
The country's economy is showing strong growth of 8% and inward investment has this year been in the order of EUR 700 million.
It is also necessary - with more conviction than in the past - to combat corruption and increase transparency in decision-making in political and economic structures with a view to guaranteeing the democratic and equitable functioning of the market economy.
Tourism has a fundamental significance for the economy of Montenegro.
I would like to conclude my speech by inviting the Commission to help Montenegro and other Western Balkan states to develop regional cooperation, primarily in the areas of energy, transport and the environment. (PL) Mr President, Mr Swoboda rightly referred a moment ago to the widespread corruption in Montenegro.
In support, I would like to quote figures given by Transparency International, which show that, on a scale of 0 to 10 (where 10 denotes the absence of corruption), Montenegro scores 3.3.
We have to hold out a real prospect of membership - obviously not in two, three or four years' time - but a real incentive to Montenegrin society for the increasing achievement of European standards. (DE) Mr President, Montenegro is not just one of the world's most beautiful countries; it is also the Balkan country with the oldest tradition of independence in the modern era.
On the contrary, I believe the European Commission and all the EU institutions should do a great deal at the present time to help that country prepare properly for closer relations with the European Union, especially in combating corruption, strengthening the rule of law, building a market economy and countering the black market. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the example of Montenegro shows how important a referendum can be.
The European Commission and the Council should not linger at the halfway stage, but continue to demolish this obstruction, together with financial and bureaucratic barriers, while maintaining a strong level of protection against criminals and lawbreakers.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, I wish to begin by thanking the Members for a very substantial and substantive debate and Mr Vernola for stimulating this debate.
I am very glad that we see eye to eye on the future development of Montenegro on its road towards the European Union. (Applause) I have received one motion for a resolution to wind up the debate on the Commission statement.
The votes on the motion for a resolution and the Vernola report will be on Thursday, 13 December 2007.
