The threat is instability in the region, if these countries remain outside the euro area.
Currently, there is a plan in the country to close 50% of the hospitals.
Today, nearly half of the people working in the world earn less than USD 2 a day. 12.3 million people are still victims of slavery, and more than 200 million children are forced to work.
In Europe, the number of working poor is increasing day by day, and each year the International Labour Organisation records 160 000 deaths linked to a lack of prevention.
Václav Klaus, the Czech President, has astonished us all with his tactics for blocking the Treaty of Lisbon.
I believe that all of this goes completely against all of our international commitments.
The European Commission itself said in an action plan dated June 2008 that legitimate measures to reduce illegal immigration should not result in refugees being denied access to protection within the European Union, and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has warned the European Union against making any attempt to undermine the Geneva Convention and the other additional forms of protection that are designed to ensure that Afghan refugees are not deported to Afghanistan.
It is my duty as an MEP, but also as a specialist who has been associated with the transport industry for years, to ask for support for the CETC project.
Like my colleague, Mr Désir, who spoke just now, I too call on the European Commission to put pressure on the Member States so that they stop putting these people's lives in grave danger by forcibly returning them to Afghanistan.
All our Member States must defend international law and human rights without fear or favour, otherwise our credibility is undermined as a force for justice in the world - and, indeed, as an honest interlocutor for peace in the Middle East.
Mohammad Othman was arrested on 22 September by the Israeli authorities.
A military judge is due to rule on his detention on Tuesday 20 October - i.e.
They are our European authors and our European publishers.
The election of the president by the new parliament, scheduled for 23 October, was postponed due to a lack of competition.
The strengthening of democracy in this country must be one of the priorities of the European Union in its neighbourhood policy.
The only ones still making their minds up are President Václav Klaus and the Czech Constitutional Court.
It is high time that this game came to an end. (HU) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, three years ago, on 23 October 2006, tens of thousands of people gathered in Budapest to celebrate in a dignified manner and commemorate the 1956 Hungarian Revolution and fight for freedom which our people waged against the Communist dictatorship.
We Jobbik MEPs, along with several fellow Members, such as Andreas Mölzer and Bruno Gollnisch, will monitor at this location the physical safety of those attending the commemoration.
EPP Vice-President, Viktor Orban, said in Romania in July that Hungarian foreign policy must treat this matter as a serious instance of 'casus belli' which translates as 'a cause for war'.
Greater Hungarian nationalists are not interested in the rights of minorities in Hungary but only in the rights of Hungarian minorities in other countries.
Similarly, in 2010, an average level of public debt of 80% is envisaged for the 27 Member States and of more than 80% for the countries in the euro area.
There were 142 fatal accidents in 2008 and there have been more than 56 since the beginning of 2009.
When, on 16 July this year, I called for the establishment of a committee of inquiry into mafia organisations in Europe, I did so with the aim not only of serving my country, but also the European Community, in the belief that a lack of vigilance when it comes to organised crime associations such as the mafia could have a negative impact on citizens' quality of life and safety and on development mechanisms.
The Obama Administration is trying to address such a position by shifting defence from the long-range to the short- and medium-range missile threat, thus increasing the direct protection of Europe, and apparently by accepting Russian cooperation through providing a radar facility in the Caucasus.
However, in India, in the states of Orissa and Gujarat, both practising Christians and Muslims are suffering severe persecution.
According to the teachings of our faith, I call on Jerzy Buzek, the Subcommittee on Human Rights and the European Commission to ... (The President cut off the speaker) Mr President, the imminent closure of Independent Network News, a Dublin-based news agency providing a first-rate national and international news service to the majority of Ireland's local radio stations, raises serious and legitimate questions about the ownership, plurality and regulation of the media in Ireland.
The National Union of Journalists has raised important questions over the appropriateness of the involvement of these two bodies in this process, in the context of diversity of media ownership in Ireland.
It is playing with fire and the European institutions must not turn a blind eye to it. (RO) I would like to say that there is no specific mention made of sport in the Treaty of Lisbon, and particularly of football, an activity which has a huge social and cultural influence.
