The Agency's budget for 2007 has been increased appreciably and now stands at a total of EUR 22.2 million.
The number of persons employed is also increasing steadily and will total 87 in 2007.
On 15 February 2007, the Council examined the progress made in establishing the 'tool box' and called on the Member States to make an active contribution.
The situation was again reviewed at the Council meeting on 19 and 20 April.
The Council Conclusions of 14 and 15 December 2006 invited Frontex, together with the Member States of the region, to establish a permanent Coastal Patrol Network on the European Union's southern maritime borders by mid 2007.
The Coastal Patrol Network is planned to commence on 24 May 2007.
But in the talks on the matter that is still undecided.
At any rate, if I have understood the honourable Member correctly, we must also send out a signal that we have not merely created a pseudo institution, so that the public can see that here the European Union has recognised that it is necessary to have an agency to take effective action.
Question 2 has been withdrawn.
In light of Article 4 of Council Decision 2003/335/JHA, how will the Council address the current lack of specialised war crimes units within Member States?
The Presidency can inform you, honourable Member, that the next meeting of the European network of contact points in respect of persons responsible for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes will be held on 7 and 8 May.
In accordance with existing practice, that meeting's conclusions will be passed to the Article 36 Committee for further discussion.
But we will be able to tell that when this first meeting has been held on 7 May.
May I point out that under Article 152(4) in conjunction with Article 251 of the EC Treaty such a proposal would fall under the codecision procedure?
In the meantime, we have also produced a list of criteria on the basis of which this report will be produced in 2008.
We have found that some Member States have developed a sensible infrastructure over many years - it was a political objective - while other countries are lagging behind.
The German Bundestag is currently discussing how we can meet the targets we set ourselves in Barcelona. (EL) Madam President, I would like to point out that daycare cannot become a substitute for families; it can only facilitate them.
We are not trying to tell parents that they must put their children in child care facilities; we have simply found that parents - and in some Member States predominantly women - need to have the option of deciding whether they want to pursue an occupation, possibly out of economic necessity.
I also assume that a number of television stations have taken it upon themselves to ensure that no one is incited to hatred and the like by their programmes. (LT) The programmes of our local television broadcasters contain a lot of material from the United States.
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) Mr Posselt, the European Council's decision of 15 and 16 December 2005 to give the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia the status of a candidate country stands in recognition of the country's reform effort so far.
But at the same time, in the light of decisions already taken, such as the Thessaloniki decision already mentioned, we have said that the European Union must not become unwieldy if there are further enlargements.
This is all the more true with 25 or 27 Member States.
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) The Council of Foreign Ministers discussed Sudan and Darfur again last Monday in Luxembourg.
The situation in the region, which was difficult in any case, has not been improved by the fact that, in addition to the existing conflicts between the different parties in Sudan, various tribes are suddenly making war on each other.
The foreign ministers stated, however, that the European Union is considering further effective measures against Sudan if there are no signs of that in the foreseeable future.
President-in-Office of the Council. (DE) I have tried to make clear - it was what the Foreign Ministers Council before last wanted - that we want to get a fresh picture and to do that through the United Nations special envoy this time, but also by getting information from the African Union's special envoy.
I do repeat, however, that this is not a project where we will wait week after week without seeing results.
Mr Pflüger, as has already been explained in the answer to question 619/2007, the Council is aware of the extrajudicial executions in the Philippines.
This comes in answer to a request from Foreign Minister Romulo, who has asked for help in implementing the recommendations of the Melo Commission, which was charged with investigating the unexplained killings. (DE) Is the Council aware of the following extrajudicial executions: Cipriano Ligaspo, murdered on 14 March; Carlito Getrosa, murdered on 11 March; Che Che Gandinao, murdered on 10 March; Felisa Timog Ocampo and Renato 'Atong' Torrecampo Pacaide, murdered on 2 March?
Looking at the situation more generally, however, the Council is deeply concerned about developments in Sri Lanka.
Despite the obvious difficulties, as one of the co-chairs of the Tokyo Conference of donor countries the European Union is continuing to examine every possible way of supporting the peace process in Sri Lanka. (DE) You have just said that the Council is deeply concerned, but in that case my question is quite specific: what does the Council intend to do to bring pressure to bear on Sri Lanka to end the military offensive against the Tamil Eelam freedom fighters - which has already claimed many civilian casualties - and force them to return to the negotiating table?
The European Union has also submitted its own draft resolution on the human rights situation in Sri Lanka to the Geneva Human Rights Council.
Furthermore, 282 000 tonnes of dangerous weapons have lain on its bed since the Second World War.
The Leipzig Charter and the EU territorial agenda are offers by the European ministers for regional and urban development to take better account of urban and territorial matters in the implementation of EU policies, for example in the question of how an integrated regional and urban development policy can contribute to the Lisbon and Gothenburg objectives of more sustainable economic growth and strengthening the European social model.
