Revision of the framework directive on waste (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading by Caroline Jackson, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, on the Council common position for adopting a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on waste and repealing certain Directives (11406/4/2007 - C6-0056/2008 -.
rapporteur. - Madam President, following your ruling that there is no time for points of order, I will continue with my speech on the Waste Framework Directive.
Turning to the Directive, it has been a long and tortuous road to this second reading and I congratulate those of my colleagues who have accompanied me on it to the very end.
The new Article 8a requires Member States to take the necessary measures designed to achieve an overall recycling rate of 50% by 2020 for paper, metal, plastic and glass from household and similar waste.
The statement says quite clearly that if in 2020 the targets are not achieved, this will be a serious indication for the Commission that a Member State has not taken the necessary measures designed to achieve the targets.
The new article therefore represents a significant achievement.
Parliament has incorporated many other significant points into the text of the Directive.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, Caroline Jackson referred to a quotation I think from Jack Nicholson.
However, we have made enormous progress.
on behalf of the PSE Group. - (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am helped by the fact that Mrs Jackson and Commissioner Dimas have given a full explanation of the main elements of this compromise, which I also support.
It is also very important that a political and legal process has finally been set in motion to compel States to draw up genuine waste prevention plans, and that a hierarchy of waste disposal which respects the environment has finally been included in European law, and is legally binding, making waste no longer just a problem but a resource.
The achieved compromise must be seen in this light.
It must, therefore, be made clear that the Commission will use the guidelines from February 2007 in order to prevent this.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I would also like to thank Mrs Jackson.
We have supported 30 of the compromise amendments and we have tabled others to try and strengthen the compromise in the areas of hazardous waste, end of waste, by-products and separate collection of biowaste.
The final compromise does not have a legally binding target for waste reduction.
Although recycling and reuse targets have been set at 50% and 70% and the Member States are legally obliged to put measures in place to achieve these targets, the targets themselves are not binding.
on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - (GA) Madam President, I would like to thank Mrs Jackson for her work.
I would like, once again, to thank Mrs Jackson for the open and inclusive way she corresponded with the shadow raporteurs. (Applause) on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has produced a very good report as a recommendation for second reading.
The only negative aspect of the report by the Committee on the Environment was the amendment to encourage waste incineration by regarding it as efficient use if enough energy is recovered.
Furthermore, no prevention objectives have been set and the reuse and recycling objectives are considerably weakened.
I should like to thank Mrs Jackson and the other shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and I hope we shall see a successful outcome from the vote tomorrow. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome and support all the amendments intended to introduce targets which are indispensable for prevention with a view to improved recycling.
I would conclude by saying that I also welcome the amendments relating to the regeneration of waste oils, which had initially been taken out. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, may I say to Caroline Jackson that I am unhappy with the compromise, but that is not because of any flaw in Mrs Jackson's negotiating skills.
The evidence points to a potential cut of 100 million tonnes of CO2.
Please consider that we do not only have tomorrow's reading; we have a third reading too, and 64 amendments on the table are quite a lot for a conciliation procedure.
In the old Member States one person generates almost twice as much household waste - 570 kg per year - as a person in the new Member States - 300 to 350 kg per year.
I suspect that we could have got the Council to at least agree to bring forward the date by which it will publish proposals for waste reduction from 2014 to a few years earlier.
The instrument that was needed has unquestionably been watered down in response to that pressure.
It is also disappointing that waste incineration is increasingly becoming the ultima ratio at the expense of waste avoidance.
I hope that, by adopting amendments, we can still make some improvements to this draft and actually do what is necessary, namely to formulate the sort of ambitious waste-management policy we need in the European Union. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry but I have to criticise some of the compromises reached as, in some cases, they run the risk of undermining what Parliament very rightly voted for at first reading.
This is, of course, a compromise and we would have wished to go much further on certain points, such as adding environmental criteria in the definition of recovery and setting more stringent conditions for departures from the status of waste; then there is the issue of by-products, where the definition poses some problems.
We must realise that since our European waste policy has been a failure to date, it is far preferable to agree a solution that seems reasonable, and the European Commission must be very vigilant in ensuring that this directive is implemented properly.
We will see if we can go further in a few years' time. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for my part I am not satisfied with either the form or the substance of this compromise text.
On the form, I believe we cannot do our job properly when, after spending two years working on drawing up a text, we find that the final decisions - which are more than just adjustments - are taken on the quiet and go far beyond what was adopted in the Committee on the Environment and only land on Members' desks a few hours before the vote.
No, I am not satisfied, and I am in fact concerned at our political incapacity to take genuine environmental action or action to improve our health, which is also why I have voted against the text. (FR) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I want to pay tribute to the work done by our rapporteur, Caroline Jackson, and by Mojka Drčar Murko, rapporteur for our ALDE Group.
Other questions, such as the status of end of waste and the recovery of waste, seem to me to have been sacrificed in the name of an agreement at second reading. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Jackson, we shall be tabling a cross-party amendment that attracted majority support in this House at first reading.
Member States should only be allowed to authorise its use in pig feed if it has been sterilised for 20 minutes at a temperature of 133°C and a pressure of 3 bar and if all other requirements of Regulation 1774/2002 have been met in full.
I firmly believe that, if Parliament adopts this amendment, the Council will incorporate this rule into the compromise. (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the compromise that has been reached is a retrograde step from the text approved by the Committee on the Environment.
I welcome the compromise package, but at the same time I would like to emphasise that the compromise is a rather fragile one.
Thank you very much. (DE) Madam President, I believe we can congratulate the rapporteur.
We shall be supporting the compromise. (HU) Madam President, in its present form, unfortunately, the Waste Framework Directive threatens the expansion of biogas use.
Within the framework of the Waste Directive, the definition of animal manure used for biogas production as waste is ambiguous.
The basic assumptions in the proposed regulations are waste prevention and material recycling.
Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to thank all the speakers in this debate for their positive contributions.
In addition, the current formulation introduces a more regular and thorough process of monitoring the measures taken by Member States to attain the required targets in advance of the 2020 deadline, instead of a simple check of the actual compliance levels in 2020 when waste management systems are already in place.
Article 14 of the Waste Framework Directive does not prescribe whether private or public authorities should participate in the setting-up and in the operation of such networks, nor does it affect in any possible way the ownership - public or private - of waste-management operations and infrastructures.
Regarding the concerns relating to the lack of a recycling target for manufacturing and industrial waste, my services will look into the possibility of setting such a target as the first priority within the context of the 2014 review, which is foreseen in Article 8a (point 4).
However, biogas and composting plants are not environmentally neutral.
To conclude, I should like once again to congratulate and thank Mrs Jackson for her excellent work.
The vote will take place tomorrow, Tuesday, 17 June.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (DE) With the new framework directive on waste, Parliament has now won acceptance for the establishment of high and binding recycling quotas.
