Outcome of the Bali climate change conference (debate) The next item is the Council and Commission statements on the outcome of the Bali climate change conference.
I would also like to express support for the first interim report on climate change presented last Monday to your Climate Change Committee.
The final agreement resulted in a decision on long-term cooperation within the framework of the Convention under the title Bali Action Plan.
In compliance with this document, negotiations will start as early as March or April and, by the end of next year, should lead to a full global agreement on tackling climate change after 2012.
This agreement stresses that the efforts of all developed countries to reduce emissions must be comparable with each other.
This means that the United States of America will also be included in the reduction of emissions.
Here we must stress that, unlike the Kyoto Protocol for 2008-2012, this plan does not secure any quantified obligations.
The second element is that developing countries will contribute to the reduction in emissions within the framework of sustainable development.
The third element consists of improved adaptation measures to include international cooperation.
Further negotiations will take place under the auspices of a newly established ad hoc working group for long-term cooperation within the framework of the Convention.
The negotiation process will be intensive and will demand great efforts on the part of the negotiators.
These negotiations should also be concluded by the end of next year.
In our opinion, the decisions adopted at the Bali Conference are appropriate.
Future negotiations will be technically and politically very demanding.
To reach an effective international agreement, we will need stamina and patience as well as a lot of political will.
Member of the Commission. - (EL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by thanking you for this opportunity to debate both the results of the climate change conference held in Bali late last year and plans for what is to come after agreement on the commencement of negotiations has been reached.
First of all, I should like to express my admiration for the active role played by the European Parliament, and the support it has given, before and during the conference.
I should especially like to stress the very important role of the European Parliament in providing information to officials from other countries.
As for the Bali results themselves, I should like to begin by saying that the conference has been an unqualified success, since at the outset of negotiations all the important countries arrived at an agreement on climate change for the post-2012 period.
The agreement will be finalised in 2009 and will cover all the fundamental elements which the EU has resolutely sought.
We are aiming for an agreement that will lead to drastic reductions in global emissions, in a first phase by 2020, and to still greater reductions thereafter.
The participation of the United States in the Bali discussions is a clear sign that it intends to play an active role in negotiations.
Just as important as the Bali decision, however, is the emphasis placed for the first time on the need for developing countries to take active measures.
There is still a great reluctance on the part of the United States.
On the other hand, we also know that progress is being made at state level, in business circles and, more generally, in the way in which public opinion perceives this issue.
Climate change is already a central issue in political debate, as we can see in the current US presidential primaries.
This is expected not only to help in the announcement of a major and significant policy, but also to provide valuable opportunities that must be put to good use in the exchange of views with our partners from the industrialised nations.
At the moment a lively debate is taking place in Japan on climate change.
More specifically, bearing in mind the limited resources and means available to us, as well as the very short time period that remains, we must ensure that all these international forums and action plans are used strategically in order to support and complement the UN plan of action without undermining it in any way whatsoever.
We also need to work more closely with our partners from developing countries in order to plan carefully for their participation in and contribution to a future agreement.
The developing countries, the most advanced ones at least, are willing to take action.
The developed countries must also open up access for developing countries either to technology or, more generally, to funding.
Finally, I should like to say that the package of measures on climate and energy is evidence of our determination to progress from words to deeds; it also demonstrates that this can be done in a fair and economically effective manner, allowing everyone to be a winner.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, you had an excellent team in Bali.
As a European patriot, I believe that the real success of Bali lies in the absolutely crucial decisions taken by the European Union last March in favour of a trio of 20% reductions, and that is the basis on which our lives will be lived in this continent in the coming years.
I am pleased that, besides making progress with the United States, we were also able to ensure that, in addition to the 38 countries which have already signed the Kyoto Protocol, the closest G77 countries are now committed to doing something rather than constantly lamenting the fact that every government is waiting for the others to act.
I believe we must associate the concept of sustainability far more closely with our objectives in this field in order to heighten awareness.
There was specific discussion of technology transfer, the issue of deforestation was included, but above all, and for me this is the most important and most promising issue, the barrier - hence the 'Berlin Wall' - of Annex 1 was overcome between industrialised countries and developing countries in a world that has changed, in which a good number of those that were developing countries are now experiencing massive growth.
In summary, the game of pass the parcel played by the USA, India and China so as not to do anything has, we could say, been exposed, and for this reason a situation has come about in which difficult negotiations - they will certainly be difficult - have a good possibility of reaching a successful conclusion.
on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I think the Minister is correct in saying that we can be content with the agreement, and we can congratulate those involved in securing it.
I do not underestimate the difficulties in getting between here and Copenhagen in 2009; besides other matters - the rainforest issue and the technological transfer - there are all sorts of hurdles in the way.
According to preliminary estimates, each family will pay an average of more than 50 euros a month for this project, whose results may possibly be perceptible in 100 years or so.
The real outcome, however, will be a worsening of the economies of the new Member States within the next two to three years.
on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - (FI) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Bali conference on climate was a success and we can be proud of the EU's role there.
The main message now, however, which Europe can send the world, is connected with our own climate policy.
We must be prepared in one way or another to compensate developing countries for the fact that our emissions per head of population are many times greater than those in the developing countries.
on behalf of the IND/DEM Group. - (NL) Madam President, the European Union went to Bali full of good intentions to obtain the best possible outcome.
First of all, I am, of course, pleased that all the participating countries were able to sign up to the Bali Action Plan, and that negotiations can start.
It is also good that western countries are to provide more support for the developing countries in the use of sustainable technologies.
The Bali conference was supposed to pave the way for a post-Kyoto consensus, but Kyoto itself has failed.
Let us hear less about wind farms and auto emissions and more about investment in nuclear generating capacity and in waste-to-energy incinerators. (SL) I think the resolution which was prepared by the Committee on Climate Change reflects the essential decisions of the Bali negotiations as well as the opinion of the European Parliament.
I am pleased that the developing countries also undertook part of the responsibility for reducing CO2 emissions and committed themselves to sustainable development.
For example, the global investment in research into the energy supply has been reduced by 40% since the 1980s.
This applies not only to the United States but also to Japan, Canada, Australia and many other countries.
We - by which I mean the EU - should rethink our strategy.
The law of scarce resources will eventually induce even the United States and China to save energy and avoid CO2 emissions.
We do not need to force it by enacting laws. (FR) Madam President, the Bali Conference has reminded us that global warming is a challenge to development.
In my view, aid to those countries for adaptation and the transfer of appropriate technologies should therefore be a priority.
The Bali Roadmap that was agreed at the international conference and the newly created Adaptation Fund both oblige the European Union to take a leading role.
The European Union must, however, realistically examine and assess the level of reduction that is tolerable.
The proposal to reduce emissions by 25% to 40% by 2020 compared with 1990, or even by 50% by 2050, seems to me like random numbers without any real knowledge of the extent to which the emissions can be reduced.
If we set the stakes too high, then one country will fail to meet the target, then another country will fail to meet the target and in the end we will realise that we have all failed.
But at least there is a theoretical possibility that within two years we will have a wider front than only one quarter of the emitters.
Not long after the Bali results, some hopefuls already raised the question as to whether this now automatically means that the front is wide enough for the 30% reductions, as was agreed in the March summit provided that the EU is not acting alone.
This is not only for economical but also for environmental reasons.
For the EU, it is politically important to take the lead, hoping that the others will follow, but our unilateral effort - which it still is - reduces our competitiveness in global markets giving the advantage to the polluter.
The global capital will simply move to where there is no cost for emitting CO2.
Luckily the Commission has understood this risk, as you, Commissioner Dimas, just very clearly indicated, and I thank you for that.
Therefore we must devise a truly global-market-based mechanism and I believe that balancing this triangular dilemma of energy supply, environmental sensitivity and retaining globally competitive industries to employ our workforce is the key priority for a recently published climate package. (FI) Madam President, the best outcome of the Bali talks was the fact that international negotiations on a post-Kyoto agreement were begun.
They are the same figures which the IPCC Panel presented in their assessments and they indicate the sort of reductions in emissions we in Europe - and globally - need to achieve to manage climate change without massive sacrifices being made.
In a little less than two years we have to establish an agreement in which there is commitment to the earth's temperature not rising more than two degrees.
For this we need everyone: we need the European Union to show the way, we need the developed countries and we need to make a common effort to include the developing countries.
It all boils down to business and politics, and I think a great number of mistakes are being made in those domains.
In practical terms, this would simply mean reducing the CO2 emissions that result from political activity.
After all, the Bali Conference and the agreement entered into by undeveloped as well as the most developed countries were actually a great success, but the success will only be complete in Copenhagen.
I would also like to express my support for the resolution to be adopted by the European Parliament tomorrow.
That may also answer some of the warranted fears or doubts also expressed among the Member States of the European Union about the new energy and climate package presented by the European Commission so effectively last week.
It is a great challenge not only for European politics and economics, but also for the citizens.
The media could play a very, very important role here.
The package adopted by the European Commission last week is the result of an expert approach.
Such an agreement was easier to reach in Bali, Indonesia, than elsewhere on our planet.
The Presidency is committed and will do everything to reach these targets. (ES) Madam President, Commissioner, it goes without saying that I congratulate the representatives of the Commission and Parliament on the work they did in Bali.
In December there is a global conference in Poznan.
European leadership also means that we will implement the emission reductions that we are demanding of other countries in our own 27 Member States.
A sound European climate policy is essential for this, however. (PL) Madam President, the climate change conference in Bali was a test of whether there is generally a chance of worldwide cooperation to combat climate change.
But not all European countries are at the same level of technological progress, and this is a further challenge for the European Union.
Poland is a country in which 96% of electric power is produced by burning coal, and for that reason adapting our energy industry by 2020 may be an unbearable burden.
In short, I believe it is crucial for our future that we exert specific pressure on the research community to develop new technologies that are significantly more advantageous and more efficient for our planet than those currently available to us. (PL) Madam President, the energy and climate change package proposed for the European Union is an elaborate organisational and legislative mix aimed at achieving a significant reduction in CO2 emissions.
The Commission's ambitious plans are based on the assumption that the climate changes taking place in the world, which are an undoubted fact, are the result of CO2 emissions, and yet that has not been proved and was not sustained in Bali.
Second, the Commission's imposition of restrictions on CO2 emissions within the European Union without the issue being tackled on an international level will result in a downturn in economic development, with serious social consequences.
Fourthly, the conference in Bali proved that there is no widespread support for excessive and extremely expensive measures for handling climate change.
Existing European legislation and the new package recently presented by the Commission for the promotion of renewable energy sources are cases in point.
I'm glad that we are having this debate during the European sustainable energy week.
We call on the Commission and the Council to include climate change among its priorities, both in EU affairs and in its international relations. (DE) Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the conference in Bali was a step in the right direction, and I should like to express my warm thanks to my fellow Members and to the Commission for what I regard as a good result.
As things stand, though, I believe that in the next 18 months until the end of this Parliamentary term, this package of initiatives ought to become Community legislation.
That is our absolute priority.
It was a fashionable even if a somewhat overworked concept as recently as the early 1990s, as shown by the agreement of the states attending the Rio de Janeiro conference in 1992 to protect the environment in a reasonable fashion in the course of its exploitation.
We must protect our planet against climate change, but not at the cost of destroying our industry.
One of the clearest messages from Bali was the urgent need to find a mechanism to ensure avoided deforestation and degradation of our forests is part of any post-2012 international agreement.
If we had an agreed system of credits to reward or compensate native communities, thereby mitigating the present rate of deforestation, particularly of our tropical forests - notwithstanding the immense difficulty in mapping a baseline figure for existing forestation - we could reduce global carbon emissions by another 20%, so that '20/20/20/20 by 2020' must be our goal.
For this reason we are now awaiting measures, incentives and initiatives to narrow the gap and make the responses to this target of the EU Member States as a whole more cohesive. (SK) As a substitute member of the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, I would like to highlight the huge success achieved by the European Parliament at the global conference in Bali.
The European Union must encourage investment in research and development aimed at developing efficient technologies that require less energy.
I believe that storing rainwater for future use instead of letting it go down the drain is a good strategic solution not only in the US but also in Europe.
In relation to agriculture, raised by Ms Schierhuber in particular: in Ireland, for example, 28% of our emissions come from agriculture.
These views have since been abandoned, as Australia has ratified Kyoto and in the United States, at both federal and state level, these views are no longer accepted.
As is shown by the data for 2005, however, the United States has increased its greenhouse gas emissions by 16.4%, while the EU is reaching the Kyoto target and in 2005 emitted in total 7.9% less than 1990 levels.
T here is therefore a wide gap between the EU's achievements and what the United States is failing to achieve, and it should be noted that the United States was due to reduce its emissions by 7% under the Kyoto Protocol, which it signed but did not ratify.
This is already below 1990 levels.
Ladies and gentlemen, the Bali action plan, which was agreed last December, is an important element in the debates on the future international climate change regime.
Within the scope of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change the creation of a new ad hoc group has been approved to negotiate long-term cooperation, together with an ad hoc working group already operating under the Kyoto Protocol.
I am convinced that we can also be more successful in areas such as trade and investments at bilateral and regional level.
Further mobilisation of the private sector is also vitally import and must be exploited even more.
The EU's leading role in the climate change issue will be crucial in ensuring that this dialogue continues and yields positive results.
The implementation within the EU of climate policies and the speedy approval of the raft of climate and energy measures will continue to be crucially important if we want to maintain our leading role and drive international efforts in combating climate change to a successful conclusion.
Let me once more stress that we look forward to continuing and close cooperation with Parliament in this process.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place tomorrow, 31 January 2008.
Written statements (Rule 142) in writing. - (RO) We have recently received a document concerning the climate change that all of us can perceive.
I will not accept the notion that I can only sunbathe between 5 and 7 a.m., for fear of getting skin cancer.
in writing. - (HU) The climate summit organised by the UN in Bali did not have any specific results, but did open up the way for a new, global climate agreement after 2012.
The European Union's representatives in Bali spoke of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 25-40% in their declarations.
Last year, the European Parliament voted for a 30% reduction in emissions.
The latest report by the Commission still only recommends a 20% reduction in emissions by 2020.
in writing. - (RO) The crowning moment of the Bali conference was the adoption of a roadmap for a secure climate future, which is a new negotiation process due for completion in 2009, leading to the resumption of negotiations concerning global warming after 2012, when the first stage of the Kyoto protocol ends.
in writing. - (HU) I welcome the compromise achieved at the Bali climate protection summit, and the decision relating to this by the EP Climate Change Committee.
In my opinion, the Bali compromise is a breakthrough, because the parties agreed to a mandate for negotiating a new climate change agreement to replace the Kyoto Protocol which will expire in 2012.
At the same time, for the first time, developing countries and the United States have also committed themselves to reducing the impact of climate change.
In March 2007, the European Council decided to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases by 20% by 2020 in comparison with the 1990 level.
In order to meet this ambitious target, the European Commission prepared its plan for a climate protection and renewable energy package, thus providing an example for other industrialised countries.
The environmental and social erosion of the Homokhátság area must be stopped, because it would lead to the subsistence of around 800 000 people falling into even greater danger.
