Lamfalussy follow up - Future Structure of Supervision (debate) The next item is the report by Ieke van den Burg and Daniel Dăianu, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on Lamfalussy follow-up: future structure of supervision.
Already at that time, in a report for Parliament on prudential supervision, I pleaded for a strong system of European supervision comparable to the European system of central banks.
Mr Barroso has already mentioned some short-term measures.
Concerning my Amendments 5, 6 and 7: I hope there will be support for a proposal which immediately leads to an independent chair and vice-chair for the European supervisory structure.
rapporteur. - Mr President, I am going to use this moment just to say a few words on issues which seem to frame the public debate on regulation and supervision.
The root cause of this crisis is an inadequately regulated financial system.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, let me start my remarks with the situation on financial markets.
At Ecofin yesterday it was agreed that Member States would increase the current level to at least EUR 50 000, with many going beyond this to EUR 100 000.
The proposal for amendments to the Capital Requirements Directive covers critical areas and will fundamentally strengthen the regulatory framework for EU banks and the financial system.
Second, improved legal status for the Level 3 Committees, and more effective working methods for them too.
The current crisis has revealed a lack of supervision and economic governance in the financial markets.
Citizens are very clear that identifying risks and preventing them is much better than correcting them when they have resulted in imbalances and caused damage to the financial markets and to the real economy.
I therefore fervently support the van den Burg and Dǎianu report.
It is surprising, however, that it takes a report from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs according to Rule 39 for the Commission to start to tackle this topic seriously.
In the meantime, 58 of the 100 financial conglomerates are now active across borders.
The report by the two rapporteurs points in the right direction.
These measures are therefore insufficient.
On the question of responsibility, I agree with Mrs Kauppi on the fact that there has effectively been a great deal of resistance in the Council, but it is clear that the Commission - yourself in particular - has never been a fan, to put it mildly, of more regulation at European level.
The Commission is proposing 5% in its capital adequacy review.
Somehow I am not surprised that the Commission proposals are based on the needs of cross-border financial groups; I have been a Member of the European Parliament for five years.
The EU supervision and regulation system has to ensure the smooth restructuring of the financial industry.
Today's coordinated interest rate cuts by several central banks are necessary to restore confidence in the financial markets.
These measures are targeted and must resolve a crisis here and now.
We must make use of all the management options at Level 3 in order to create a better architecture. (PL) Madam President, the main reason for the current collapse in the financial sector is the irresponsibility of financial institutions, unsuitable risk management, bad loans and allowing excessive debts to arise without proper guarantees, which has ultimately led to a loss of liquidity.
Although I have been in politics for all of my adult life, and have ceased to be amazed at contradictory positions that politicians may adopt - and no doubt, if you look over my long political career, you might find some of them as well - I still find it totally ironic and amazing that, when we advocate a European solution, for example regarding supervision to do with Solvency II, the people who advocate European responses - both Ministers and Members of the European Parliament - are often the same people who come back and lobby for their own national state positions when a particular piece of legislation comes before them.
This does not surprise me because I have been a politician for all of my adult life so I am used to that type of irony, to put it in its politest terms.
Be that as it may, there are only 44 or 45 cross-border financial institutions and we have a supervisory system which is way out of date for such operations.
Can I just remind Members here - and I am sure President Barroso did so as well in his contribution - that we in the European Commission do our best to coordinate and encourage Member States to give a total response.
But, as I said in my opening remarks, these responsibilities lie with Member States, with Member States' central bankers and with Member States' ministries, because they are the elected people.
If I may quote the Commissioner on some of the things that he said, I should like to start with his statement that, in times of crisis, politicians should do something.
I support the idea is that we should create colleges and that we should take some of these supervisory issues at a common, joint, level, because these cross-border groups act at the joint level.
So in these cases of conflict, it is not fair to just say that you can have a sort of voluntary mediation by the Level 3 Committees followed simply by advice to the lead supervisor, and then in the end the lead supervisor can either comply or explain that he is deviating from this advice.
So this extra level, the extra add-on that we need to solve this problem, as well as for the short term, is in Amendment 7 that I have tabled for the vote tomorrow.
in writing. - (RO) The financial crisis that has extended to almost the entire planet should be analysed at the level of the European Union's institutions.
