Council Question Time The next item is Question Time (B6-0156/2008).
President-in-Office. - (SL) I have a rather brief answer.
This is not a question of whether this matter is important or not, it is a question of competence.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Mr Rack, thank you for this question.
However, please note that this question should be addressed to the particular Member State, and not to the Council, which does not represent it in this matter.
President-in-Office. - (SL) I would like to inform Mrs Doyle that as of today's date, 21 May 2008, thirteen member states have ratified the Lisbon Treaty.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Mrs Doyle, thank you for the two additional questions.
I believe everyone is aware that we are studying a change to this Question Time in order to make it more flexible and also more useful.
President-in-Office. - (SL) First, regarding the question asked by Mrs Harkin.
This is mentioned in Article 207 of the future Lisbon Treaty.
By signing this Treaty in December last year the Member States committed themselves to do everything in their power so that the text they signed will also be ratified in line with their internal rules, constitutional and other legal provisions.
In its conclusions of 10 December 2007, the European Council took note of the progress that the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia had made, and expressed its regret that the implementation of its reforms had been delayed.
The Council will continue to encourage all the political parties to intensify their dialogue and cooperation and that with different ethnic groups, so that the country can achieve progress with the integration process.
President-in-Office. - (SL) As we know, in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia elections have been called for 1 June.
President-in-Office. - (SL) As you all know, in June 2007 the European Council invited its Secretary-General, the High Representative Javier Solana, and the European Commission to present a joint document on how climate change affects international security.
On the contrary, with this document it points out a new and a very important aspect of climate change, which we shall not be able to avoid in future debates at various levels.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Thank you, Mr Carner González, for your additional question.
I would also like to draw your attention to three communications which the Commission made public on 13 February this year.
The debate on the Commission's proposals and recommendations from these communications took place on 12 March, at the Ministerial Conference in Slovenia.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Thank you for the question posed by Mrs Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou.
Allow me to point out that Article 137 of the Agreement says that the provisions of this Article shall not apply to salaries.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Thank you very much for the additional question.
The Council can only speak in general terms.
In its statement of 4 March this year, the Presidency assessed Cuba's signing of the two pacts as positive.
In its Conclusions on Cuba, in June 2007, the European Council invited the Cuban government to make political and economic reforms which are necessary to improve the everyday life of the Cuban people.
Further debates are taking place in the European Council on the possibilities of re-establishing a general and open dialogue with Cuba in line with the conclusions reached in June last year.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Thank you very much to Mr Howitt for the additional question.
However, at least 58 people still remain incarcerated in Cuban prisons purely for insisting on their fundamental rights.
In the context of these two UN human rights covenants, what can the Council do for the 75 prisoners of conscience from the 'March group'?
President-in-Office. - (SL) Firstly, regarding the question posed by Mrs Pleštinská.
President-in-Office. - (SL) Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to speak.
