Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, a reformed Parliament that promotes a livelier political debate on the EU is in the interests of all our citizens and also all the institutions.
The Commission welcomes the introduction of some guidelines and admissibility criteria for written parliamentary questions as proposed in the report.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - (HU) Mr President, again we have been able to hear voices saying that this recommendation is about us restricting the activities of certain MEPs.
When we legislate, we create changes that will have a direct impact on the lives of 500 million people in the years to come, while for own-initiative reports this transfer takes much longer and is much smaller.
However, I also agree with those who have said that Parliament has increasingly developed from being an advisory assembly to a legislative body.
I should like to say at this point that we as a group can support the report overall, in contrast to the previous report, because it reflects the proposals of the Working Party on Parliamentary Reform and implements them as amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
What we cannot support, which I should also like to mention briefly here, is the proposal to no longer allow amendments to own-initiative reports.
To finish, I should like to add that I believe that Amendments 13 and 15 by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe are worthy of support.
Mr Leinen, if you would listen for a moment: I want to speak about your remarks on own-initiative reports.
I have just listened to Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf's speech, and we always disagree on this, but I think that some of the descriptions, insults and caricatures ultimately damage this institution, and especially those responsible for them, Mr President.
rapporteur. - Mr President, after our previous debate I am glad to see that we are still friends and that we can reach a wider consensus on these issues.
