&#160;&#160; Mr President, as chairman of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, I should like it confirmed – for the record – that all the letters of assessment on the Commissioners–designate have been forwarded to Mr Barroso, President–designate of the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr Chichester, I note your request.
We have said in this House over recent days that everybody has the right to think and express their opinions, whatever they may be, but when that opinion clashes with the responsibilities of a Vice-President of the Commission, calling into question three States of the Union, we believe that is very serious.
Such people are a&#160;lasting testimony to the idea that wherever there are women, children and men condemned to a&#160;life of poverty, their human rights are violated.
On 17 October 1987, in response to the call of Father Jozef Brezinsky, 100 000 defenders of human rights gathered in rue Trocadero in Paris to pay their respects to the victims of hunger, violence and ignorance.
The European Parliament subsequently adopted this position in its annual reports on basic human rights in the European Union.
In 1996, in the same spirit, the United Nations launched its first Decade for the Elimination of World Poverty.
Allow me to mention two important points that relate to this problem.
The first is the adoption of a&#160;position on participation.
The World Bank, for example, has adopted precisely this type of participatory approach in the fight against poverty.
The second important aspect is the Internal Stability Pact.
In spite of this, the European Union heads of state and their governments have refused to recognise the elimination of poverty as one of the aims of the European Union in the draft Constitutional Agreement.
On 17 October I&#160;would like to introduce another kind of stability pact, an internal stability pact, which would give women and impoverished families more self-esteem and dignity, a&#160;pact that would open the doors of society to women and the poor.
It is true, though, that poverty, and consequently social exclusion, are more of a threat to women, including those in Europe’s Member States – whether in or out of work, whether young or old – than to men.
Very many women have no secure income of their own and are financially dependent on their families or obliged to rely on minimal incomes.
Such women are very often the victims of multiple discrimination, something that has ceased to be acceptable, and this is where our campaign against poverty and social exclusion must start.
The efforts of the actors at European and national level to combat poverty among women and what you have termed the feminisation of poverty may be observed in the context of the open method of coordination in the field of social inclusion.
Such plans should also provide for measures geared to the specific needs of women, with the Member States being required to ensure the involvement of non-governmental organisations dealing with women’s specific needs in the development, follow-up and evaluation of the national action plans.
Along with the open method of coordination in the spheres of poverty and exclusion, there is to be a Community action programme running until the end of 2006, and cooperation between the Member States in combating social exclusion is also to be supported.
As has already been mentioned, the Commission is aware that it is women in particular who are at risk of poverty when they reach retirement age.
A series of initiatives taken at EU level over recent years have helped to give practical expression to the concerns raised by your House in its 1994 resolution on women’s poverty in Europe.
These include, for example, not only the measures under the open method of coordination, but also the reversal of the burden of proof in legislation on gender equality and the latest directive based on Article 13 of the Treaty establishing the European Communities.
I would like to press home the point that none of us – the European institutions, the Member States or society – can tolerate women falling victim to exploitation, whether this be sexual or takes some other form.
Unfortunately, we all need to realise this, even we who are responsible for policy-making and come into daily contact with reality, because it is something which offends our democracy and brings the effectiveness of our policies into question.
The statistics we have at our disposal are both revealing and worrying.
From Sweden to Ireland and from the countries of the south to the new Member States, the situation is very serious everywhere for certain groups, such as the unemployed, single parents, the elderly living alone and families with large numbers of children and women are in the majority in all these groups.
The debate on the Constitution will focus on these issues, if my experience is anything to go by.
Let us all be prepared for that; we need to prepare not only our responses to the dialogue, but also our policies, at both European and national level.
The debate on the financial perspectives for 2007-2013, the new regulation on the Structural Funds and next year's budget give us ample opportunity to turn our attention to these matters.
However, for this special studies and research are needed, statistics need to be collated by category and, as you mentioned Commissioner, indicators are needed.
We have always spearheaded them, and thus it is particularly painful that we have been unable to bring about any decisive reduction in the gap between the poor and the well-off in Europe.
All these aspects we have to take into account and redouble our efforts to deal with them.
The economic losses resulting from them are enormous, and so, when implementing the Lisbon strategy, and on the points to which the Commissioner referred, we should really press the point home that the key element underpinning the European social model is, in the final analysis, women’s development and support for them, and that we in Europe really do have the most generous resources for further empowering women and thereby making European society more human.
We on the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality demand that these points be incorporated in future major projects on the European social model, in the Progress programme, in the Structural Funds and in the new employment guidelines.
The Constitutional Treaty provides us with good instruments for this purpose; let us make it come alive and, by means of gender mainstreaming, give women pride of place in our deliberations. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Schreyer, we do not have to be told that there is a very great deal of poverty in the world.
Nor do we have to be told that women are hit harder by poverty than men.
We in the rich part of the world have, however, obtained large amounts of money at the expense of poor people far away.
Poverty both within and outside the EU hits women harder than men.
In and outside Europe, poverty is particularly widespread among women living in the countryside.
The fact that, here in Parliament, we succeeded in getting our act together and clearly emphasising that we did not accept a Commission based on homophobia and misogyny is a great victory.
Our society may well talk about children being its wealth, but the end result is poverty for the people who have many of them.
This is indeed scandalous, and I believe that the Commission, in the Lisbon process and elsewhere, must do much more.
There are far too few indicators at European level to facilitate progress in the battle against poverty among women, and too little account is taken of the issue when making policy.
The Commission needs to take another great leap forward in order that more account may be taken of women’s issues, of equality for women, in the EU’s policy areas.
Patriarchal power structures permeate the whole of our society, in both the Member States and, above all, in the European Union.
I have to acknowledge that it is sometimes quite wearying year after year to hear people in power coming out with fine words about, for example, objectives in terms of gender equality and of reduced poverty for women and, at the same time, to know that extremely little is happening in terms of practical action.
In the countries that recently joined the European Union, the problem has been particularly exacerbated by a drop in production, an increase in the level of unemployment and the economic expansion of rich countries.
The impact of poverty is felt most by those who live in rural areas, by the unemployed, disabled people and invalids, the majority of whom are children and women.
If this is not understood, the material poverty of millions will be as nothing in comparison to the spiritual destitution of the powerful and wealthy of this world. &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, despite technical progress, despite social advances of all kinds and despite measures being put in place seeking to extend these benefits to all of the countries of the European Union, too many women are still living in extreme poverty and this phenomenon is even more pronounced in the candidate countries wishing to join the European Union.
Nevertheless, these women have undeniably made a significant contribution to society throughout their lives by raising their children and doing jobs that are menial, badly paid and, usually, undeclared.
That is where we need to start in our fight against poverty which particularly affects women. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I&#160;would like to add two observations to the question tabled by Mrs Záborská: Firstly, a&#160;lot of research has shown that women have borne the main part of the burden of transition in the new Member States, both from the psychological point of view and the socio-economic point of view.
The feminisation of poverty is not a&#160;problem restricted to the new Member States.
I&#160;also support the view that these questions are urgent, including the need to strengthen gender-specific statistics within the framework of building a&#160;knowledge-based society.
I&#160;also agree that certain countries, and in particular the governments of certain countries, are attempting to make light of the problem of poverty, as if it were a&#160;symptom of personal failure.
These single mothers, whom Mr Buttiglione chose to insult, are real heroines.
Fortunately, Parliament gave him the response he deserved and I was delighted to hear Mrs Schreyer say that we must respect single mothers.
Everything is linked: poverty, disease, illiteracy, lack of academic success, infant and maternal mortality, urban and environmental decay, social discrimination, lack of professional qualifications, unemployment, promiscuity, domestic violence, trafficking in human beings.
Around 700&#160;000 women and children every year are seized by networks of human traffickers.
It is because of poverty that more children than ever are abandoned, raped, trafficked, beaten up and even murdered by their own parents.
We must not forget that those who suffer most from the consequences of criminalising the voluntary termination of pregnancy are women from the poorest sections of society.
Such is the case in Ireland, Poland and Portugal.
The fight against the social exclusion of women requires practical measures, as, in fact, laid down in the Lisbon Strategy.
The Europe that we want and deserve must show greater solidarity, fairness and humanity towards women too. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, women constitute a good half of the earth’s population.
The gap between words and action is still worryingly large when it comes to women’s rights and, as a result, poverty has been feminised in the world.
We must put our faith in women in the poor countries and, in that way, also fulfil the UN’s Millennium Declaration, which states that extreme poverty must be halved by 2015.
The award of the Nobel prize to Wangari Maathai is an example of what can be done.
By guaranteeing women’s rights, land and water are also secured, as well as opportunities for self-provision and local development.
This fact also applies within the European Union, and I do not agree with the Commissioner’s description.
Now that we are working on the Lisbon process, I wish to know what the Commission is doing to guarantee women’s rights, achieve sustainable economic development and enable women to appropriate the rights accorded to them. &#160;&#160; Mr President, although official figures by gender are hard to come by, subject to severe delays or non-existent, as regards the 70&#160;million people at risk from relative poverty in the European Union of the 25, we all know that poverty and social exclusion affect women in particular, whether it be because they are old and receive the lowest pensions, because they are young or middle-aged and unemployed or have an unstable job that affords them no rights or is badly paid, because they are immigrants or because they are single mothers.
In the EU, for example, over 51% of the approximately 20&#160;million unemployed are women.
In other words, unemployment, just like poverty, has a female face and seriously affects the women who are victims of multinational companies restructuring and relocating, as happens in my country, Portugal.
On the subject of unemployment, the latest Eurostat figures show that across the 25 Member States of the EU, only 38% of permanent posts are held by women, meaning that most work done by women is insecure.
A new social map is needed, based on a specific and integrated strategy to combat poverty and social exclusion in all social classes, especially among women.
Cooperation between all the countries of the European Union, between local and regional authorities, is important and necessary in order to mitigate the new types of poverty among immigrants and the emergence of groups of .
Commissioner, as you well know, addressing poverty is not the priority of social policies, of Community policies and the Structural Funds.
The Member States, like the Community, are strengthening the competitiveness of the European economy, rather than social issues, such as women's issues and poverty.
While it would be worthwhile to consider many of the points made, I would like to highlight two of them, one being the connection between the European Budget, agricultural expenditure and poverty – including among women – in the developing world.
We are all aware of how poverty, rural areas and women are interlinked, and so our European Budget’s programmes for fostering development in rural areas are of immense importance in keeping women out of poverty.
I would like to remind you that it was the Commission that devoted its efforts to formulating the objective, as part of the Lisbon strategy, of increasing the number of women in employment, and that in a relatively short time.
We do not want to scrap any ships, but we do want our friends in the defence sector to continue to be able to travel under water in an orderly fashion, rather than, as is unfortunately the present case, in some confusion and disarray.
At the plenary session in March of this year, Commissioner Solbes made a statement on behalf of the Commission on the effects of low-frequency active sonar on the marine environment, in which it was pointed out that the EU’s Member States are required by Community law to set up stringent systems for protecting whales in European waters.
The Commission did not, however, have at its disposal the information on high-intensity active sonar systems and their potential effects on whales that it would have needed in order to clarify outstanding scientific issues and adopt an unambiguous position.
This was to provide a basis for the description of measures that might prove necessary in the future in order to avoid disturbing whales and in order to guarantee adherence to the provisions of the Habitat Directive.
The scientific study has since been set in motion, and the draft conclusions are expected at the beginning of 2005.
Precise information on the effects of high-intensity sonars has been obtained from many reliable sources, including data published by 18 European researchers in the issue of Nature magazine dated 9 October 2003, which shows that high-intensity sonars pose a significant threat to marine mammals in particular, but also to fish and other marine fauna.
There has been a considerable increase in the body of evidence showing a link between the death in large numbers of marine mammals and high-intensity sonars.
This Parliament voted unanimously for the application of consistent, coordinated measures to halt the decline of biodiversity by 2010 and to promote the sustainable use of the seas, protecting and conserving marine ecosystems.
These acoustic waves are, in simple terms, very loud noises which travel over many hundreds of kilometres and, in the areas used, completely fill every cubic inch of ocean water without any geographical limitation.
I would strongly urge Members to vote against the amendment tabled by the PPE Group, which seeks to weaken the resolution by calling upon Member States to adopt geographic restrictions in sensitive marine habitats.
I urge colleagues to reject that amendment. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, naturally, our group too supports this resolution and the demand for a moratorium on using this technique.
I take the view that we should apply the precautionary principle in this instance too and should therefore temporarily ban the use of those types of sonar in European waters until such time as it has been proven that there is some other cause or – if the damage is indeed caused by these sonar devices – until a final ban is imposed.
With regard to the amendment tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I understand that restrictions can be imposed on protected areas, but it seems wise to me to retain the current text of the resolution in order to send the strongest possible signal to the Council and the Commission. &#160;&#160; Mr President, I represent the south-west of England, where in recent years an increasing number of dead dolphins have been washed ashore.
It is a difficult balance, but we believe that our amendment to the text delivers the best possible solution.
If it is not adopted many of us will, with great regret, have to abstain or vote against this motion. &#160;&#160; Mr President, this is the second debate we have held this year in Parliament on the issue of ziphii.
During the previous debate, Commissioner Solbes announced to us that this study would be carried out, and I am pleased that Commissioner Schreyer has confirmed what Commissioner Solbes said and that the study will be finished before the end of the year.
The University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria has carried out very detailed studies on the subject and it is clear that the low-frequency sonar used in naval military manoeuvres does harm to animals.
It falls to the Commission to present proposals to the Member States, concrete proposals, and I hope that those proposals will be on the table when we next hold the debate in Parliament.
I will therefore end by calling on the Commission to present these proposals very soon, that is to say, immediately after it receives those studies, so that, next year, Parliament can study them and recommend to the Member States what decisions should be taken, without any excessive delay. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it must be made very clear that it is impossible to limit the effects of sonar on a geographical basis.
The Verts/ALE Group has been condemning this for a long time.
For that reason, I believe it would be more realistic to seek first a suitable geographical limit and come to an agreement that these devices should no longer be used in places where whales and dolphins have died in particularly large numbers.
My third point is that I will bring this resolution to the attention of my successor as the Commissioner responsible for safety research, as I believe it to be very important to make full use of the options available to us in this area of research. &#160;&#160; I would like to inform the House that I have received the motion for a resolution(1).
The debate is closed.
I would like to thank all the members of all the political groups for their valuable cooperation, remind you that we have dealt with more than 760 amendments in the Committee on Budgets and express our particular thanks to our chairman, Mr Lewandowski, who, having recently arrived in this Parliament and in the Committee on Budgets, has done an excellent job of coordination.
Amendment No 69, in line 04&#160;03&#160;03&#160;03, is accepted with a sum of EUR 600&#160;000.
Mr President, I propose that we proceed to the vote on these technical corrections. &#160;&#160; Mr President, my Group disagrees with this voting arrangement.
In the light of his Curriculum Vitae and the answers provided in the questionnaire and public hearing, our committee recommended the appointment of Mr Kazamias with 26 votes for and one against and expressed hope for the prospects of cooperation with the new candidate.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has therefore decided to request a written report from the Council by 15 December 2004 as to why it ignored Parliament’s recommendation.
Mr Kazamias had the trust of the Committee on Budgetary Control, and I am therefore asking you to accept the report we have presented to you. &#160;&#160; – I will therefore put Amendment No&#160;3 to the vote as an addition which has the support of the rapporteur. (1) (2) &#160;&#160; .I would like to declare that I voted in favour of budget heading 04 04 09 which supports the costs of the Platform of European Social NGOs, because of the important role played by associations in the voluntary sector in Europe.
We believe that the commitments for 2005 should definitely not exceed the Commission’s proposal of 1.14%.
Below is a selection of proposed cutbacks: - We believe that the EU should begin cutting back on agricultural subsidies by no later than 2005. - The subsidy for European political parties should be completely abolished. - The subsidy for tobacco cultivation should be abolished.
Despite our favourable assessment of certain forms of European policy – in the areas of the environment, agriculture and the internal market, for example – we are of the opinion that, in the Budget amended by Parliament, far too much money has been allocated to matters which, according to the subsidiarity principle, should not fall within the European Union’s remit.
It is a pity that the Council’s draft budget for the financial year 2005 is, in total, equal to 1% of the Gross National Income (GNI) of the 25 EU Member States, maintaining the pressure – publicly defended by various Member States – to lower the 1.24% ceiling.
Under pressure from Parliament, the Commission adopted a new activity-based management approach (ABM).
For example, the Member States should bear the primary responsibility for the social dialogue. (4) People need to be given better information about European policy.
It is therefore important to promote the fast and effective integration of the new Member States in all fields.
I expect much more from the Financial Perspectives for 2007-2013. &#160;&#160; We do not believe that the EU should grant economic resources to Bosnia and Herzegovina to ease the transition to market economies.
I feel that following the political changes that took place at the end of 2000 in Serbia and Montenegro (SCG, formerly the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia), the authorities in the country have achieved notable success in terms of economic and stabilisation reforms.
These countries have achieved good results in terms of stability and Commission missions in the area have noted positive developments.
pay close attention to the India-Pakistan dialogue, including the Kashmir issue; welcoming the dialogue and hoping for a fruitful conclusion; and paying attention to the need to develop and secure mutual trust and confidence between these two major countries, 3.
Indian society is still – contrary to current legislation – divided into castes, with some 150 million people being outcastes and thus considered by others as untouchables.
I feel that the EU’s relations with India are crucial, due to that country’s geo-strategic importance and its potential role in a multilateral world order.
In view of the significance of India with its diversity of religions, ethnicities and languages, and its importance in the dialogue among civilisations, I believe that the decision to upgrade EU-India relations to Strategic Partnership level is a key element in EU external relations.
History has conferred on some Member States, such as Portugal, privileged ties and relations with India.
Lukashenko wants to remain in power and, alongside Putin, play an important role in a Greater Russia.
By voting in favour, I wish to express that I share the concern of those who feel that the situation in the country is extremely serious as regards the violation of human rights, and that I share the international community’s view that the recent ‘elections and referendum’ that took place there were neither free nor fair.
It is our duty to condemn electoral fraud and to speak out against all those who seek to prevent the citizens from exercising their right to freedom.
The situation in Belarus, a neighbouring country of the EU, is extremely serious.
The violence meted out to members of the democratic opposition, the repression of the right to demonstrate, not to mention the way in which the electoral process took place, illustrate that there is still a great deal to do to defend human rights on our continent.
President Lukashenko’s desire to remain in power and his scant regard for the fundamental laws of Belarus and for the rights of his citizens are worthy of attention and firm action on the part of the EU, which, by various ways and means, must help towards fully establishing the rule of democratic law in the country.
We even make such accusations in our own countries in the European Union.
Human rights are, unfortunately, trampled underfoot even in our partner countries.
Moreover, democracy is a difficult matter; we even see signs of abuse of power in our own countries, in Member States of the EU, and in potential candidate countries we see human rights being trampled underfoot, as in other partner countries.
The unregulated proliferation of harmful man-made noise in the oceans and seas poses potential threats to marine life and ecosystems. &#160;&#160; We have voted in favour of paragraphs 1 and 2 because the use of high-intensity naval sonars is a cross-border issue.
We have voted against Amendment&#160;No&#160;1 for two reasons.
Firstly, it is difficult to define in which areas sensitive marine species exist.
The proposals put forward are characterised by clear interference, such as the adoption of ‘a range of practical sanctions against Belarus’, support for ‘broadcasting radio information programmes’ and for ‘cities that oppose the regime’.
The Commission must promote studies into the potential impact on the marine environment of installing active high-intensity naval sonars and to provide an assessment – based on information provided by Member States – on the effects of such practices in EU waters.
As mentioned by Mr Florenz in his question to the Commission, recognised experts in the field have, indeed, expressed serious concerns, particularly at the fact the sonars in question can kill cetaceans such as whales and dolphins, a view confirmed in a study published by Spanish and British experts.
In view of the fact that conserving, protecting and improving the environment, including the conservation of natural habitats of wild fauna and flora, are fundamental objectives of general Community interest, and that, in tandem with economic, social, cultural and regional demands, environmental protection contributes towards the overall objective of sustainable development, I feel that the Commission must take action in this area.
Personally, I would prefer to see a ban on cluster bombs, but the cluster munitions coalition, which comprises a reasonably large group of NGOs and probably has a realistic idea of the state of play with regard to negotiations about a protocol at international level, has argued in favour of a temporary moratorium because that appears to be the most likely course of action.
We need a new protocol that addresses all the humanitarian problems associated with cluster munitions, such as have once again been raised quite specifically during a hearing of the Committee on Development.
I cannot imagine that we do not have any common ground here; we may well not have any where Mr Buttiglione is concerned, but on cluster bombs we should be able to see eye to eye. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, cluster bombs are weapons of a particularly insidious kind.
For that reason, 18 months ago, on 10 February 2003, the European Parliament called for a moratorium on the manufacture and use of such cluster munitions and cluster bombs, and for them to be banned outright in the long term.
At national level, our governments are doing nothing about this.
That is hypocrisy, and that is why it is absolutely necessary that this House should again make its voice heard in opposition to the production of such weapons in the European Union and against the trade in them.
It is perverse thinking for the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to acknowledge, in item 1 of their resolution, the devastating effects of these weapons, and then, in item 3, to express understanding for the military use of them, on the grounds that the armed forces would otherwise deploy even worse weaponry.
I think the ethical stance of the Christian members of the conservative group must make such a position untenable, so I call upon them to withdraw this item from their resolution; it really does undermine the case. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak for two minutes in support of an important cause.
Mines are deadly weapons of war that we must oppose at all costs, since they are directed against the civilian population, remain active indefinitely and often make it impossible to implement effective mine-clearing operations.
Non-governmental organisations have mounted a major campaign, backed by a collection of signatures, and have launched a spontaneous movement which has led the governments of many countries to sign the Ottawa Treaty.
They are not traditional tools of war, precisely because they are not confined to the battlefields and will strike civilian populations, women and children.
I hope that this Parliament will undertake to broaden the existing convention to include this other type of deadly weapon. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today war is becoming a way of governing the world.
US aircraft dropped thousands of cluster bombs on Afghanistan and Iraq.
We have to ensure that the safeguarding of human rights prevails over military interests: the right to life for millions of people.
A resolution is not enough; we cannot stop there, and that is why we have also asked for permanent monitoring by the European Parliament. &#160;&#160; Mr President, many people – including some Members of this House, such as my colleague Mr Van Orden – have worked for a long time on the humanitarian issue of overcoming the harmful effects of anti-personnel landmines.
Our armed forces have fully supported this work.
Regarding certain weapons, it is well understood that the armed forces of our nations, and those of NATO allies, are the most conscious of the need to protect our civilian populations, avoid collateral damage and ensure that dangers to our own troops are minimised.
On a positive note, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Commission and the Member States on the support they have provided for global mine action against anti-personnel landmines, mine clearance and assistance to victims.
We have in fact decided that our members will have a free vote, and I am very definitely among those who intend to support this resolution when it comes to be voted on.
I thought it interesting that Mr van den Berg should mention the name of Buttiglione.
The second point I want to make is that Mr Schmidt appealed to our Christian convictions.
This he has said – and let me say this loud and clear – at the end of a week when we in this House have been told time and time again that policy must not be influenced by religious convictions.
People’s Christian convictions can lead them to adopt quite divergent political positions, but they should in any case respect each other’s.
As we cannot be narrow-minded about this, let me say that I very much support this resolution. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the limited speaking time available to us makes it impossible to discuss the issue in depth.
I would therefore prefer to express my support for the text of the resolution – which takes up the majority of our suggestions – and express my full agreement with what my colleague, Mr van den Berg, has said, and I will not mention the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats asking us to vote one way or another, since I believe our positions identify who we are and I believe that, on issues such as this, it is very good that we can see exactly who everybody is so that public opinion and the organisations can differentiate between us.
Furthermore, however, a very sophisticated air or land infrastructure is essential in order to launch these bombs, as well as specific knowledge for the military personnel capable of firing them.
I would also have thought it relevant to name those countries and their corresponding responsibilities in our resolution.
There are concrete proposals suggested to us by the organisations, who must continue to be our permanent interlocutor in this fight.
For example, we are very interested in the idea of designating a rapporteur to monitor, on behalf of the European Parliament, what is being done in our countries and internationally with regard to eliminating cluster bombs. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the first time I gave any serious attention to cluster bombs was in 1999, when NATO was waging a war of aggression on Yugoslavia, in which cluster bombs were deployed.
It is reported that between 30&#160;000 and 50&#160;000 stray cluster bombs are still to this day contaminating whole tracts of land in Kosovo.
I do not believe that much is to be gained by affirmations of a desire to make such weaponry safer and to produce it in such a way that its effects on the civilian population are less devastating.
These operations, like our initiatives to raise awareness of the risks and help victims, are carried out by virtue of Community instruments, in particular the Parliament and the Council regulation on anti-personnel landmines, and in practice often involve the removal of other unexploded ordnance.
This is what we are doing in Laos, Cambodia, Kosovo, Afghanistan and Iraq, to mention just a few countries.
Although this debate gives me the opportunity, on behalf of the Commission, to thank Parliament for its unstinting support for the regulation on anti-personnel landmines, I must nevertheless remind you that the budget for mine clearance and hiring experts in this field is not enough to tackle the problems posed by all of the explosives that still need to be made safe, including cluster munitions and anti-vehicle mines.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place following the debates. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the following six motions for resolutions presented by: - Véronique De Keyser and Pasqualina Napoletano, on behalf of the PSE Group, on Iran (B6-0107/2004); - Cecilia Malmström, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on Iran (B6-0113/2004); - Angelika Beer, Daniel Marc Cohn-Bendit, Véronique De Keyser, Hélène Flautre, Monica Frassoni and Joost Lagendijk, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on breaches of human rights in Iran (B6-0116/2004); - Michael Gahler and Bernd Posselt, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on Iran (B6-0118/2004); - André Brie, Giusto Catania, Umberto Guidoni, Tobias Pflüger and Eva-Britt Svensson, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on the situation in Iran (B6-0121/2004); - Cristiana Muscardini, on behalf of the UEN Group, on Iran (B6&#160;0124/2004). &#160;&#160; – Mr&#160;President, the health of a nation is measured using various different indicators: the rights of women, the freedom of expression of its press, the democratic nature of its political institutions and the strength of its civil society.
The motion includes the names of journalists who have been arrested, among them Omid Memarian, whom I had personally invited to visit the European Parliament in November.
Out of respect for this great country, I would like this situation to change.
Iran should prove that, ‘none of this is happening’ and thus remain a partner which, in terms of both human rights and politics, we in the European Union can continue to value. &#160;&#160; Mr&#160;President, worrying reports are again coming out of Iran, in this case concerning a 16 year-old girl who has been publicly hanged for ‘acts incompatible with chastity’.
Quite a few journalists have disappeared or have been imprisoned, tortured and killed.
We must vigorously condemn this development and demand that those who are still alive be released, or that their families be informed.
The so-called human rights dialogue that we have been conducting with Iran for quite a few years has failed, and we must recognise the fact.
If there is no progress in this area, it is, in the view of myself and of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, quite impossible to imagine any kind of association agreement with Iran. &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the human rights situation in Iran for the first time since the recent elections to this House.
In this case as well, therefore, we welcome progress, but as yet this progress hardly corresponds to our ideas of democracy and the rule of law.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has assumed the chairmanship of this delegation, and despite all the problems I look forward to the cooperation between this House and the Majlis.
As a result of this, unfortunately, this year has seen an increase in the number of reports of death sentences being carried out, including those imposed on juveniles, such as the 16-year-old girl who was hanged in August.
Last week, the French press office AFP reported that the EU’s three largest Member States have forged a mutually advantageous agreement with Iran.
In no way do we have a problem with these exiles, but the Iranian regime does.
While the neighbouring countries Iraq and Afghanistan are handled extremely roughly, why is everyone acting as if this government in Iran has eternal life? &#160;&#160; Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is a good thing that the European Parliament should act to ensure that freedom and justice prevail, not only in Europe – since in our continent too there are some countries where even today, unfortunately, freedom is lacking – but also throughout the world.
I think that this is one of our duties, one of our principal goals.
In fact, the Iranian embassy sent a letter to our President Mr&#160;Borrell yesterday – I have a copy of it – following up on correspondence with Mrs Svensson, in which it contests the content of our resolutions.
I had thought that it was still not clear whether the death penalty was still inflicted on minors in Iran.
According to the Iranian authorities, though, it would seem that in the last two years all capital punishment of minors has been suspended.
I must therefore object most strongly to Mr La Russa’s proposal, as if this House were to postpone human rights resolutions every time it received a letter from an embassy, it would make no progress whatsoever with its work in this field.
In August and September 1988, thousands of progressive patriots, communists, trade unionists and democrats, including 38 leading cadres of the Tudeh Party of Iran, were executed, brutally tortured or imprisoned.
The situation is truly intolerable.
We express our solidarity with the people of Iran.
This plan has been adopted by ΝΑΤΟ, integrated into the general 'Middle East' plan agreed at the ΝΑΤΟ summit in Istanbul last June and accepted by the European Union.
These forces are endeavouring, using as a pretext human rights, which are indeed dishonoured in Iran, or the production of nuclear weapons by Iran, to secure the consent or tolerance of the people to the unleashing of new wars, not for human rights, but in order to control the region and its oil.
All of you dreaming of a new Iraq will be sorely disappointed, because the whole of mankind will rise up. &#160;&#160; &#160;&#160;&#160;Mr&#160;President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important debate and one that is not only about the irrefutable fact that Iran is a fundamentalist state where human rights are frequently violated.
Firstly, equal opportunities and equality before the law must be implemented in the EU itself, where much remains to be done, to put it mildly.
It should not be forgotten that the European system of values and the system of values that exists in Iran – a system of values bound up with the country’s religion – are two quite disparate worlds.
The only way to achieve progress is through gradual development, and any attempts to cut short this process cannot fail to result in tension and a further closing off of the country’s system and regime.
It means all the nations and all the Member States of the European Union are still being forced to accept models imposed by a minority as the only politically correct ones.
The figures are as follows: 22&#160;executions were carried out in October, and 120 over the course of six months.
For example, 80&#160;Christians were arrested in Teheran on 11&#160;September.
These conclusions are unequivocal: despite the commitment made by the Iranian Government to reinforce human rights and to promote the rule of law, very little progress has been made.
That is, moreover, the reason why the Union decided in principle in September to co-sponsor the resolution on the human rights situation in Iran that Canada intends to table at the United Nations General Assembly.
Nevertheless, we believe that it is crucial – and I am sure that most of the Members here today would agree – to continue our efforts to establish a constructive and long-term relationship between the European Union and Iran.
I should like furthermore to underline the visits that the United Nations Special Rapporteurs on human rights have made to Iran since this dialogue began.
I will finish, Mr&#160;President, by saying, on behalf of the Commission, that the Iranians are perfectly aware of the fact that all of the political, nuclear, trade and human rights issues that we have just debated are inextricably linked and that, broadly speaking, we are in favour of constructive engagement, but that on no account does this mean granting Iran a kind of enabling it to act irresponsibly in the areas that are giving your Parliament, the Commission and, I am sure, the Council serious cause for concern. &#160;&#160; Yes, Mr Casaca, you had requested the floor.
I had the opportunity of an audience with the Council on the subject of relations between the EU and Iran.
I had the opportunity to hear with my own ears that the Council deemed this dialogue dead in the water.
I am therefore extremely surprised to see the Commission, against all logic, wishing to revive something that is no more than a completely failed project and criticising those Members of this House who spoke very well on the subject. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Mr Casaca.
The debate is closed.
The vote will take place after the debates. &#160;&#160; The next item is the debate on the following five motions for resolutions presented by: - Johan Van Hecke, on behalf of the ALDE Group, on Guantánamo (B6-0114/2004); - Panagiotis Beglitis, Véronique De Keyser and Pasqualina Napoletano, on behalf of the PSE Group, on Guantánamo (B6-0115/2004); - Kathalijne Maria Buitenweg, Hélène Flautre and Jean Denise Lambert, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on Guantánamo (B6-0117/2004); - Bernd Posselt and José Ribeiro e Castro, on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, on Guantánamo (B6-0119/2004); - André Brie, Willy Meyer Pleite, Roberto Musacchio and Tobias Pflüger, on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group, on Guantánamo (B6-0122/2004). &#160;&#160; Mr President, there are two main concerns highlighted in this resolution: the denial of fair trials and the maltreatment of prisoners.
Firstly, one of the prime duties of democracies is to protect their citizens with resolve and to fight terrorism firmly and tenaciously.
I look forward to hearing how the EU is acting forcefully to stop this moral and legal rot. &#160;&#160; Mr President, it is good that the European Parliament should debate the issue of the prisoners in Guantánamo and adopt a resolution on such a bloody violation of international rights and international law.
This is not our first resolution on the subject and we have made some progress since the first one we approved in February 2002.
My community of values, the community of values I fought for in Spain under 40 years of dictatorship promoted and sustained by Washington, is something else.
We express again our solidarity with the victims of the appalling terrorist attacks of 11&#160;September and of 11&#160;March this year in Madrid.
We must therefore speak out clearly, and I agree with my fellow Spaniard, who has said that this resolution is important, but that it is very mild.
We must speak out more loudly against the ignominy of Guantánamo. &#160;&#160; Mr President, the fight against all kinds of terrorism and against all terrorists is a key goal for both the international community and the European Union.
We are calling for the prisoners in Guantánamo to have access to international or national courts, or at any rate to independent courts, for them to be able to receive visits freely and for them to be afforded all rights guaranteed to them under international humanitarian law.
Without the enormous support of the USA and our alliance with it, we would never have been able to bring down the Iron Curtain, and many of the Members of this House today would not be here if the USA had not pursued a policy of democracy throughout the world.
I therefore call on the United States of America to stand firmly by our side in the fight against injustice and dictatorships, but to do so on the basis of international law and human rights. &#160;&#160; Mr President, nearly 200 people, including five British nationals, have been released since the prison was created.
This means that all these people were held against their will for up to two years, without being told why.
If a country like Iran, for instance, did this to an American citizen, I am sure George Bush would be the first to condemn it.
One of my constituents, Moazzam Begg, who is detained in Guantanamo Bay, wrote a letter to his family which got through uncensored.
The Union’s position on this is simple and clear: moreover, it is the same position that all of you without exception have just reaffirmed in this debate.
The fight against terrorism has to take second place to respect for human rights, and not the reverse.
As far as the situation of the approximately 550 people still being detained at Guantanamo Bay is concerned, the Commission, as such, does not have the authority to intervene on their behalf, but that does not stop us from monitoring the situation carefully.
Bilaterally, the Member States have also expressed their concerns to the United States about the way in which their nationals are being treated.
The European Union has stressed that anti-terrorist measures should go hand in hand with an unconditional ban on all forms of torture and cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment.
The International Pact on Civil and Political Rights admittedly allows states to derogate from certain rights in an emergency and under certain conditions, but some rights are inviolable and should be respected under all circumstances, such as the right not to be tortured and the right not to be arbitrarily detained.
These obligations, which are also enshrined in the United Nations Convention Against Torture and the Geneva Conventions, have to be respected in any event.
Real progress can only be made in the fight against terrorism if we ensure that all parties respect these values. &#160;&#160; Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The debate is closed.
After consulting the other groups, I therefore propose replacing recital&#160;N. ... 'welcomes clarification from the Iranian authorities concerning the case of the 13-year-old Zhila Izadi, allegedly sentenced to death by stoning, and the sentencing of her 15-year-old brother, Bakhtiar, to 250 lashes, that both have been unconditionally released without further pursuit of their case'. &#160;&#160; We shall proceed to the vote on: (1) &#160;&#160; I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
