Community Customs Code (debate) The next item is the recommendation for second reading, on behalf of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, on the Common Position adopted by the Council on 15 October 2007 with a view to the adoption of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the Community Customs Code (Modernized Customs Code) (11272/6/2007 - C6-0354/2007 - (Rapporteur: Janelly Fourtou).
The first reading of the modernised customs code was adopted on 12 December 2006 and the German Presidency managed to secure a political agreement on 25 June 2007.
Parliament adopted 51 amendments to the proposal at first reading, 34 of which, mostly of a substantive nature, were taken over fully or in part in the Council common position.
The status of authorised economic operator, which is directly related to the events of 11 September, was introduced by the so-called 'security amendment' Regulation, whose aim was to offer greater facilities to operators and hence offset the new burdens they had to shoulder in order to cope with security-related aspects.
Finally, of all the areas in which this document has made significant progress we can also be very pleased that we have broadened out the comitology process to cover 44 provisions of the modernised customs code.
Second, a progressive computerisation of all customs formalities, with a view to a completely 'paperless' environment for customs and trade, whose development will be supported and framed by the e-customs Decision (No 70/2008/EC) of the Parliament and of the Council, adopted on 15 January 2008.
on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, firstly I would like to thank Ms Fourtou.
Commissioner Kovács insisted on the concept of centralised customs clearance insofar as the customs union constitutes a single unit.
Finally, Mr President, I wish to thank Mrs Fourtou for her work and the Commissioner for his efforts to encompass the proposals of this House. (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is undoubtedly much more than just a customs union.
We are talking about an economic centre in the heart of Europe which must not be cut off from the international flow of goods as a result of our activities. (CS) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I trust that tomorrow we will approve at second reading the Council's common position on the customs code.
We chose to leave it to join the European Community, and Mrs Thatcher, who was the Conservative leader at the time of the 1975 referendum in the UK, said that it was 'more than a free-trade area'.
Member of the Commission. - Mr President, my point of departure is that I am not only pleased but also very proud that we have reached this point, because I agree with all those speakers who consider it a very great achievement for the Union as a whole.
Now let me finish by inviting you to join the celebrations of the 40th anniversary of the Customs Union on 1 July 2008.
rapporteur. - (FR) Mr President, I would like to thank all those who have spoken and all those who have contributed to the drafting of this report.
The vote will take place on 19 February 2008.
